STORY Leading Solution, Leading Sustainability Social Contribution Corporate Green Management Collaboration & Prosperity Activity Innovation Initiative Activity Employee Value Enhancement Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management Activity 2011 LS Mtron Sustainability Report Vol. 3 STORY Report Profile 03 Report Profile 08 CEO Message Report Content Leading SoLution, Leading SuStainabiLity This report was prepared based on our Sustainability Management Steering Wheel 10 LS Mtron-Company Profile which was defined from the two perspectives of stakeholder interest and business 11 Business Division Profile impact. To ensure the consistency of report content, the Focus Areas illustrate our 12 Economic Value Creation 2011 achievements and 2012 plans. LS Mtron publishes its 3rd Sustainability Report. Reporting Period and Scope 14 Materiality Analysis This report covers the 2011 fiscal year(Jan. 1, 2011~Dec. 31, 2011) and the quantitaOur definition of sustainability management is to generate tive data span the past 3 years. Included in this report are the head office in Anyang, 16 Integrated Sustainability Management economic, social and environmental values in conjunction 4 Korean business sites and part of the overseas subsidiaries. Our financial perforwith all stakeholders based on our management vision to 17 Integrated Risk Management mance data were prepared in accordance with separate standards that apply Kbecome an ‘Innovative Technology Partner to Create a ConIFRS principles and social and environmental performance partially covers overseas 18 2011 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel venient and Comfortable World’. To this end, our integrated subsidiaries in China, the U.S. and other regions. The scope of this report will be ex19 2011 Sustainability Management Highlights panded to include all of our business sites in Korea and overseas in accordance with sustainability management framework has been up and running since 2009. This report outlines our achievements in the integrated sustainability management roadmap. 2011 and future plans for 2012. 20 Innovation Initiatives Reporting Framework We hope that this report serves as a meaningful communication channel for LS Mtron’s stakeholders. This report was prepared under the supervision of the Sustainability Report Editorial 24 Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Activity Meeting, which consists of the Sustainability Management Steering Group and the 30 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Sustainability Management Executive Office. To further assist readers in understandManagement ing this report, the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 guidelines and ISO 26000 36 Social Contribution were also utilized in writing this report. 42 Green Management Assurance 48 Employee Value Enhancement This report was assured by an external independent assurance provider to ensure the reliability of report data and content. The outcomes appear in the Third-party Assurance Statement section of this report. 56 Corporate Governance 57 Ethics Management LS Mtron’s Sustainability Report Publication Schedule (Publishing Annually) Previous report: May of 2011 58 Major Quantitative Indicators This report: July of 2012 Next report: 2013 59 Awards / Membership 60 GRI / ISO 26000 Index For further information on this report, you contact us at LS Mtron Co., Ltd. Business & Management Team, Sustainability Management Execu63 COP Report tive Office 11F, LS Tower, 1026-6, Hogye-dong, Anyang City, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 64 Independent Assurance Statement TEL. +82-31-689-8232 FAX. +82-31-689-8279 66 Sustainability Management Guideline E-mail. sm@lsmtron.com 67 Report Publishing Team Members Cover Story / Our Past Reports The alphabet M, the first letter of our corporate name ‘Mtron’, embodies our commitment to sustainability management that aims to pursue joint development and prosperity with wide-ranging stakeholders through the well-established structure. Injection Molding Machine WeWecare peopleand forpeople carefor andnature. nature. ItItisiswith withoutstanding outstandinginsight insightand andthe thespirit spiritofof challenge challengethat thatwe weproduce produceindustrial industrialmachines machines thatdrive that drivethe growthofofthe thegrowth thehumanity. humanity. on Tractor LS Mtr WeWelooklookbeyond todayinto beyondtoday intothe thefuture. future. ThThe eindustry-leading industry-leadingcutting-edge cutting-edge components componentsdrive driveour ourcommitment commitmenttoto a atruly trulyspecial specialfuture. future. Antenna Copper Copper Foil Foil Connector Automotive Automotive Rubber Rubber Hose Hose Ultra Ultra Capacitor Capacitor LSUC LSUC LSUC LSUC LSUC LSUC “Sustainability management is “It is with heartfelt sincerity that we President's Message the foundation for us to build practice sustainability management CEO Message a true LSpartnership®.” in a sustained and substantial way.” Since our sustainability management was fully initiated in 2009, LS Mtron has been publishing M Story sustainability reports and this is our third M Story. Principles and Values of Sustainability Management Our sustainability management continues to value ethics management, transparent management and communication & innovation. This serves as a basis for us to build business competitive edge in order to grow together and share the value of trust with stakeholders. In publishing sustainability management reports, our top priority is to transparently disclose our endeavors, achievements and future plans in creating economic, social and environmental values and to illustrate relevant data in a complete manner. In particular, our sustainability management is being expanded from 2011 in order Chairman's Message to assist overseas subsidiaries in improving competitive edge and stabilizing their operation as the first step to develop a global-level sustainability management 08 system. This report partially illustrates these endeavors and is available in English and Chinese as well to widen our communication with stakeholders in the global 09 community. LSpartnership ® represents LS Group’s new management philosophy to create In order to build sustainability management into our corporate DNA, top manageOur ‘Global Happy Village’ project, the representative social contribution program greater values through respect, care, trust and cooperation. This shares the same ment will take the lead and provide continuous training opportunities. Foundation for Sustainable Growth at LS Mtron, is being expanded and our manufacturing processes, products and serspirit with the sustainability management driven by stakeholders, trust and integraMoreover, we aim to expand channels and opportunities to engage and communiCompanies today are threatened by unprecedented challenges due to the global vices are constantly innovated and improved so that our business activities directly tion that LS Mtron has been committed to over the last three years. cate with stakeholders as we believe that understanding wide-ranging stakeholdeconomic crisis, unpredictable business environments and increasingly diversified contribute to creating social and environmental values. ers and building a trust-based relationship with them is the key to our success. social issues. I personally believe that the most critical factors in leading the future Our sustainability management values trust, transparency, people and the environmarket and successfully addressing changing environments include: understanding Integrated Management System of Sustainability Management ment. This is the foundation for us to grow into a trustworthy and strong business Our Sustainability Report published this year will be available in Korean, English stakeholders, predicting and managing business trends and risks and expanding At LS Mtron, our own distinct 6-step materiality test process is applied to newly partner and to deliver a flourishing life for stakeholders including customers through and Chinese as well, which demonstrates our commitment to enhanced underconcerted efforts and engagement in building a better society. In short, our goal identify six Focus Areas each year (Innovation Initiatives, Win-Win Partnership sustained technological innovation. All LS employees are fully dedicated to these standing of and communication with stakeholders as a global provider of industrial of sustainability management is not confined to short-term financial outcomes but Initiatives, Quality and Customer Satisfaction Initiatives, Social Contribution, Green endeavors. machines and cutting-edge components. Your proactive participation and feedback rather extended to building a corporate culture that allows for long-term perspecManagement, Employee Value Enhancement) and three managerial issues under will be highly appreciated. tives in conducting business with consistent strategies and a strong commitment regular management (corporate governance, ethics management, integrated risk In 2011, we were challenged by the global economic slow down and declining deto the attainment of the set targets. management). The bi-monthly Sustainability Management Steering Group meetings mand of client companies. Nevertheless, we took long-term perspectives to tap the are responsible for constantly monitoring these focus areas and managerial issues. global market continuously and undertook operational innovation and R&D investTo this end, both regular and non-regular dialogue channels were developed at LS Our six subcommittees including the Eco-friendly Product Subcommittee are in ments. This enabled us to achieve $100 million in exports in the Tractor Division Mtron to deepen our understanding of stakeholders through continued dialogue charge of building company-wide cooperation systems in order to translate sustainand a 37% increase in the sales of eco-friendly products from the previous year. and communication. The stakeholder feedback that is collected through these chanability management into working-level tasks. nels are translated into sustainability management strategies and action programs. Our non-financial outcomes include the Global Happy Village project undertaken in All LS Mtron employees are fully committed to strengthening internal stability, Vietnam, winning the Great Work Place Award as one of Korea’s 100 Great Work Moreover, we are building systems and manuals to identify non-financial risks (enpresenting a sustainable business innovation model in the global machinery and Places which recognized our efforts in building a pleasant workplace, and 9 projvironmental risks) as well as business, market, operational and management risks component industry and evolving into a respected and trusted company by practicects undertaken to develop technology through public-private joint investment. and to prevent and manage these risks systematically by undertaking companying sustainability management with heartfelt sincerity. wide initiatives to develop an integrated risk response system based on sustainAll LS Mtron employees including myself will never become complacent and be ability management. This is further completed by the diversification of our engagefully committed to stakeholder satisfaction through sustained technological innovament initiatives that contribute to the resolution of social issues. tion and genuine partnership. Christopher Koo, Chairman and CEO Jae-Seol Shim, President and CEO LS Mtron-Company Profile Business Division Profile LS Mtron-Company Profile / Business Division Profile As a global provider of industrial machinery and cutting-edge components, LS Mtron is committed to sustainable A convenient world delivered through creative technology is the future that we dream of at LS Mtron. development and the creation of stakeholder values in the entire conduct of business based on its management We are fully committed to delivering greater values to customers and society based on innovative products and philosophy of LSpartnership® ‘Greater Value Together’ services. We have 8 divisions(teams) in operation under the two overarching business units of the Machinery Division and the Component Division. Company Overview Management Philosophy Machinery Division Component Division LSpartnership® drives LS employees with integrity and ownership to generate outCompany Name LS Mtron Co., Ltd. standing outcomes through mutual respect, caring mind and trustworthy behaviors Tractor Electronic Component CEO Cha-Yol Koo, Jae-Seol Shim and to seek open-minded cooperation externally shared growth. Type of Business Manufacturing Development of core technology through sustained Our Electronic Component Division delivers core Date of Establishment July 1, 2008 All LS employees are dedicated to creating greater values for future generations R&D efforts and proactive overseas marketing initiacomponents of cutting-edge devices ranging from No. of Employees 1,649/3,512(LS Mtron Ltd./including subsidiaries) with global partners all around the world by putting LSpartnership® into action. tives drive the growth of our Tractor Division into a cell phones, flat panel display, and connectors & Credit Rating NICE Investors Service A+ / Korea Investors Service A+ world-class agricultural machinery brand. Our Jeonju antennas for various electronic devices. KRW 938.9 billion / KRW 1.575 trillion site and Chinese subsidiary in Qingdao are capable Turnover (LS Mtron Ltd./including subsidiaries) of manufacturing 20,000 units per year and our new Asset KRW 1.002 trillion investments in the Brazilian subsidiary starting from CF(Copper Foil) Debt KRW 426.3billion Debt to equity ratio 73.9% 2012 will secure another engine of growth in the Capital KRW 576.1 billion Capital adequacy ratio 57.4% er Value Togethe upcoming years. With core technology in electroplating, surface Main Exporting reat r! USA, China, Europe, South East Asia, Middle East and etc G treatment, and ultra-thin handling, our CF Division Markets e r s l P p e cti oba ve produces and supplies special copper foil for semiGl ※As of December 31, 2011 and in accordance with separate K-IFRS (credit rating is as of May 8, 2012) Injection Molding conductor packaging as well as ordinary copper foil Care for rigid PCBs and lithium-ion batteries, enabling 10 ct Vision pe Trus Our Injection Molding Division comes with a widesmall-form factors for cutting-edge electronic devicRes t At LS Mtron, we declared our vision in 2009 and embarked on new challenges. Our ranging product line-up spanning from cutting edge es and contributing to development of the recharge11 Integrity vision for a ‘convenient and comfortable world’ is based on our commitment to a flourproducts regarding display, home appliances and able battery industry. ishing life of customers through our products and services and ‘Innovative Technology automobiles to super-large injection molding maPartner’ embodies our aspiration to contribute to society while growing together with chines. With outstanding technological capabilities LS as a trustworthy and dependable partner, customers through sustained technological innovation. LS employees as a top performer who produces even proven in 50 countries around the world, the division FCCL(Flexible Copper Clad Laminate) greater outcomes by being together exports more than 30% of its production volume. Convenient And Comfortable World LS-Flex is our FCCL Division’s brand for core display materials and its reputation is supported by best-inSpecial Business class thin-film plating technology. 2015 Goals: KRW 4 Trillion in Sales and 10% Increase in Operating Profit Our Special Business Division manufactures caterpillars that deliver load-supporting functionalities for Automotive Component tanks, armored vehicles and other combat mobility Organizational Chart equipment and secure mobility under rugged road Our Automotive Component Division interacts with conditions. customers across the globe through high quality and CEO safety, supplying various hose assembly products to be installed in vehicles to transmit fluid and hydraulic pressure. Business Division Staff Division Injection Molding Special Business Electronic Business Support Tractor Division Division Division Component Division Division CF Division FCCL Division Automotive Ultra Capacitor UC(Ultra Capacitor) Component Division Division CFO CSO CHO CPO CTO Quality Internal Audit & Innovation China Our UC Division produces energy storage devices Management Team Consulting Team Team Headquarters that will be a leader in the future energy market. To maximize management efficiency through the principle of selection and concentration, our Air Conditioning Division was transferred to LG Electronics on May 1 of 2011. The Their applications include auxiliary power units and Electronic Circuit Materials Division was renamed as the Copper Foil (CF) Division in consideration of future business directions and the Business Support Division was newly power back-up devices that require higher output. created to lead finance, strategic planning and support departments. Economic Value Creation Economic Value Creation LS Mtron believes that the creation of economic values constitutes a critical commitment toward sustainability We at LS Mtron has 21 establishments including domestic and overseas production sites and management. Under the ‘Soaring-off Management’ philosophy, we were fully dedicated to generating outstanding sales departments. A total of 3,500 employees are working at LS Mtron today. financial outcomes in spite of the global economic downturn and falling demand of client companies in 2011. Overseas subsidiaries/branch The Tractor Division posted $ 100 million in exports Anyang China(Wuxi) China(Qingdao) China(Yantai) Sub-subsidiaries in less than a decade since it fully entered the overseas Head office, Russia branch LSMW LSEQ, LSAE YTLS Electronic Components, market. The Injection Molding Division dramatically R&D center, Poland branch Sales Departments increased its productivity and profitability through innovation as well as improving its sales in the domestic Jeonju and overseas markets by 14% and 51% respectively, Tractor, from the previous year. The CF Division successfully Injection Molding, China(Dalian) Casco Special Business attracted Japanese customers and is establishing its USA LSTA Korea Daesung Electric, Casco position as a global leading player in the electro foil Jeongeup Japan branch market. The Electronic Component Division secured CF, FCCL China(Qingdao) Daesung Electronics large-scale global clients. The UC and Automobile India Daesung Electronic Shanghai branch Component Divisions further solidified their foundaIndong Automotive China(Wuxi) Daesung Electronics tion for future growth. Components, UC Brazil LSMB Shenzhen branch 12 Sales and Operating Profits Revenues by Region (unit: KRW 100 million) (unit: KRW 100 million) 13 Category 2009 2010 2011 Category 2009 2010 2011 Revenue 6,915 9,263 9,389 Korea 5,554 6,895 6,531 Machinery Division 4,301 6,278 5,913 China 395 513 569 Sales and Operating Profits (unit: KRW 100 million) Component Division 2,614 2,985 3,476 North America 292 541 843 Category 2009 2010 2011 Operating Profit 333 524 1,169 South America 33 124 78 Revenue 7,431 10,404 15,757 *K-GAAP was applied in 2009 and separate K-IFRS standards were applied between 2010 Europe 219 419 628 and 2011. (Data discrepancies are due to the change in the accounting standards) Operating Profit 245 539 1,195 Asia(excluding China) 210 724 711 *Including profits from discontinued operation regarding the transfer of the Air Condi*K-IFRS standards were applied between 2009 and 2011 tioning business on May 1 of 2011 Others 212 47 29 (Data discrepancies from the 2009, 2010 report are due to the change in the accounting standards) Total 6,915 9,263 9,389 *K-GAAP was applied in 2009 and separate K-IFRS standards were applied be Balance Sheet tween 2010 and 2011. (unit: KRW 100 million) Overseas Subsidiaries Category 2009 2010 2011 (as of Mar. 2012) Total Assets 8,093 8,921 10,024 Economic Value Distribution Category Type of Business Equity Ownership(%) Region (unit: KRW 100 million) Daesung Electric Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of automobile components 100 Korea Current Assets 3,439 3,862 3,991 Category 2009 2010 2011 Non-current Assets 4,654 5,059 6,033 LS Machinery(Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of injection molding machines 100 China Economic Values Distributed 5,030 7,844 7,527 Total Liabilities 3,632 4,150 4,263 LS Electronic-Devices(Qingdao) Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of electronic components 100 China Purchasing Expenses(suppliers) 3,983 6,579 6,357 Current Liabilities 3,263 2,758 2,599 LS Agricultural Equipment(Qingdao) Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of agricultural machines 100 China Labor expenses (employees)1) 880 1,099 988 Non-current Liabilities 369 1,392 1,664 LS Tractor USA, LLC Sales of agricultural machines 100 USA Taxes and public dues 38 55 58 Casco Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of industrial machines 83.8 Korea Total Capital 4,461 4,771 5,761 (government)2) Capital 450 450 450 Donations(community) 2 3 4 YanTai Leading Solution Auto Parts Co., Ltd. Manufacturing and sales of automobile components 50 China Capital expenses(creditors) 127 108 120 LS Mtron Brazil(LS MTRON INDÚSTRIA DE Sales of injection molding machines and manufacturing Share Premium 4,259 4,259 4,259 100 Brazil MÁQUINAS AGRÍCOLAS Ltda) and sales of agricultural machines Accumulated Other Com1) Combination of salary, retirement payments and benefits -16 -20 -15 2) Combination of taxes, public charges and corporate taxes prehensive Income Earned Surplus -232 82 1,067 What is LS Mtron’s sustainability management methodology? Materiality Analysis At LS Mtron, we directly reflect the expectations of wide-ranging stakeMajor Expectations by Stakeholder Group Materiality Analysis holders in our conduct of business to ensure that stakeholder satisfaction Overview of Stakeholder Survey in 2011 1) Customers 2) Employees initiatives become an inherent part of our daily operation at LS Mtron. Ranking Details Ranking Details Major expectations of our stakeholders are specifically incorporated into • Supervision: Sustainability Management 1 Competitive edge in quality ② 1 Work/life balance (family-friendly management) ⑨ our sustainability management key performance indicators, further boostExecutive Office Establishment of customer complaint handling 2 Expansion of job capacity building training ⑩ 2 • Period: Aug. 2011 ~ Nov. 2011 processes ③ ing our executive capabilities. 3 Fairness of HR systems (recruitment, evaluation, • Method: Online survey / Mail 3 Enhancement of after-sales activities ④ compensation) ⑬ • Respondents: 997 people(company) 4 Competitive edge in technology ⑧ 4 Expansion of employee benefits schemes ⑭ -164 client companies 5 Expanded collection of customer opinions 5 Expansion of global capacity building training ⑯ Annual Implementation Process -194 suppliers 6 Guarantee and enhancement of product safety(PL) Expansion of training to nurture outstanding 6 618 employees individuals We at LS Mtron ensures stakeholder engagement throughout the entire process of sustainability management from planning to reporting of outcomes. First of all, wide-ranging 7 Expanded operation of quality management systems 21 local community organizations 7 Building leadership skills internal/external considerations regarding sustainability management are analyzed to create a pool of issues in the planning stage. In 2011, 55 issues were identified and ana8 Provision of varied product information • Survey items 8 Health and safety improvement activities lyzed by stakeholder interest and business impact to establish the 2011 Steering Wheel. The 2011 Steering Wheel, which consisted of 2 integrated management areas, 6 Focus Strengthening eco-friendly technology and product Assessment of business impact by focus areas 9 development 9 New hires in adapting to the corporate culture Areas(15 managerial issues) and 2 general areas, was used as a central axis to present criteria to evaluate action strategies and accomplishments for the past one year. In Focus Assessment of interest level by stakeholder group 10 Support for suppliers in enhancing quality competency Facilitation of direct communication with top 10 Areas, top priority issues were specifically designated as sector-specific KPIs and reflected in assessing top executives and division heads. On a department level, activities to Level of satisfaction with LS Mtron’s management 11 Fair operating practices be undertaken in the implementation stage were translated into department or individual-specific target plans. The Sustainability Management Steering Group monitored progsustainability management in 2011 11 Diversification of compliant collection channels Prevention of core technology leakage and protection Preferences regarding communication channels 12 of such technology Compliance with domestic and overseas regulations ress as measured against the set operational plans including KPIs every two months and discussed ways to facilitate outcomes regarding activities that require further improve12 regarding labor and human rights 13 Compliance with customer information regulations ment. The final stage was to measure our sustainability management outcomes during the year-end company-wide performance evaluation period and to publish sustainability Expansion of recruitment of women and the *The introduction of each focus area presents Response to and improvement of human rights and 13 management reports based on such outcomes to communicate with stakeholders. 14 physically-challenged stakeholder-specific communication channels, relevant risks the level of stakeholder interest and satisfaction To ensure the continuity of our sustainability management initiatives, action plans were defined and are being put into action in 2012 in accordance with the 2011 Steering and detailed task plans and performance outcomes. 3) Suppliers 4) Local community Ranking Details Ranking Details Wheel, which will serve as the basic data to perform a materiality test in 2012. In particular, an additional stakeholder survey was conducted of their satisfaction(awareness) Expansion of channels for suppliers to present their 1 GHG emissions control ① with our sustainability management initiatives as part of the integrated stakeholder survey in 2011 and the results were incorporated in developing 2012 plans. 1 opinions ⑤ 2 Saving resources and energy ⑪ 2 Establishment of a culture of fair trade ⑥ Investment in eco-friendly facilities and process 3 3 Support for training programs (manufacturing part) ⑦ improvement ⑮ Green Outcomes of Sustainability Management Initiatives in 2011 4 Shortening payment deadlines ⑫ 4 Development of eco-friendly products ⑰ 14 Business Division Man5 Expansion of Q-Partners age5 Reduction and management of pollutants ⑱ 6 Operation of production management systems ment 6 Management of hazardous chemicals 15 7 Private/public joint investment development 7 Operation of environmental mgt. and systems 8 Establishment of an eco-friendly purchasing supply chain 8 Operation of injury-free business sites Creation of the 9 Expansion of Win-Win Partnership Funds 9 Employee health promotion activities Establishment of 2011 pool of Evaluation of Implementation 10 Operation of on-line evaluation systems 10 Compliance with ESH regulations/norms Evaluation of 2011 sustainability sustainability stakeholder and performance business impact Steering Wheel management 11 Capacity building in the innovation part 1 Employment and promotion of future talent ⑲ management interest monitoring Social operational plans Issues (55) 12 Support for training programs(environment/safety parts) Contri2 Welfare benefits for vulnerable populations 13 Support for training programs(business mgt. part) bution 3 Support for culture/arts/sports Materiality Analysis 14 Support for training programs(patent part) 4 Support for green activities in local community • Internal environment • Integrated stakeholder • Interview with top • Two integrated • Creation of KPIs in each • Performance management issues survey(997 persons) management management areas of the 5 core tasks and and feedback at the • External environment • Use of stakeholder• Decision whether to report • Six Focus Areas in each of the 8 Business Sustainability Management Ranking Key Managerial Issues Page Business Impact issues specific communication to top management (15 managerial issues) Divisions Steering Group (7 times) 1 GHG emissions control 44 channels meetings(3 rounds) • Two general areas • Creation of department• Operation of the • Agenda for the specific plans for Sustainability Management 2 Competitive edge in quality 32~34 2 Sustainability 8 general tasks Subcommittee (21 meetings) 3 Creation of customer complaint handling processes 35 4 8 Management Steering • Stakeholder satisfaction 3 1 4 Enhancement of after-sales activities 35 5 Group(8 items) survey • Outcomes of in-house 5 Expansion of channels for suppliers to present their ideas 29 6 diagnosis of sustainability 6 Establishment of a culture of fair trade 26, 57 7 management 9 7 Support for training programs(manufacturing part) 28 11 10 12 8 Competitive edge in technology 32~34 Issue Pool Considerations 9 Work/life balance(family-friendly management) 51 13 17 14 10 Expansion of job capacity building training 52 16 15 • GRI(G3.1), ISO 26000, UNGC principles, etc. 18 11 Saving resources and energy 44~47 • LS Mtron Vision and Mid-term Strategies • Feedback from the Sustainability Management 12 Shortening payment deadlines 27 • Management meeting reports and decisions made by Advisory Group 19 the Sustainability Management Steering Group 13 Fairness of HR systems(recruitment, evaluation, compensation) 50 • Trends regarding competitors and advanced industry • Sustainability management principles and policies Internal External peers 14 Expansion of employee benefits schemes 51 • Completion of previous year’s implementation task targets • Client company’s CSR Checklist Index and questions 15 Investments in eco-friendly facilities and process improvement 45 • Current status of department-speciﬁc strategic indicators from external organizations 16 Expansion of global capacity building training 52 • Issues addressed by media outlets regarding LS Mtron 17 Development of eco-friendly products 46~47 18 Reduction and management of pollutants 45 19 Employment and promotion of future talent 38~41, 50 Stakeholder Interest How do we manage sustainability management initiatives at LS Mtron? How do we manage risks at LS Mtron? Integrated Sustainability Given the inherent characteristics of sustainability management that covIntegrated Risk We at LS Mtron developed the integrated management system to enable sustainabilIntegrated Sustainability Management / Integrated Risk Management ers a broad range of issues of economy, society, environment and ethics, ity management to contribute to preventing and responding to risks. Management Management we at LS Mtron manage all relevant activities in an integrated manner in Possible risks are identified annually and related costs of losses and opportunity order to ensure the consistency of strategic directions and to boost comvalues are managed to strengthen our business continuity and build trust-based relapany-wide executive capabilities. tions with stakeholders. Integrated Management Framework of Sustainability Management Integrated Risk Management System Our Sustainability Management Steering Group, subcommittees and Sustainability Management Executive Office have been up and running since April 2010. The establishment of risk prevention and response processes through the company-wide sustainability management 03 action framework allows us to enhance our executive capabilities across the board and to build such processes into each department efficiently. The Business Management & Planning Team driven by CSOs is responsible for companySustainability Management Steering Group • Innovation activities • Eco-friendly products wide risk management and develops and monitors strategic directions for risk prevention and response. Each departThe Sustainability Management Steering Group is the top decision-making body in • Win-win partnership • HR development ment and major support divisions are focused on such preventive practices as creation of risk response manuals and charge of sustainability management and meets bi-monthly. Those sustainability • Quality management • Labor relations management training & education. Moreover, the Sustainability Management Steering Council meets bi-monthly to discuss cor• Customer satisfaction • Risk management management issues that require the joint implementation of multiple departments porate directions and accomplishments in responding to risks and to designate roles and responsibilities that should • Social contribution • Ethics management are proposed as agenda items to the group so that implementation directions are • ESH • Response to climate change be undertaken by each working-level department, strengthening its function as a manager and monitor. Our business determined and cooperation systems are built. This is also a venue to share outdivisions are building risk prevention and response systems with an emphasis on business and operational risks and Composition: Executives in charge of strategy planning (supervision), 10 departcomes of sustainability management initiatives which are unique to each department heads including the Business Management & Planning Team, Sustainability the headquarters is more keen on addressing non-financial risks including social, environmental and ethical risks. Our Management Executive Office 01 02 ment. In 2011, the group met 7 times including ad-hoc meetings. ultimate goal is to develop risk response manuals for more than 5 risks in each business division by 2014. Sustainability Management Subcommittees • Green Management • Corporate Collaboration Development of Business Division Risk Response Manuals Our sustainability management subcommittees are working-level bodies to dis• Environmentally-Friendly & Prosperity Our aim in developing business division-specific risk response manuals is to identify risks that are hidden in our suscuss decisions to be made and meet more than once semi-annually under the Product • QM and Customer Satisfaction tainability management and to build proactive management systems. In 2011, the Tractor Division played a central • Social Contribution • Eco-friendly Supply Chain leadership of each department in charge. In 2011, 6 subcommittees held 21 meetrole in identifying 6 core risks covering quality, production, operation and disasters. Included in the developed risk 16 ings in total and the eco-friendly supply chain subcommittee was newly created to Composition: Please refer to the introduction of each focus area. response manuals were the discovery of phase-specific likely scenarios, identification of operational R&R, work establish the full-fledged eco-friendly raw materials management system. flow of response operations and detailed implementation measures. In 2012, these manuals are being disseminated 03 04 17 to all the other divisions and once their development is completed, year-round response activities and training & 01. Manual Cover 02. Risk Scenario Structure education will be undertaken to ensure timely response to risks. 03. Work Flow 04. Detailed Action Plan Sustainability Management Executive Office 7th Sustainability Our Sustainability Management Executive Office is a permanent body that offers Management Risk Response Manual Development Process general support for the operation of the Sustainability Management Steering Steering Group meeting Group and sustainability management subcommittees. This is also responsible for 4. Develop 2. Prepare 5. Publish the integrated management of all relevant outcomes, stakeholder dialogue and 1. Identify core 3. Develop detailed the overview of manuals and the creation of our sustainability reports. risks Work-Flow implementation risk scenarios initiate training measures Major Agendas of the Sustainability Management Steering Group in 2011 Secure a pool of issues Create detailed sceDefine processes to Define detailed impleDevelop plans for Meeting Major Agendas Decisions and Actions that meet division-spenarios where chosen enable departments mentation measures regular training and Requirements of external stakeholders that are constantly submitted were transferred to the Sustainability Joint response to the CSR Checklist cific needs and select risks may occur and in charge to establish and management data education to dissemi6th Jan. 24 Management Executive Office, which in turn designated R&R to ensure joint response through the Sustainability with client companies: Management Steering Council (response made of 7 requirements) those risks that entail define response objeccommon target operain each department in nate manuals once they Final review of the publication of the An ad-hoc Sustainability Management Steering Group meeting was held to conduct final reviews of the report th 7 Feb. 21 Sustainability Management Report content under the leadership of the Sustainability Report 2010 Editorial Meeting. Each section of the report the greatest losses tives and departments tions and collaborate accordance with the are published 2010 was approved and addressed by the assurance team in charge in accordance with the set work flow Eco-friendly product management The definitions and processes that were set of eco-friendly products in 2010 were reviewed and supplemented scenarios 8th Mar. 21 directions regularly (during the progress review of mid/long-term eco-friendly technology development roadmap in May) Sustainability management Starting from 2012, Chinese regulations and norms regarding sustainability management will be investigated 9th May. 28 framework for overseas subsidiaries and improvement tasks will be identified and put into action Establishment of Local Legal Risk Response Systems at Overseas Subsidiaries The training was provided as part of the company-wide ‘exceeding limitations’ training program and We aim to start our global sustainability management initiatives from 2012 to expand sustainability management to Company-wide sustainability employees in the manager position and higher received separate advanced courses (company-wide training: management training our overseas subsidiaries. The first step to achieve this goal is develop compliance, response and management sys1,363 trainees, advanced training: 198 trainees) 10th Jul. 28 The Sustainability Management Executive Office planned the survey on a company-wide level and the survey tems concerning local laws and regulations in China. In particular, we chose 18 issues covering labor, human rights, Integrated stakeholder survey was conducted by departments working at contact points with stakeholders through the most optimized channels (997 stakeholders) environment, safety, tax and quality in analyzing relevant national and provincial governmental laws. The next step Risk management manuals for the will be to evaluate the level of management of these issues in each subsidiary and to identify future improvement 11th Sep. 19 Response systems were developed to address core risks and regular training and education will be provided Tractor Business Division directions. th Eco-friendly raw materials(hazardous The Eco-friendly Supply Chain Sub-committee was established under the supervision of the Quality 12 Nov. 28 substances) management system Management Team at the headquarters What did LS Mtron’s sustainability management look like in 2011 What are LS Mtron’s major achievements in sustainability management? 2011 Sustainability LS Mtron’s Sustainability Management Steering Wheel offers an at-a-glance view 2011 Sustainability We were committed to substantial sustainability management initiatives 2011 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel / 2011 Sustainability Management Highlights of our sustainability management directions and area-specific managerial issues. in 2011 to satisfy wide-ranging stakeholders and build trust-based relaManagement Management Highlights Our 2011 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel was modified in accordance tionships. Steering Wheel with strengthened integrated management functionality: integrated management of sustainability initiatives is at the center of the wheel and relevant activities are connected along integrated risk management, which serves as the outer edge of the wheel. This enables the more clarified presentation of relevant meanings and roles. Risk Management Integrated Emplo yees s | Cu lder sto k eho me Sta Cus rs | All eme nt Opera to tion o mized Su pp Quality innovation for customer satisfaction Seeds of hope for the future Building consensus of sustainability mananag nance f the In Inte novat lie M er rs Winning the Silver Tower Order of Industrial Completion of Banfu Elementary School in agement ics Gov gra ion Eth rate ted A Inn ctiv Service Merit at the 37th National Quality ManVietnam and dispatch of employee volunteers Sustainability management training offered to rp o ov itie Co ati on s agement Awards all employees: 1,363 trainees(completion rate: Sy 98%) Innov ste ea a tion m l Ar n era Ini tia Ge ti me ve t of Hea s s Empl lth a munic r Shared Growth sto Edge fo rs | oyee Strengthening Capacity-Building | A nd Safe ation Cu titive and Communication Employee Value En mpe Local governments entral/ s|S dvanc t oration & Collab nt eme y d Co gageme 18 rs | C han upp Integrated rate ity Activity Central/Local governments | Employee Engagemen nt o ure cem n rpo plie t and Sec pplier E f HR r lie 19 Co Prospe Sup Com en Enhancemen r Sustainability Sys Su tem t s Management Shared growth through mutually-benefiCommitment to a corporate culture filled Stronger endeavors toward green mancial cooperation with contentment agement Private-public joint investment technology Chosen as one of Korea’s 100 Great Work Eco-friendly products accounting for 35% of development project: 9 projects (KRW 3.35 Places the total sales(37% up from the previous year e O ity r Sa o billion) were undertaken based on LS Mtron’s performance ) n lim ve G ge M tisf En f Pro De dva o C na l/L | N rn an ac ga du ed fA et Ma ag tion oca hen ion o ons es e en em ent & ge ct l go nt ngt t p ye gov Gre me Qu Inte Stre Opera Res ver m eme plo me l sto l up nt a nme gra Cu Qua an lity C nt nag Em Loca E of pl nts ted a d C om y| ier nt SH kM nit al/ me d E te om p s| mu etitive co Ris ntr lop ce a mu B -fr Ch usi iend Social Contribution t Ris Ce | Ce en nic k om atio Edge an nes ly P hm er Ma ntr al c ge s S ro lis tom b na n ite duc Loc ed ta Es Cu s a g rat s s ts em eg me | Ear S en Int nt s th/ Ec Ope ms er s| t ratio ogra os n of Re on Pr stom yst presentative Social Contributi em Commun port Cu ity Engagement and Sup Emp stem loyee s | Cent rth/Ecosy ral/Local governments | Ea | NGOs | Local community Let the world know about LS Mtron Substantial and innovative growth Golden efforts toward top-notch technoTractor Division posting $ 100 million in Rated No. 1 in innovative and executive logical capability exports for the first time in corporate history capabilities by the ‘Diagnosis of Sustainable Winning the Presidential Golden Award at the Growth Competitiveness’ 37th National Quality Circle Competition (Maekyung Economy) Steering Wheel and Stakeholder Alignment At LS Mtron, our definition of stakeholders includes all who impact or are impacted by our business conduct directly and indirectly. We classified our stakeholders into two groups by the level of business impact: core stakeholders covering customers, employees, suppliers, local community, earth/ecosystem and general stakeholders covering central/local governments, NGOs, shareholders/investors. Our classification of stakeholders remained unchanged in 2011 from the previous year of 2010. 1 Innovation Initiatives • Our Achievements in Numbers Focus Area Performance | 01. Innovation Initiatives 1) Reduced due to the sale of the Air Conditioning Division in 2011 2) Staff-level employees were included from 2011 2009 2010 2011 Financial Values Generated by KRW 16.8 Billion KRW 21.3 Billion KRW 18.7 Billion Innovation Activities 1) Perspective to look beyond the shop floor, ability to put special ideas to action: (Contribution to operating profits) These constitute the unstoppable engine behind our innovation initiatives at LS Mtron. No. of Innovation Tasks Imple98 235 176 Innovation to break through limitations as the first-mover and faster than anybody else! mented 1) This is the driving force to guide us into a better world. No. of Innovation Talent Secured 1) 78 178 146 No. of Innovation Tasks Suggested 2) 16 /person 30 /person 21 /person • Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 Dir e ct To continue and strengthen customized innovation initiatives S ta ke ho to generate sustained business outcomes lde r To pursue creative innovation which generates new values and ambitious innovation which boosts business capabilities To establish a 3S3C1)-driven Mtron Way culture Employees Engagement Channels 1) 3S3C : 3S(Simple, Speed, Smart), 3C(Creativity, Challenge, Communication) • Mtron6 Festival • Employee innovation workshop 20 • Gatherings of innovation ofﬁcers ※Outcomes of Interviews with in-house innovation officers and innovation experts • Meeting with the CEO 21 Building stronger consensus • Declaration • 2015 Mid-term Implementation Directions Suppliers • Quality circle contest of the innovationvision 31% We at LS Mtron pursue customized innovation that aims to deliver customer To exceed business limitations through the generation of new values led by Offering stronger positionsatisfaction and substantial outcomes through a ‘think-outside-the-box’ and creative innovation In di specific innovation training 23% innovative change in the way we think. To this end, we are dedicated to estabTo secure the driving force behind business growth by strengthening business r ec Making stronger alignment capabilities through proactive and ambitious innovation initiatives tS among business objectives 23% lishing an innovation culture to open up a new future and becoming a key driver t ak e ho in creating economic and social values. To lay the foundation for voluntary innovation by establishing a free and prol de Supplementing innovation r activity management systems 15% ductive culture of communication Customers Expanding and internalizing innovation culture 8% • Implementation System Department in charge: Innovation Team(under the direct control of the CEO) • 2011 Achievements and 2012 Plans ●: Completed, ◐ : Partially completed, ◯: Not completed, ◎: Continuous activity interview LS Mtron’s Electronic Component Division has been relentlessly committed to the ECPS innovation initiatives over the past 3 years under the vision to Managerial Issue Major Achievements in 2011 Evaluation Major Plans for 2012 Deadline become a “Global Player in the Electronic Component Market”. In 2011, our ECPS activities became more compact and were taken intensively in the folOperation of the • Scope of innovation activities was extended ● • To undertake quality circle tasks and innovation activities at ◎ lowing 3 areas. Integrated Innovation Innovation activities were initiated among office and sales overseas subsidiaries Firstly, we pursued innovation on the shop floor, under which self-driven, on-site improvement and maintenance was made through target management System / marketing workers • To build a Big Y task implementation system in the Staff sector ◎ Support was offered to overseas subsidiaries/suppliers for • To undertake theme-based tasks in the areas of operation/ ◎ and immediate implementation activities were undertaken to ensure the speedy resolution of problems on the shop floor. Secondly, our endeavors contintheir innovation initiatives communication/competency/awareness innovation ued to secure the ‘survival’ cost. This aimed to ensure that our overseas subsidiaries secure the minimum level of cost to guarantee their own survival as • Awarded with the Golden Prize of the Korean National Quality ● • To facilitate communication ◎ a business. While only 84% of the target set was attained due to the delay in localizing semi-manufactured products, we reaped a great success in cost Management Awards(quality circle competition sector) • Silver Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit was awarded(CEO) ● innovation of the plating process which challenged to meet extremely high targets and this made great contributions to securing the survival cost. Lastly, • Innovation culture was communicated and promoted ◎ we strived to nurture innovation talent. Altogether, 20 innovation leaders were fostered including 3 Six Sigma MBBs by the end of 2011. Value Engineering training was offered to generated ideas for cost innovation and the 3-year Kaizen Leader training for class/circle leaders was completed. Customized Innova• Company-wide KPI management system was built ● • To select and undertake innovation tasks to address chronic ◎ tion Activities • Productivity management system was improved ● problems in major divisions Our Electronic Component Division, entering the 2nd phase of its innovation initiatives(ECPS 2.0) in 2012, is undertaking innovation activities under the slo• Division-specific customized innovation activities were ● • To build a TRIZ implementation system and undertake pilot tasks Mar. gan of “Jump ECPS” to take another leap forward. To this end, the division is expanding the scope of its innovation activities into sales and R&D, fostering undertaken(Contribution to operating profit was worth • To enhance the accuracy of indicators by re-setting standard time Aug. innovative talent, and taking customized innovation initiatives led by team leaders. We will secure global customers and advance into the global market KRW 18.7 Billion) • 6Sigma, LPS2), VE3), TRIZ4) and promotion of shop floor innovation Nov. through our JUMP ECPS initiatives in order to drive the sustainable growth of our Electronic Component Division. • CDM1) activities with suppliers were strengthened ● talent 1) CDM (Cost Development Method) : Initiatives which aim to work together with CDM suppliers to reduce cost and share the benefits In-gook Cho, General Manager, Electronic Component Division MBB 2) LPS : LS Mtron Production System 3) VE : Value Engineering 4)TRIZ : Theory of Inventive Problem Solving Operation of Integrated Innovation System Customized Innovation Activities Focus Area Performance | 01. Innovation Initiatives At LS Mtron, our innovation initiatives aim to contribute to creating corporate economic and social values and have continued steadAt LS Mtron, each business division develops and applies customized innovation methodologies that meet their specific needs in order fastly since our inception in 2008. In 2011, wide-ranging communication channels were up and running to extend the scope of innovation to generate practical outcomes. These customized innovation activities took their firm root across the board in 2011 and intensive innoactivities and to build solidarity between management and employees and among employees through the creation of innovation culture. vation initiatives were undertaken to strengthen the sustainable corporate fitness covering efficiency improvement of the customized operation system, establishment of cost innovation competency and promotion of innovation talent. Expansion of the Scope of Innovation Initiatives Suggestions Made By Staff-Level Employees Efficient Operation System Promotion of Customized Innovation Talent 23% 92% Participation 20% Against staff-level Innovation Initiatives among Office Employees Our innovation activities newly (%) Improvement of the Productivity Management System We initiated a project to employees (%) launched in the Staff sector in 2011 had an aim to expand the focus of our innovation acimprove our productivity management system, which remained unchanged even after 9% 178 14.7 Suggestions made per person(No. of 146 Innovation talent tivities from the shop floor into the entire spectrum of our business conduct. Every last Fri19% the split from LS Cable & System, to bring it up to date to reflect the reality of LS (No. of persons) suggestions) 78 day each month was designated as ‘5S Day’ for our employees to organize and clean up to Mtron. To this end, customized productivity standards were developed and 7 indica1.0 improve their workspace environment. We proactively encouraged staff-level employees to tors were created to reflect division-specific business features. These improved pro2009 2010 2011 participate in the idea suggestion system and this led to the identification and completion 2010 2011 ductivity indicators are shared through our SAP and management information system of more than 1 waste elimination task per employee by the entire staff-level employees. in real time manner in order to serve as important management data. Production Productivity Productivity Expansion of the Sales and Marketing Capability Enhancement Project on Activity Management Indicator On-line System Management a Company-wide Level The sales and marketing capability enhancement project, Internal Capability for Cost Innovation which was initiated in 4 business divisions in 2010, was expanded into the rest of the divisions. This project assisted in enhancing individual sales employee’s capability Expansion of VE Activities In 2011, our cost innovation initiatives moved beyond and creating systemized and scientific solutions to major sales issues. mere cost reductions of raw materials into VE activities that aim for the systemized creation of ideas and the implementation of cost reduction tasks, thereby building ERP / BI Expansion of Innovation Initiatives into Chinese Subsidiaries Innovation initiastronger internal capabilities. The scope of our VE activities extended from design to 01 tives at our Chinese subsidiaries, which were primarily focused on training in 2010, process and the share of VE out of the total cost innovation rose from 35% in 2010 to 22 were combined with quality circle activities to help them generate practical outcomes in 43% in 2011. 01 2011. Our plan for 2012 is to encourage these quality circles at Chinese subsidiaries to 23 undertake 2 tasks per circle and attend the company-wide quality circle competition. Stronger CDM Activities Our CDM initiative aims to promote mutually-beneficial cooperation between LS Mtron and suppliers by working jointly in generating cost reduction ideas and sharing the outcomes. In 2011, 18 and 11 suppliers of the Tractor Facilitation of Communication Division and the Injection Molding Division were chosen respectively. LS Mtron had sincere discussions with these suppliers to come up with cost reduction ideas and ofDiversification of Communication Channels Our monthly Meetings with CEO al02 fered them training and technical support to generate outcomes. low the company CEO and employees to engage in honest dialogue and the quarterly CEO MBWA(management by wandering around) enables our CEO to visit every busi02 ness site himself and watch and encourage innovation activities being undertaken Promotion of Customized Innovation Talent on the shop flow. We also publish Newsletters to share latest trends and progress of corporate innovation initiatives. Fostering innovation talent, the driver of our innovation initiatives, is a sustained activity at LS Mtron. In 2011, a total of 41 new innovation talents were nurtured Stronger External PR Activities We at LS Mtron utilized various external opportuniincluding 4 new MBBs. Moreover, VE BBs, GBs, and LPS improvement experts were ties to promote the progress and outcomes of our innovation activities in 2011. Included fostered in addition to 6 Sigma BBs and GBs who are problem-solving experts. Quality 03 in such endeavors is our CEO’s lecture at the Global Innovation Conference (a case premasters and quality circle coaches were also nurtured to lead innovation activities on sentation at the Inno-Skill Conference and a keynote speech delivered at the Employee the shop floor. 03 Innovation Forum, which in turn recognized our achievements in innovation activities. •MBB : Master Black Belt •BB : Black Belt •GB : Green Belt •VE : Value Engineering •LPS : LS Mtron Production System 01. Improvement of the Productivity Management System 02. Kick-off of Tractor Division’s CDM activities Award Winner at the 37 Korean National Quality Management Awards Our 03. Promotion of Customized Innovation Talent substantial innovation activities were recognized with varied external awards and commendations. Both of our Equus quality circle from the Injection Molding DiviPerformance Verification of Innovation Initiatives sion and the Green Water quality circle from the CF Division were awarded with the Golden Prize at the Quality Circle Competition held as part of the 37 Korean National th 04 Our expert employees thoroughly verified whether our innovation activities were Quality Management Awards and Woo-Sik Kim, an LS Mtron employee, was honored redundant or erroneous regarding relevant financial performance and concluded that 01. Innovation training for Chinese subsidiaries as quality master. Moreover, President Jae-Seol Shim was awarded with the Silver the contributions made by these activities to our financial performance amounted to 02. CEO’s presentation at the Global Innovation Conference Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit for his efforts in promoting innovation initia03. 37 th Korean National Quality Management Awards 33% of operating profits. tives and quality management. 04. Quality Innovation Festival of the Electronic Component Division 2 Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Activity • Our Achievements in Numbers 1) Including management support consulting, purchase-conditional, private-public joint investment technology development projects, etc. Focus Area Performance | 02. Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Activity 2009 2010 2011 Direct Investment in Win-Win KRW 940 Million KRW 1.63 Billion KRW 1.71 Billion Partnership1) Values are closely bound together to create a new level of potential. Unchartered territories are explored and passionate minds are united as one along this journey. Work Training for Suppliers 183 trainees 105 trainees 180 trainees Our capacities reach their full potential when we are together, our journey is meaningful when we grow together. Shared growth, this is LS Mtron’s keyword for a sustainable future. Selection of Q-Partner Suppliers 18 suppliers 32 suppliers 34 suppliers Private-Public Joint Investment 3 projects/ 9 projects/ Technology Development Projects KRW 1.55 Billion KRW 3.35 Billion • Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 (importance) Expansion of supplier Dir e ct S feedback collection 14 % t ak channels eh old er Establishment of a fair culture of transaction 14 % (ethics management) Assistance for suppliers in securing competitive 14 % Engagement Channels edge (manufacturing) Suppliers • Mtron6 Festival Prompt payment 12 % • Regular discussions with suppliers • Performance-sharing events with suppliers Increase of the number 24 of Q-Partners 9% • Website for the integrated purchasing system 25 • Declaration • 2015 Mid-term Implementation Directions Customers • Sustainability management survey Stakeholder Satisfaction in 2011 (on a scale of 1 to 5) We will establish the virtuous cycle of mutually-beneficial partnership to seek To Build sustainable partnerships through shared growth Period: Aug. 2011 ~ Oct. 2011 Suppliers are respected as a partner 3.9 pts. shared growth with suppliers based on a transparent and fair culture of transacTo extend the value chain for enhanced competitive edge in the global market In di Method: Mail tion and secure competitive edge for sustained growth in the global market. To encourage suppliers to participate in and practice sustainability management r ec Respondents:194 suppliers Supplier feedback is tS t ak actively collected 3.7 pts. e ho • Implementation System l de Endeavors are made 3.7 pts. r Central/Local to help suppliers with Manager in charge : CPO governments green management Department in charge : Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Team Win-win partnership Subcommittee: Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Subcommittee programs offer practi3.6 pts. cal assistance • 2011 Achievements and 2012 Plans ●: Completed, ◐ : Partially completed, ◯: Not completed, ◎: Continuous activity interview “Daechang Co., Ltd. is based in the Seongseo Industrial Complex in Daegu and specializes in producing components for tractors, combines, rice-planting machines Managerial Issue Major Achievements in 2011 Evaluation Major Plans for 2012 Deadline and other major agricultural machines. Secured Competi• Shared growth agreement between large companies and SMEs ● • To offer customized support to boost supplier’s competitive edge ◎ We have forged long-standing, family-like relationships with LS Mtron over the last three decades since we started business with the agricultural machinery divitive Edge for Shared was signed • To complete and initiate the SRM system ◎ Growth • SRM1) system was built ● • To facilitate private-public joint investment technology develop ◎ sion of LG Cable. Today, we supply all of cabins and pedal frames consumed by LS Mtron to manufacture its flagship product, tractors, and we were chosen again • Private-public joint investment technology projects were initi● ment projects as Platinum Partner in 2011 after we made the same feat in 2005. ated(9 projects) • To operate win-win partnership funds worth KRW 10 Billion ◎ What we have achieved so far was supported by various consulting and innovation activities offered by LS Mtron that covered production, quality and general • New win-win partnership funds were created(KRW 5 Billion) ● • To continue to make 100% cash or cash-equivalent payments ◎ management. These endeavors encouraged us to grow into a company with professional capacity unmatched by any other competitors, even though we started as • P-CBO2) was created, corporate bonds were issued(KRW 95 Billion) ● • To participate in the Technology Training Center consortium led Under • 100% full cash or cash-equivalent payments were made to suppliers ● by the Ministry of Employment and Labor review a late mover in producing cabins for agricultural machinery. • Investments in increasing supplier production capacity were ● • To operate the Technology Research Council with SungkyunKwan Oct. LS Mtron suppliers who are certified as Q-Partners are entitled to such substantial benefits as increased order volume and 100% full cash payment. This in turn made(KRW 2.5 Billion) University leads to improved payment conditions for Tier 2 suppliers, creating a virtuous cycle throughout the entire supply chain. Support for capacity-building training offers • Quality management activities were undertaken(35 suppliers) ● • To participate in the health & safety cooperation project of the Nov. varied opportunities to managers and production officers, laying the basis for our suppliers to grow further and forge viable cooperative relationships with us. Ministry of Employment and Labor The trust-based relations we built with LS Mtron allowed us to participate in the on-going project to develop ‘general-type combines’ as an export-oriented model Supplier Engagement • Varied offline dialogue channels were operated(29 times) ◎ • To run varied offline dialogue channels ◎ for 2013. Last but not least, I’d like to ask for continued cooperation from LS Mtron so that suppliers make up for their shortcomings and join forces with LS Mtron and Communication • Business division heads performed MBWA ◎ • To improve the integrated purchasing system Aug. in reaching its ambitious goal to grow into one of the world’s big 5 companies in the tractor market. We will fully commit ourselves to this objective as well. • Sustainability management surveys were conducted(194 suppliers) ● • To conduct sustainability management surveys Aug. Dal-Hyun Eom, President, DAE CHANG Industrial co., Ltd. 1) SRM: Supplier Relationship Management 2) P-CBO: Primary-Collateralized Bond Obligations Secured Competitive Edge for Shared Growth Focus Area Performance | 02. Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Activity In the global business market, the competition is taking place not among individual companies but networks of companies which consist of parent companies and their suppliers. At LS Mtron, we are fully aware of this paradigm shift and are committed to moving toward a better tomorrow for shared growth in accordance with the values of LS partnership which was declared in 2011. Signing of the Shared Growth Agreement between Large Win-Win Partnership Model Financial Support for Operational Stability LS Mtron Win-Win Partnership Funds Companies and SMEs Objective “Seek shared growth through the strengthened strategic partnership” LS Win-Win Partnership Funds Our LS Mtron Win-Win Partnership Funds worth To fulfill our economic and social responsibility and establish a sustainable and sharSystem KRW 5 Billion have been up and running in conjunction with Jeon Buk Bank since LS Mtron Q – Partner System ing-driven corporate culture, we at LS Mtron signed the North Jeolla Province Shared 2010 in order to enable our suppliers who are in need of financial resources for facilJoint innovation activiGrowth Agreement between large companies and SMEs. At the signing ceremony, we Programs Support for management ity investments and other purposes to benefit from preferential interest rates. stabilization ties declared our commitment to shared growth through mutually-beneficial management LS Win-Win Partnership Funds CDM In June 2011, we created additional KRW 5 Billion together with Kookmin Bank to 1.Consultation 2. Recommendation P-CBO ESI (Purchasing officer) with suppliers which includes: enhancing the financial health of suppliers, improve100% cash equivalent further expand the funds, which will enable financial support for even more LS Mtron payment 3.Application/ ment of payment conditions and facilitation of technology development. Diasuppliers nationwide. logue Consultation Support for technology Support for capacity Supplier Bank development building Public-private joint PMS certification project P-CBO (Primary-Collateralized Bond Obligations) We issued KRW 95 Billion 4. Evaluation/ investment technology Training and consulting Loan-taking Establishment of the SRM System development projects support worth of corporate bonds for shared growth with 6 suppliers in 2011. The initiative, led by LS Mtron, not by the Korean government, allowed our suppliers, who were not Our SRM (Supplier Relationship Management) project has been up and running since able to issue their own corporate bonds due to low credit ratings, to secure large2011 to ensure the rapid sharing of information and stronger trust-based relationships scale funds with 6.7~7.5% annual interest rates without collateral. Purchase by Country with suppliers. Included in this project are such varied activities regarding suppliers as : (unit: KRW 100 Million) real-time sharing of payment order information in accordance with the production plans Terms of Payment for Suppliers Since October 2010, all our suppliers have been Category 2009 2010 2011 set and modified, supplementing supplier evaluation systems and tightening supplier benefited from 100% cash or cash equivalent payments to ensure their operational 26 Korea 3,044 5,374 5,021 post-management based on evaluation outcomes and building purchasing systems. The stability. Our major suppliers are entitled to bi-weekly payments and 100% full cash Japan 366 496 403 objective of this project is to prevent any losses of business opportunities caused by payments are made if the total amount is under KRW 5 Million or the receiver is our 27 China 304 415 595 instability in supply and demand, minimize the waste of management resources and thus Q-Partner supplier. Europe 268 236 324 create the optimized supply chain management system between LS Mtron and suppliers. Row(U.S., India, etc.) 58 14 Total 3,982 6,579 6,357 01 Q-Partner System Joint Innovation Initiatives We at LS Mtron is fully aware that the source of competitive edge lies in our suppliers CDM Activities Our CDM (Cost Development Method) activities represent our and this is why we operate the Q-Partner system to identify top-performing suppliers own performance sharing system under which we discover ideas for cost reduction and nurture them into strategic partners through fair supplier assessments. In 2011, together with suppliers and share the outcome equally for two years. In 2011, 18 of the number of our Q-Partners rose by 2 from the previous year to 34 in total, composed our suppliers participated in this system to identify 450 such ideas, which were then of 5 Platinum Partners and 29 Gold Partners. All of our Q-Partners are entitled to 100% verified for effectiveness and taken into action to produce KRW 700 Million of cost full cash payments and offered opportunities for joint activities regarding win-win saving annually. 02 partnership programs and innovation initiatives. These endeavors assist us in creating 01 a culture of shared growth and achieving the true spirit of LS partnership. ESI Activities Our ESI (Early Supplier Involvement) initiative allows our suppliers to 01. Issuance of P-CBO corporate bonds for shared growth participate in the early stage of LS Mtron’s product development. Daechang Co., Ltd. 02. Business presentations and quality agreement signing ceremonies held for suppliers joined this initiative in 2011 to prevent the possible loss of business opportunities Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Subcommittee’s and improved performance by 30%. Close cooperation began with the company in the Activities in 2011 designing stage of a new cabin for mid/large-size tractors in order to meet increasingly growing customer needs and we began the manufacturing of mass production The Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Subcommittee is in operation under the supermodel after 10-month joint endeavors. With the timely launch of the model in the vision of the Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Team in order to ensure the companypeak season, our status in the market was further solidified. 02 wide, systemic implementation of varied initiatives which aim for the establishment of a culture of fair transaction and shared growth with suppliers. The subcommittee met 3 01. Signing ceremony of the North Jeolla Province Shared times in 2011 in conjunction with the Finance Team and the Legal Affairs Team to discuss Growth Agreement between Large Companies and SMEs 02. Q-Partner awarding ceremony such agenda items as the development of additional win-win partnership programs and the creation of new win-win partnership funds in alignment with financial institutions. Supplier Engagement and Communication Focus Area Performance | 02. Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Activity To express our commitment to the mutually-beneficial cooperation with our suppliers and maintain a healthy relationship with them, we undertake various engagement and communication initiative covering sharing events, discussion meetings, surveys, and interviews. We also make sure that the feedback that was collected from suppliers is fully reflected in our future win-win partnership policies and strategies. Private-Public Joint Investment Technology Development Private-Public Joint Investment Performance Sharing Event with Suppliers Project Technology Development Project (unit: KRW 100 Million) No. of Investments LS Mtron’s Our annual performance sharing events with suppliers aim to share outstanding pracYear Business Division Our R&D Funds worth KRW 20 Billion, created through the agreement with the Small Projects in the Funds Share tices and recognize top-performing suppliers as certified Q-Partners. The meaning of Business Administration and the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation, Automotive Compoquality in the Q-Partner system extends from simple product quality to company-level 2010 nent 3 15.5 5.15 aim to assist our suppliers in boosting their R&D capabilities. Under the private-public quality and covers the entire quality spectrum of basic capabilities (Quality/Cost/De2011 Tractor 2 4.5 1.5 joint investment technology development project, the Korean government and large livery), financial systems, organization and the overall infrastructure. The performance Injection Molding 2 6.7 2.24 companies provide cash to support 75% of the development cost of outstanding R&D sharing event in 2011 served as a venue to share best practices of suppliers for the 01 CF 1 3 0.99 initiatives taken by SMEs on the condition that the products developed through the past one year. The ESI activities, case studies of improved productivity/quality, and R&D are purchased by the large companies. Automotive CompoR&D endeavors that were presented at this event were possible due to the efforts nent 4 19.3 6.43 We use the project to ensure that our mutually-beneficial partnership with SME suppliers is made by our suppliers through the mutually-beneficial partnership initiatives. They Sub total 9 33.5 11.16 healthy and sustainable with R&D efforts as an intermediary. Today, we have 12 such projgarnered tremendous attention from employees working at suppliers as well as LS Total 12 49 16.31 ects under progress which aim to develop domestic technology and new technology. These Mtron employees. endeavors will help us and our suppliers in strengthening competitive edge continuously. Regular Supplier Visits by Division Heads 02 Training and Consulting Support Heads of respective business divisions at LS Mtron regularly visit their suppliers to 28 PMS Certification We support our suppliers with capacity-building in various ways. explore ways to enhance quality and support overall win-win partnership activities, The PMS(Productivity Management System) Certification Project led by the Korea Prothereby promoting the mutually-beneficial relationship. Such practices will be further 29 ductivity Center enables us to assist our suppliers in achieving productivity gains. This expanded to fully establish our LSpartnership . ® project aims to set directions in nurturing companies in their own customized manner through the pre-diagnosis of their current status and to provide OJT consulting to 01 boost the comprehensive competitive capability of these companies. We shoulder Increase Direct Dialogue with Suppliers 50% of the cost that our suppliers have to bear to participate in this project. 03 Included in our dialogue activities with suppliers in 2011 were 29 discussion meetTraining Support for Suppliers Included in our endeavors for strengthened caings and business presentations. These events aim to introduce our win-win partnerpabilities of suppliers is free-of-charge training on such topics as quality/production ship programs and gather any difficulties our supplier may have as well as to outline management. LS Mtron employees serve as an instructor to promote such training current market conditions and our production plans in order to seek shared growth programs as a venue for communication where information is shared and workingthrough dialogue-driven cooperation and communication. Constructive suggestions level staff come together in addressing problems rather than knowledge is transferred made at such events are incorporated in our efforts to lay the basis for win-win man02 unilaterally. We will gather VOS(Voice of Supplier) in the upcoming years to open agement. wide-ranging training programs for our suppliers. 04 Guiding CEOs of Suppliers for Chinese Subsidiaries to LS 01. Performance sharing event with suppliers 02. Guiding CEOs of LSMW suppliers to LS Mtron Expansion of Sustainability Management at Suppliers Mtron Head Office 03. Discussion meeting with suppliers 04. Business presentation for suppliers To encourage our suppliers to practice sustainability management more widely, we incorTo boost the loyalty of suppliers for our overseas subsidiaries and to promote their porate major sustainability management factors in our annual supplier evaluation system. benchmarking of Korean companies and technology exchange, 6 CEOs of suppliers for These factors cover environment/safety, labor-management relations, legal compliance 03 LSAE(Chinese subsidiary in charge of producing tractors) and 27 CEOs of suppliers for and accident and security management. In 2011, evaluation items were revised through LSMW(Chinese subsidiary in charge of producing injection molding systems) toured 01. Private-public joint investment technology development the concerted efforts made by the Emergency Planning Team, Green Management Team, project signing ceremony around our jeonju plant and suppliers in North Jeolla Province. We are dedicated to and QM Team at the Win-Win Partnership Subcommittee. Moreover, a win-win partner02. Innovation training for suppliers increasing exchanges with suppliers working for our overseas subsidiaries in the upship team is under development to ensure health and safety of supplier employees, 03. Quality management training for suppliers (management by coming years. wondering around) which is led by the Green Management Team. Our support for sustainability management at suppliers will continue to expand through cooperation among relevant departments. 3 Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management • Our Achievements in Numbers Focus Area Performance | 03. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management 2009 2010 2011 Internal Failure Cost 42.7% 1.0% 1.2% (improvement from the previous Customers’ support is the greatest source of energy for LS Mtron. year) Their passionate cheering encourages us to complete our race towards the perfect quality. We will deliver the highest-quality products and even greater contentment by expanding channels Loss from Customer Complaint to interact with customers and sincerely listen to their voices. (improvement from the previous 10.1% 12.8% 2.4% year) Percentage of ISO 9001 Examiners (against the number of employees in the entire quality segment) 13% 18% 30% • Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 (importance) To secure product qualDir e ct S ity competitive edge 15% t ak eh old er To secure technological competitive edge 14 % To build a prompt customer complaint 14 % handling process Customers Engagement Channels To strengthen aftersales activities 13% • Customer satisfaction survey • Collection of VOC (Voice of Customers) To expand systems 30 regarding collection of 12% • Product presentations/Exhibitions customer feedback • Sustainability management survey 31 • Declaration • 2015 Mid-term Implementation Directions Suppliers Period: Aug. 2011 ~ Oct. 2011 Stakeholder Satisfaction in 2011 (on a scale of 1 to 5) We at LS Mtron define customers as our core stakeholder and are fully commitTo maximize customer satisfaction through customer-driven management Method: Mail / E-mail Endeavors are made to ted to delivering products that meet customer needs through sustained quality To secure product quality competitive edge to create economic and social values Respondents: 164 client companies secure sustained product 4.0 pts. n dir quality competitive edge enhancement activities. We offer best-in-class services to earn trust from our To expand customer contact points and strengthen customer services ec t S ta Products (or informacustomers and touch their heart. eh k tion) can be used with 3.9 pts. old confidence • Implementation System er Endeavors are made to Central/Local Department in charge: Quality Management Team governments listen to and resolve 3.9 pts. customer complaints (under the direct control of the CEO) Products incorporate Subcommittee: Customer and Quality Improvement Subcommittee, environmental and 3.5 pts. social values Eco-friendly Supply Chain Subcommittee • 2011 Achievements and 2012 Plans ●: Completed, ◐ : Partially completed, ◯: Not completed, ◎: Continuous activity interview LS Mtron tractors are outstanding in fuel efficiency as well as performance and design compared to their competitors. They are designed for optimum Managerial Issue Major Achievements in 2011 Evaluation Major Plans for 2012 Deadline customer safety and their ergonomic internal design allows for remarkable convenience including the easy operation of various levers equipped. Moreover, Establishment of • Diagnosis of quality management systems (38 diagnoses) ● • Improvement and optimization of division-specific systems ◎ prompt after-sales services greatly contribute to improved reliability and customer satisfaction. LS Mtron PLUS-N model is a dramatic improvement from the Product Quality Com• Product quality enhancement activities (7 activities) ● • Product quality enhancement activities and diagnosis of ◎ petitive Edge • Quality diagnosis and improvement for suppliers ● management systems previous PLUS model, which was not without shortcomings while positively reviewed by customers, and also one of the greatest achievements of the com(64 suppliers/100 cases) • Quality diagnosis and improvement guidance for suppliers ◎ pany in 2011. It is with great pride that I say that this new model helped the company increase its market share and grow into a top-notch tractor manufac• Quality diagnosis and improvement for overseas subsidiaries ● • Support for overseas subsidiaries in improving quality ◎ turer in Korea. This astonishing growth, however, should be supported by even faster and trusted after-sales services and slow response to component needs (14 cases) management systems and recurring product failures caused by insufficient alertness and delayed improvement should not be neglected. Tractors are prone to failures because they • Establishment of the evaluation scheme for Quality Management ● • Operation of quality training courses (7 courses) Jul. System (QMS) • Nurturing of ISO 9001 examiners Oct. are used under highly tough agricultural conditions. If LS Mtron supplies and addresses necessary components as soon as possible when failures occur and • Establishment of quality talent promotion systems ◐ • Nurturing of quality experts (quality management engineers) Nov. does its best in delivering these services so that its agricultural machines offer full support to users who are engaged in time-sensitive farming work, this • Fostering of quality innovation leaders (6 leaders) ● • Creation and operation of quality talent nurturing systems Dec. will greatly boost the company’s brand image. LS Mtron needs to cooperate with its authorized dealers to share problems and work together in addressing • Operation of quality training programs (5 programs) ● • Establishment of product environmental management systems Dec. them in a swift manner. Turning its ears to the voice and requirements of customers and committing itself to becoming more attentive and making progress Customer Engagement • Division-specific CS activities/relevant training(40 cases) ◎ • Continued operation of division-specific customer satisfaction ◎ will ensure that LS Mtron stands on a firm ground to grow further. and Communication • Participation in and supervising product exhibitions and seminars ● activities (50 occasions) • Strengthening activities at customer contact points ◎ • Customer satisfaction surveys ● • Customer satisfaction surveys Sang-Jeon Lee, President, Buan-Iksan Integrated Agent Dec. Establishment of Product Quality Competitive Edge Focus Area Performance | 03. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management We fully recognize that our endeavors to deliver customer satisfaction should start from securing a solid competitive edge in quality and we are fully dedicated to providing high-quality products and services. To this end, we undertake wide-ranging initiatives that include strengthened quality cooperation systems with suppliers in addition to the operation of quality management systems optimized for specific features of respective business divisions and the establishment of employees’ quality capabilities. Operation of Quality Performance Improvement Systems Major Achievements in Quality Management Customer and Quality Improvement Subcommittee Support for Overseas Subsidiaries Initiatives in 2011 Activities in 2011 Optimization of Quality Management Systems To ensure the effective operaQuality diagnosis and Category Support Activities tion of quality management activities that aim for customer satisfaction and quality improvement guidance at 14 cases Our Customer and Quality Improvement Subcommittee is up and running to set LSAE Early stage stabilization of mass overseas subsidiaries improvement, all our business divisions are examined by certified bodies of their qualcompany-wide directions on customer satisfaction and quality improvement, build Diagnosis of quality and verification of suppliers’ Diagnosis and improveLSMW quality itifications for the quality management systems under ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949. ment guidance of quality 100 cases detailed strategies in consideration of division-specific characteristics and share relemanagement evaluation Enhancement of detection capabilities and technolMoreover, continuous improvements are underway to establish the quality managevant information. Composed of the Quality Assurance Teams in each business division LSEQ systems of suppliers ogy guidance for suppliers ment systems optimized for specific features of respective divisions. Diagnosis of the quality under the supervision of the Quality Management Team, the subcommittee met twice LSTA Creation of ERP/BI systems management system 38 cases in 2011. Improvement in Quality Failure Costs At the beginning of each year, quality failure Improvement of product cost reduction targets are set and division-specific outcomes are analyzed regularly to make quality defects 7 cases further improvements at LS Mtron. The quality performance indicators that we manage Support for Overseas Subsidiaries include internal failure costs1) and lose from customer complaints2). Out of the 8 business divisions at LS Mtron, the Electronic Component Division improved its loss from customer LSAE(Qingdao, China, tractor production), one of our overseas subsidiaries, were provided complaints and internal failure costs by 83% and 26% respectively from the previous year. with support to stabilize its quality of mass production for 3 months between January and 1) Ratio of internal failure cost: Internal failure cost/Sales April 2011. As it was a newly established site in China, basic-level quality management 2) Ratio of loss from customer complaints: Loss from customer complaints/Sales systems were created and problems were identified through the diagnosis of its quality sysQuality Competitive Edge Improvement Activities To secure a strong comtems. Our Korean expert employees worked in conjunction with local employees in order to 32 petitive edge in product quality, we undertake such wide-ranging activities as the strengthen processes, secure component quality and enhance the quality of pilot products. 01 improvement of product quality defects, diagnosis and improvement of quality man33 agement systems, maintenance of quality management systems, and diagnosis and 01 LSMW(Wuxi, China, injection molding machinery), an overseas subsidiary in the injecguidance of quality management systems at suppliers. tion molding business, undertook quality system optimization activities from October 2011 to ensure that the knowledge and know-how accumulated in the Korean counterpart is transferred to the local Chinese site. This was combined with verification of Strengthen Quality Cooperation System with Suppliers and support for local LSMW suppliers. LSEQ(Qingdao, China, electronic component production) in the electronic component business discussed quality cooperation meaWe fully recognize that our competitive edge comes from that of our suppliers and sures with the Korean Electronic Component Division at the beginning of the year and this is why we are engaged in varied initiatives to assist suppliers in securing their was engaged in training local Chinese inspectors and enhancing detection capabili02 competitive edge in product quality. Taesan Technology, a supplier for our Tractor ties through the support offered by expert employees from the Korean counterpart 02 Division, created its own task force team made up of our QA employees in the Tractor division. It also strived to secure quality of in the transfer to mass production. Division and members of the Quality Management Team and undertook improvement 01. Quality Improvement Signing Ceremony in the Injection Molding Machine Division activities for 3 months from October 2011. Such endeavors were credited for a 150% 02. Partnership Day in the Electronics Component Division increase in productivity at Taesan in addition to enhanced quality in small tractors and 2011 Quality Innovation Festival tractor front axle components through the maintenance of inspection systems. We held the Quality Innovation Festival 2011 at our Jeonju site. The event aimed to share both successes and failures regarding quality management, present defective 03 Quality Agreement Signing Ceremony products, disclose the outcomes of customer satisfaction surveys and offer invited 01. LSMW quality assessments in 2011 expert lectures in order to evaluate quality performance for the year comprehensively 02. Instruction for LSEQ inspectors in 2011 At LS Mtron, we and our suppliers come together in signing the agreement which and to establish our own unique quality management culture. The top quality man03. Quality Innovation Festival in 2011 specify outcomes in 2011, business prospects and quality improvement directions for agement award which recognizes the business division that achieved the greatest 2012, and quality targets for 2012. In so doing, we are fully committed to the sustained quality improvement for the year went to the Electronic Component Division for 3 conenhancement of product quality in conjunction with suppliers. Our Injection Moldsecutive years since 2008. Moreover, top performer and top performing teams with ing Division held a quality improvement agreement signing ceremony attended by 60 outstanding quality innovation activities for the past one year were honored with the employees from its suppliers in February 2011. The Electronic Component Division also quality achievement award. The entire LS Mtron business divisions took this event hosted Partnership Day to discuss ways to support mutually-beneficial cooperation and as an opportunity to be aware of the importance of quality and commit themselves to promote quality management operation with suppliers CEOs and quality officers from greater business outcomes through quality innovation in 2012. suppliers in attendance with an aim to seek shared growth with suppliers. Customer Engagement and Communication Focus Area Performance | 03. Customer Satisfaction and Quality Management We define customers as our core stakeholder and have undertaken wide range of customer satisfaction programs supported by our clear understanding of and cooperation with customers. We will commit ourselves to expanding our contact points with customers and proactively collecting customer’s feedback, thus incorporating it into our endeavors to improve products and services in a substantial manner. Strengthening Quality Management Capabilities Customer Satisfaction Survey Creation of Quality Talent Promotion Systems Undoubtedly, competitive edge in Our annual customer satisfaction surveys aim to compare/assess the level of customer quality constitutes a core element that determines a company’s overall competitive satisfaction as experienced by customers with that of our competitors, identify possible edge. At LS Mtron, our strategy to enhance quality and secure competency is geared improvements, and contribute to the delivery of customer-driven services and quality entowards investment and trust in ‘people’. It is only natural that the quality of products hancement. The survey items include quality, deadline, marketing and service and its scope is enhanced when the person who produces these products has high-quality capabiliwas expended to the entire 7 business divisions. The company-wide survey demonstrated ties. This is why we at LS Mtron built the optimized quality training systems that 01 that the overall performance was improved in the all survey items from the previous year 01 meet our own distinct characteristics. Our quality talent nurturing systems emphasize but customer complaint handling and product prices were rather poorer when compared to problem-solving capabilities, communication skills, practical knowledge, teamwork competitors. In 2012, the survey will be performed of customers in the entire business diviskills, and increase quality awareness in order to improve our competitive edge in sions and we will be further dedicated to improving customer satisfaction. quality. Our plan for 2012 is to put into practice the individual-specific and job-specific training systems that were built the previous year. Provision of Product Information and Marketing Operation of Quality Training Programs To ensure sustained enhancement in quality competency, we provided regular quality training programs that cover 2 basic To prevent any misuse of our products and expand customer’s convenience, we at LS Mtron 02 02 courses and 4 advanced courses to 40 employees working in the development/profaithfully provide product –related information. To this end, we regularly invite our customduction/quality assurance sectors in each business division. Moreover, external lecers for new product presentations and exhibitions in addition to the provision of product 34 turers were invited to train 200 employees in our Jeonju site on the topic of ‘corporate instructions and user manuals. survival strategy and quality management in the shop floor’. 35 Nurturing Quality Innovation Leaders To secure core capabilities required on Management and Expansion of Customer Contact Points an organizational level, we at LS Mtron are fostering quality innovation leaders who serve as a main pillar of our quality innovation initiatives. These leaders undertake To deliver greater customer satisfaction and enhance our brand image in the longer term, varied innovation activities in their respective fields based on their knowledge of 03 we manage our contact points with customers continuously. In 2011, basic sales/service 03 quality management systems to optimize our quality management system. courses and advanced special technology courses were provided to strengthen the qualifications and capabilities of our employees as CS experts. In particular, the Tractor Division In 2011, heads of quality departments and chosen team members were trained on extended the scope of such training to include the CS employees of its overseas subsidiarthe basic requirements of the ISO 9001 quality management system and encouraged ies and employees of client companies and offered training on new products. to become qualified international certification examiners through the external camp training program delivered by independent outside organizations. Those quality innovation leaders who qualified to become international certification examiners strived Deployment of the Integrated Call Center Our integrated call center has been up to strengthen our in-house quality level, working in the forefront of wide-ranging and running since March 2012 to expand our contact points with customers regarding trac04 04 innovation activities. They also diagnosed our overseas subsidiaries and suppliers of tors and injection machines that are directly used by our customers. The main number was their quality management systems and offered improvement guidance. We continue 01. Invited lecture on ‘corporate survival strategy and quality created to receive all customer claims and customer’s satisfaction with our products and to provide our employees with capability and career development opportunities to management in the shop floor’ services will be also surveyed through the call center. 02. Advanced quality training program: Quality function boost our quality competency. deployment course 03. Advanced quality training program: Practical reliability course Protection of Customer Information 04. Fostering of quality innovation leaders: ISO 9001 examiner training course Every LS Mtron employee considers the protection of customer’s private information as the top priority and manages such sensitive data in full compliance with the relevant principles 05 and policies. Moreover, we have designated private information managers to be in charge 01. Presentation of customer survey outcomes of improving relevant processes and continue to offer training to raise the awareness and 02. Tractor Division: Iksan Agricultural Machinery Expo 2011 understanding of private information protection. 03. Tractor Division: General meeting of authorized retail stores nationwide in 2011 04. CF/UC Division: Battery Exhibition in Japan 05. LSAE: Advanced training to improve maintenance capabilities 4 Social Contribution • Our Achievements in Numbers 1) No. of participants / Total volunteering hours: Calculated after our LS Mtron Employee Volunteering Team was launched in May 2011 Focus Area Performance | 04. Social Contribution 2009 2010 2011 Social Contribution Investment KRW 230 Million KRW 297 Million KRW 570 Million Warm helping hands are extended to create the warmest light. With darkness gone, all is light and a way opens for all of us to go together. LS Mtron will embrace our neighbors with warm-hearts and loving arms. No. of Employees Attending Vol83 employees 301employees We aim to serve as a guiding light to enlighten our society and the wider world. unteering Activities 1) Total No. of Social Volunteering 330 Hours 1,080 Hours Hours1) • Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 (importance) Employment and Nurturing Engagement Channels of next-generation talent 50.3% • Consultation with local governments (AnyImprovement of welfare Local ang City, Wanju-gun Office, etc.) for vulnerable populations 28.3% community Dir ec t • Cooperation with NGOs (partner in underPromotion of local culture, art, sports 14.1% Employees S t ak taking representative programs) ehold Support for green initiaer • One Company One School, One Company tives in local community 7% 36 One Village sisterhood ties NGO • Support for culture, art, sports and wel 37 • Declaration • 2015 Mid-term Implementation Directions NGOs fare in cooperation with local community Stakeholder Satisfaction in 2011 (on a scale of 1 to 5) We are committed to corporate philanthropic initiatives in order to fulfill our soImproving corporate reputation through representative social contribution activitie • Sustainability management survey LS Mtron strives to supcial responsibility as a company and to promote the development and growth of Maintaining solidarity and building trust with local community Period: Aug. 2011 ~ Oct. 2011 port local community 4.0 pts. local community where we operate. Moreover, our employees are encouraged Enhancing employee’s CSR mind-set and expanding volunteering activities Method: Mail / E-mail LS Mtron fulfills its soto undertake volunteering activities on their own initiative to create a beautiful Central/Local governments Respondents: 21 local community organicial responsibility as a 3.7pts. corporate citizen world where everyone lives in harmony. • Implementation System zations Local stakeholder Manager in charge: Business support(CHO) Earth/ feedback is proactively 3.7pts. Ecosystem collected Department in charge: Business Support Team Ind Subcommittee: Social Contribution Subcommittee(planning), ak ir ec t St r e ho l de LS Mtron Employee Volunteering Team(implementation) • 2011 Achievements and 2012 Plans ●: Completed, ◐ : Partially completed, ◯: Not completed, ◎: Continuous activity interview On behalf of all the teachers and students here in Banfu Elementary School in Banfu Village, Tuyen Quang Province, I’d like to extend my sincere gratitude and affection to our supporters at LS Mtron, Korea. Banfu Elementary School, newly built in accordance with the guidelines from the Ministry of Education, will initiate its operation from the new semester between 2011 and 2012. The village council and parents as well as teachers and students have high expectations of Banfu Elementary School and its construction itself is an unexpected gift to the entire Banfu village. It is not just support for the construction of Banfu School but also volunteering activities taken by the LS Mtron Employee Volunteering Team to support our Managerial Issue Major Achievements in 2011 Evaluation Major Plans for 2012 Deadline village that left such positive impact and impressions on all of us in Banfu village. We learnt the value of hard working and sharing by watching these LS Operation of Representa• Global Happy Village campaign in 2011(Vietnam) ● • nd 2 class of the Global Happy Village campaign in 2012(Vietnam) Jun. Mtron employees volunteering for us. Despite the unfavorable weather and living conditions and all the other difficulties, they never failed to demonstrate tive Social Contribution • Planning representative social giving programs in Korea ◐ • Operation of representative social giving programs in Korea Dec . Programs their deep commitment to the volunteering initiative and this had positive impact on us all including teachers and students. Community Engagement • Creation of the LS Mtron Employee Volunteering Team Facilitation of volunteering team activities(Ceremony, etc.) Once again, we would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to LS Mtron on behalf of 400 teachers and students at Banfu Elementary School. Your support was ● • ◎ and Support • Regular volunteering activities on the company-wide level and in ◎ • Training to build volunteering awareness among employees ◎ pivotal to the development of our school and we would like to ask for continued interest and support for the development of Banfu village down the road. each business site • Activities in alignment with local welfare agencies ◎ • Activities in alignment with local welfare agencies ◎ • Promotion and sponsorship of local culture, art and sports ◎ • Promotion and sponsorship of local culture, art and sports ◎ • Sisterhood ties with local communities and schools ◎ Nguyen Thi Thanh, Head Teacher of Banfu Elementary School • Sisterhood ties with local communities and schools ◎ Operation of Representative Social Contribution Programs Focus Area Performance | 04. Social Contribution Our representative corporate philanthropic programs have been up and running since 2010 to ensure that such programs are undertaken in a way that is systemized and sustained. Company-wide endeavors to implement social contribution programs, in addition to employee’s volunteering initiatives taken on their own, support our commitment to fulfilling our social responsibility as a corporate citizen. LS Mtron Global Happy Village Campaign of the scorching weather in Vietnam encouraged local teachers and residents to join 1st Class of the Global Happy Volunteering Team hands voluntarily. Moreover, local community leaders and parents as well as school Our ‘Global Happy Village campaign’, initiated in 2011 to fulfill our role as a global employees came to join forces to discuss pending issues regarding education or local It was my first time to be engaged in such full-fledged volunteering work and though corporate citizen befitting our rapid growth in the global market, has established itself community and participated in the volunteering work. it was tough, it also gave me rewarding and pleasant experiences. I never realized as a representative global social contribution program at LS Mtron. before that taking action for the happiness and future of someone else, getting out of my usual life style that values myself only, would be this much enjoyable. The volunThe program enabled us to build Banfu Elementary School in Tuyen Quang Province, a teering work also allowed me to be aware of the social responsibility that I have to less-developed region in Vietnam, in 2011, and to send a 10-strong employee volunbear as an LS Mtron employee as well as a member of our society. With this pleasant teering team to provide their helping hand in the construction site and engage in varmemory staying deep in my heart, I will participate in these fruitful initiatives in the ied programs with students including sports competition, music class and art class. upcoming years if another chance comes along to do so and commit myself to fulfillMoreover, the program was planned in full consideration of local needs and situations ing my social responsibility as an individual member of our society. in Vietnam and constituted the first global social contribution program at LS Mtron as a beneficiary-driven one based on the close network forged in the local community. Zhao Xiaomin, Assistant Manager, Korean Sales Team, We will continue to undertake our Global Happy Village campaign each year to grow Electronic Component Division into a company that is respected in the global market. 01 Construction of Banfu Elementary School Banfu Elementary School, first built with earth bricks 20 years ago, suffered from aging facilities which failed to provide 38 an adequate learning environment and was run under the double-shift system due to a significant shortage of classrooms to accommodate students. LS Mtron helped build 39 a new 2-story learning building, an administrative building and flush toilets to allow students there to enjoy learning in a pleasant and comfortable environment. Today, Banfu Elementary School is recognized as a top-performing school in the local community and facing a new turning point in its history due to our volunteering activities 02 at LS Mtron. Sending Global Happy Volunteers After our support for the construction of Banfu Elementary School, the LS Mtron Employee Volunteering Team embarked on shortterm volunteering initiatives following thorough 2-month preparations covering research of local conditions and the development and arrangement of volunteering programs on their own. The volunteering initiatives were categorized into the following three areas: student education programs including physical education, music, art and hygiene training, volunteering programs that require volunteers’ physical engage03 ment including the construction of school flower gardens and wall painting, and local community volunteering including environment improvement projects, and support for children from low-income families. Our student education programs provided a huge stimulus to the head master and teachers instructing local children there. Physically-engaging volunteering programs were also recognized as a leading example of volunteering work among local education experts. Our employees who sincerely worked with sweet running down their body in spite 04 of the scorching weather in Vietnam encouraged local teachers and residents to join hands voluntarily. Moreover, local community leaders and parents as well as school 01. First semester since the opening of the new facility Various Activities Undertaken by the Global Happy Volunteering Team employees came to join forces to discuss pending issues regarding education or local 02. Completion ceremony 03. Newly built learning building community and participated in the volunteering work. 04. Inside view of a newly built classroom Our employees who sincerely worked with sweet running down their body in spite Community Engagement and Support Focus Area Performance | 04. Social Contribution At LS Mtron, we incorporate the expectations and needs of local community in undertaking our corporate philanthropic activities and ensure that this forms the basis to pursue shared growth with local community. In addition to the proactive volunteering initiatives taken by our employees, we also engage in practical local community volunteering activities covering local community welfare projects and culture, art, sports projects. Launching the LS Mtron Employee Volunteering Team Social Contribution Subcommittee Activities in 2011 Sponsorship for Cultural/Art/Sports Projects Environmental Preservation in Local Community Our employee volunteering activities that were previously undertaken by respective The Social Contribution Subcommittee is responsible for setting strategic directions We offer sponsorship to varied cultural and sports events each year to help promote We joined the volunteering program led by Gyeonggi Province to measure the quality of business sites evolved and integrated into the company-wide volunteering team. for our varied social-giving activities including representative programs and facilitatlocal culture, art, sports and enhance the quality of life in local community. Specifically, indoor air for facilities venerable to environmental pollution in November 2011. We also Included in our efforts to provide systemized support to these activities are the mainteing the sharing of information across the organization. The subcommittee is superwe are a continuous supporter of the Jeonju International Film Festival and Jeonju provided environmental technology to companies who suffer the lack of such technolnance of the informal volunteering format in each business site so that the original auvised by the Business Support Team at the headquarters and consists of coordinators World Sori Festival, the two representative cultural festivals in North Jeolla Province ogy in North Jeolla Province. Under the One Company One Stream campaign, we partonomy and volunteerism stay unchanged and the creation of additional systems such in each business site, the Chairman and general affairs manager of our Informal where our Jeonju site is based. Our sponsorship for the Daejong Film Festival held in ticipated in the Anyang Stream Clean-up Day event in September, where we released as volunteering team operation systems and the Social Contribution Subcommittee. Volunteering Team. Anyang, Gyeonggi Province, also helped create a venue for communication that can be weather fish into the stream and cleaned up the surrounding area to improve the qualOur company-wide Volunteering Team began to receive membership applications in attended and enjoyed by local people. As a sponsor for the Korea Cycle Federation, we ity of water. On the occasion of the ‘World Water Day’ in March 2012, we proactively May 2011 and is composed of the four business sites in Jeonju, Anyang, Jeoneup and also contribute to the development of daily sports and public health. participated in the eco-friendly stream protection activities. Indong. So far, 400 LS Mtron employees have joined the team. Our employee volunWe will continue to sponsor these local festivals to enhance our corporate image and teering team aims to maintain its informal format and thus is open to family members pursue mutual existence and prosperity with local community. of employees as well as LS Mtron employees. The site-specific volunteering teams identify volunteering activities that may be aligned with local communities where they operate and undertake volunteering acWelfare Projects for Local Community tivities regularly, spreading the ‘Volunteering Virus’ cross the organization through the 01 united Volunteering Team on a company-wide level. We are a regular supporter and proactive volunteer for low-income families and senior citizens living alone in local community where we operate. In Chudong Village 40 Sarang Nanumhoe(Love Sharing Team)’ in Jeonju Our Sarang Nanumhoe atwith which we forged sisterhood ties, we help operate farmer’s markets and weektended by employees in the Tractor Division, Injection Molding Division and Special end farms. We also enable local residents in the village to tour around other well41 Business Team engages in wide-ranging activities mainly in Jeonju. As a regular sponfunctioning villages regularly each year to help the village develop further under close sor for ‘Da Ae Community’, the volunteering team visits the facility every month to bilateral cooperation. 01 engage in various volunteering activities including the construction of facilities and proIn Bongdong Village, we donated tractors to the local agricultural work site, a volduction of incinerators as well as experience programs such as waterside excursions. unteering initiative aligned with our tractor business, in order to assist the village in 02 nurturing next-generation young farmers. Sarang Silcheonhoe (Love Practicing Team) in Anyang Our Sarang Silcheonhoe in Anyang is composed of employees working in the Anyang region including the head office, Anyang site, sales departments and research institutes. They help Support for Talent Nurturing with bath-taking, clean-up and meal-taking at Yanji House, a rehabilitation facility for those with cerebral palsy near the business site, on a monthly basis. We assist in fostering talented individuals for the future in various ways. Under the 02 One Company One School initiative, we created ties with Bongdong Elementary Sarang Silcheonhoe (Love Practicing Team)’ in Jeongeup Our Sarang School to offer scholarships regularly and the swimming pool in our company dormiSilcheonhoe in Jeongeup volunteers for the physically-challenged. Its volunteers visit tory is open during the summer season to provide swimming classes to students. 03 households with physically-challenged people in the local area every month in conIn addition, we sponsor and participate in sports events and other school events. junction with the welfare agency for the physically-challenged in Jeongeup City and Included in our endeavors to provide a better learning environment for these students assist in building fences and supporting flood victims. They also pay a visit to local is the donation of chairs and the free-of-charge subscription to Kids Hankook Daily to long-term care facilities to take care of patients. help students acquire information and knowledge. Moreover, our donation of tractors to the College of Agriculture & Life Sciences at Chonbuk National University, a topSharing Hope Team in Indong Our ‘Sharing Hope Team’ is made up of employees notch local university, contributed to the generation of R&D outcomes for university 03 in the Automotive Component and UC Divisions and engages in monthly bath volunstudents. We also join hands with various local universities including Korea Poly01. Awarded with the Plague of Appreciation on the Day of the teering activities under the sisterhood ties it forged with ‘Shelter of Love’, a local technic through industry-academia cooperation programs in order to foster talented Film and Visual Entertainment Industry in Jeonju short-term care facility for those with intellectual disabilities. 04 individuals. 02. Donation of tractors to Chonbuk National University 03. One Company One Village campaign 01. Love Sharing Team(Jeonju) 02. Love Practicing Team(Anyang) 03. Love Practicing Team(Jeongeup) 04. Sharing Hope Team(Indong) 5 Green Management • Our Achievements in Numbers 1) Data before the indicators were introduced are not presented as the criteria to start reportingcoincides with the introduction of such indicators. Focus Area Performance | 05. Green Management 2009 2010 2011 GHG Emissions 89,502 CO2 99,778 CO2 100,223 CO2 Flourishing nature is the foundation of life and a shelter that provides peace of mind for human beings. To ensure that the clean air and the generous earth is here to stay forever, Energy Consumption 1,702 TJ 1,900 TJ 1,933 TJ LS Mtron pursues the cooperation between the nature and people in creating this greener world. Recycling of Wastewater Green management is our guiding principles and philosophy 75.7% 91.2% 92.1% in protecting the world today and nurturing a better tomorrow. Recycling of Waste 80.8% 83.3% 81.4% Percentage of Eco-friendly -% 24% 35% Products in Sales 1) • Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 (importance) Reduction of GHG emissions 17.3 % Conservation of resources and energy 12.7 % Engagement Channels Earth/ Investment in eco • Environmental policy presentations held ecosystem Dir facilities and process 10.9 % ec t by the central and local governments improvement S t ak • Discussions with environmental NGOs Expansion of ecoLocal community 10 % ehold friendly products and environmental engineer councils 42 er Reduction of pollutant • Green company information disclosure generation 10 % • Local Agenda 21 in Anyang 43 Central/Local • Declaration • 2015 Mid-term Implementation Directions governments • Sustainability management survey We at LS Mtron take sustained initiatives to create climate change strategies To respond to climate change through the reduction of GHG emissions Period: Aug. 2011 ~ Oct. 2011 Stakeholder Satisfaction in 2011 (on a scale of 1 to 5) to reduce our energy consumption and to conduct business to reduce GHG To expand the scope of eco-friendly products and green business Method: Mail / E-mail LS Mtron is good at pracemissions. Central to our commitment to becoming a global leading green To operate a safe, healthy and eco-friendly business site Respondents: 21 local community ticing green management 4.1 pts. company in the industrial machinery and cutting-edge component market is the Customers organizations LS Mtron is committed expansion of eco-friendly products and the scope of our green business. • Implementation System NGO to the conservation of 4.0 pts. energy and resources Manager in charge: Business support (CHO) NGOs LS Mtron is committed to Department in charge : Green Management Team, Technology Management Team the development of eco3.8 pts. Ind friendly products Subcommittee: Green Management Subcommittee, ak ir ec t St r e ho l de Eco-friendly Product Subcommittee • 2011 Achievements and 2012 Plans ●: Completed, ◐ : Partially completed, ◯: Not completed, ◎: Continuous activity interview LS Mtron’s strong commitment to the environment is well demonstrated in its company-wide green management policies and the definition of eco-friendly Managerial Issue Major Achievements in 2011 Evaluation Major Plans for 2012 Deadline products. Given that the company proclaimed its commitment through internal policies and targets set throughout its stakeholders, LS Mtron would benefit Response to Climate • Third-party verification of the company-wide GHG emissions ● • Calculation of GHG emissions at the entire business sites Mar. from building a detailed roadmap to meet set goals and report relevant outcomes in its future reports in addition to the statement of its goal to reduce GHG Change • Response to the GHG/energy target management system ● • Revision of GHG management policies and inventory May. • Nurturing experts to respond to climate change ● • Nurturing GHG management experts ◎ emissions by 30% by 2020 in the production sector. For example, readers would hope to see that LS Mtron continues to fulfill its social responsibility in its • Creation of mid/long-term reduction targets and plans ● extended meaning through green win-win management as outlined in its company-wide green management policies in its future reports. Another emerging Operation of Ad• Creation of conservation/reduction methods on environmental ● • Support for the risk management at Chinese subsidiaries Jul. trend is the integration of sustainability reports and annual reports. This does not mean a simple integration of two different reports but rather a company’s vanced ESH Business indicators based on total volume and intensity • Localization of the ESH management system at overseas subsidiaries Sep. social and environmental endeavors are reported as financial performance in the economic section of the integrated report. In other words, sales coming Sites • Creation of improvement activities and monitoring through envi● • Establishment of a transparent environmental information disclo Sep. ronmental impact assessments sure system from new products created through green business are reported separately and cost savings from reduced energy consumption are reported in detailed nu• Support for the creation of ESH mgt. systems at overseas subsid● merical data. We do have high expectations of LS Mtron as the company is participating in this emerging trend already. iaries and implementation of previous year’s follow-up measures Strengthened • Review of progress against the mid/long-term eco-friendly tech◎ • Review of progress against the mid/long-term eco-friendly ◎ (May.) Development of Econology development roadmap technology development roadmap Kwang-Lim Choi, Ph.D, The Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Business Institute for Sustainable Development friendly Products • R&D investment in eco-friendly products(KRW 13.2 Billion, 50%) ● • Review of R&D investment in eco-friendly products and sales ◎ • Sales of eco-friendly products (KRW 328.3 Billion, 35%) ● data(R&D investment: KRW 22.5 Billion, 57%, sales 40%) • Discovery of eco-friendly products and technology, application ◎ for external certifications and awards Response to Climate Change Operation of Advanced ESH Business Sites Focus Area Performance | 05. Green Management At LS Mtron, climate change is recognized as a managerial issue and under intensive management in order to comply with Korean govLS Mtron created a company-wide ESH management system to deliver a comfortable and safe workplace and continues to monitor ernment’s guidelines in responding to climate change and to fulfill our social responsibility in the environmental sector. ESH issues internally and externally through the system. GHG and Energy Target Management Green Management Subcommittee Activities in 2011 Operation of the ESH Management System involving employees and to create integrated response to internal/external stakeholders. The division also completed relevant training. This enabled all departments to At LS Mtron, our system ensures that our GHG emissions are reported and our obligaOur Green Management Subcommittee is responsible for presenting company-wide All 4 domestic business sites of LS Mtron were certified with ISO 14001 and OHSAS establish prompt and closely-aligned response systems to minimize losses from the tion to reduce GHG emissions is met in a legitimate and effective way in accordance directions for green management initiatives and discussing relevant issues. The Sub18001, which completed the establishment of our ESH system. The construction of initiation to the deterioration of fire accidents under possible scenarios. Such response with the GHG and energy target management system of the Korean government. Startcommittee is responsible for green management at the headquarters and consists of the Knowledge Industry Center in Anyang to be completed next year prompted us to systems will be further expanded across the entire divisions. ing with the calculation and reporting of GHG emissions, GHG reduction projects are the Green Management Teams and Facility Management Teams in respective sites. perform preliminary environmental safety reviews. Out of our overseas subsidiaries, identified and their feasibility is assessed, relevant action plans and reduction strateIn 2011, the subcommittee met four times to discuss the establishment of the GHG LSEQ(China, electronic components) and LSMW(China, injection molding system) gies are set and all these endeavors are followed by implementation and monitoring. inventory and other issues. were certified with ISO 14001. Our plan is to build ESH management systems at Improvement of Eco-friendly Processes and Management Our jeongeup site, chosen to be subject to the target management system, prepared LSAE(China, tractors) which was newly established last year and to review environof Pollutants detailed reports on its GHG emissions. They were verified by a third-party organizamental safety issues for the Brazilian subsidiary which was established this year in tion before being submitted to the government in March 2012. As the entire business Company-wide Emissions between 2009 and 2011 the initial plant construction stage in order to minimize ESH risks. Moreover, regular At LS Mtron, environmental targets are set in accordance with environmental impact sites are expected to come under the energy and GHG target management system (Intensity) ESH assessments are made of overseas subsidiaries every year at the headquarter assessments and risk evaluations conducted in each business division and resources (Unit: CO2ton, Intensity: CO2ton/KRW Million) within the first half of 2012, we will complete the revision of our GHG management ■ Jeongeup level to enhance our ESH executive capabilities. are distributed efficiently to ensure sustained environmental improvements. The ■ Jeonju policies and inventory within the first half of 2012 as well. While our GHG emissions sales-based intensity regarding wastewater discharge and water consumption ■ Anyang/Indong/Others rose by 0.4% from the previous year due to the expansion of facilities caused by busiStronger ESH Computer Systems and Processes The operation of ESH computer declined from the previous year (1.8% and 11.3% respectively). The increase in the ness growth in 2011, the intensity as measured against our sales was down by 3.9%, 2009 89,502 (0.167) systems enables us to perform environmental and safety examinations in a more sysreuse of copper scrap led to a 9.7% cut in waste discharge and the recycling of water which is attributed to our investment in reducing the consumption of electricity and 66,668 12,437 10,397 temic way and to monitor relevant facilities and the progress of outsourced construcrose 5.7% from the previous year to 92%. We are in full compliance with our internal thermal energy and energy-saving efforts regarding building equipment. By emission 2010 99,778 (0.140) tions. At LS Mtron, environmental and safety pre-evaluations are made to assess the pollutant discharge standard which is under 50% of the legal threshold. In 2012, we 44 source, indirect sources account for 92.4% or the majority of the total emissions and 72,626 14,259 12,893 environmental impact of newly built or relocated facilities and modified materials. The will introduce the eco-friendly raw and subsidiary materials management system to direct sources including fixed and mobile combustion account for 7.6%. 2011 100,223 (0.135) environmental and safety work permit system also allows us to prevent risks before minimize the use of hazardous chemicals and to proactively address global environ45 73,717 13,491 13,015 they occur regarding construction. mental regulations. In 2012, our contract order-awarding process was revised in order to prevent enviGHG Emissions Reduction Initiatives Composition of Emission Sources in 2011 ronmental safety accidents more intensively. The environmental safety work permit ESH Investment (unit: KRW Million) (Unit: CO2ton) scheme was expanded to cover the entire construction including emergency conCategory 2009 2010 2011 The task force team in charge of reducing GHG emissions at LS Mtron conducts 6.2 % struction and A/S services. The electrical safety segment was also strengthened to 1.4 % Environment 453 239 522 cost-benefit analyses each year to translate reduction plans into action and invest6,245 Fixed Combustion prevent electrical fires and electrocution. Included in our efforts to improve our ESH 1,350 Mobile Combustion Climate Change 126 163 77 ment projects are undertaken accordingly. The installation of freezer pump inverters, and Others system is to ensure that environmental safety reviews are aligned with the orderHealth & Safety 77 359 190 replacement of lighting devices into power-saving ones and temperature control of awarding process so that these reviews are not omitted. steam pipes led to a reduction of 1,019 CO2ton last year. In 2012, the integrated Total 656 761 789 Total operation of newly-built production lines and freezers and the application of high100,223 ESH Investment and Management In 2010, our investments in safety improvement efficiency inverters will generate 842 CO2ton worth reduction. rose due to the replacement of panels to better address fire risks and in 2011, the overall Environmental Safety Evaluation Process We benchmarked successful business sites with outstanding achievement in reducing environmental investments rose as well due to investments in prevention facilities. Our 92.4 % Apply for preliminary environmental safety evaluation GHG emissions. Moreover, our Cool Biz campaign allows employees to wear informal 92,628 Indirect Emissions Jeongeup site invested KRW 1.5 Billion to complete the installation of copper recovery clothes during the summer season(Jun.~Aug.) to save indoor energy consumption and system in June 2011. The recovery of copper contained in copper foil washing water Review of environmental safety and electrical segments to enhance work efficiency. saves KRW 520 Million of resources annually and reduces the generation of wastewater. Review is completed and contract order is awarded Our Jeonju site newly installed dust-elimination units for its tractor painting facilities. Our plan for 2012 is to invest in alkaline wastewater reverse osmosis devices to recycle Request construction work permit Nurturing Climate Change Experts concentrated water and save an average of 30 tons of water consumption daily. Our Work permit is granted Jeonju site newly installed prevention devices for its tractor painting facilities. Managers and working-level employees in charge of GHG emissions are provided Safety training with expert training courses to develop their capabilities and these courses were Supervision of construction completed in each business site. Fire Prevention and Management 02 Final verification of environmental safety upon completion of the construction 01 Major environmental and safety risks were identified and reviewed in each business site. These risks will be managed by each business site. Specifically, our Tractor DiviCompletion of construction 01. Third-party verification of the GHG inventory sion fully developed manuals to ensure swift response to fire-induced major accidents Strengthened Development of Eco-friendly Products Focus Area Performance | 05. Green Management Our own in-house definition that determines the scope of eco-friendly products and eco-friendly designing processes have facilitated our endeavors to develop eco-friendly products since 2010. The development of eco-friendly products is central to our sustained endeavors to deliver new value to customers and fulfill our environmental responsibility to minimize our environmental footprint during the manufacturing process. LS Mtron’s Eco-friendly Products Creation of the Eco-friendly Product Development Roadmap To ensure that the Major Eco-friendly Products in 2011 development of eco-friendly products is strategic and consistent, the mid-term technolAt LS Mtron, we classified eco-friendly products into: resources-saving, hazardousogy development strategy (eco-friendly product development roadmap) is created and Business Domain Application Model Scope of Eco-friendliness Major Features (Outcomes) ness-reducing, GHG emissions-reducing and environmentally-enhancing in accorput into action in each business division annually. Tractor Tier3-applied products(North America/Europe) Hazardousness-reducing Pollutant emissions were reduced and engine efficiency increased dance with the set basic eco-friendly designing factors. We have a total of 23 such Injection Molding DE/ME/SE models GHG emissions-reducing Efficiency rose by 25%, 45%, 25% respectively compared to existing models (D/M/S) basic designing factors. Ratio of Green Products in the R&D Investments and Special Business Caterpillar Resources-saving Product life cycle increase compared to existing models (7 years → 12 years) Each year, internal standards are used to define eco-friendly products in accordance the No. of Relevant Projects with changes in basic designing factors or inherent product features. We are fully Electronic Component All products Hazardousness-reducing Responded to RoHS, Halogen(F/Cl/Br/I/At) and Be-free dedicated to developing eco-friendly products and increasing their sales. 24 %(19) 18 % (8) CF All products Resources-saving Copper contained in the copper foil washing water was recovered for recycling GHG emissions-reducing Resources-saving Automotive Component CAC(Charged Air Cooler) hose Hazardousness-reducing Components satisfied EuroⅤ(automobile exhaust gas regulations) criteria Applied to eco-friendly energy sectors covering electric vehicles and wind power UC All products Environmentally-enhancing Eco-friendly Product Subcommittee Activities in 2011 generators Investment Ratio (No. of Projects) Our Eco-friendly Product Subcommittee is responsible for taking the lead in developing eco-friendly products on a company-wide level and enhancing eco-friendly features in the product development process. Under the supervision of the head of 58 % (29) technology development, the subcommittee is composed of the Central Research Hazardousness-reducing Center, division-specific research centers and the Technology Management Team. 46 There were 4 subcommittee meetings in 2011 to share the status of major investment Sales and Percentage of Green Products plans regarding the development of eco-friendly products and sales data as well and (unit: KRW 100 Million) 47 to discuss company-wide strategies to respond to climate change and relevant prod39.6% ucts and projects. 35.0% Ultra capacitor Copper Foil 23.9% 4,181 3,283 Endeavors to Expand Eco-friendly Products 2,211 Incorporation of Eco-friendly Designing Factors during Gate Review The basic eco-friendly designing factors set internally serve as the basis to identify eco-friendly Injection Molding designing factors in the product development planning stage. Designing targets are determined in the implementation stage to assess the outcomes of development efforts. 2010 2011 2012(plan) Tractor Business Domain Target and Strategy Details (~2015) • Mild hybrid: 15% increase in fuel efficiency and output, Applicable to mid-size tractors Development of hybrid tractors • Establishment of full hybrid line-up, First application to 100-HP models Tractor Eco-friendly engines and application • Above 75 HP: Application development of FPT engines (Tier 41)) • Under 75 HP: Step 1(Engine outsourcing), Step 2(Mounting internally-developed engines) Injection Molding Improvement of energy efficiency and • Use of hybrid systems that reduce electricity cost • Design factors to ensure the minimization of hydraulic fluid reduction of hydraulic fluid • Establishment of induction heat-assisted heater application technology Automotive Electronic • Development of high heat-resistance TCI3) hose products to respond to EuroⅤ2) Component Component Automotive Development of clean diesel automotive • Development of non-cutting methods and low-weight products Component components • Development of products free from 6 heavy metals and ozone-depleting materials Development of electro foil for highCF • Development of new electro foil for anode to meet high-capacity and reliability requirements efficiency electric vehicles Resources-saving and reduction of • Injection/Press design standards • Development sample Metal Sheet that is unplated Electronic Component hazardousness • Response to RoHS 4)/REACH5)/Halogen-Free regulations Creation of eco-friendly product • Mandatory application of RoHS to raw materials and creation of relevant DB UC designing process • Reduction of raw materials loss (Al foil, activated carbon) • Improvement of energy efficiency 1) Tier4 : Exhaust gas regulations that will take effect from 2013 2) Euro V : European exhaust gas regulation regarding diesel vehicles 3) TCI : Turbo Charger Intercooler 4) RoHS : Restriction of Hazardous Substances 5) REACH : Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation & Restriction of Chemicals 6 Employee Value Enhancement • Our Achievements in Numbers Focus Area Performance | 06. Employee Value Enhancement 2009 2010 2011 No. of New Recruits (male/female) 167 (145/22) 296 (255/41) 346 (281/65) Our key talented employees recruited based on a strong sense of trust No. of Female Employees 48 (3.3%) 74 (4.2%) 97 (5.9%) constitute the most cherished assets at LS Mtron. No. of Physically-challenged We pay attention to each and every small thought to create a great workplace. Employees 35 (2.4%) 36 (2.1%) 40 (2.4) We build an advanced corporate culture where individual employee’s capability is accurately assessed and fully nurtured. Per Capita Training Hours 145 132 148 Industrial Injury Rate 0.127 % 0.118 % 0.21% • Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 (importance) Dir e Life/Work Balance ct S ta ke Engagement Channels (family-friendly man13 % ho agement) lde • Engagement and cooperation enhancer Expansion of job capacment councils ity development training 13 % • Working-level labor-management counFairness of HR systems cils and meetings(company-wide, Jeonju) (recruitment, evalua12 % tion and compensation) Employees • Labor-management discussion meetings Expansion of benefits schemes 12 % (Anyang, Jeongeup, Indong) Expansion of global • Grievance Resolution Committee capacity-building pro10 % 48 • Employee communication meeting grams • Organizational capacity survey 49 • Declaration • 2015 Mid-term Implementation Directions Suppliers • Industrial Health & Safety Committee and Stakeholder Satisfaction in 2011 (on a scale of 1 to 5) At LS Mtron, we consider our employees as the source of our corporate value as Advancement of HR systems to the level of global leading companies committee meetings LS Mtron strives for the well as core stakeholders. We are dedicated to creating a corporate culture that Establishment of corporate competitive edge through the capacity development In di • Cyber Ombudsman work/life balance of 3.4 pts. employees ensures human rights of individual employees are fully respected, their compeStrengthening trust-based labor-mgt. relations and the protection of human rights r ec • Sustainability Management Survey tS LS Mtron has fair HR tency development is supported and employee Engagement and Communication Operation of a safe, healthy and eco-friendly workplace ho t ak e Period: Oct. 2011 systems up and running 3.6 pts. is assured. Moreover, we will commit ourselves to delivering a safe, healthy and l de Method: On-line LS Mtron is committed r Central/Local employee-centered work environment. • Implementation System governments Respondents:618 employees to the development of 3.7 pts. employee capacity Manager in charge : Business support (CHO) I’m satisfied with workDepartment in charge : HR Development Team, Green Management Team ing for LS Mtron 3.8 pts. LS Mtron is committed to the prevention of environmental and safety 4.0 pts. accidents • 2011 Achievements and 2012 Plans ●: Completed, ◐ : Partially completed, ◯: Not completed, ◎: Continuous activity Managerial Issue Major Achievements in 2011 Evaluation Major Plans for 2012 Deadline Advancement of HR • Improvement of the industrial scholarship student system ● • Diversification of recruitment channels for top-performing individuals ◎ interview Systems • Secure and recruit more outstanding talented individuals overseas ◎ • Support for the revision of HR regulations at overseas subsidiaries ◎ “A company with an employee-friendly corporate culture based on stable HR systems”, this is the ideal LS Mtron that I envision in my mind. Included in LS • Introduction of the job-based pay system through job value ● • Improvement of the office employee evaluation system by Jun. Mtron’s endeavors to build advanced HR systems that satisfy both internal and external customers are such institutionalized systems as the performanceassessments at Chinese subsidiaries enhancing fairness • Creation of the LS Mtron-type HR system for technical employees Sep. based thorough HR systems, the effective management of the talent pool, and reasonable evaluation systems and the incentive scheme that is differentiated • Creation of the HR risk management system Jun. in accordance with performance and diverse benefits scheme. Confidence built on mutual trust, respect and fairness forms the bedrock for an organization Strengthening • Sustainability management training ● • Promotion of coach-type leaders ◎ to overcome conflicts and reach common goals. Our employees are committed to creating a workplace where everyone can enjoy what they do with contentCapacity-Building • Operation of leadership courses for team leaders ● • Revision of employee training policies Jun. • Operation of training courses specialized for sales representatives • Creation of job-specific training roadmap Jun. ment and rewarding experiences while trusting each other and communicating freely. The reason behind our being chosen as a great work place in Korea in ● • Creation of training systems for company-wide production line workers ◐ 2011 lies in the corporate culture that we have at LS Mtron that encourages all employees to treat each other just as their own family members. Each and Employee • Operation of direct communication channels between ◎ • Training to disseminate LSpartnership® Jun. every LS Mtron employee will continue to dedicate themselves to fully establishing such a family-like corporate culture. Engagement and management and staff-level employees • Operation of employee communication channels ◎ All our employees will do their utmost to share the corporate vision and goals and to be united as one in this journey to reach these goals down the road. Communication • Incorporation of ILO into the in-house employment regulations ● Enhancement of • Development of special health & safety training materials and ● • Detailed management of employee health & safety risk factors Jul. Health & Safety utilization of these materials in training courses • Strengthening fire prevention capabilities Nov. • Analysis of process-specific safety risk factors ● Myoung-Ho Park, General Manager, HR Development Team • Revision of response manuals in case of fire and diagnosis ● Advancement of HR Systems Focus Area Performance | 06. Employee Value Enhancement At LS Mtron, we undertake sustained improvement initiatives for fair and reasonable HR systems, manage diversity and deliver a great workplace. Recruitment and Job Creation Ideal LS Mtron Employee Diversity Management Benefits Package We hold company PR events and recruitment consultations at major universities every LS Mtron is fully committed to creating en environment where all our stakeholders are At LS Mtron, we have diverse benefits schemes up and running to promote the work/ year in order to fulfill our social responsibility through sustained job creation and to Global guaranteed equal opportunities. Discrimination on the grounds of gender, nationality, life balance of employees and respect their economic, social and cultural rights secure talented individuals who meet our personnel needs. In 2011, we hired 281 religion, disabilities or age is strictly prohibited at LS Mtron. As of 2011, the number as well as varied forms of social engagement. (for more detail, please see the HR new recruits and experienced employees. More than 30% of the 177 new hires with of our female employees stood at 97(5.9%), up by 37% from the previous year’s 71. system/benefits package menu in the HR management section of our website at university digress were master or doctoral degrees holders. The number of physically-challenged employees also rose by more than 10% to 40 http:www.LS Mtron.co.kr/) In 2011, our benefits expenses amounted to KRW 16.6 Bil(2.5%0 from the previous year’s 36. lion. Our employee holiday scheme regarding condolences and congratulations was Improvement of the Industrial Scholarship System Our industrial scholarship sysGiven the inherent characteristics in the machinery/component manufacturing induspartially improved and overall benefits package was further expanded through the PROFESSIONAL OPEN DYNAMIC tem was improved to the highest-possible level in the industry in order to secure toptry, the employment of socially-vulnerable populations including women and physicalincrease of value of gifts for employee birthdays and wedding anniversaries and the performing talent earlier than others to nurture core R&D workforce. Application criteria ly-challenged people is relatively low. As such, the above data clearly demonstrate raise of meal expenses which aimed to enhance the quality of employee meals. were specifically revised ambitiously to include major areas, extracurricular activities, that LS Mtron is deeply interested in helping vulnerable population in our society and research outcomes and relevance with our business domains, which will ensure truly • Craftsmanship • Positive ac• Business rapidly expanding the recruitment of these vulnerable people. We will ensure that the • Continual selfceptance process reengiqualified students are selected as beneficiaries. recruitment of socially-vulnerable people increases gradually and guarantee an equal development • Receptive to neering/process change innovation opportunity of participation to them. • Prompt decision Securing Globally-talented Individuals In order to secure talented individuals who making and have experiences regarding the market and culture of technology-leading nations, we strong execution visited 15 universities in Japan, the U.S. and other advanced nations to forge ties with Creation of a Great Work Place 50 and interview Korean students there. To this end, networking systems were built to Total No. of Employees align LS Mtron employees and students studying overseas so that LS Mtron’s business, (unit: No. of people) Chosen as One of the Top 100 Great Work Places in Korea LS Mtron was rec51 corporate vision and HR systems are promoted and current employees may serve as Category 2009 2010 2011 ognized as one of the Top 100 Great Work Places in Korea by GWP (Great Work Place) mentors for these students. LS Mtron 1,472 1,669 1,649 KOREA. We were specifically awarded with the top prize in the manufacturing sector Including the Affiliates 3,618 4,147 3,512 for our endeavors to build a great corporate culture by practicing sustainability manage01 Employee Evaluation and Compensation Schemes ment covering the right-way management, talent management and green management. Moreover, our Jeonju site was selected as a great work place by the Connected-InUnder our company-wide employee evaluation system, all LS Mtron employees are subNo. of New Employees (unit: No. of people) Hope launching ceremony hosted by the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy and the ject to performance evaluations and competency evaluations every year. Our compensaNorth Jeolla Provincial Government to align university students and top-performing loCategory 2009 2010 2011 tion scheme is composed of fixed pay determined by employee’s potential capacity and cal companies. Our business stability, growth potential and top-notch corporate culture Male 145 255 281 expected capacity and variable pay aligned with individual performance. Fixed pay is were widely known across the local community where we are based through the event. Female 22 41 65 equally paid to employees in the same job level regardless of gender difference. Our new recruits are guaranteed salary levels above the legal minimum wage regardless of Flexible Working Time Pilot Project Our flexible working time scheme started in 02 gender difference and the location of business sites. 2011 to enhance researcher’s work engagement by providing an environment that suits No. of Maternity Leave and Childcare Leave (unit: No. of people) the R&D work cycle of researchers and to maximize research outcomes through creMaternity Childcare Improvement of HR Systems at Overseas Subsidiaries Category Leave Leave Total ative workplace atmosphere. The 3-month pilot operation of flexible working time for LS Mtron 7 1 8 researchers at the Central Research Center enabled us to identify optimal operational With our growing business in China, we modified the HR systems of our Chinese conditions and the system was expanded to the entire employees in the technology subsidiaries by reflecting local cultural characteristics, local employee’s way of thinkdevelopment sector in December 2011. The system allows all our employees in the ing and distinct features of the Chinese labor market. As a result, the job-based pay technology development sector including researchers at the Central Research Center to system was newly introduced to meet local needs to replace the previous system maximize their work efficiency through the effective operation of work schedules, selfwhich was similar to that of our Korean business sites. The job-based pay system development and the right work/life balance. Once the flexible working time system is 03 is being adopted by many global companies doing business in the Chinese market. fully established in the technology development sector, its adoption will widen to cover 01. Awarded with the Top Prize at the Great Work Place Awards Under this scheme, employees working in a specific standardized job grade are paid office technical workers. hosted by GWP KOREA in accordance with the set standards in the market. In designing this system, we ana02. Jeonju site’s being chosen as a great work place by the lyzed the job hierarchy of industry peers of similar size and finalized the standardized Ministry of Knowledge and Economy 01 03. Flexible working time introduced to the technology job grades from grade 1 (shop floor workers) to grade 17 (chief executive officers). The 01. Recruitment presentation development sector scheme will be put into action by adding further elements that meet local features regarding the promotion of Chinese subsidiaries and evaluation and training systems. Strengthening Capacity-Building Enhancement of Health & Safety Focus Area Performance | 06. Employee Value Enhancement At LS Mtron, we have varied capacity-building programs up and running to promote individual employee’s growth and organizational We at LS Mtron is fully committed to the enhancement of employee health and safety throughout the entire conduct of business. In capacity enhancement simultaneously. Equal opportunities are also offered to employees in each job level and position. In 2011, we 2011, we analyzed process-specific safety risk factors, revised fire response manuals and assessed the preparedness of respective continued to support leadership training including company-wide sustainability management courses and foreign language training to business sites in order to create a pleasant workplace and prevent safety accidents. assist leaders in building their global capacities. HR Promotion System Company-wide Sustainability Management Program Our company-wide susCreation of a Safe Workplace Symbiotic Cooperation with Suppliers tainability management training in 2011 aimed to assist all employees in building Our job level hierarchy is made up of assistants(grade 4), assistant managers(grade 3), sustainability management into their daily operation and enhancing their executive We at LS Mtron undertake wide-ranging initiatives to deliver an injury-free and acciWe at LS Mtron aspire to become a leader in environmental safety in conjunction with managers/deputy general managers(grade 2), general managers (grade 1) and execucapabilities. The training, attended by a total of 1,363 (completion rate: 98%), endent-free workplace. Danger predication training has become a routine activity and our suppliers. To help support and maintain eco-friendly, mutually-beneficial managetives. Under our HR promotion system, employees assistants and assistant managers abled these employees to learn the progress made in 2011 and to realize their respecmonthly environmental safety evaluations are made by each department to review ment of our suppliers, risk assessment, technological support, and the awards for can be nurtured into Self Leaders, managers/deputy general managers into Emerging tive role in practicing sustainability management as a future survival strategy of LS potential risks and build employee’s safety awareness. In 2011, 172 risk factors were suppliers with outstanding health and safety performance newly established as part Leaders, general managers into Team Leaders and executives into Business Leaders. Mtron as well as to understand the basic concepts and background of sustainability identified and improvement measures were taken to address all of them, which were of the year-end Q-Partner awarding ceremony will be provided. These endeavors will In 2011, per capita training expenses amounted to KRW 1,789,603 and training hours management. The training will continue and evolve into advanced courses to cover compiled and published in a casebook. Process-specific risk factors were assessed help create a safer and healthier workplace and thus deliver an injury-free industrial amounted to 148 hours. the entire staff in 2012. more intensively and hazard factors identified through video recording and analysis environment. are reflected in risk assessments and safety training. Work Capacity-Building Training In 2011, work capacity-building training was Major Programs offered separately in the first and second half in accordance with the common sales employee training scheme. In the 1st half, 133 sales workers attended courses on Promotion of Experts Team Leadership Program With the growing importance of leadership due to rappractice of trade, collection and analysis of information, and customer satisfaction idly changing business environments, we at LS Mtron offer training courses to help Mind-up. In the 2nd half, 150 sales employees completed more than two courses per Members of the Environmental Safety Committee and environmental safety & health leaders at each unit level grow their leadership skills. In 2011, our company-wide person on such topics as accounting principles, cost analysis, bond management, management supervisors are trained regularly every year and environmental safety team leader leadership training was provided with a theme of ‘overcoming limitations legal basics, collection and analysis of information and document creation skills. We training is also provided to all employees in each production line on a monthly basis. and communication’. The courses were attended by 65 team leaders and 3 chief plant plan to ensure the continued operation and improvement of common sales employee In 2011, company-wide special health & safety training materials were developed 52 officers, who learned skills to incorporate innovative behaviors and facilitate commutraining and build a new training scheme for production line employees in 2011. specifically for workers dealing with high-risk machines and devices. In 2012, we plan nication and committed themselves to becoming a leader who takes the initiative and to support supervisors and managers across the board with attending specialized fire 01 53 freely communicates with his/her team members. New Hire Training At LS Mtron, new hires including experienced workers are safety training in order to nurture fire-fighting experts in each plant line. provided with various training programs to settle down early and cultivate their work Global Capacity-Building Programs We assist our employees in enhancing their capacity. New recruits are eligible for LS Group/LS Mtron introductory courses, OA global capacities to ensure a more effective entry into the overseas market. In 2011, courses, overseas subsidiary training, WorkSmart courses, vision-making process and Employee Health Management a total of 27 global capacity courses were open and attended by 221 employees to mentoring courses for one year. Experienced workers who make a new start as an LS enhance their foreign language skills. In particular, those to be assigned as expatriate Mtron employee are provided with LS Group/LS Mtron introductory courses and menOur comprehensive medical check-up program ensures that employees may choose workers were provided with intensive foreign language courses, leadership courses, toring courses. specific examination items that meet their needs. This customized program provides cultural courses and work training. diverse and specialized items by disease category. 02 Top-notch medical institutions were designated across the nation under this program HR Promotion System map to allow our employees to receive health check-up services wherever they are. In parLeadership Duty ticular, employee families and supplier employees are also entitled to the same level Position Value Global Others New High Performer Common Specialty of health check-up services. Follow-up measures are taken including physical therapy and cerebrocardiovascular disease treatment in accordance with health outcomes. I Mid-long course NY State University New General LS MBA Prevention of Electrical Fires Experienced Employee Course Manager Leader Helsinki MBA Organization INTENSIVE English / Chinese Environmental Safety Course Development Deputy General Graduate Schools in 03 Global Language Course II Manager Korea Program We operated a special task force team to prevent fires caused by electricity, one of Chinese Camp Quality Course Patent Course LS MBA, etc. TVC1) Course Roadmap 01. Assessment and prevention of electrical fires New Manager the major causes of fire. Comprehensive inspections made earlier this year of major ITC2) for Each Job 02. Signing ceremony for the health and safety symbiotic Team BuildJob Competency Course fire risk factors in the entire domestic business sites led to the identification of 292 cooperation program III ing Course Module (12) such factors in total covering the lack of use of rated capacity, damaged clothing, 03. Company-wide EHS training-for managers and supervisors Assistants disconnection and overheated connections. Improvement measures were taken and completed accordingly. We will prevent these risk factors from elevating into any ocIV currence of fire through regular monitoring that will assist us in maintaining and manOpen(New Entry) aging the improvements made. Moreover, our overseas subsidiaries will be subject to 1) TVC: Task Value Creation 2) ITC: Inter Team Cooperation electrical safety assessments and improvement initiatives in the upcoming years. Employee Engagement and Communication Focus Area Performance | 06. Employee Value Enhancement Protection of Employee Human Rights Establishment of Communication Culture Creation of Value-Creating Labor Relations We are fully aware of the importance of human rights protection for our employees At LS Mtron, varied communication channels are up and running to establish a corWe guarantee the freedom of the labor union’s activities, and comply with internaas our top priority and engage in various activities to protect the dignity of employees porate culture of communication that allows our employees to accurately recognize tional labor laws including ILO labor standards. Our labor union had 630 members and improve their human rights. We stringently comply with labor-related laws includthe corporate vision and goals and to freely express their opinion to top management. as of December 2011 (i.e., 42.3% of all employees) and their election and decisioning the Labor Standard Act and stipulate and observe international labor norms in our Meetings with CEO serve as a venue that encourages free communication between making rights are protected. At LS Mtron, management and the labor union are fully employment regulations covering the prohibition of child labor and forced labor, unfair the company CEO and staff-level employees and quarterly discussion meetings sucommitted to forging labor relations that are value-driven as well as cooperative treatment and discrimination. Employees’ rights of organization, collective bargaining pervised by division heads allow management to share its vision and philosophy with based on mutual respect and trust. Management and the presiding council of the la01 and collective action prescribed in Article 33 of the Constitution are fully guaranteed employees, listen to grievances or suggestions from employees and offer prompt bor union share current business conditions and business strategy directions through here, which led to formation of the labor union that strives to protect and empower feedback. Moreover, mountain climbing to confirm commitment to the attainment of collective bargaining and the company-wide engagement and cooperation enhanceemployee rights. set goals and the in-house baseball competition hosted by the labor union chair and ment council. They also cooperate to improve labor conditions for employees and enother events to facilitate organizational activities are part of our initiatives to create a hance their economic and social status. At the business site level, labor-management Human Rights Protection and Improvement Channels To guarantee employees’ pleasant workplace through communication. discussion meetings and the labor-management working-level meetings are held to human rights and enhance their dignity, the Sustainability Management Executive Ofdiscuss a variety of pending issues and labor-management trust council meetings are fice and HR departments in each business site are responsible for constantly monitoring Dialogue with CEO: Q&A held monthly in each department to help resolve employee grievances and improve any violations of employee human rights. Our Cyber Ombudsman, grievance resolution the work environment 02 and counseling services allow us to report and address violations of employee human Q How do I define the work/life balance from my perspective as rights. If inhumane treatment or legal violations occur, those involved are punished by the CEO? 54 due disciplinary measures in accordance with the procedures set by corporate regulaA While being engaged in one’s work was critical in the past, the right balImprovement of the Grievance Resolution System tions to prevent any recurrence of such events. Our in-house training covering prevenance between work and life is emerging as a critical requirement today. 55 tion of sexual harassment and ethics management ensures that any infringement on Your generation puts a greater value on the present moment than the farOur policies and procedures regarding grievance resolution and ban on discrimination employee human rights is prevented before it does occur. off future and pleasure in life than achievement in workplace. This is why are disclosed at our in-house online bulletin boards to help our employees easily unwe need to take this new paradigm shift seriously as a company. derstand and utilize the problem-solving process. Moreover, counseling rooms are up These initiatives to protect employee human rights are taken by overseas subsidiaries Therefore, we make sure that employees focus on their work to be fully and running at our Jeonju site, Jeongeup site and research centers to ensure that our as well as Korean sites and we continue to request our suppliers to share our human engaged in their job and do not stay late to complete their job. We will employees are emotionally stable and their grievances are addressed in a preventive 03 rights protection guidelines and undertake relevant activities. Thanks to such endeavcontinue to be committed to this end and emphasize the importance of this and professional manner. In 2011, a total of 602 employees were assisted in dealing ors, there is no violation of human rights at LS Mtron covering inhumane treatment or new work ethics. with various problems through professional individual or group counseling services violations of discrimination-related regulations and sustained improvement is being Moreover, we plan to hire more women continuously to secure best-inand the counseling system was instituted as part of our grievance resolution program. made regarding employees’ human rights. class workforce. We will continue to work to create a women-friendly work environment. Notification of Changes We are mandated by the Collective Agreement to notify and *Excerpts from the Dialogue with CEO in March and May, 2012 consult with the labor union or concerned parties when union members are transferred or relocated to other departments or major changes occur in the conduct of business covering factory relocation or disposal of facilities. Notices are posted on the corporate 04 bulletin board or through personal e-mail or written appointments. Employee Engagement Activities in 2011 01. Discussion meetings with CEO Name of Channel Type Details No. of Meetings Employee Satisfaction Survey At LS Mtron, organizational capacity surveys of 02. Mentoring matching ceremony for new hires 03. Baseball competition in celebration of the 3rd anniversary of Engagement and Cooperation Enhancement Council Council Improvement of HR and benefits schemes, Discussion on the divestment of business 8 staff-level employees and researchers and employee satisfaction surveys of technical the LS Mtron labor union Labor-Management Working-level Council and Meeting workers are conducted every year. The outcomes are notified to each business division 04. Daseulteo counseling center Council Expansion of support for benefits schemes, Raise in business trip expenses 20 (company-wide/Jeonju) to enhance our organizational capacity and activities and various improvement activities Labor-Management Discussion Meeting Discussion Meeting Expansion of welfare facilities 8 are taken to enhance those areas with low satisfaction levels. These endeavors enable (Anyang/Jeongeup/Indong) us to deliver a happier and more level workplace. Social Contribution Steering Committee Council Social contribution activities (Kimchi-making of love) 1 Industrial Health & Safety Committee and Meeting Committee Review and improvement of working conditions 16 Grievance Resolution Committee Committee Suggestion of grievances and difficulties Year-round Top Management’s On-the-Spot Dialogue Open Dialogue Meetings with CEO, dialogue with division heads 28 Organizational capacity survey/On-site Satisfaction Survey Survey Survey of employee’s work satisfaction and grievances 2 Corporate Governance Ethics Management General Area Performance | Corporate Governance / Ethics Management After the creation of LS Group’s holding company, we at LS Mtron has established a corporate governance strucWe define integrity as the most basic and core element in generating outcomes and comply with ethical principles ture driven by professional management and the board of directors in order to improve the independence and and norms. The entire conduct of business is transparent and reasonable at LS Mtron. This forms the basis upon transparency of corporate governance, committing ourselves to the creation of sustainable corporate values. LS which we run ethics management systems and undertake wide-ranging activities to help employees learn and Mtron remains a privately-owned company. practice business ethics in their daily operation. Board of Directors Shareholder Enhancement of Executive Capabilities Regarding Ethics Operation of Ethics Management Programs Management Our Board of Directors consists of 3 inside directors and one auditor. Our BOD is the LS Mtron’s number of shares issued stands at 9,000,000 as of the end of 2011 and LS Cyber Ombudsman System Cyber Ombudsman and Ethics Counseling are operated highest decision-making body within the company and the directors fulfill their duty of Mtron is wholly-owned by LS Corporation. IContinuous PR Activities ncluded in our sustained ethics management PR activities at our corporate website. Informants are entitled to the protection program which care and loyalty as a manager in good faith in conformity with commercial laws. Our is the regular sharing of case studies and messages in relation with ethics management includes the protection of confidentiality, protection of identity and exemption of inforauditor performs audits regarding accounting and business operation in order to secure Shareholder Composition(as of Jan. 1, 2012) through in-house bulletins and the posting of official documents seeking cooperation mant responsibility to ensure that stakeholders such as LS Mtron employees, customers operational transparency and legal compliance and may access management informaValue Stockholding from suppliers in practicing business ethics on the purchasing system every holiday. and suppliers may feel free to report any wrongdoing. All reported issues so far have Stockholder Type of Stock No. of Stocks tion if deemed necessary. Directors are compensated in accordance with relevant com(KRW 1 million) Ratio These efforts encourage employees to enhance ethics awareness and suppliers to join been addressed and due actions were taken. pensation regulations within the limit approved by the general shareholder’s meeting. LS Corp. Registered 9,000,000 45,000 100% our initiative. common stock Issues Raised through Cyber Ombudsman BOD Composition(as of March 1 of 2012) Ethics Management PR Activities between 2009 and 2011 Management and Responsibility Regarding Sustainability Category 2009 2010 2011 Total Name Title Position Gender Experiences Duty Management Bulletin Articles Official Documents Number of Issues 26 13 15 54 Category on Ethics Management Seeking Cooperation Cha-Yol CEO Chairman Male • Business management CEO Koo (chairman of major at Korea University Number of Activities 41 6 the board) The sustainability management action framework was built to ensure the company• Former director at LG International Corporation wide implementation and integrated management of sustainability management in Clean Company System The voluntary bribery reporting system supports our com• Former vice president at 2009. In 2010, the Sustainability Management Steering Group supervised by CSO (Chief Employee Training on Ethical Norms At LS Mtron, new hires including experienced mitment to building a clean corporate culture. We ensure that all the bribes taken 56 LG Investment & Securities Strategy Planning Officer) was run as the top decision-making body. The group is also workers are obliged to take introductory ethical norm courses each year in order to eninevitably are voluntarily reported. All the submitted bribery-taking cases so far were Jae-Seol CEO President Male • Mechanical engineering CEO Shim major at Hanyang University responsible for managing sustainability management principles and operation guidehance their executive capabilities regarding ethics management. In particular, the entire addressed in accordance with relevant policies and measures were taken to prevent 57 • Former vice president at lines. employees were provided with online training in 2009 and offline training in 2010 with the recurrence of such practices. LS Cable revised ethical norm training materials Ki-Won CFO Executive Vice Male • Business management CFO Nam President major at Korea University Reports of Bribery-Taking • Former director at JS Cable Changes in Business Domains or Major Business Areas Ethical Norm Training Soo-Hong Auditor Outside Male • Electrical engineering Auditor Lee director major at Seoul National Newly Hired ExperiCategory 2009 2010 2011 Total University Our air conditioning business, which manufactured and sold cooling/heating facilities Year New Hires enced Employees All Employees Number of Issues 3 3 2 8 • Former professor at Hoseo and air-conditioning facilities, was transferred to LS Electronics as of May 1 of 2011 University 2009 Once in order to secure financial resources to expand the global market in accordance with 2010 Twice Twice Once the selection and concentration strategy. (Related disclosure: Apr. 4 of 2011: Business 2011 Twice Once Sustainability management Major BOD Activities transfer was decided) training provided Ethical Level Evaluation Date of Meeting Agenda Decision Attendance Ethics Pledge Everyone joining LS Mtron should sign the ethics pledge after attendCommunication with LS Mtron Stakeholders We have our ethical level evaluated by Approval of the 3rd quarter financial ing introductory ethical norms training. In concluding basic transaction contracts with suppliers each year. In 2011, the significance and satisfaction levels regarding sustainability Feb. 8, 2011 Passed 100% statements and 7 others Approval of the divestment of the air suppliers, we mandate them to sign the special agreement on the practice of ethics management was also evaluated of our suppliers. Mar. 9, 2011 Passed 100% conditioning business and one other management. Appointment of the BOD Chair and 3 Mar. 23, 2011 Passed 100% others Category 2009 2010 2011 Delay of the basic date of the transfer of Apr. 4, 2011 Passed 100% Total Evaluation 4.3 4.3 4.4 the air conditioning business (on a scale of 1 to 5) Approval of the transaction limit of May 2, 2011 Passed 100% short-term financial vehicles Approval of mid-term strategies in 2011 Jun. 27, 2011 Passed 100% and one other Report of the business outcome forecast Sep. 22, 2011 Passed 100% for the 3rd quarter of 2011 Approval of the creation of North Jeolla Oct. 4, 2011 Passed 100% sales office and 2 others Appointment of executive officers and 3 Dec. 7, 2011 Passed 100% others Dec. 29, 2011 Establishment of an Indonesian office Passed 100% Major Quantitative Indicators / Awards / Membership Legal Compliance Major Quantitative Indicators Category 2009 2010 2011 Environment Data Penalties and non-financial sanctions imposed due to violations None None None of environmental regulations Type Unit 2009 2010 2011 Legal actions taken for unfair competition and monopolistic None None None activities(price fixing and etc.) Major Raw Materials 1) Copper ton 10,982 13,893 14,676 Violations regarding product-related customer health and safety None None None Carbon and rubber 724 931 1,436 Violations regarding product-related information None None None Synthetic resin 86 101 94 disclosure(labeling and etc.) Water 2) Violations regarding marketing and communication None None None Amount of usage Industrial water ton 422,385 522,943 507,540 Violations regarding customer information security None None None Household water 69,864 55,643 65,246 Violations regarding supply of other products None None None Underground water 32,824 20,186 16,683 Total 525,073 598,772 589,469 Pollutant emissions Air Dust kg 5,634 4,790 12,106 Disciplinary Actions Taken against LS Mtron Water quality COD 4,100 7,378 7,671 1) Date of Action: Dec. 28, 2011 SS 2,677 4,271 4,069 2) Target of Punishment or Action: LS Mtron Waste Water Discharges ton 215,594 330,925 334,618 3) Reasons for Disciplinary Actions: Omission of the report of modifications regarding overseas direct investments Recycling amount 397,491 550,456 542,703 4) Details of Disciplinary Actions: Penalties worth KRW 38 Million were imposed and capital transactions were suspended for one month (Financial Services Commission) 5) Legal Ground: Article 18 and 32 of the Foreign Exchange Transactions Act Recycling rate % 75.7 91.2 92.1 6) LS Mtron’s Compliance with the Disciplinary Actions or Actions Taken : Voluntary report of the modifications made regarding overseas direct investments was Waste Amount General ton 3,312 4,225 3,958 completed and penalties were voluntarily paid within the opinion statement period(Jan. 10, 2012) 58 Specific 186 344 352 7) Measures to Prevent Recurrence: Training on foreign exchange management regulations and dissemination of training materials Total 3,498 4,569 4,310 59 Recycling rate % 80.8 83.3 81.4 Ozone Depleting Government Subsidies HCFC kg 28,050 12,760 3,000 Materials 3) 1) The data is the composite one for the usage amount of major raw materials for Jeongeup, Anyang and Indong sites Total government subsidies amounted to KRW 3.83 Billion and technology expenses redemption amounted to KRW 1.92 Billion in 201. 2) Water sources for domestic sites are Han River, Mangyeong River and Nakdong River streams. 3) The amount of HCFC substances fell dramatically due to the sale of our Air-conditioning Division in April 2011. Others> No critical harmful materials were found in 2011 and we comply with the Basel Agreement on the “Control and Regulations on the Cross-Border Transportation of Harmful Materials.” Awards Social Data(as of December 31, 2011) Category Date of Awards Name of Awards Host Details (relevant department) Company Jun. 10 North Jeolla Province Quality Circle Competition North Jeolla Province Excellence Awards (injection molding team) Employment Type by Region Ministry of Knowledge China Jun. 10 Great Work Place Awards Great Work Place (Jeonju site) Research Sales and Economy Category Jeonju Jeongeup Anyang Indong Main Office Coordination & total Institutes Headquarters planning Korean Standards Presidential Gold Prize (injection molding team, facility/ Aug. 22 National Quality Circle Competition Association environmental safety team at Jeongeup site Full-timer 663 236 228 115 94 69 103 6 1,514 Nov. 10 Korea’s 100 Great Work Place Awards GWP KOREA One of the 100 Great Work Places in Korea Part-timer 79 11 35 2 1 5 2 135 Individual Jun. 10 North Jeolla Province Qaulity Circle Competition North Jeolla Province Knowledge and Economy Minister’s Award total 742 247 263 117 95 74 105 6 1,649 Jun. 15 Quality Management Competition in Gyeonggi Province Gyeonggi Province Commendation for contributions to quality management Korean Standards Employment Type by Age Aug. 22 National Quality Circle Competition Quality Master Association Category 20’s 30’s 40’s 50’s Above 60’s total Korean Standards Dec. 13 National Quality Management Competition Silver Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit Association No. of employees 259 647 411 314 18 1,649 Employee Resignation Membership Category 2010 2011 Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Korea City GAS Association, Korea Agricultural Machinery Industry CooperaNo. of employees 78 63 tive, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Printed Circuit Association, Green Company Council, Korea Industry Safety Association, Korea Synthetic Resin Processing Machinery Industry Cooperative, Korea Industrial Technology Association GRI 3.1 / ISO 26000 Index GRI 3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ●: Fully Reported, ◐ : Partially Reported, ◯: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable ●: Fully Reported, ◐ : Partially Reported, ◯: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Application level Page note: ISO 26000 GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Application level Page note: ISO 26000 Profile ECONOMIC Disclosure on Management Approach ● 12~13 6.2 / 6.8 Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organiEconomic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 6.8 / 6.8.3 / 6.8.7 / and Analysis 1.1 zation and its strategy. ● 8~9 6.2 Performance EC1 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. ● 12~13 6.8.9 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 8~9, 17 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. ● 44 6.5.5 Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 10 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 51 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ● 11 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ● 59 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. ● 10, 13 6.2 Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. ● 50 6.4.4 / 6.8 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. ● 3 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. ◐ 26 6.6.6 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.5 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. ● 13 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. ◐ 50 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 56 Indirect Economic Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.3 / Effect EC8 commercial, in-kind, or probono engagement. ● 38~41 6.8.4 / 6.8.5 / 6.8.6 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ● 10, 12 / 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 10 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 6.6.7 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ◐ 26~28 / 6.7.8 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 10, 56 6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 59 ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosure on Management Approach ● 42~43 6.2 / 6.5 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period. ● 3 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ● 58 6.5 / 6.5.4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. ● 3 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ● 45 3.3 Reporting cycle. ● 3 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 44 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● 3 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 44 3.5 Process for defining report content. ● 3 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ● 44 3.6 Boundary of the report. ● 3 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6 requirements as a result of these initiatives. ● 46~47 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. ● 3 60 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ◐ 44 3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organizations. ● 3 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 58 61 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. ● 3 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ● 58 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. ● 12~13 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ● 58 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods. ● 10, 56 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Bio Diversity EN11 N/A 6.5 / 6.5.6 value outside protected areas. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 60~62 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ● 64~65 7.5.3 EN12 N/A high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Governance, Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A Commitments, and 4.1 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. ● 56 6.2 Engagement EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. N/A 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ● 56 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, EN15 N/A For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body by level of extinction risk. 4.3 that are independent and/or non-executive members. ● 56 Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 44 6.5 / 6.5.5 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. ● 56 Effluents, and Waste EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 44 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives. ● 56 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ● 44 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ● 56 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ● 58 6.5 / 6.5.3 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding 4.7 the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. ● 16, 56 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ● 58 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 58 4.8 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. ● 66 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ● 58 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance. ● 16, 56 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ● 58 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 environmental, and social performance. ● 16 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel ● 58 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 44 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 N/A 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.5.6 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. ● 63 Products 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 / and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. ● 46~47 6.7.5 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in 4.13 which the organization. ● 59 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ◦ 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.7.5 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 15 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with Compliance EN28 environmental laws and regulations. ● 59 6.5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 18 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s 21, 25, 31, Transport EN29 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ● 45 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. ● 37, 43, 49 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 20, 24, 30, Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ● 45 6.5 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ● 36, 42, 48 ●: Fully Reported, ◐ : Partially Reported, ◯: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable ●: Fully Reported, ◐ : Partially Reported, ◯: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable GRI 3.1 / ISO 26000 Index / UNGC Index GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Application level Page note: ISO 26000 GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Application level Page note: ISO 26000 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Disclosure on Management Approach ● 48~49 6.2 / 6.4 / 6.3.10 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach ● 30~31 6.2 / 6.6 / 6.7 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. ● 49, 58 6.4 / 6.4.3 Customer Health Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and PR1 ◐ 35, 47 and Safety percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 6.7 / LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ◐ 58 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ● 59 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ● 51 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 Product and Service Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services Labor/ 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / PR3 ◐ 35 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 54~55 6.4.5 / 6.3.10 Labeling subject to such information requirements. 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.4 / Management 6.7.5 / 6.7.6 / 6.7.9 Relations Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective ● 55 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes. ● 59 agreements. 6.4.5 6.7 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 / Occupational LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that ● 53, 55 6.4 / 6.4.6 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ● 35 6.7.6 / 6.7.8 / 6.7.9 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Health and Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. ● 49 PR6 ◐ 35 Marketing advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.6 / Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their 6.4 / 6.4.6 / 6.8 / Communication Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 6.7.9 LA8 families, or community members regarding serious diseases. ● 53, 55 6.8.3 / 6.8.4 / 6.8.8 PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ● 59 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ● 53, 55 6.4 / 6.4.6 Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ● 59 6.7 / 6.7.7 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. ● 52 6.4 / 6.4.7 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Training Compliance PR9 products and services. ● 59 6.7 / 6.7.6 and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Education LA11 assist them in managing career endings. ● 52 6.4 / 6.4.7 / 6.8.5 EN27, HR1, HR10, SO1, SO2 : The possible negative impact and direct/indirect relevance with the company is low regarding the issue of concern and performance measurement processes are not sufficient LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ● 50 6.4 / 6.4.7 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minor6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / 6.4 / LA13 ity group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ● 56 6.4.3 Equal GRI Application Level Opportunity 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / 6.4 / LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. ● 50 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 Employment LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 50 6.4 / 6.4.3 Our '2011 Sustainability Report' contains each of the criteria to qualify for GRI-G3.1 Application level A+ and therefore, we make a self-declaration Level A+ for this report. The Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach ● 48~49 6.2 / 6.3 entire report contents and reporting process were reviewed by an independent external assurance provider. We did not apply the GRI G3 Sector Supplements to this report as Investment Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.5 / the requirements cover only a small portion of our business activities. and HR1 undergone human rights screening ◦ 6.6.6 Procurement 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.5 / Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. ● 28 6.4.3 / 6.6.6 62 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3 operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ● 57 6.3 / 6.3.5 63 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 / Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. ● 51, 57 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 Freedom of Association and Collective HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ● 54~55 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 / 6.3.8 / 6.3.10 UNGC Index / 6.4.3 / 6.4.5 Bargaining We joined the UN Global Compact on September 2, 2011 and comply with 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiOperations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Child Labor HR6 elimination of child labor. ● 54 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / corruption. All employees and executives at LS Mtron will take the lead in creating a fair and transparent society by complying with the UN Global ComForced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute pact on the four areas, and fulfilling duties and actions required for a corporate citizen. Compulsory Labor HR7 to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ● 54 6.3.5 / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human 6.3 / 6.3.5 / 6.4.3 / Security Practices HR8 rights that are relevant to operations. ● 57 6.6.6 The Ten Principles LS Mtron policies page 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 / Human Rights Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. N/A 6.3.8 / 6.6.7 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / • Code of Conduct, Chapter 2: Basic Ethics of Employees 48~49, Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments ◦ proclaimed human rights; and 6.3.5 • Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract 54~55 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● 55, 57 6.3.6 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Society Disclosure on Management Approach ● 36~37 6.2 / 6.6 / 6.8 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Collective Agreement 48~49, Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Community SO1 communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ◦ 6.8.7 / 6.6.7 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and, • Code of Conduct, Chapter 5: Corporate Responsibilities for Employees 54~55 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ◦ 6.6 / 6.6.3 Environment SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 57 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental • Green Management Policy SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 57 challenges; Clause 2. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and developing environmentally friendly products Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Clause 3. Building safe and healthy environment as well as preventing hazards) 42~47 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. N/A 6.6 / 6.6.4 / 6.8.3 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Clause 4. Win-win green management and corporate social responsibility) Behavior technologies. • Code of Conduct, Chapter 6: Responsibilities for Country and Society SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. N/A Anti-Corruption Anti-Competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ● 59 6.6 / 6.6.5 / 6.6.7 • Code of Conduct Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. ● 59 6.6 / 6.6.7 / 6.8.7 Chapter 2: Basic Ethics of Employees Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Chapter 3: Fair Competition (with Competitors) Community SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 57 extortion and bribery. Chapter 4. Fair Business Transaction (Subcontractors) Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts 6.8.7 / 6.6.7 Chapter 6. Responsibilities for Country and Society SO10 ◐ 38~41 on local communities • Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES GREEN MANAGEMENT In previous years, LS Mtron’s drive to produce eco-friendly products was described at a high level. This year there is much more detail on this crucial area, which is very helpful. However, as a step towards measuring the impact of such products, it would be very useful to Adrian Henriques (the auditor) undertook independent assurance of the LS Mtron 2011 Sustainability Management Report (the Report). report information on the kind of criteria that can lead to the inclusion of a product in the ‘eco-friendly’ category. The assurance was guided by AA1000AS. The auditor provided assurance covering evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS principles of inEnvironmentally, LS Mtron has delivered a significant rise in the proportion of water recycled. However on other key environmental indicators, clusivity, materiality and responsiveness. including greenhouse gas emissions, energy and waste, there is a slight adverse trend. This absolute increase needs to be set against the rise in production and the significant reduction in the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions by sales. Nevertheless, it is important in this area in particular to establish quantitative targets for the following year and for the longer term. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS OF LS MTRON AND OF THE ASSURANCE PROVIDERS EMPLOYEES One of the challenges that face the company, especially given the nature of the business, is the gender balance of its workforce. The directors of LS Mtron have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. This statement represents the auditor’s independent opinion Despite its efforts, the proportion of female employees is low. Nevertheless the company has been recognised as a good employer through nationaland is intended to inform all of LS Mtron’s stakeholders in a balanced way. level awards and it is piloting the introduction of flexi-time where appropriate. The rise in employee suggestions, while being helpful for the drive to The auditor was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report. quality, is also an indication of high staff morale. The extension of the sustainability system into subsidiaries includes skills transfer programs, active plans to recruit from the local workforce and employee management systems that are being extended from the Head Office, while being sensitive to local conditions and regulations. One area BASIS OF OPINION to which continuing attention may need to be given, building on the various initiatives already in place, is that of work-life balance. This statement is based on an analysis of LS Mtron’s 2011 Sustainability Management Report, supported by interviews with those involved in the CONCLUSION preparation of the report. 64 While this report reflects a year of achievement in sustainability as well as in commercial terms, LS Mtron also has goals for the longer term. In particular it is welcome to see that there are plans to encourage suppliers to adopt their own sustainability management practices. There are also 65 FINDINGS & OPINION plans to implement a target management system at further sites. It would be welcome to see more quantifiable targets and plans in further areas of sustainability in future reports. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT This is the third sustainability report from LS Mtron and it represents a step change in sustainability and transThe Report leaves open the question of what sustainability really means for LS Mtron. So far the picture has mainly been one of working towards parency that compares very favourably in scope and thoroughness with other corporate sustainability reports. An important indication of this is the improvements in direct impacts, such as energy use, combined with ever-closer integration with customers and suppliers. The achievement of a publication of the Report in the variety of languages relevant to its key subsidiaries. sustainable future may also require a better understanding and vision of what LS Mtron will need to be like in the long term. The Report is based on a clear account of the business and an extensive description of its sustainability management practices. The foundation for the selection of reported issues is a well-defined materiality analysis that draws on stakeholder consultation and international standards. The stakeholder categories are clear, although it would be helpful to have some further information on the composition of the stakeholder groups. It is welcome to see the very wide range of issues for which there is some disclosure, including bribery and the company’s commitment to human rights. It is also very good to see that this year’s Report extends the areas of the business covered to include a significant proportion of LS Mtron’s overseas subsidiaries. Future years should ensure that a full range of performance data from its main operations is reported. INNOVATION & VALUE CHAIN One of the more notable features of the Report is the focus on the economic dimension of sustainability. LS Mtron has interpreted this to include the development of close working relationships with suppliers and customers, including the sharing of innovation and sustainability initiatives. In the future it would be useful to show also how innovation measures link cost-reduction with reduced environmental impact. It is also very encouraging to see how LS Mtron’s worldwide subsidiaries are managed for sustainability. As subsidiaries are brought into the sustainable management system, priority should be given to the management and reporting of the most significant sustainability impacts. Adrian Henriques | www.henriques.info SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION In terms of direct involvement with communities, 2011 also saw the start of employee volunteering on a significant scale, (2009 ~ date) Chair of UK committee on ISO 26000 which is welcome. In future reports, it would be helpful to understand the proportion of the time volunteered for which employees are paid by the (2002 ~ date) Visiting Professor of Accountability and CSR, Middlesex University Business School company. (1999 ~ date) Member of ACCA Social and Environmental Committee Some of the community support programmes have linked closely to LS Mtron’s core business, for example through the donation of tractors. In the (2002 ~ 2011) AccountAbility, Member of Technical Committee on Standards future the objectives of further support programmes could be defined to give priority to linking the core business, in terms of products or employee (2000 ~ 2006) AccountAbility, Council Member skills, with the community. Sustainability Management Guideline Report Publishing Team Members Our Past Reports I. Purpose 3) Social Contribution: Business Support Team 4) Green Management: Green Management Team, Technology Management Team, Production TechGeneral Managers Sustainability Report The Sustainability Management(SM) Principles and Action Guidelines cover basic principles to nology Group ensure systemic implementation of our SM initiatives and lay the foundation to provide stakehold5) Employee Value Enhancement : HR Development Team Chief Strategy Officer(CSO) ers including customers with the best value as a global leader in the machinery and component 6) Integrated Risk Management: SM Executive Office James Kim Senior Vice President business. 6. Operation of Sub-committee Business Management & Planning Team Sub-committees were created to boost executive capabilities in each SM Focus Area and to Sang-Min LEE General Manager, Chung-Goo Yun Manager, Jung-Yoon Kim Manager II. Integrated SM Management System encourage proactive participation of each business division and they should report progress made Sustainability Management Executive Office and future improvements to the SM Steering Group. Mark Myung-Hoon Yoo, Jong-Hyun Park 1. Establishment of Policy 1.1 Integrated SM Framework 6.1 SM Sub-committee and Supervising Department In order to ensure systemic implementation of sustainability management, the Sustainability 1) Green Management : Green Management Team Management Steering Group, a Board of Directors and top management level body, serves as a 2) Eco-friendly Product : Technology Management Team top decision-making group and company-wide SM management responsibilities lie with managers 3) Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity: Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Team Participants in charge within the company. 4) Social Contribution: Business Support Team 2009 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 1) SM Steering Group 5) Customer and Quality Management : Quality Management Team Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Team This is an enterprise-wide consultative group to deploy SM initiatives and its main roles are as 6) Eco-friendly Supply Chain: Quality Management Team Geun-Bung Jeong General Manager, Bong-Seok Jeong Associate follows. (1) Discussing directions and strategies to practice SM Quality Management Team Environment Report (2) Identifying company-wide SM issues and discussing ways to improve each SM issue III. Stakeholder Dialogue and Fulfillment of Promise Il-Sung Ko General Manager, Oh-Dae Sung Manager (3) Publishing SM Reports and holding dialogue with stakeholders Innovation Team (4) Supplementing SM-related policies and systems 1. Stakeholder Dialogue Hee-Jung Park General Manager, Hyun-Kyu Park Deputy General Manager, 2) Sustainability Management Executive Office Regular and official dialogue opportunities created by building dialogue channels with core Jo-Sung Pyo Assistant Manager The SM Executive Office is the supervising body for SM initiatives and its main roles are as folstakeholders and setting annual dialogue plans are utilized to review SM Focus Areas, determine lows. future implementation directions, add more Focus Areas and modify existing ones and promote Business Support Team (1) Setting SM directions, strategies and education plans participation in writing SM Reports. Maeng-Kyoo Sung General Manager, James Lee Manager, (2) Diagnosing and evaluating company-wide SM activities Na-Rae Choi Assistant Manager 66 (3) Supervising the SM Steering Council 1.1 Identification of Core Stakeholders and Responsibility to Respond (4) Publishing SM Reports Stakeholders are identified through analysis of social interest and impact on LS Mtron’s business Green Management Team (5) Creating and managing SM-related policies and the following roles and responsibilities to respond to them should be performed. Chul-Eung Jun Deputy General Manager, 67 1) Customer : Customer satisfaction, increased customer responsibilities(product quality, product Ki-Young Lim Assistant Manager 1.2 stipulation of relevant policy liability, customer safety and etc.) and etc. Technology Management Team SM-related operation policies, systems and issue-specific implementation policies must be stipu2) Business partners : seeking win-win growth through partnership, enhancing fair trade relation2002 Environment Report 2005 Environment Report lated and actively disseminated to ensure their company-wide application and deployment. ship and etc. Hyeon-Koo Lee General Manager, Dae-Yeong Kang Associate 3) employee : building employee capacity and improving their working conditions, protecting their Human Resources Team 1.3 regular review and improvement human rights and complying with labor regulations and etc. Myoung-Ho Park General Manager, Chan-Jin Park Assistant Manager, Policies set in relation with SM must be reviewed on a quarterly basis and revised if their modifi4) Local community : Engaging and developing local communities, social philathropic activities Hong-Keun Park Assistant Manager, Byung-Jun Kim Associate cation and supplementation is needed. and etc. 5) earth/ecology : managing and reducing impact of products and processes on the environment, Internal Audit & Consulting Team 2. SM Materiality Test promoting eco-friendly products and services, responding to climate change and controlling GHG Eui-Jae Yoo General Manager, Yong-Sang Lee Manager The SM Executive Office, in charge of practical SM matters, performs SM materiality tests every emissions and etc. Finance Team year through stakeholder engagement in order to understand stakeholder interest and business impact, which form the basis for building SM strategies . 1.2 Improvement of Stakeholder Dialogue Tae-Hoon Lee Assistant Manager As for annual plan to hold dialogue with core stakeholders, the first phase is to gather information 3. Regular diagnosis and monitoring on expectations and requirements of stakeholders, the second phase to set goals and detailed LS Mtron’s in-house SM diagnosis model, which indlues all SM-related global standards, is utiplans and then stakeholder dialogue is conducted via direct dialogue or surveys, which is followed Date of Publication: July 9, 2012 lized to conduct regular diagnosis once a year and continued monitoring is carried out by the SM by the results summarized and incorporated in setting next year’s directions and plans. Steering Group. Publisher: Jae-Seol Shim 2. Expansion of SM Disclosure Publishing Company: LS Mtron, Co., Ltd. 4. Company-Wide Education and Consensus Building In addition to publishing the SM Report every year to fulfill promises with stakeholders and proDesign: designSOHO Company-wide education plans are set and executed every year to promote sustainability manvide critical information, more information is to be disclosed on the company’s financial and nonagement and to build consensus among employees. financial performance on the corporate website. 5. SM Reporting Framework Team leaders and their working-level employees with those departments in relation with SM IV. Management of Non-Financial Risks Focus Areas identified through materiality test are obliged to report progress made and improvements to be made to the SM Steering Group via business-division level cooperation in order to LS Mtron strives to systemically manage and respond to not just financial risks but Also nonensure appropriate response to and improvement of SM issues. financial risks including SEE(Social, Environmental, Ethical) risks. Every SM Focus Area is conwww.fsc.org www.fsc.org www.fsc.org FSC™ C011053 sidered as a core risk issue and company-wide response is ensured through the integrated risk FSC FSC™™C011053 C011053 5.1 LS Mtron SM Focus Area and Relevant Departments management framework of the SM Steering Group. LS Mtron’s 2011 Sustainability Report uses the FSC Mont Blanc paper of Hansol Paper Co., Ltd.. The FSC Mont Blanc paper has the FSC certification only attached to products 1) Integrated SM Management: SM Executive Office 2) Economic and Social Value Creation: Win-Win Partnership Team, Quality Management Team, using woods produced in forests environmentally produced and managed, and is an environmentally-friendly paper using the elemental chlorine-free pulp. The paper was printed Innovation Team Apr. 1, 2010 (The third edition) in soy oil ink that massively reduces air pollutants that might arise in the course of printing and manufactured in a printing house with the FSC certification.
