Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at Rynkeby Foods Annual Report 2011 Rynkeby FOODS A/S THEME: PROFIT Rynkeby Foods A/S is owned by Arla Foods Rynkeby Foods very much wants to focuse on viable Management manufacturing and contribute to the continued existence CEO Jørgen Dirksen of the growers, thus enabling them to deliver healthy raw materials, produced according to the principles in the Supply Chain Lars Petersen Code of Conduct/Global Compact. Pages 6-8 Sales Mark Hemmingsen Marketing Thomas Silbersky THEME: PEOPLE Finances Rynkeby Foods has happy and motivated employees Poul Erik Nielsen who, in our latest employee satisfaction survey, score 4.2 Procurement points out of 5.0 possible. For the first time we obtain Carsten Pedersen such a splendid result, and we are very proud of it. Board Pages 9-10 Board members selected by the shareholders: Povl Krogsgaard, Arla Foods Vice CEO. Peter Giørtz-Carlsen, Arla Foods, Vice President. THEME: HEALTH Kent Skovsager, Arla Foods, Senior Vice President. In 2010 Rynkeby Foods asked the question: »Can Christer Åberg, Rynkeby make Denmark healthier?« We believed so, and Arla Foods, VD. we still do. Among other things we inform the consumers Board members elected by that juice is 100% fruit – with no sugar added. the staff: Leslie Lundehøj Jørgensen, Pages 11-16 Product Developer. Johan Høst-Madsen, Production Assistant. Responsible for this report: Carina Jensen, THEME: PLANET Nordic Quality Manager In 2011 Rynkeby Foods reduced energy consumption, Preparation: emission of waste water, packaging waste and waste of Agerholm PR & raw materials additionally. Thus we harvested the fruits Kommunikation of a number of investments made in the factory the year before. Pages 17-18 CSR is important to profit Last year Rynkeby Foods produced the it feels natural to work with viability, first report on CSR, Corporate Social whether it is about environmental, Responsibility. The report resulted in our supplier or human matters and I many CSR activities being collected and experience that being part of a comsystematized – from quality control of pany working with social responsibility our many raw material suppliers in The is creating a certain pride amongst the Third World over the seriousness in our employees. way to inform about our products to our many different health offers to our For one year Rynkeby has been attendemployees, including a well equipped ing the UN Global Compact and of fitness centre. We have chosen to have course we will continue developing our plain targets for our CSR activities in business according to the principles of order so secure transparency of our this UN initiative. We must achieve results and our efforts. much more and in the nearest future focus will among other things be on I can establish as a fact that also in improvement of the processes for this CSR report 2011 we have obtained evaluation and follow-up on suppliers in improvements benefitting both the The Third World and on further developenvironment and the society. I am proud ment of our environmental/climate when I see the results of 2011 – the targets in order to involve bigger parts of year when Team Rynkeby was cycling the value chain. to Paris for the tenth time and together with hundreds of volunteers collected In this report and on our website you can 9.77 mio. DKK to children with cancer in read about our initiatives towards an Denmark and in Sweden. even more viable company. Our massive focus on health has imMarch 2012 proved the »body age« of the employees by 1.5 years on average and changed Jørgen Dirksen the lifestyle of some employees forever. CEO This strengthens my belief in the fact that health is and will continue to be an important element of a viable Rynkeby. We have created a culture in which 3 Ambition: Nordic Market Leader Rynkeby Foods is well under way with activities aiming to secure the future position of our company as the strongest nordic juice player with a very central location In Northern Europe. The expansion must be made with a focus on the Rynkeby brand and on the brands we have under the Rynkeby umbrella, but also by focusing even more on health and charity – CSR values which are already playing a major role in our company today. As a big Nordic player with growth ambition Rynkeby finds it essential to take the lead as the one protecting and running the juice segment so that the consumers will drink more juice and have confidence in the product category as well. As part of this strategy some of the parameters in the CSR report will be central and form the natural basis of many of the new products and activities we plan to launch. OUR VISION: Rynkeby shall make everybody healthier with a glass of fruit every day Rynkeby Foods’ financial development mill. DKK 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net turnover 935.1 833.9 928.8 982.2 681.7 Production costs -646.2 -540.4 -631.2 -732.5 -466.6 Gross profit 288.9 293.5 297.6 249.7 215.1 Sales, distribution and admin. costs -228.1 -216.0 -215.0 -223.9 -178.8 EBIT 60.8 77.5 82.6 25.8 36.3 Financial items -1.9 -2.2 -4.6 -5.8 -3.2 Net result before tax 58.9 75.3 78.0 19.9 33.1 Tax -15.2 -19.5 -18.6 -5.9 -9.9 Net result 43.7 55.8 59.4 14.0 23.2 Number of employees 234 243 256 245 205 In 2008 Rynkeby Foods took over production of a number of products for the Swedish market, including a large contract manufacturing agreement. The decline in turnover in 2009 and 2010 is due to the phasing out of this Swedish contract manufacturing agreement. 4 Our values To Rynkeby Foods it was not just a WE PROTECT QUALITY question of choosing and writing Rynkeby is a trustworthy and professional down some values when we put company with ambitious quality norms in all parts and functions. the topic on the agenda in 2005. We protect quality It was also – and not the least – WE RESPECT EACH OTHER a question of securing that our Rynkeby is an attractive and inviting values were relevant and could be company, where personal and professional firmly anchored among our emdifferences are respected and appreciated and where all employees are equally ployees. valued. In our company common goals and decisions are respected and obeyed in Therefore we decided to initiate the all parts. value discussion from the bottom of our organization. Thus we took a day off and WE INVOLVE OURSELVES gathered all employees for a value discusRynkeby has an open company culture We respect each other sion, resulting in five values. It is gratifying providing an incentive to seek and take that since then our values have become a responsibility, to share knowledge, and to natural part of our working day and essenco-operate. tial carriers of Rynkeby’s company culture. WE DEVELOP It started in 2005 Rynkeby attracts, maintains and develops Our value kick-off day was on 28 October qualified employees. Our company is ready 2005 and was followed up on 17 Novemfor change and innovative in its production ber 2010 when all of our employees got and product development and currently together again, with a focus on our values. chases improvement opportunities. We involve ourselves Besides, part of this event was funded by the award as the healthiest place to work WE ARE WINNERS in Funen, a competition which Rynkeby Rynkeby is a competitive market leader had won among 20 nominated compawith products worth paying extra for. Our nies. company has ambitious and realistic targets and has competent employees taking In the following we state our descriptions a common responsibility for the targets. of the individual values in 2005 (se the icons in the right colomn). We develop Se are winners The Rynkeby values have become firmly anchored. This »poster« daily reminds the employees of the values on their way between the administration building and the factory. 5 Topic: Profit Code of conduct The demand on fresh fruit and juice drinks is increasing globally because of the increase in population and the inRynkeby continues having big focus on securing that our suppliers are creased standard of living throughout the world, not the least observing the human rights, emin China, India and Russia, which to an increasing degree is a ployee rights and anti-corruption. We threat to the supplying guarantee of raw materials. In short, continue securing that our suppliers we become more people to share the raw materials. Furthercomply with our demand for their more, already now we are experiencing that the varying SGF/IRMA-membership (Sure Good Fair) and we demand the signing of prices and illness of crops make the growers change proour Code of Conduct. duction into alternative crops with better profits and less risk. In cooperation with Arla Foods we have initiated a process concerning FocuS areas: responsible supplier control, in which we risk evaluate countries as to enViability vironment, human rights etc. and Fruit is the main ingredient in our make particular demands on the highproducts, and most products consist risk-countries. of 100% fruit. At Rynkeby we are very keen on focusing on viable manuIn 2011 we visited four orange facturing and to us this is more than suppliers in Brazil, being a so-called just ecology. We think it is possible to »high-risk-country«. Our experience is have viable thoughts within tradithat our suppliers launch many initiational farming and we want to partives in order to secure that the Global ticipate in securing that the growers Compact principles and violations continue to exist so that also in the are not associated with the orange future we can offer products to the orchards. Among other things we consumers which are made of good, could establish that the orange pickhealthy raw materials, manufactured ers are wearing protective clothing according to the principles in the like of headgear, glasses, gloves and Code of conduct/Global Compact. safety boots in order to avoid insects. Likewise, it makes a deep impression The challenge to Rynkeby is that to see the suppliers take initiatives to we are often the smallest player in support the young people in the areas the global market meaning that we round the orchards and the factories. cannot influence the development of supply. Among the demands are that For instance, in 2001 our biggest viability within the fruit trade considthe partners must match Rynkeby´s supplier of oranges started a project erably but nevertheless we can make »Code of Conduct/Ethic Codex« and called: »Bom de Bola, Bom na Escola«. a difference. One of the ways is strasupport our focus on health, quality The purpose of the project is schools tegic partnerships and in 2011 the foand growth. and sports for young people at the cus was on our biggest raw material, age of 7 to 15 years in order to secure oranges. Thus Rynkeby is focusing on In the future, strategic partnerships education and to keep the children the long-term supplier cooperation, may also include cooperation with off the streets. being about finding strategic coopebusiness/consumer organizations ration partners to improve security of (NGO’s) or the like. Target TARGETS AND RESULTS 2010 2011 2014 SGF supplier of fruit, berries and vegetables 80.5% 83.8% 90.0% Suppliers supporting Code of Conduct 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 6 Topic: Profit against the regulations for fruit juices CSR Policies Focus Areas: and of course it was immediately corOne of the goals for 2010 was that all Fair Speak rected. For many years our products employees should acquire an awarehave been sold under the designation ness of Rynkeby’s CSR work, targets At Rynkeby we believe in responsible »Mixed fruit juice« and we have never and politics. The degree of awaremarketing, colloquially called »fair had any complaints from consumers ness should among other things be speak«. In spite of our many efforts who felt mislead. measured by means of the employee we regrettably cannot always avoid satisfaction survey. All employees cases in which a consumer or an A journalist from the newspaper »24 received a copy of Rynkeby’s CSR organization feels offended at our timer« has also found a similar error report 2010 (see picture below) and marketing. Among other things this on a ready to drink blackcurrant/apple all new employees get a copy as is due to the legislation being very juice, and of course we have also well. In 2011 we did not measure the complex but also open in its interchanged the product name of this awareness degree but we expect to pretation of what e.g. misleading product to be in accordance with the do so in 2012. is and misleading in Denmark is not regulations. necessarily misleading in other countries and vice versa. It is important We are sorry for the two errors which to us that our products are presented evidently were on our packagings. nicely and are saleable but the mesTherefore we carried out a quality sages must always be true and not check of all our packagings. We have misleading to the consumers. not found more errors but we will maintain big focus that we incorIn 2011 we received a note from the porate the responsible line of marketfood authorities because some of ing and observe the fundamental rule our mixed sweet fruit juices did not of presenting the fruits in the proporhave the designations »Sweet/sweettions to be found in the product. ened« and »from concentrate«. This is An example of good and responsible marketing As a positive aspect in 2011 juice contains. It namely contains our 0% blackcurrant/apple a natural content of sugar from the fruit«, »Ekstrabladet« states. CSR policies juice was selected by »Ekstrabladet« as a good exWe still maintain our open contact Corporate Social Responsibility ample of good and responwith the consumers through the sible marketing. social networks and present both Rynkeby Foods’ employees positive and negative comments/ should know and observe our »You are mislead into buying goods questions from the public. CSR policies. advertising for less fat and sugar« it says in one of the critical consumer Rynkeby is still embraced by the articles by »Ekstrabladet«, focusChildren’s Code for Advertising Result 2011: ing on »the generous use of health Food – a voluntary initiative aiming Awareness degree will not be superlatives by food companies in at reducing the use of advertising measured until 2012. their packaging communication«. for foodstuffs with a considerable content of sugar, fat and Target in 2012: All employees However, the journalist is pointing salt in media approaching childacquire awareness of Rynkeby’s out one single product in his article ren. Rynkeby does not promote CSR work, targets and policies. as guiding rather than misleading products which are not nutritious – and that is Rynkeby’s mixed juice for children, i.e. products with a The CSR report has been sent to with apple and blackcurrant with content of carbonhydrate/sugar the homes of all employees and »0 percent sugar added«. »Instead over 12 g/100 ml. forms part of the informative you can read on the front what the material for all new employees. 7 Topic: Profit Focus area: leadership ACTIONS IN 2011 In 2011 all Rynkeby employees with a leading responsibility attended the Lean Leadership 2014 TARGET with three joint meetings and six best practice team meetings. The leadership focus for 2012 will be The topics were oriented towards HR (emthe introduction of ployee development dialogues, employee leadership based on satisfaction survey etc.). performance, based on the Good to Also in 2011 the big focus on leadership had Great idea. Visitors and employees at Rynkeby are an effect on the employee satisfaction survey, welcomed by an entrance decorated as in 2011 we kept the outstanding score in with photos of fresh fruit. The buildings leadership questions from 2010 of 4.2 on a of the factory are also decorated with scale of 5. fruit motives like the above on the outer wall. VALUES CERTIFICATIONS AND FOODSTUFF SECURITY Our employees are observing the five Rynkeby values. In our Foodstuff security continues to have a big priority at Rynkeby. As one of the employee satisfaction survey first companies in the world we were certified according to the ISO22000 the statement »You and your standard and we are very pleased to work according to these. The regular colleagues are observing our verifications by the Lloyds Register always result in improvements and of values in your working life?« course we do not want serious deviation in our Food safety system. has a score of 4.2 on the scale of 1 to 5. In 2011 Rynkeby was re-certified and all procedures were checked. No serious deviations were found in our Food safety system. 2014 Target Also in 2011 Rynkeby started a new ad-hoc work group within the European Everybody at Rynkeby Foods juice association (AIJN). Its purpose is to gather good experience and risk asshould know and observe our sessments from the industrial companies into a joint juice guide which may five values. be useful to the rest of the trade and thereby to a bigger extent secure food safety in relation to the consumers. The juice guide is expected to be completed in 2012. Lloyds audit ISO 22000 Results Target in 2014 2010: No severe deviations No severe deviations 2011: No severe deviations 8 Topic: People Rynkeby’s Employee Satisfaction Survey shows that the emNo mobbing ployees are very content with working at the company. We Rynkeby wants to be a non-mobhave happy and motivated employees who on average score bing workplace. We have had big 4.2 points out of 5.0 points possible. This is the first time we focus on mobbing amongst our have had such a splendid result and of course we are very employees and in our Employee proud! Satisfaction Survey we asked them, whether they »often« or »sometimes« feel mobbed. The Focus Area: Today employees attaining the age of 55 are offered a »senior dialogue« total result is recorded and forms the basis of our future efforts. EMPLOYEES with a view to matching expectations concerning working hours, retirement In our Employee Satisfaction Diversity etc. and to planning and – if possible Survey of 2011 we had a good We want diversity so that our organi– meeting the wishes. development to »often mobbed« zation reflects our surrounding society (1 employee against 2 in 2010) as to age, race, sex, religion and naDevelopment Dialogues but unfortunately we had a tionality. We also want to make room To make sure that our employees negative development to the for people who, despite their injuries, continue to do fine, develop and question »sometimes mobbed«. attrition or handicaps, are still able to remain competent, they are invited to Thus 14 employees in our factory make an effort for Rynkeby. Therefore a development dialogue at least once and warehouse departments we engage employees in light jobs or a year, focusing on job satisfaction, answered that they felt they were with flexible contracts if we can offer education and development. Action sometimes being mobbed. That adequate tasks. plans are elaborated and currently is why we want to focus on a followed up upon. »non-mobbing« workplace once We do not want exact targets for more. how many employees with special Social events contracts we want to employ – we Rynkeby also supports social events want to reflect society and in general and clubs run by our employees. Focus Area: to have employment agreements SURROUNDINGS advantageous to both parties. Thus, our employee club, art club and fitness club are financially supported The consumers Senior Policy by Rynkeby. Rynkeby feels a big responsibility toRynkeby also has a senior policy. wards the consumers of our products. Therefore we are extremely thorough TARGET when controlling the quality before sending the products to the stores. TARGETS AND RESULTS 2009 2010 2011 2014 On the other hand we are fully aware Employee turnover rate 13% 17% 10% 12% that we cannot produce 200 mio. litres of juice without making a single Employee satisfaction (total score) 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.0 mistake. “There is a good balance between 4.1 4.0 3.9 4.2 your worklife and your private life” Typically our products are pure nature 4% 0,0 without any kind of additives and Mental health/mobbing (number of employees) 8% 6% they are therefore extra vulnerable Feel generally happy and motivated 4.3 4.5 4.5 4.5 if a hole turns up in the packaging. This will of course bother the conNumber of education 2010: 1 week per employee/3 weeks per co-ordinator. sumer and therefore quick action and days per year (Factory/ 2011: 2 weeks remedy is important if a defect turns Warehouse) Target 2014: 1 week per employee/3 weeks per co-ordinator up. Trends in consumer complaints are followed very closely in order to Since 2006 Rynkeby has reduced the number of employees being mobbed from 16 to 6% be able to constantly correct and today. The reduction is due to a continued focus on the problem. prevent. 9 Topic: People Local community the local community and contributes a new activity: Clocking out with Rynkeby is located in the middle of with many workplaces to the town. Smileyes. The employee signed with a a residential area in Ringe on Funen. Furthermore we support sports events happy, a neutral or a grumpy smiley Therefore we have to be very careful for children and young people in the – depending on how good or bad the to avoid nuisances such as noise and local community by sponsorships. day had been. In 2012 we will follow smell. In 2011 we handed out sponsorup on our efforts to increase the job ships amounting to approx. 200,000 satisfaction at Rynkeby. Of course we strive to avoid both DKK for various sports events and/or smell and noise. Nevertheless we events for children. Work environment regret having been approached In 2011 Rynkeby experienced a concerning a too high noise level by a Work presence reduction of working accidents – resident in the neighbourhood. During Also in 2011 Rynkeby had a good from six to five compared to the year a visit to the resident we could estabdevelopment in the work presence before. A contemporary increase of lish that something definitely needed rate which was 96.8% against 96.0% »close to« situations, i.e. situations improvement! Now we are working the year before. in which it could have gone wrong, on reducing the noise from tankers attests to an alert and active secuunloading raw materials in order to In our factory and in warehouse we rity work. The target for 2012 is »No make the citizen content again. continued to focus on care and work accidents« – among other things by Rynkeby takes up a lot of space in presence conversations and started means of a continued focus on »close to« situations. Work presence Customers % 100 The retail customers of Rynkeby are 99 the key to even being able to sell the 98 Target products in the stores. Today the retail 97 96 96.8 97.0 chains make big demands on their 95 96.0 95.1 suppliers and we have a responsibility 94 93 to live up to them all. Rynkeby wants 92 to be different in a positive way and 91 90 therefore we regularly measure the satisfaction of our retail customers. 2009 2010 2011 2014 Earlier measurements show that our position is very fine. In 2011 we have therefore chosen to allocate our Recorded accidents resources on other purposes. Year Close to Minor accidents Working accidents 2011 62 12 5 We expect to measure the satisfac2010 18 19 6 tion of the retail customers again in 2014 Target 0 0 2012. Target First aid Complaints per 100 mio. litres 2009 2010 2011 2014 2011 was the year when Rynkeby acquired a heart starter and sent Consumer complaints (DK retail) 338 351 304 300 12 employees on a heart starter Consumer complaints (SE retail) 1939 2042 908 700 course. Furthermore 15 have atConsumer complaints (FI retail) 89 0 tended a first aid course for beginApproaches/complaints, local community 0 0 1 0 ners (6 lessons) and 12 a course for skilled participants (3 lessons). Customer satisfaction analyses (Factum) In 2012 we will offer first aid To be Aseptic products No. 4 No. 4 measured Top 3 courses with heart starter for in 2012 To be both skilled participants and Chilled products No. 1 No. 1 Top 3 measured beginners. in 2012 10 Topic: Health from a glass of juice or soda over a In 2010 we asked ourselves the question: »Can Rynkeby make longer period of time, because the more often the acid gets in contact Denmark healthier?« We believed that, and we still do. We with the teeth the worse it is«, says have had the clear intention to inform the consumers that Ulla Pallesen and adds the good piece juice is 100% fruit with no sugar added. During the first half of advice: »Besides, it is a very good of 2011 we showed our Rynkeby advertising film on TV. The idea to use a straw because it reduces purpose of the film is among other things to inform the conthe contact with the teeth«. sumers that juice is 100% fruit – and that no sugar is added. Furthermore we use signs in the stores with the same message. Salt We consume much too much salt in comparison with the recommenFocus Area: dations and the food industry bears a big responsibility because 80% of the CONSUMERS salt we consume comes from manufactured food. Danish men consume approx. 10 g per day and women 7-8 As appears from the below figures g. But we should not consume more Rynkeby succeeded in increasing the than max. 6 g. knowledge of the Danes that juice is 100% fruit. Because of the heavily Of course Rynkeby’s vegetable juice increasing fruit prices we have not is filled with vegetables, but, we are had the financial option of showing sorry to say, also with quite some salt. the Rynkeby advertising film during As the salt content in one glass was the second half of 2011, and unfor1.9 g we decided to reduce the tunately the knowledge by the Danes amount of salt added as much as has dropped again. possible. We plan to show the film again at the Dentist advises: Use a straw. The result was that in cooperation beginning of 2012 and increase the with a supplier we were able to reduce knowledge of the Danes that juice others, presented good information of the salt content by 70%! Now the is 100% fruit and that no sugar is how to take care of your teeth when consumers can drink vegetable juice added. consuming sour drinks. In August with an even better conscience and 2011 the chief dentist Ulla Pallesen Rynkeby contributes to an annual Prevention of teeth damages gave a number of good advice about reduction of the Danish salt consumpAs mentioned elsewhere in this report dental care on our website. »It is not tion of approx. 2.1 tons. It is very we have, in cooperation with the possible to avoid aciferous foodstuff difficult to change the contents in Danish dentist society and and drinks. But you can avoid drinking a juice as juice is regulated through legislation. But we keep continuously 2010 Facts informed on health and new chances 51% of the consumers believe that sugar/additives are added to juice (consumer test) to improve the national health. 12% of the consumers believe that Rynkeby juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) 21% of the consumers believe that the Rynkeby 16 series is 100% fruit (consumer test) 22% of the consumers believe that the Rynkeby Økologisk Juice (eco juice) is 100% fruit (consumer test) 2011 Facts 2011: 29% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) 2012: 33% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) FUTURE TARGETS Salt now makes up a smaller part of 2014: 80% of all Danes know that juice is 100% fruit (consumer test) Rynkeby vegetable juice. We now save 2014: 80% of all Danes know that no sugar is added to juice (consumer test) the Danes for approx. 2 tons a year. 11 Topic: Health In the strategy plan of Rynkeby Foods and in our CSR policy (social responsibility) our targets are very clearly to support and inspire the employees into a healthy lifestyle. We do that because we believe that the healthier we are, the more power we hold, and the bigger commitment we get in our everyday lives. Rynkeby will gain from this and the employee will have a better, healthier and longer life course. Therefore: A Younger Rynkeby. Focus area: exercising in different kinds of sports. Each month a winning team was A YOUNGER RYNKEBY elected and great enthusiasm and competition was found in the teams Søren Qvist, operator, lost over 20 kg 2011 was the year when the ementered. and improved his body age by 17 years ployees of Rynkeby were cycling, by means of attending the weight loss walking, swimming and exercising in course and by exercising. 75% or 172 Rynkeby employees every possible sport like never before. distributed on 16 teams signed up Health activities were high on the for »A Younger Rynkeby«. 43.0 years. That is a difference of 0.1 agenda and the target was clear: We years and thus an improvement of should all have a healthy and younger The BodyAge competition 1.7 years. The two best teams had on body. Another part of »A Younger Rynkeby« an average improved by 3.7 and 3.4 was the BodyAge competition in years respectively. In February 2010 all employees were which the signed-in teams were comoffered a health examination includpeting in the best improvement of his Our intense focus on health through ing a so-called BodyAge, a physical or her BodyAge in the course of 2011. the point and BodyAge competitions test telling you how »old« our body is At the BodyAge measurement in has contributed to the fact that a lot compared to our actual age. February 2011 the average age of the of Rynkeby employees have started team competitors was 41.9 whereas exercising and changing their food The point competition their BodyAge was 43.7 years. This habits and thereby making their life We called our new health topic »A means that we were 1.8 years too style change in the right direction. Younger Rynkeby« and made a volun»old«. At the BodyAge measurement tary team competition in which you in February 2012 our actual age was Big weight losses and could gather points each month by now 42.9 whereas the BodyAge was new life styles A third initiative of »A Younger Rynkeby« was a weight loss course for the overweight employees. 41 employees signed in for the course. Not everyone completed the course but on a total basis the team lost no less than 358 kg! The weight course resulted in many successful stories. As described in the next page of this report, one of our operators, 31-year-old Fadime lost 31 kg. At the other end of the age scale our 68-year-old Erik Rasmussen could enjoy a weigh loss of 19 kg and after the course several other employees could display a weight loss of more than 20 kg. 12 Topic: Health Fadime and Betty have attended the weight loss course at Rynkeby and lost a lot of weight. Now they want to lose even more. They are joining in on the way towards: A (even more) younger Rynkeby Fadime Öztoprak, 31 years old and employed in the factory of Rynkeby, has lost a lot of weight over the last year or so. So much that people find it difficult to recognize her when meeting her in the street not having seen her for a while. DOCUMENTARY Is it really you? They ask, says Fadime. Betty (to the left) has, as it appears, a view to the Arch of Triumph in Paris – Fadime has lost 31 kg! It has hapeven if it is only as a big-sized photo. She herself can triumph with a minus of 22 pened since 31st March last year kg. Fadime also feels much better with herself after her weight loss. »I’m much when she started on a new health more comfortable with my body now. Very much so. I am also in a much better activity together with colleagues. A mood. The mere ability of fitting smaller clothes makes me happy«, she says. weight loss course which forms part of the health programme »A Younger the advice could be to drink plenty on fat percentage and fibre content. Rynkeby«. of water or to eat fresh pineapple in I have been eating a lot of vegorder to stimulate combustion. etables. So much that I have almost The course ended in December last become dependent upon them. I like year. It was held by AG SundhedsSmaller portions vegetables and expect to continue fremme (a health promoting comFadime explains her fabulous weight eating lots of them, she says. pany) and Birgit Kannegaard, clinical loss by having eaten smaller portions dietitian, who kept the participants in general, by eating more vegetables However, Betty has also exercised »on a short leash« by making an apand meat with a very low fat content a little on the side. »Well, I am no pointment with everyone about meetand by refraining from white bread big exercising freak, but I have been ing every third week to be weighed. and instead eating rye bread with a visiting the fitness centre once in a high content of fibres. while, and taken a walk or a bike ride I find it very good. No doubt it is whenever the weather allowed it«, she easier to succeed when you have Her weight loss is exclusively due says. someone else to answer for – says to her new food habits. With three another participant on the team, children at the ages of two, four and Betty and Fadime both plan to conBetty Andersen, receptionist, 55 years six years there has been no time or tinue their weight losses. old. She lost 22 kg. strength left for forcing the weight loss by exercising besides taking a When spring really gets going I will Changed food habits walk with the children during the try to lose another five or six kilos, Primarily the course was based on summer period, when working on day Betty says. weight loss through changed food shifts. habits in cooperation with the Fadime: I would like to lose anclinical dietitian who brought some On the whole Betty’s weight loss other 5 kilos and will join again if the good advice with her every time the was achieved in the same way as company decides to continue offering participants gathered. For instance Fadime’s: Something about focusing weight loss courses. 13 Topic: Health Focus area: A YOUNGER RYNKEBY Focus Area: ERGONOMICS the reason for this is, that the CFO, Poul Erik Nielsen, gives health an »Good well-being results in unusually high priority. more satisfied employees, a reasonable work presence and Annette is well-known and welcome thereby a more stable producamong the employees at Rynkeby. tion with a higher productivity« Her company is leading and coorthe production manager of dinating the external assistance to Rynkeby, Javad Shirangi, said in some of the various health projects at an interview in Rynkeby’s staff Rynkeby. This has been the case since magazine in December 2011. spring in 2009 when she made the first health and hearing examinations In the magazine we focused on among the employees. an ergonomics project which forms an element of the health Besides the big personal commitment programme for the employees by the financial manager, Annette at Rynkeby. also points out the general support to and involvement into the health The programme started with a activities of the company given by the pilot project in our warehouse management at Rynkeby. in September 2010 and was followed in 2011 by a similar It definitely makes a difference. A lot Annette Trampedach is the owner of AG project in our new drawing of companies may have many good Sundhedsfremme. plant. The project ended in intentions but in case the manageFebruary 2012 and will be folment says: »Just do it. You can spend lowed by a similar one in PureBy Jens Agerholm, journalist a certain amount of money and no pak, our mixing and technical more« then things will die slowly. departments ending in October. For inscrutable reasons the responWith the supply of health activities Then the turn will come to the sibility for HR and health among the Rynkeby is even going a step further office staff. employees is often placed with the than presupposed in the legislaCFO of the company. When this is the tion which »only« demands health The project is focusing on the case »discipline«, as a principal rule, examinations of employees working working situation of the indiis often facing hard circumstances for more than 300 hours a year bevidual employee and will be folbecause economy gets a too high tween 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. and hearing lowed by instructions, guidance priority. This is not the case at Rynkeexaminations of employees exposed and training programmes. by. According to Annette Trampeto noise over 80 decibel, Annette dach, owner of AG Sundhedsfremme, Trampedach says. The ergonomics projects will last for half a year. different kinds of aids. In 2012 we will Focus Area: work on getting even more employees to quit the cigarettes by offering smoking smoking cessation courses at Rynkeby In 2011 a few employees have or helping them getting started with worked on quitting the cigarettes and SMS and e-mail smoking cessation received assistance from Rynkeby to programmes. 2009 2010 2011 2014 target Number of smokers 25% 23% Will be measured in 2013 15% Average number of cigarettes/day (pcs.) 15 11 Will be measured in 2013 10 14 Topic: Health Karen Fejerskov introduces healthy food in our canteen. of fish, wholemeal pasta, wholemeal rice and all the coarse vegetables. Fine vegetables (e.g. corn, cucumber, iceberg lettuce etc.) we tag with the colour yellow. The somewhat less healthy/fat food is tagged with the colour red and is i.g. dressings and the slice of bread with liver paste, fried bacon and beetroot. It demands a certain quantity of organization when preparing the meal Focus Area: is. This is illustrated by three colours: Red, yellow and green. Then it is up to scheme but the canteen staff has been pleased with the new challenge CANTEEN FOOD the employees themselves to decide, and looks forward to continuing their how healthy they want their meals efforts for an even healthier canteen. to be. After the kitchen staff of Rynkeby However, cake is still available on learnt about »Kantinetjek« (canteen Of course the healthiest food has Thursdays and on all days there is check) in 2010 (a simple point system the colour green and often consists always plenty of fruit and vegetables showing how healthy the canteen for sale at only 1 DKK a piece. food really is) we have tried to launch Number of employees eating fruit and vegetables every day (min. twice a day) a quite new initiative which makes it even more easy for the guests of the 2009 2010 2011 2014 Target canteen to see how healthy the food 37% 46% Will be measured at the beginning of 2013 57% Focus Area: In 2011 we had another visit by Ole Stougaard from Multitesta, former project manager, have voluntarily been arranging bike rides for beginEXERCISE triathlete on the national team, ners and advanced bikers. The bike teaching us the »pose running« techrides of 30-70 km have had the nique which is an particularly gentle consequence that employees who As is a tradition 2011 also had a running technique. The arrangement had never before been bike exercising big attendance of employees to the was free of charge and attracted 24 were encouraged to try it, and the two races, which Rynkeby attends, employees. employees who were going to attend »Søsletteløbet« and »DHL-stafetten«. We also offer bike rides. During the the bike race to Paris with Team We have ambitious targets for the summer period Karsten Hansen, IT Rynkeby had a good guidance and number of participants and we still administrator, and Arne Jørgensen, training. have some way to go, but we believe we can reach the targets. Participants in the relay race »DHL-Stafetten«* 2009 2010 2011 Target 2014 Creating unity 28% 38% 42% Min. 50%** You might rightly ask why we have a Participants in the race »Søsletteløbet«** target for attendance at these races. The answer is quite simple: Meeting 2009 2010 2011 Target 2014 outside working hours creates a good 20% 42% 38% 50% unity among colleagues and at the Employees exercising at least 30 minutes per day same time we invite to even more 2009 2010 2011 Target 2014 exercise. We have chosen arrange48% 50% Will be measured at the beginning of 2013 60% ments to which everybody can attend, irrespective of exercise level. *includes employees only **includes employees and their families. 15 Topic: Health The TV host Bubber receiving a check for 8.8 mio. DKK for BørnecancerfonFocus area: den in Denmark in 2011. At the same SCIENCE time Barncancerfonden in Sweden received a check for 972,000 DKK Together with other companies and from the two Swedish Team Rynkeby a number of research institutions teams. Rynkeby attended the research project »Step by step changes of Focus Area: the collection will be devided so that the 13 Danish teams of Team Rynkechildren’s preferences towards healthier foods«. Team Rynkeby by will collect money for Børnecancerfonden in Denmark whereas the The project is very extensive and priFor the 10th year in a row Team four Swedish teams will collect money marily Rynkeby has cooperated with Rynkeby supports children with for Barncancerfonden in Sweden. As »Institut for Fødevarer« (Institute for cancer and their families through the a racing cyclist of Team Rynkeby you Foodstuff) at the University of Aarhus foundation Børnecancerfonden in are not only obliged to train suffion how optimizing of taste and the Danmark with money collected from ciently and to take part in the social presen-tation of healthy food can inthe bicycle race to Paris. As from 2011 life connected with the team but also fluence children to eat healthier. One also Barncancerfonden in Sweden is to make an effort to provide money of the conclusions of the research supported. Team Rynkeby has been for Børnecancerfonden and Barncanproject is that changes must be biking to Paris every summer since cerfonden. introduced gradually because too big the premiere in 2002 and every year changes at the same time will result the team has collected money for The money collected by Team Rynkein a loss of the children’s preferences. Børnecancerfonden. by and handed over to BørnecanFurthermore the results show that the cerfonden and Barncancerfonden is more often children are presented to Concurrently with the enlargement of spent very carefully on projects from a new kind of food the more recognizTeam Rynkeby the amount collected which, in the opinion of the two orable it will become and the more they has also grown. When in 2011 Team ganizations, children with cancer and will feel like eating it. Rynkeby included teams from Sweden their families will benefit the most. as well, the bicycle team was also The focus areas comprise research, Rynkeby still attends the research able to favour Barncancerfonden, the information and patient support. project SENSWELL (Sensory food Swedish sister organization of Børnesatisfaction in promoting healthy cancerfonden. The participants of Team Rynkeby are and sustainable eating behaviour) jogging cyclists of both sexes, of all focusing on how sensory qualities in In 2011, 31 Rynkeby employees ages and with totally different jobs, food and eating environment can be participated and on a total basis educations and backgrounds. The difutilized to reduce the food consump584 racing cyclists and 139 service ference between the participants and tion and at the same time give satiety people, distributed on 11 Danish and their geographical distribution in both and comfort, both during and after a two Swedish teams, collected approx. Denmark and Sweden makes it easier meal. The project is expected to end 8.8 mio. DKK to Børnecancerfonden for Team Rynkeby to spread the word in 2014. and 1.1 mio. SEK to Barncancerfonabout the collection to the advantage den. Thus Team Rynkeby collected a for children with cancer and their In addition the product developers total of 9.772 mio. DKK for the fight families. at Rynkeby take part in »Network for against cancer in children. In 2012 new sweeteners«. The overall idea of this network is to oblige the consumer wishes for healthy and natural products. This is why new natural energy neutral sweeteners are examined as a replacement to the added sugar and the artificially produced sweeteners traditionally added to our food. In 2011 the focus has been centered around the plant Stevia. Two Team Rynkeby cyclists taking a peeing break in the corn field. 16 Topic: Environment and climate reduction of product assortment by In 2011 Rynkeby Foods reduced electricity consumption, waste approx. 25%. The reduction means water emission and packaging and raw material loss even that the number of mixtures in the more. This partly because we could harvest the fruits of our production has decreased from 90 to approx. 75 a week. Smaller number of investments in the factory the year before, partly because we mixtures means less processes with succeeded in increasing the line efficiency – i.e. the time of the water, including rinsing and cleaning, total operating time in which the machines are running – in and thus less emission of waste water to the water treatment plant. close cooperation between the production management and the employees. The progress in exploiting the raw materials Changed behavior was so high that already last year we reached the 2014 target The reduction of waste water is also figure for loss of raw materials. due to a change of the behavior in which the factory otherwise uses water. Among other things the focus Focus Area: product assortment and thus bigger series in the production. Rynkeby’s has been on where in the production juice is being spilt – for instance when Electricity consumption target is to obtain a 10% reduction changing products. In this connection of the electricity consumption before it is important to collect the product There are several reasons why elec2014. In their efforts to reach the remnants for reuse in order to avoid tricity consumption at Rynkeby goal our production management is that they end up in and strains the declined in 2011. Among them are: implementing new energy measurewater treatment plant of the factory. ments – a kind of thermographic A small thing like using flushing points n We use less electricity for our promeasurements – in our production on the water hoses is also among duction of air/steam for our manulines. The purpose of the measurethe behavior-wise contributors to the facturing processes after investing in ments is to uncover the concrete reduction of waste water. less energy demanding compressors location of consumption on the in 2010. individual line and thus be able to Rinsing with water is enough define where to start digging deeper Forward-looking the production will n We have increased the line efin the efforts for a further reduction contribute to an even cleaner enficiency – i.e. less non-planned halts of the electricity consumption. vironment by changing the routines in which the pasteurizing plant and when cleaning the mixing tanks. Till other equipment is stopped and uses Among other things estimates have now the factory has been running a electricity and steam in vain. The been made on the possible use of big cleaning process with cleaning diode bulbs, i.e. low energy bulbs, but detergent between each individual increase of efficiency is among other for the time being this will have to mixture. However, it has turned out things due to the production having wait until a thorough analysis of the that you can actually run an efficient focused intensively on the possitotal electricity consumption is availrinsing with water and run the long bilities of avoiding unintentional able – and thus a basis for an assesscleaning process with longer intervals halts through LEAN processes with without getting a negative effect involvement by employees, including ment of where to spend the money on the product quality. This initiaoperator courses on machine combest in the future in order to save on tive will, however, affect the water prehension and payment according to the electricity bill. consumption to a minor degree, but LEAN principles, and to a higher degree it will affect the The waste water consumption of cleaning detergents n that the number of product and thus it will also be an environchanges has declined from 90 to Rynkeby’s decreasing emission of mental gain. 75-80 due to our simplification of the waste water is primarily due to our Environmental targets 2009 result 2010 result 2011 result 2014 target Electricity consumption* 59.96 Kwh 60.9 Kwh 57.11 Kwh 10% per litre produced 59,96 Kwh Waste water* 0.941 m3 0.983 m3 0.937 m3 10% per litre produced CO2 consumption* 16.18 kg 17.46 kg 17.46 kg 14.56 Kg Raw material loss, of raw material consumption 2.86 % 2.44 % 2.07 % 30% per litre produced Packaging waste, of packaging consumption 2.07 % 1.45 % 1.25 % 1.05 % *per ton product 17 Topic: Environment and climate Packaging waste the roll feed method causes the bigCO2 gest waste of packaging the factory is During 2011 Rynkeby has experienAfter an increase from 2009 to 2010 now to a higher extent producing on ced a good development in the conRynkeby succeeded in bringing down machines using blanks. sumption of packaging – in the form the CO2 from 2010 to 2011. 2014 of less waste. target is a reduction of CO2 by 10% Furthermore the factory has been per litre produced. The amount focusing a lot on the reasons for This is also partly due to a smaller of CO2 comes especially from the waste of packaging as a result of product assortment with less changes natural gas consumption for producmachine problems and on the posin the production but for instance also ing steam for the pasteurizing plant. sibilities of preventing them by means due to the fact, that a lot of focus has Forward-looking the reduction of of a dialogue with the machine supbeen on which production method is CO2 is to a high degree expected to pliers. resulting in the smallest amount of be obtained by even more operating waste. In principle, the production time on the existing production lines The focus on production methods, has two methods at its disposal. One and by investment in machines with operating disturbances and – not is using the so-called roll feeds, which a higher speed and thus smaller conthe least – a big involvement from are made into cartons by the machine sumption of steam per litre drawn. the employees, which is also encouritself. The other one is using so-called aged by LEAN payment – are the blanks which are ready-carved and Before taking a stand on further inimost important reasons why, in fact, folded cartons and the machines are tiatives the production management the factory already in 2011 reached only folding the bottom and the top is awaiting a more exact knowledge the 2014 target figure for packaging during filling. As it has turned out that on where and how to reduce the gas waste. consumption with the biggest effect in connection with the coming “thermographic measurements” of the individual production lines. DRIVING Rynkeby is also focusing on driving and wants, among other things, to examine whether the choice of tyres for the cars might have an effect on the driving/fuel consumption and to discuss whether the selling staff The factory collects and sells packaging for reuse, says production manager Magnus should have environmentally-friendly Stefansson (in picture). company cars. Raw material loss solution has the effect that the the production can save concentrate production is sure to get most of the by getting closer to the balance beWith the rapidly increasing prices of juice out – either during the drawing tween the water disappearing when raw materials in recent years there process or in some barrels in which the concentrate is steamed in and is – besides the overall environmenthe surplus juice is stored and used in the water spent when adding water tal considerations – a special reason new mixtures. to the concentrate again in order to for Rynkeby to locate and close the turn it into juice. It is a legal demand causes for loss of raw materials in our In a close cooperation between the that the amount of water must be production. To a big extent we suclaboratory and the production staff a the same – therefore there has been a ceeded in this in 2011 when the 2014 new system has also been implementtendency to add a little more concentarget figure was also achieved. ed which makes it possible to get the trate in order to be quite sure to obremnants of the barrels out without serve the legislation. The smaller loss of raw materials is conflicting with quality or durability. primary due to the production having Furthermore Rynkeby plans to rebuild invested in so-called pipe pigs, i.e. Forward-looking the plan is to minisome of the pots in the pasteurizing plastic plugs which are pushed mize the loss of raw materials further plant and to invest in more pipe pigs. through the pipe when the drawby exploiting a new and more exact ing from the water tank is over. This measuring equipment to ensure that 18 Global Compact 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occuIn 2011, Rynkeby Foods has embraced the UN initiative pation. Global Compact that lays down ten general principles within companies’ work with CSR. These principles are a good basis Rynkeby supports and respects the for our work with CSR and sustainability. They are based on UN principles on labour. We have shop stewards elected by the staff. internationally recognized conventions in the areas of human These stewards conduct negotiations rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. concerning working conditions, wages and other conditions related to the relationship between the employee and THE TEN PRINCIPLES the company. Our employees are free to organize in trade unions or other organizations/associations. HUMAN RIGHTS will anytime give notice to terminate our co-operation/contract in cases Labour forms part of our Code of Con1. Businesses should support and where human rights are abused or duct and therefore all our suppliers respect the protection of internot observed. must guarantee that these conditions nationally proclaimed are under control. human rights; and ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support 2. … make sure that a precautionary approach to they are not complicit in environmental challenges; human rights abuses. 8. undertake initiatives to proRynkeby supports and mote greater environmental respects internationresponsibility; and ally proclaimed human rights and strives to 9. encourage the development make sure that we and diffusion of environare not complicit in mentally friendly technologies. human rights abuses. In practice this means that our company Environment and climate are observes current rules on the Rynkeby agenda in and conventions on relation with development of human rights. We make new products and projects. We an effort to ensure that permanently strive to reduce the products we procure energy resources and waste. have been produced in accordance with the UN conANTI-CORRUPTION ventions and international resoLABOUR 10. Businesses should work against lutions. All suppliers must sign the 3. Businesses should uphold the freecorruption in all its forms, including Rynkeby/Arla Code of Conduct being dom of association and the effective extortion and bribery. the first guarantee that the suppliers recognition of the right to collective observe the regulations. Add to this bargaining; Usually, the juice business is not the fact that we have risk assessed subject to corruption, blackmail and the map of the world and pointed 4. the elimination of all forms of bribery. However, Rynkeby underout the high-risk countries, in which forced and compulsory labour; takes to observe current UN convenwe make an extra effort to make tions on anti-corruption, human rights sure that rules and regulations are 5. the effective abolition of child and labour and will counteract any observed. We act in good faith and labour; and offence at any time. 19 CSR Planet Health Miljø/klima Sundhed Forretning Mennesker Profit People Rynkeby Foods A/S Vestergade 30 5750 Ringe Tlf. 6362 3200
