Global Compact by BoConcept 1 Global Compact by BoConcept Communication on Progress – 2012 May 2012 Global Compact by BoConcept 2 Statement from the CEO Our commitment to act responsibly in relation to other human beings, the environment and social conditions is a key element of BoConcept's global brand. As one of BoConcept's core values, respect is the attitude with which the company, its employees and suppliers should treat others. BoConcept's corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy establishes guidelines and the framework for the group's initiatives and priorities. BoConcept joined the UN Global Compact in 2009, and the group's CSR policy is based on its ten principles relating to human rights, employee rights, respect for the environment and a prohibition against corruption – principles that we consider universally applicable, good and sound. During the past 12 months, we have endeavoured to structure our CSR-related work, and we are convinced that we by means of our ongoing improvement programme 'Beating Yesterday' automatically will continue to improve our CSR initiatives and priorities. On behalf of BoConcept, I thank you for the interest you are showing in our organisation by reading this Communication on Progress report. Viggo Mølholm President & CEO Global Compact by BoConcept 3 About BoConcept BoConcept is the brand name of Denmark's most global retail furniture chain with 295 sales units in 58 countries around the world. Passion and persistence are what move the people behind the BoConcept brand, whether they are designing a wall unit, leading a team, or managing a store. Our common mission is to make modern design furniture available to the urbanminded customer. We offer customised, coordinated and affordable design furniture and accessories. Customised because our products can be fitted to the needs and dreams of our customers. Coordinated because we take a holistic approach in the development and design of our product range. Design because we are a design company with our own designers. Affordable because we want to spoil our customers by giving them great value. Our core values 'Values are what bring people together in a common understanding. They're a set of rules telling us how to think and act. From Herning in Denmark to Auckland in New Zealand, values unite us across occupation, language and culture. They make us family.' Viggo Mølholm, BoConcept CEO Global Compact by BoConcept 4 BoConcept's CSR vision At BoConcept it is vital that our CSR policy strikes an obvious and healthy balance between environmental impact and business economics. As an organisation, we wish to ensure that our conduct has the least possible adverse environmental impact; and at the same time we need to be pragmatic and understand that it is impossible to avoid such impact altogether. Business Environmental economics impact The employee satisfaction index is based on the 'Great Place to Work' concept, covering the following dimensions: • Credibility • Respect • Fairness • Pride • Sense of community • Overall satisfaction Global Compact by BoConcept 5 The BoConcept CSR policy One of the core values at BoConcept is respect. We want to show respect for our customers by delivering great design and quality at the right price. But not at any price. All BoConcept suppliers must follow the BoConcept Code of Conduct in order to ensure that all our products are manufactured in a way that respects the rights of their employees. Our headquarters are based in Denmark and we apply our Danish background in our expectations to our suppliers when it comes to quality, environment and work processes. Over 60 years of experience and know-how provide invaluable benefits for our production facility in Denmark as well as in our close co-operation with our global suppliers. We have carefully selected suppliers that share our commitment to high quality. Together, we work to develop competencies and processes, and to implement initiatives that take responsibility for people and the environment. In general terms our ambition is to manufacture products with as little impact on the environment as possible. We continuously strive to make environmental improvements in the production of our products as well as the logistical processes involved in delivering BoConcept products to customers, thereby making sure that the effects of our business leave as little footprint on the global environment as possible. Global Compact by BoConcept 6 Communication on Progress BoConcept BoConcept sourcing share trends Below is an update on the three areas that in % BoConcept has designated as its principal focus areas: suppliers, transportation and retail. Suppliers At BoConcept we have become more globally oriented as a growing share of our products is sourced from all over the world. We realise that we are able to exert some influence on our suppliers, and we believe it would be natural to take advantage of this to the extent possible. At BoConcept, we believe that personal relationships, mutual respect, communication and determination are useful drivers for growth. With this in mind, we regularly discuss BoConcept's CSR work towards environmental and safety issues with our suppliers suppliers, and we have in the past encouraged our suppliers to abide by the ten Global In terms of CSR-related work, the Compact principles, just as we endeavour to do BoConcept CSR Committee sets so ourselves. overall goals. After this, the CSR coordinator in Denmark communicates Four years ago BoConcept launched the first these goals to the local CSR edition of its Code of Conduct. The purpose of coordinators in Shanghai and the BoConcept Code of Conduct is to ensure Dongguan, China, respectively, who that BoConcept suppliers operate in accordance are responsible for the with internationally recognised standards on implementation. human rights, labour and environment. BoConcept adheres to the principles of this code and expects the same of its suppliers. The content is based on relevant ILO (International Labour Organisation) and UN conventions. The aim of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is not to end our business with non-compliant suppliers but to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental standards. BoConcept is therefore willing to work with suppliers to achieve their compliance with this code. However, we will not conduct business with a supplier if compliance with the requirements of Global Compact by BoConcept 7 At BoConcept, we visit all our the code is deemed impossible. Nor will we principal suppliers to ensure that conduct business with a supplier engaged in these comply with the BoConcept violations of fundamental human rights. Code of Conduct and that action plans are established to deal with The model below shows a number of the most important issues. parameters that BoConcept requires its While adherence to the BoConcept suppliers to live up to. BoConcept will not begin Code of Conduct brings our collaborating with a company that does not suppliers up to a certain standard, it comply with Step 1. basically only sets out our minimum requirements. With this in mind, we No serious work with a 'development wheel' environmental issues that is used in our ongoing dialogue No forced No serious with suppliers. The model below labour safety issues illustrates how we hold our suppliers to their CSR commitments, and it shows that it is an ongoing process. STEP 1 Health No child labour Legal insurance for framework employees Step 2 states a number of the expectations BoConcept has to established suppliers. A BoConcept supplier should fulfil most of these expectations. In case there are any remaining issues, a written action plan will be drafted in consultation with the supplier, setting out practical steps for improvement. Permitted breaks and holidays Minimum wages No discrimination and overtime pay Reasonable Collective hygienic and bargaining may not healthy living be prevented or conditions impeded Continual relevant STEP 2 No physical safety training and Social punishment or safe working threats of same conditions conditions Global Compact by BoConcept 8 Handling of chemicals and waste in accordance with Reduction of air, the law Records kept and water and soil reduction of pollution accidents The Indoor Climate Label A good indoor environment is important for your health and Training of Records kept and STEP 3 employees well-being. It is not only the reduction of Environmental handling ventilation and construction consumption framework chemicals and waste materials, but also the materials inside that influence the indoor environment of your home. The Indoor Climate Label (Indeklimamærket in Danish) Step 3 comprises a number of expectations relating more has been developed in order to to management and control issues, and a BoConcept help consumers make qualified supplier should be able to comply with these decisions when it comes to specifications. Once Steps 1 and 2 have been choosing products that contribute to a healthy indoor established, plans will be drawn up for implementation of climate. Step 3. In 2011, all BoConcept board furniture received The Indoor Status on the recent 12 months' developments Climate Label as our board In 2010/2011, we decided to make a preliminary survey furniture has been tested of the environmental, health and safety performance of thoroughly with regards to our suppliers with a view to establishing action plans for release of gasses and odours, improvements in cooperation with the suppliers. We thereby making it safer for decided to concentrate on direct suppliers only, so we do customers to bring BoConcept not at this time have a structures follow-up on subboard furniture to their homes. contractors inclusive of accessories suppliers. The past 12 months we have worked towards establishing specific supplier action plan requirements, and assisted our suppliers in implementing improvements according to a set time-frame. As a result of this, action plans have been established for all principal suppliers at the end of the 2011/2012 financial year, and we continue to follow up on old as well as new initiatives included in these action plans. Goals and focus for the coming year Our goals for the coming year is to ensure that 90% of our total buying volume within the upholstery and board furniture categories is sourced from suppliers with established action plans that are audited on an annual basis. In connection with Global Compact by BoConcept 9 these annual audits, the principal focus area for the coming year will be safe and appropriate working conditions. In continuation of this, we will be appointing an employee, whose primary responsibility is to assist our suppliers in establishing safe and appropriate working condition. Further, this new employee will have CSR as his/her primary work area. Transportation As an international company, both with regard to retail and supply chain, transportation and logistics are key aspects of our business. Buying and selling at the right prices is of vital importance to BoConcept. The BoConcept warehouse and However, it is just as important to maintain a distribution set-up high quality standard and ensure reliable delivery. BoConcept has its own production facilities in Denmark, but otherwise also purchases goods from the Far East and Eastern Europe. For this to be successful, a strict and precise management of logistics and suppliers is required. BoConcept has three distribution centres: Status on the recent 12 months' • Ølgod, Denmark developments • Shanghai, China • New Jersey, USA During the past 12 months, BoConcept has strived to establish an overview of and document the CO2 emissions for which it is Two distribution points: responsible in connection with its sourcing • West coast, USA (where BoConcept is responsible for arranging • Lithuania and paying transportation) and sale of furniture worldwide (only up to ports in Two sourcing offices: destination countries). • Shanghai, China This is a huge task, as the logistics flow • Dongguan, China through our supply chain is relatively complex and, in many instances, the information available is not detailed enough. For these reasons, we have been forced to work with certain limitations in accounting for the various sources: for example, truck and air transport has been excluded from the report. Global Compact by BoConcept 10 Accordingly, it appears from our calculations Old vs. new transport corridor for that our transportation activities, bearing the products manufactured in Denmark for above-mentioned limitations in mind, have an the stores in UAE, Kuwait and Qatar. annual impact on the environment of Old transport corridor: approximately 1,020,000 tonnes of CO2. Below we provide an account of some of the reductions achieved during the past 12 months through our various optimisation projects. Project examples During the past 12 months, the volume of air freight from China has been reduced by 25%. This has been achieved through better planning in connection with the product development New transport corridor: process and improved control of inventory levels. A small reduction has been achieved by use of feeder transport from Hamburg, Germany, to ports in Denmark and road transport further to our European distribution centre (EDC) in Ølgod (DK) rather than using road transport all the way from Hamburg to EDC. The reduction in CO2 emissions related to the change in this transport Old vs. new transport corridor for corridor accounts for approx. 10%. upholstery products from China for the US and Canadian west coast stores. During the past 12 months we have continued to Old transport corridor: establish more direct transport through our supply chain resulting in shorter delivery times and reductions in costs and CO2 emissions. Products manufactured in Denmark for UAE, Kuwait and Qatar are now shipped directly to Dubai and not via our distribution centre in Shanghai, China, which previously supplied these markets. The old and new transport corridors appear from the illustration to the right. New transport corridor: Upholstery products from China to the US and Canadian west coast stores are no longer shipped via our distribution centre in New Jersey, USA, but via a distribution point in California, USA. By this, we reduce both sea and Global Compact by BoConcept 11 road transport. See illustrations on the previous page. Goals and focus for the coming year For the coming year, BoConcept intends to improve the quality of its calculations further by including more relevant sources, with a view to providing better insight into the impact from transportation. In relation to European road transport, a model for the reporting of CO2 emissions will be introduced, and figures included in this reporting will be included in next year's Communication on Progress from BoConcept A/S. Finally, BoConcept's process of shifting to a more direct distribution set-up will continue the coming year. BoConcept Retail BoConcept attaches great importance to presenting its furniture and accessories in the best possible way in its stores. This includes clean surroundings and arranging the furniture correctly and in the most advantageous light. Lighting plays an important part in the arrangement of our furniture in the stores. It is essential that the light has the right glow, ensuring correct colour reproduction and perception. Thus the light sources used are important, and so is the number and arrangement of these light sources. Status on the recent 12 months' developments During the past 12 months, BoConcept has searched the market for LED bulbs to use in our efforts to reduce energy consumption in our stores. The search resulted in 10 suitable LED components, which were all tested. After these tests, we decided to go ahead with one of the LED bulb solutions, and at the moment we are awaiting a prototype of the design from the supplier. Goals and focus for the coming year For the coming year, BoConcept expects to be able to offer a new LED bulb solution to all its stores. The new LED bulb solution is expected to result in a reduction in the stores' energy consumption of at least 30%, which is a substantial reduction. Global Compact by BoConcept 12 BoConcept's Global Compact in essence The UN Global Compact Principles BoConcept's Actions: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should BoConcept supports the international declared support and respect the protection of human rights. internationally proclaimed human rights; and We do not discriminate against any person, regardless of race, sex, colour or religion. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Being a global organisation, BoConcept has employees with many different cultural backgrounds. It is vital to BoConcept to Labour Principle 3: Businesses should maintain this. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the One of BoConcept's core values is 'Respect'. right to collective bargaining; In this context the value covers respect for other people and their rights. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory BoConcept knows that people makes the labour; difference! Therefore all employees are encouraged to bring up their ideas to improve Principle 5: the effective abolition of workflow, work environment or ideas to child labour; and improve other parts of the BoConcept business. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of The BoConcept Code of Conduct states that all employment and occupation. suppliers must ensure that basic human rights and basic labour standards are implemented. Further, we have communicated to our present suppliers that we have enrolled in the UN Global Compact program and that we expect they will run their companies applying the same 10 principles as we do. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should As can be read on the preceding pages, support a precautionary approach to BoConcept has prepared a specific plan for the environmental challenges; clarification and reduction of the environmental impacts of our chain and our Principle 8: undertake initiatives to products. promote greater environmental responsibility; and This plan covers production, transportation, and retail. At BoConcept, we will continue our Principle 9: encourage the work to improve the accuracy of the data. development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should At BoConcept we do not accept any form of work against corruption in all its corruption. We do not use bribe or extortion in forms, including extortion and any way. bribery. Further, anti-corruption is an integrated part of our Code of Conduct, which we ask our suppliers to confirm in writing. Global Compact by BoConcept 13 We value your feedback If you have any questions, comments or proposals relating to this report, please do not hesitate to contact the designated contact person: Vice President – Supply Chain Troels Dyrup Petersen E-mail: tdp@boconcept.com Telephone: +45 7013 1366
