Old Mutual Emerging Markets | Sustainability Report 2010 Working together to achieve our goals Overview Material issues 2 About Old Mutual Group 4 Foreword from the Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa 8 Foreward from the CEO, Old Mutual Emerging Markets 9 GOVERNANCE: Governing the business of Old Mutual 10 Review of material issues CUSTOMERS: Creating value for existing and potential customers 18 FINANCIAL ADVISERS: Enabling financial advisers to better serve 26 customer needs INVESTING RESPONSIBLY: Investing responsibly for financial returns, 30 for social and economic equity and to save the environment OUR WORKPLACE: Building a great place to work with people 36 who do great work BUILDING EQUITY: Providing opportunities and platforms to address 44 past imbalances in South Africa ETHICS: Promoting ethical behaviour amongst all stakeholders to 56 ensure overall sustainability of the business ENVIRONMENT: Impacting positively on the environment 58 EMERGING MARKETS: Integrating Sustainability 62 into Emerging Markets beyond South Africa Appendices Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Index 68 Detailed list of stakeholders 70 BEE certification 71 Glossary 72 Contents GOVERNANCE 10 CUSTOMERS 18 FINANCIAL ADVISERS 26 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY 30 OUR WORKPLACE 36 BUILDING EQUITY 44 ETHICS 56 ENVIRONMENT 58 EMERGING MARKETS 62 About this report In this second year of Old Mutual Emerging Markets’ (OMEM) sustainability reporting, we aim to provide an open account of the management and performance of our sustainability issues. In the light of transparency and to promote continuous improvement, we have outlined our achievements as well as our challenges in this space. The reporting framework has been developed with reference to sustainability initiatives such as the Global Reporting Index (GRI), the JSE Socially Responsible Investment (JSE SRI) Index, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the King Report and Code of Governance Principles for South Africa 2009 (King III). The reporting framework was further informed by a series of workshops that we ran in Old Mutual during 2010. The workshops were attended by 65 Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) employees, most of whom were managers with direct responsibility for material aspects of Old Mutual’s business. Whilst important societal issues are central to the ethos of Old Mutual, our management of sustainability is not yet fully integrated with the business as envisaged by King III. We are therefore not yet ready to report on the complete integration of sustainability – however, the journey has begun. As noted in the Chairman’s statement, this sustainability report serves to record our response to issues material to Old Mutual and its stakeholders. This report covers the 2010 financial year (January 2010 to December 2010) and deals largely with the activities of OMSA, being the most established and prominent division within OMEM. While all Emerging Market operations report to the CEO of OMEM, until we further enhance our reporting systems for African Operations (Kenya, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and Zimbabwe) and New Markets (China, India, Colombia and Mexico), these operations are reported on in limited depth. Sustainability is our How we conduct our business now, in order to preserve and build resources for the benefit of future generations. committed focus on economic, How we distribute and invest the wealth we generate; and how we use our wisdom to empower previously disadvantaged people with the means and opportunities to share in the growth of the economy. social and How we uphold the Bill of Rights by providing decent work and freedom of association in a safe and healthy working environment, while doing good things in poorer communities. environmental issues How we are working to influence the way capital is allocated to human development in order to make a positive impact on the environment. in Emerging Markets operations 2 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Material issues We have determined our material issues by: • Engaging with Old Mutual plc to understand the Group’s sustainability direction • Conducting numerous interviews across the business • Reviewing the feedback from our employee and customer surveys • Engaging with external stakeholders 3 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 >> Material issues Creating value for existing Enabling financial advisers to and potential customers better serve customer needs 18 26 Material issues Material issues • Engaging with customers to improve our service delivery • Increasing access to qualified and compliant financial • Making products and services accessible to all advisers • Providing financial education across the life cycle to • Raising the quality and professionalism of financial advice empower society • Supporting the sustainability of financial advisers’ • Developing fair pricing models to create value for our businesses customers • Marketing our products and services in a responsible and appropriate manner Key indicators Key indicators • Customer satisfaction • Number of qualified advisers • Customer retention • Proportion of black and female advisers • Customer complaints • Uptake of non-core training • Growth in Old Mutual Finance (OMF) business • Complaints against advisers • Financial education • Number of successful practice successions • The Ambassador score for the health of broker practices Status Status • Ask Afrika’s Orange Index of customer service excellence • Tied agents increased, but the proportion of black tied rates OMSA first, though scores have decreased significantly agents decreased since 2008. Independent brokers actively this year. Customer retention is stable selling decreased 3% due to increasing regulation. Some • OMF business: Accessible branches grown from 11 to 117 in migrated to other life assurers, and some became tied two years, with accounts more than trebling this year to agents 81 000. Internet and mobile access points becoming • Nearly 1 000 agents trained and accredited to sell Easy increasingly popular Benefit Plan, our new Long-Term Savings Umbrella Fund for • Uptake of financial education decreased as a result of the the low end of the market Soccer World Cup, public sector strikes and economic factors. • OMSA actively working to meet requirements of FAIS Financial Sector Charter consumer financial literacy training Conflict of Interest regulations exceeded targets • Average age of financial advisers increasing. Retirement • Termination values on retail savings products are higher successions decreasing – a cause for concern than minimum values. Overall product range positively rated by financial advisers. All pricing models approved by • Masthead initiative to assist independent financial advisers international and local statutory actuaries. We publish payshowing benefits for OMSA out rates for life assurance claims and perform best against • Practice management support benefited nearly 2 000 those who do businesses • Full compliance with industry Code of Practice representation of clear, up-to-date information to customers. Progress is being made writing in plain language to assist customers to better understand their products Looking forward Looking forward • Improve the customer’s experience • Working to identify and address causes for decrease in • Expand number of OMF branches to 265 by end 2013 proportion of black brokers • We will measure and meet the Conflict of Interest • Grow uptake of My Money Plan and Easy Benefit Plan regulations • Develop My Recovery Plan and My Insurance Plan • New Ambassador Indicator of how well brokers look after • Establish indicators for reporting on fair pricing models customers being applied in 2011. Set to change how we • Further improve the accessibility of product and policy categorise and incentivise brokers documentation Investing responsibly for financial returns, for social and economic Building a great place to work with equity and to save the environment people who do great work 30 36 Material issues Material issues • Considering environmental, social and governance (ESG) • Leadership capability and effectiveness: creating a issues in investment decisions leadership culture that inspires • Enriching lives through socially responsible investment funds • Strengthening our position as an employer of choice • Empowering transformation through financing* • Growing and deploying talent to meet business needs across emerging markets • Enabling true transformation – going beyond the numbers* * Reporting split between ‘Enriching lives through socially responsible * Covered in the ‘Building equity’ chapter investment funds’ and ‘Enterprise development’ Key indicators Key indicators • Value of Old Mutual’s SRI funds • Employee turnover • Percentage of females and • Percentage of SRI funds against all OMIGSA’s assets under • Employees at Old Mutual black people in top and management for 5 – 10 years senior management • Proportion of clients refusing to trade profit for responsibility • Employee engagement • Spend on skills development • Employee benefits Status Status • Proportion of SRI funds increased from 5.1% to 7.3% of • Office staff employee turnover reduced to 5.9%, well below total assets under management, now totalling R32.6 billion the 15.2% for 2009 • Responsible Investment Taskforce established in 2010 • Employees at Old Mutual for 5 – 10 years increased from • Old Mutual played an active role in drafting the Code for 14.8% to 16.6% of total workforce Responsible Investing by Institutional Investors in South • Participation in employee engagement survey increased but Africa (CRISA) concerned not to receive feedback from 42% of employees • Futuregrowth specialising in fixed-interest and socially • Proportion of black people in top and senior management responsible investments. Celebrates 10th anniversary with increased to 34% from 26% in 2008. Females showed R100 billion in assets under management marginal increase Looking forward Looking forward • Further grow our SRI funds • Balanced scorecard for performance management being • Develop and implement appropriate standards and developed approaches to SRI-based decision-making across our • New evaluation tool measuring leaders against ACT NOW! businesses Leadership Actions developed and implemented • Introducing Barrett Culture and Values tool to better measure employee satisfaction • Continue to work on labour practices for our contingent workforce Providing opportunities and Promoting ethical behaviour platforms to address past imbalances amongst all stakeholders to ensure in South Africa overall sustainability of the business 44 56 Material issues Material issues • Supporting the economic stability of the country • Combating fraud • Equity ownership: Distributing ownership fairly • Management and control • Employment equity: Ensuring a fair chance for all employees to fulfil their potential • Skills development: Providing opportunities for career growth • Preferential procurement: Influencing positive change through how we buy • Enterprise development: Providing finance and support for black economic empowerment deals • Socio-economic development: Supporting our communities to do great things Key indicators Key indicators The Value Added Statement (VAS) dti Codes of Good Practice • Incidence of fraud Scores • Financial loss to clients and to Old Mutual • Equity ownership • Preferential procurement • Number of cases settled by ombudsman • Management and control • Enterprise development • Employment equity • Socio-economic • Skills development development Status Status • BBBEE status improved from Level 4 in 2009 to Level 2 in • Fraud incidents increased in 2010, primarily due to a spike 2010 in fictitious policies • Total value added increased 8% to R77 billion, surpassing • Financial loss to Old Mutual decreased 46% 2007 levels (before the financial crisis) • Value distributed to customers increased 25% to R56.2 billion, and to suppliers by 6% • Payments to shareholders decreased by a further 58%, now less than a quarter of pre-crisis levels • dti score for equity ownership recovered to 17.81/20 in concert with the increases in share values • Significant improvement in management and control, employment equity, skills development, preferential procurement, and socio-economic development scores • Full score for enterprise development maintained • Refined our CSI strategy and implemented an electronic project management system for reporting and tracking contractual agreements and project progress Looking forward Looking forward • For business goals, see Annual Financial Report • Compliance with recently promulgated legislation • Transactions to improve black equity form part of Old Mutual • Ethics policy currently being developed at Old Mutual plc Group’s strategy to increase its focus on its black client level franchise • The challenge remains to increase black people in general and black women in particular at top management level • We will continue with our holistic approach to improving employment equity and skills development • Preferential procurement. Increasing focus on dealing with black-owned (BO) and black women-owned (BWO) suppliers, especially in the Western Cape Integrating Sustainability Impacting positively into Emerging Markets beyond on the environment South Africa 58 62 Material issues Issues • Conducting our business in a more environmentally• New markets operations friendly manner • African Operations • Raising employee awareness to influence all Old Mutual stakeholders towards environmentally-aware decisions • Contributing positively to the environment through the way we manage our properties • Contributing positively to the environment through the properties we develop • Influencing positive environmental change through investment decision-making* * Covered in the ‘Investing responsibly’ chapter Key indicators Key indicators Indicators relating to the Indicators relating to • Scale of New Market country operations business Old Mutual’s property portfolio • Scale of African country operations • Carbon emissions for travel • Electricity usage • Paper usage • Water usage • Recycling • Recycling Status Status • Fourth year of participation in the Carbon Disclosure • Assets under management in New Market total £4.9 billion Project (CDP), maintaining our place on the FTSE and • Assets under management increased by approximately 10% in JSE leadership index South African country operations • Paper usage reduced by 18% • Group Operating Manual (GOM) will be extended to all OMEM markets Looking forward Looking forward • An overall carbon metric to be established in 2011 to track • Further embedding of the Group Operating Manual (GOM) progress across the Group processes will continue • Improve emissions data • ACT NOW! Leadership Actions will be rolled out to all OMEM • 20% reduction in emissions per employee by 2020, off markets during 2011 2010 base • Focus on identifying and integrating material issues across • 20% reduction in emissions per m2 for Old Mutual all OMEM markets managed properties by 2020, off 2010 base • Create initiatives that engage stakeholders • Expand our e-Filing initiative About Old Mutual Group Group structure OLD MUTUAL GROUP Julian Roberts* LONG-TERM US ASSET MANAGEMENT NEDBANK MUTUAL & FEDERAL SAVINGS Peter Bain* Mike Brown* Peter Todd Paul Hanratty* EMERGING NORDIC RETAIL WEALTH MARKETS Mårten Andersson EUROPE MANAGEMENT Kuseni Dlamini Jonas Jonsson Bob Head OLD MUTUAL SWEDEN AUSTRIA SKANDIA UK SOUTH AFRICA CORPORATE SKANDIA RETAIL MASS NORWAY GERMANY INTERNATIONAL RETAIL AFFLUENT OLD MUTUAL DENMARK POLAND FRANCE, ITALY INVESTMENT GROUP SKANDIA SWITZERLAND NEW MARKETS INVESTMENT GROUP LATIN AMERICA Colombia, Mexico JOINT VENTURES IN CHINA AND INDIA Old Mutual-Guodian Kotak Mahindra * Member of the Group Executive REST OF AFRICA Namibia, Kenya, Malawi, Swaziland, Zimbabwe Global footprint 4 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 The Old Mutual Group Vision, Strategy and Values “Our Dagwood” To become our customers’ most trusted partner – passionate about Our vision helping them achieve their lifetime financial goals 1 2 3 Building Passionate about Exceptional at Responsible to blocks customers delivery stakeholders Building a long-term savings, protection and investment group by leveraging the strength Strategy of our people and capabilities in South Africa and around the world. We will focus, drive and optimise our business to enhance value for customers and shareholders 1 2 3 4 5 Develop Deliver high Share skills Simplify Build a The big 5 the customer performance and experience our structure culture of proposition in all business across the to unlock excellence and experience units Group value Pushing Beyond Values Integrity Respect Accountability Boundaries Develop the Deliver high Share customer performance skills and Build a Simplify our proposition in all experience culture of structure to and business across the excellence unlock value experience units Group • Conducted • All business • Key • Launched the • Substantially strategic units achieved appointments Group Vision and improved reviews to and exceeded made to drive Strategy Financial Groups identify core their profitability sharing of Directive surplus targets (with skills (Heads • Implemented the competencies the exception of of IT, Product Group Operating • US Life and best market USAM) & Distribution Manual (GOM) completed sale opportunities for growth • On target to in Long-Term • Launched ACT • Stabilised achieve cost Savings) NOW! Leadership the Bermuda • Board agreed reduction & RoE • Clear Actions business on a set of customer targets implementation • Agreed • Exploring metrics across • Business units plan developed consistent possibility of The big 5: the business continued to for sharing performance partial IPO deliver their product across management for US Asset Achievements • Started to close product gaps improvement Long-Term across the Group Management against the programmes Savings and implemented business and developed (e.g. Mutual & • Long-Term consistent 2010 Strategic a clear path for more product Federal Step Savings IT incentivisation Objectives sharing Change, Wealth synergy plan across Long-Term Savings Management ready for • Begun to close transformation) implementation distribution • Improved gaps (launched relationship • Created IT and iWYSE: a direct with key stakeadmin jobs in short-term holders* South Africa insurance offer to support the between • OMSA and UK Wealth Mutual & Federal Nedbank Management and and OMSA, and achieved BBBEE Retail Europe opened 117 Level 2 status; business units Old Mutual Mutual & Finance Federal achieved Branches in Level 3 status South Africa and Nedbank * Financial Services Authority (FSA), over the last recognised as the South African Government & Reserve two years) most sustainable Bank and governing bodies in Sweden bank in Africa 5 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 About Old Mutual Group (continued) Old Mutual Group financial performance Our operating results for 2010 are significantly ahead We have set challenging group-wide performance of the previous year’s reported results with profits up in targets for the end of 2012: each of our businesses. This excellent performance was • Reducing cost by £100 million; largely due to strong growth in new business sales, our continued focus on cost control, improved persistency • Improving return on equity for our Long-Term and favourable exchange rates. Savings business to between 16% – 18%; • Reducing debt by £1.5 billion through proceeds of In addition to strong financial performance, we also rationalisation and retained earnings. focused on delivering our strategy and have made good progress in 2010. We are rationalising our activities We have already delivered £59 million of run-rate over time, reducing the complexity of the Group and savings and are committed to deliver our debt improving our structure as we manage governance reduction target. Return on equity for the LTS business and allocation of capital. We have taken steps to was 18.5% at the year-end. Plans are to ensure this simplify our Group by selling the US Life business and performance is sustained within the target range. will continue to maintain our strict criteria for keeping businesses within the Group. We have made significant operational progress and we expect 2011 to be a year of further delivery. We are We have previously said that we will explore the committed to our three-year strategy and meeting our possibility of listing a minority of the US Asset stated operational targets. Management business and this remains our intention. The timing of the Initial Public Offering (IPO) will be dependent on margin progression, investment performance and growth. Group highlights • Adjusted operating profit before tax (IFRS • Robust financial position: Financial Groups basis¹) up 14% (constant currency **) due Directive2 of £2.1 billion at 31 December 2010 to strong growth in new business, improved (£1.5 billion at 31 December 2009) and persistency and a continued focus on cost £1.4 billion of liquidity control • Final dividend of 2.9 pence recommended by • Life Sales (APE) sales up 7% to £1 491 million Board, making a total dividend of 4 pence and unit trust sales up 28% to £10.3 billion • In South Africa in 2010, Old Mutual (SA) • Long-Term Savings (LTS): IFRS pre-tax AOP up achieved and Nedbank maintained a Level 2 26% (constant currency) to £897 million, with rating status and Mutual & Federal a Level 3 operating profits in all businesses up rating status as BBBEE contributors • Group Return on Equity at 12.2% • Significant operational steps taken in delivering our strategy 1 481 309.3 1 491 275.4 1 133 1 312 (₤’m) (₤’m) (₤’bn) 2009 * 2010 2009 * 2010 2009 * 2010 Adjusted operating profit before Annual premium equivalent Funds under management tax (IFRS basis1) (AOP) (APE) (Life Sales) 1 IFRS basis – For long-term business and general insurance businesses, adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on life funds’ investments in Group equity and debt instruments, and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns. For the US Asset Management business, it includes compensation costs in respect of certain longterm incentive schemes defined as non-controlling interests in accordance with IFRS. For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, the impact of acquisition accounting, put revaluations related to long-term incentive schemes, profit/ (loss) on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments, dividends declared to holders of perpetual preferred callable securities, and fair value (profits)/losses on certain Group debt movements. 2 Financial Groups Directive – A financial regime applying to EU-based companies. It lays down requirements for the company’s capital position and is intended to improve the stability of the financial system, thereby protecting customers. * 2009 AOP restated to exclude US Life (non-core, discontinued): 2009 APE and FUM restated to exclude Bermuda (non-core) and US Life (non-core, discontinued) ** 2009 restated at 2010 foreign exchange rates 6 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Old Mutual Emerging Markets financial performance In South Africa, our business delivered a strong We will continue to strive for a balance that combines performance with life sales up 7% and unit trust strong risk management and governance with a culture sales up 17%. We saw good sales growth in both the that encourages innovation, across our four main Retail Affluent and Mass Foundation segments, with a strategic themes: particular focus on savings products. • Continuing to invest in our Emerging Markets Mexico saw growth of 36% due to the introduction of business; a regular premium savings product in the first half of • Improving OMIGSA’s investment performance and the year. In China, our joint venture with Guodian had value creation for customers; a strong year with APE sales up 77% to Chinese Yuan • Putting the customer at the centre of our business; Renminbi (CNY) 163 million in 2010, following a new • Enhancing our high-performance culture and further channel diversification strategy. developing our Emerging Markets management We are deepening our solid foundation in South Africa team. from which we can drive growth in other emerging markets, and we are adapting our senior management Growing our sales force remains a priority, as does structures, roles and responsibilities to achieve this. promoting a savings culture in Emerging Markets, designing and adapting products that are relevant to a We have set a target for our profits from our African wide range of customers and providing easier access to insurance operations to be the equivalent of 10% of financial services for our customers across our business. our South African profits by 2012, and 15% by 2015. We see other opportunities for growth in Africa, but With these strategies in place we are well positioned remain mindful of our strict criteria for investment and to optimise business opportunities in 2011 and further any expansion must be within appropriate risk-adjusted strengthen a highly successful Emerging Markets returns. business. Emerging Markets highlights • Emerging Markets IFRS pre-tax AOP up 4% to • Launched the Futuregrowth Agri-Fund in March R6 099 million 2010, focusing on responsible equity investments • Life Sales (APE) sales up 6% to R5 505 million in agricultural land, agri-businesses and farming with improved persistency and a noticeable pickinfrastructure up of sales in the second half • Received our third Ask Afrika’s Orange Index award • Unit trust sales up 14% to R41 488 million, with a for service excellence in the long-term insurance 17% rise in unit trust sales in South Africa business category • Return of local equity of 25% • Took number one position in South Africa’s 500 • Emerging Markets Net Client Cash flow (NCCF) best managed companies for the year was R0.2 billion, a significant • Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) achieved improvement on 2009 outflows of R20.5 billion, Level 2 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment with NCCF from the markets outside of SA (BBBEE) status in October 2010 delivering R7.6 billion in NCCF • OMIGSA attracted more than R8 billion from • Total funds under management up 13% to institutional investors into social infrastructure R585.7 billion investment • Continued focus on product innovation and • Made good progress towards implementation developing new ways of reaching customers of Solvency II as part of the overall Group • Launched Old Mutual SuperFund, the largest programme, and also in respect of the South multi-employer or umbrella fund in South Africa African equivalent framework known as SAM with over 300 000 members, to provide a simple, (Solvency Assessment and Management), launched affordable and strictly-governed platform enabling in 2010 by the South African regulator employees to save for their retirement 6 099 585.7 5 879 5 505 5 178 518.4 (R’m) (R’m) (R’bn) 2009 2010 2009* 2010 2009* 2010 Adjusted operating profit before Annual premium equivalent Funds under management tax (IFRS basis1) (AOP) (APE) (Life Sales) 7 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Foreword from the Chairman, Old Mutual South Africa The new King III Code of Governance Principles for But this also goes to the heart of the financial services South Africa 2009 calls for integrated sustainability business in South Africa. Our South African business reporting. Underlying this call is the desire that continues to focus on understanding and supporting companies should more clearly demonstrate how the needs of low and middle income customers. This, social, economic and environmental considerations together with other competencies, has been recognised impact on the company’s strategic growth drivers, as in the strategy of our parent company Old Mutual plc well as showing how these issues are being effectively which highlights the intention to “leverage the strength integrated within the company’s core strategy and of our people and capabilities in South Africa.” throughout its sphere of influence. During 2010 we launched a new brand identity founded This is the mandate we use as we embark on this on how the wisdom we have gathered for 165 years journey to integrated reporting. We believe that has been used to develop appropriate advice for reporting on our contribution to and impact on the our customers; deliver good performance; lead with overall society and economy within which we operate product innovation while continuing to invest in the is critical, allowing our stakeholders to judge us on a economic development of our country; and to create broader set of growth drivers. positive futures for our customers. At its most fundamental, growing our business is Our integrity as a business will depend on how we ultimately dependent upon the maintenance of a stable deliver on this brand promise in the fullest sense of political environment, the ability to attract and retain the word. The all important task now is to ensure that the best and most appropriately skilled employees, and we have full business alignment and consistency as maintaining positive relationships with our principal we execute on our strategic vision of “becoming our stakeholders, including governments, business partners customer’s most trusted partner”. and the communities where we operate. Achieving each of these elements requires us to operate in an We at Old Mutual have the wisdom and the capacity to informed, responsive and socially responsible manner. empower our stakeholders to achieve their potential, to guide them to ‘Do Great Things’. In addition to the various drivers relating to valueprotection – where the focus is primarily on risk Paul Hanratty management, compliance and operational efficiency CEO Long-Term Savings, Old Mutual plc – sustainable development also presents opportunities for value-creation. We believe, for example, that our financial education initiatives play a primary role in promoting a savings culture in South Africa. 8 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Foreword from the CEO To be serious about sustainability is to be unequivocal has shown us that poor financial planning habits are at about fully integrating our long-term socio-economic, the root of poor money management, so educating the governance and environmental responsibilities with our wider community on responsible financial behaviour is business strategy. both a business and an ethical imperative. The nature of our 165-year-old business is such that We pride ourselves too on the growing success of our objectives are best achieved when they conflate OMIGSA’s socially and environmentally responsible fully with the long-term betterment of the communities investment portfolios, which prove that profitability and and markets in which we operate. In other words, transformation initiatives are compatible. Old Mutual’s vision is congruent with the Code of Governance Principles outlined by King III, because the Also critical for the long-term sustainability of our greater good is good for us too. business is promoting ethical behaviour among all our people and improving leadership capability and As we adapt and grow our business sustainably in effectiveness. South Africa and selected emerging markets, we are guided by that unwavering commitment to making To have been awarded Level 2 BBBEE contributor meaningful, positive and lasting contributions. status according to the Department of Trade and Industry (dti) codes was a great achievement for To manifest this commitment in our day-to-day us and demonstrates to our employees and all our operations it has been critical to put in place robust stakeholders that we are serious about transformation. frameworks in the form of strong governance and risk It serves as a reminder of the responsibility we and our management structures, an invigorated stakeholder BEE partners have to South Africa, our employees and engagement programme and rigorous self-assessment each and every one of our customers. via internal checks and balances. Through this sustainability report we aim to illuminate Our ongoing focus is inspiring trust, creating value our collective impact and influence, and provide and promoting broad-based prosperity for existing clarity on how we envisage harnessing the challenges and potential customers. To this end, we strive to and immense opportunities of tomorrow. But most strengthen our relationships with our customers, importantly, we hope it stimulates lively interest and deepening our understanding of them and continuously creative dialogue between all Old Mutual’s stakeholders. improving the value, appropriateness and accessibility of our products and services. Kuseni Dlamini CEO Old Mutual Emerging Markets This focus also leads us to invest in skills development and financial education. The Old Mutual Savings Monitor 9 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 GOVERNANCE Governing the business of Old Mutual Old Mutual continues today to provide an array of financial services to investors and individuals worldwide based upon the abiding principles which first founded our company — strength, trust and loyalty. Old Mutual plc is a UK-based company responsible for the conduct and management registered in South Africa. As an external of the business and has been mandated company with a secondary listing on the JSE by Old Mutual plc to exercise oversight in Limited, the Group ultimately wholly-owns respect of the Emerging Markets operations, Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South including OMSA’s subsidiary companies, African Africa (OMLACSA). The Board of OMLACSA is Operations and New Markets. “Of the 100 largest economies in the world, 51 were companies and 49 governments. Politicians may make the laws, but it is business who influences them and whose decisions have the largest impact on society.” Mervyn King: Vice-President, Institute of Directors 10 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Accountability through good governance The Board King III OMLACSA has a balanced board comprising a majority The King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa of independent and non-executive directors. The nonCustomers 2009 (King III), effective from March 2010, requires executive Chairman of the Board is Mr P B Hanratty, us to explain how we apply King III principles. As Head of Old Mutual plc Long-Term Savings. A Lead mentioned in the Chairman’s message, a King III Independent Director has accordingly been appointed project steering committee was established to assess by the Board. the impact of King III on the business and to ensure The Board has a Charter which defines its functions, that attendant processes are embedded in the business responsibilities and relationship with Old Mutual plc of the company. It was found that the Group had and separates these from the role of management. already adopted the vast majority of the King III The selection and appointment of directors is effected principles on its journey of continued improvement. Financial through a formal and transparent process. Emphasis advisers Our evaluation also extends to the other Emerging is placed on achieving a balance of diversity, skills, Markets in which we operate. We are considering relevant business experience and knowledge. All what are the most effective and appropriate changes directors are subject to retirement by rotation and to introduce in each of these environments to ensure re-election by the shareholders at least once every the required level of governance and control. The three years. application of King III principles within the business is dealt with in the sections that follow. The Board meets regularly (five scheduled meetings were held during 2010), including sessions specifically Investing Group Operating Manual (GOM) responsibly devoted to strategy and business planning, as well The Old Mutual Group (the Group) has an overarching as people and customer issues. It also meets, as and governance structure (GOM), incorporating principles when required, to deal with specific matters that arise of governance to facilitate effective management and between scheduled meetings. Self-evaluation reviews oversight of a Group containing several regulated to assess the Board’s effectiveness are conducted on entities, in different jurisdictions. These overarching an annual basis. governance structures are set out in the GOM which Our workplace contains the internal operating framework and The Company Secretary provides ongoing support governance structure for the Group. OMLACSA has to the Board to ensure its effective functioning and entered into a relationship agreement with Old Mutual the proper administration of Board proceedings. The plc and resolved to adhere to the Manual, noting that Company Secretary ensures that the independent it is a governance framework for the promotion of and non-executive directors are kept informed on efficiency and mitigation of risks, both in the interests latest developments regarding OMEM’s business and of OMEM and the Group. To maintain the primacy of industry-wide issues through a formal communication the fiduciary duties of the Board, the GOM is subject to process. Building equity the Overriding Principle that allows the full discharge of fiduciary duties and similar responsibilities of directors, The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer executives and employees. are separate. The executive management of the Company is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, Mr K D Dlamini. The scorecard of the CEO Ethical leadership and corporate includes indicators related to transformation, employee citizenship development, customer and intermediary satisfaction, Old Mutual prides itself on its ethical standards and environmental and issues related to investing continues to review how these are managed in order responsibly. Different executives are qualified and/or to build and sustain an ethical corporate culture in the experienced in the various elements of sustainability, Group. such as transformation. Where there are gaps in Ethics expertise relating to specific sustainability areas, this Impacts on the economy, society and our stakeholders know-how is outsourced as and when required. are a key focus of the business. This report discusses our commitment to transform society by building The Board has established a number of committees economic equity across our customer base (through to assist it in discharging its responsibilities. All Board increased product access and financial education), committees, chaired by independent non-executive Environment our employees, our suppliers, business partners, directors, have formally delegated terms of reference government and communities across South Africa. and report to the Board and to the respective Board Potential environmental impacts are considered committees of Old Mutual plc where relevant. in pockets of investing, but are not currently a At a local level, we manage governance through various consideration in most investment decision-making. committees whose responsibilities are outlined below: Old Mutual will develop policies to facilitate an ethical • Audit Committee (in line with latest governance relationship of responsibility between the Group as thinking, the Risk Committee was split from the an institutional investor and society, as contemplated Audit Committee in 2010): ensures integrity of by the Code for Responsible Investing by Institutional OMEM’s financial statements, effectiveness of the Emerging markets Investors in South Africa (CRISA). systems of governance, risk management and 11 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 GOVERNANCE >> Governing the business of Old Mutual (continued) internal control and monitoring, the effectiveness • Environment Committee: provides input to the and objectivity of the internal and external auditors, development of business strategy in respect of compliance with the statutory duties of the external stakeholders (excluding customers). The Committee and oversees integrated sustainability Committee focuses in particular on government reporting. The Audit Committee ensures that Group relations, transformation issues and the political Internal Audit (GIA) is appropriately resourced and regulatory environment and its remit also to complete the Annual Audit Plan and the Audit includes climate change and the environment and Director is responsible to the Chairman of the Audit sustainability issues. Committee for performance of the function. • Committee for Customer Affairs: reviews the • Risk Committee: reviews recommendations extent to which OMEM is providing acceptable value on compliance, risk management including risk for money to its customers and the extent to which strategy, model, framework and methodologies, customers are being treated fairly. the quality and effectiveness of related internal • Strategic Investment Committee: formed with processes, controls and reporting, risk appetite effect from 1 January 2011, the scope and functions limits and exposure, and the overall risk profile of of this committee, in respect of its participation in the business. the Group’s strategic investment activities, are still • Remuneration Committee: guides and directs the being refined. implementation of remuneration strategy, policies, principles, related proposals and structures as well as providing input into talent management and succession planning. • Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee: regularly reviews the structure, size, diversity and mix of skills and experience of the Board and its committees. Remuneration The Group’s remuneration policy is aligned to the strategy of the company. Rigorous oversight of the Group’s remuneration and HR policies (including specific conditions) has been formalised through GOM. Disclosure of the Group Internal Audit’s scope of work remuneration of each individual director and To ensure that: certain senior executives is made in the Annual Financial Statements of the Company. The Board • Risks are appropriately identified and has a Remuneration Committee. managed. • Interaction with the various governance groups within Emerging Markets occurs as Internal controls appropriate, and is in accordance with the The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility Group requirements. for OMEM’s system of internal control and • Significant financial, managerial and for reviewing its effectiveness. Executive operating information is accurate, reliable, management, which is accountable to the and timely. Board, has implemented an internal control system aimed at enabling management to • Employees’ actions are in compliance respond appropriately to significant risks with policies, standards, procedures and that may jeopardise the achievement of the applicable laws and regulations. company’s business objectives. These include • Resources are acquired economically, used protecting policyholders’ interests, safeguarding efficiently and adequately protected. shareholders’ investments, safeguarding assets • Programmes, plans and objectives are from inappropriate use, or from loss and achieved. fraud, ensuring that liabilities are identified and managed, and addressing any social, • Quality and continuous improvement are environmental or ethical matters that are fostered in the control environment and significant to OMEM’s business. OMEM’s internal processes. control system is designed to manage the risk • Significant legislative or regulatory issues of failure to achieve the Company’s business impacting Emerging Markets are recognised objectives, and provides reasonable assurance and addressed appropriately. against material misstatement or loss. 12 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Internal audit The role of GIA is to provide independent, objective Qualitative risks just as important as risk and control assurance to the OMLACSA Board Customers of Directors, including issues escalated from all the quantitative subsidiary Audit Committees in Emerging Markets. GIA OMEM measures both quantitative and validates that the governance processes, management qualitative risks. Qualitative (non-financial) risks of risk and systems of internal control are adequate and include: effective in mitigating the most significant risks that Regulatory risks – impact on regulatory threaten the achievement of the Group’s objectives. compliance GIA is functionally independent from the organisation’s Reputational risks – impact on organisational day-to-day internal control processes and is able to reputation Financial conduct an assignment on its own initiative, with free Customer risks – impact on customers and and unfettered access to people and information across advisers brokers the business. People risks – impact on employees and staff GIA prepares annual plans, approved by the Audit Committee, based on the most significant risks that could materialise within the business operations. These are influenced by the Board’s view of risk, by the risk Investing escalation matrix and the input of many stakeholders. Challenges In the first half of 2011, we will introduce the ability responsibly The annual plans are reviewed quarterly to take account of changes in both the internal and external to calculate the capital required for the operational environment. risks we have in the business. This system will align to the capital modelling tool for all risks, which is also Marking a shift in assurance, GIA, together with other due for completion in 2011. We have developed risk contributors, is investigating and developing a strategy and control self-assessment, loss event and key risk to improve current combined assurance practices, and indicator functionality which will be implemented with Our workplace move to a more comprehensive, combined assurance the new risk management tool in OMEM in the second model. half of 2011. All business units will be trained on the new system and methodology refinements. In the longer term we expect the risk tool to enable us to align Risk management our methodologies for risk management and financial Approach to risk management controls. The management of risks is an increasing concern for stakeholders and failure to manage risks has In addition, Old Mutual’s geographical spread means Building equity the potential to cause severe harm to the company. that the business is subject to a wide range of Old Mutual’s overall approach is to understand the current and future legislative, regulatory and industry diversity and full breadth of risk to its objectives, and requirements, which need to be managed in a coto respond to it appropriately, with a strong emphasis ordinated manner. The introduction of the GOM (as on implementing controls that cost-effectively reduce described earlier) has also had a significant impact, residual risk. Risk management is not limited solely to resulting in a complete review of how we manage risk. risks that may adversely affect Old Mutual’s ability to achieve its objectives; it is also about identifying and iCRaFT seizing new opportunities while ensuring that the risks To address these challenges, the Group is running are identified, understood, evaluated, appropriately iCRaFT (integrated Capital, Risk and Financial Ethics taken on and managed. Transformation) in alignment with GOM, aimed at significantly improving Old Mutual’s ability to manage The Company operates a risk management framework capital and risk in an integrated way and thus to help with the following components: (i) a robust risk us improve the organisation’s financial performance. governance structure; (ii) methodologies that At the completion of iCRaFT, the Old Mutual Group focus on risk identification, risk assessment, risk aims to be operating at best practice standards, while response, action control plans; (iii) company-wide risk achieving full compliance with new European regulation Environment categorisation model; (iv) monitoring and reporting; for insurers (known as Solvency II). and (v) whistle-blowing. In addition, OMSA has to meet the South African A risk governance model based on a strategy of King III corporate governance and FSB regulatory ‘three lines of defence’ complements the formal requirements, already in force, as well as the Solvency governance structures described above. This model Assessment and Management requirements by distinguishes between functions that own and manage 1 January 2014. The current OMEM ‘business as usual’ risks, functions that oversee the risks, management risk management framework, methodologies and frameworks, reporting processes and functions that processes are consequently evolving in order to position Emerging provide independent assurance. the business to meet these requirements. The main potential benefits for Old Mutual should be improved integration and timelier reporting of information, with markets 13 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 GOVERNANCE >> Governing the business of Old Mutual (continued) the objective of making relevant risk and assurance Ensuring regulatory compliance information available to all three lines of defence, as Old Mutual regards compliance with applicable laws, appropriate. codes and regulations as an ethical imperative for the company. Compliance is a regular item on the agenda OMEM’s top risks and challenges of the Board Risk Committee, which then provides 1. Threat of slow growth and continued market assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the volatility for a protracted period. controls around compliance with laws, codes and 2. Developing the Emerging Markets business, with regulations. The Group Compliance Officer attends a suitable underpinning operating model, while these Board Risk Committee meetings on a regular recognising the breadth, complexity and varying basis. growth trajectories of the businesses in the portfolio. The Code of Conduct requires all employees to annually affirm compliance with applicable laws, codes 3. Competitive investment performance is a key and regulations, and a compliance framework, with requirement for delivery of plans. KPIs, is in place to ensure compliance with applicable 4. Competition from both traditional and new entrants legislation. The compliance function is well established combined with regulatory pressures may result in a and the Group Compliance Officer has direct access failure to grow the sales force as planned. to the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee. The Group continues to embed the ‘three lines of defence’ 5. Competition for skills could threaten our philosophy, which is further supported by the Group employment equity profile due to poaching of key Operating Manual. staff as we approach 2012 and Solvency II could have an impact on our actuarial resources as they Material non-compliance with applicable legislation are sought after in the industry. is reported internally to senior management and to the Board Risk Committee. Reasons why such non6. Rapid change in the businesses, and our role in compliance may be present include legacy issues, providing leverageable capability to the rest of systems constraints and processes and procedures in the Group, may stretch key skills and our delivery the process of being changed. capability. 7. Ability to respond cost-effectively to the various Engaging with our stakeholders legislative and regulatory requirements across multiple geographies. At the end of 2008, we conducted the Old Mutual South Africa Stakeholder Perception and Relationship Aside from items 3 and 5 above, all these risks are Quality Survey, which identified gaps in the manner in substantially affected by the way we deal with the which the company engaged stakeholders in the past. material sustainability issues we have identified for To address these gaps, we have made a paradigm Old Mutual, and which are reported in the chapters that shift towards an issues-driven and co-ordinated follow. A risk is essentially the downside consequence of stakeholder engagement approach across OMSA. As not managing a material sustainability issue effectively. a first step, we are developing stakeholder maps for As we integrate further, we would therefore envisage a the business units and OMEM as a whole that will single list of material issues and risks representing the help us understand better our stakeholders and their complete spectrum of financial and non-financial drivers concerns. We will then address these issues through of the long-term sustainability of our business. providing engagement platforms and, through our plans to develop a stakeholder engagement forum, revive EXCO’s Sub-Committee on Stakeholder Engagement, Governance of information technology establish Provincial Management Boards’ Chairperson’s Information Technology (IT) is integrated into the Forum and establish an Emerging Markets Stakeholder Group’s Risk Management Framework and the Board Engagement Forum. Risk Committee ensures that IT risks are appropriately addressed within the context of the risk response of the Group. Sustainability monitoring and reporting While Old Mutual has applied the majority of principles Both internal and external audit provide independent of King III, in particular in so far as reporting assurance to the Board on IT governance and controls. transparently and fairly on its most material issues, In OMSA, further independent assurance is provided the company has not fully integrated the full range of through the annual assessment of the major IT sustainability issues into its business model, and is thus outsourced service provider. not producing a fully integrated report this year. Furthermore, the appointment of the Chief Information As a first step in improving our reporting for 2010, a Officer (CIO) for the Long-Term Savings (LTS) business series of workshops was held with 65 OMSA employees provides a single accountability, agreed operating in late 2010 to reconfirm our material issues and model and strengthened governance of all LTS IT. clarify our sustainability reporting framework. Many of 14 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance these were managers with direct responsibility for the • Identifying initiatives that could be reported on material issues comprising Old Mutual’s sustainability • Assigning ownership for each issue universe. Customers While the process provided us with a good reporting A key aim of the workshop was to provide managers framework, we are aware that we still have gaps in our with a framework within which they can manage, sustainability reporting and management: Indicators monitor and report on the sustainability issues most for certain issues (such as governance, product pricing material to the business. and in the consideration of ESG issues in investment decisions) are not yet clearly defined; targets are The workshops focused on each material sustainability still being developed; three-year performance data issue in turn: is not readily available for some of the indicators; • Discussing the issue in an industry context and decentralised management causes fragmented ownership of issues in some areas. While we are Financial • Assessing the issue and the essence of what Old Mutual does to address the issue still establishing a policy to direct how we integrate advisers sustainability in Old Mutual, we are not yet ready to • Agreeing on the sub-issues within each material report on the complete integration of sustainability into issue core business management. • Discussing the Old Mutual policy on the issue (and where one did not exist, discussed plans for The development and population of the sustainability developing such a policy) reporting framework matured through the compilation of this report and will continue to mature over time. Investing • Identifying appropriate indicators for the issue The signoff of OMEM’s 2010 sustainability report has • Discussing performance against these indicators been by multiple committees. responsibly • Finding or establishing targets Our workplace “Proactive structures and transparent engagement with stakeholders is a strategic imperative for any organisation to gain an insight and better perspective on key stakeholder issues affecting the organisation” Crispin Sonn: Managing Director Mass Foundation Cluster Building equity Ethics Environment Emerging markets 15 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 A runner in the Two Oceans Marathon sponsored by Old Mutual. A record field of 21 000 runners took part in 2010. The theme was ‘Power, Strength, Beauty’, celebrating the fact that this event is considered “the world’s most beautiful marathon”. 16 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Review of material issues CUSTOMERS: Creating value for existing and potential customers 18 FINANCIAL ADVISERS: Enabling financial advisers to better serve 26 customer needs INVESTING RESPONSIBLY: Investing responsibly for financial returns, for 30 social and economic equity and to save the environment OUR WORKPLACE: Building a great place to work with people 36 who do great work BUILDING EQUITY: Providing opportunities and platforms to address 44 past imbalances in South Africa ETHICS: Promoting ethical behaviour amongst all stakeholders to ensure 56 overall sustainability of the business ENVIRONMENT: Impacting positively on the environment 58 EMERGING MARKETS: Integrating Sustainability 62 into Emerging Markets beyond South Africa 17 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 CUSTOMERS Creating value for existing and potential customers Putting our customers’ needs first has seen Old Mutual South Africa receive the highest score in the traditional long-term insurance industry for the fourth consecutive year as part of the Sunday Times Top Brand Awards 2010. Material issues >> Engaging with our customers to improve our service delivery >> Making products and services accessible to all >> Providing financial education across the life cycle to empower society >> Developing fair pricing models to create value for our customers >> Marketing our products and services in a responsible and appropriate manner At Old Mutual, we engage with our customers retirement monitors are helping us fine-tune to help them understand their own life-cycle our financial education programmes, which financial needs and to help them understand continue to be accessible to large numbers of how our products and services can support people across South Africa. Engaging with our this. We market our products in a way which customers via such surveys also warns us if and ensures that customers buy products that where we are falling short of expectations. We are best-suited to their circumstances and continue to focus on making appropriate, fairlylife stage, and we measure our performance priced products accessible to all, particularly against international financial services industry those in lower income brackets, through various benchmarks. Recently conducted savings and distribution channels. 18 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Indicators The indicators listed in the table below measure our performance against the material issues identified above. This is an ongoing evaluation. We are working on finding the most indicative measures and ways to measure more accurately. Customers And increasingly we will add targets for directing our future efforts. >> Indicators 2010 2009 2008 Number of people trained through Financial Services Charter 22 976 20 849 15 857 (FSC) guideline programmes Number of Masisizane clients provided with financial education 14 298 17 458 25 931 Number of individuals directly trained through OMSA’s financial Financial 16 335 11 457 5 988 well-being programmes advisers Spend on financial education against FSC guidelines (R million) 8.8 12.12 8.2 Improved No Needs Depends on Net change attention Profit after Tax Investing responsibly >> Engaging with our customers to improve carefully, measuring customer satisfaction and persistency (retention), and staying aware of general our service delivery perceptions about the company and our competitors. Customer engagement is a two-way process that encourages feedback and which requires Old Mutual to Customer surveys Our workplace listen, observe and understand real customer issues. Customer surveys help Old Mutual engage with and This helps us understand our customers’ life cycle listen to our customers. The Ask Afrika’s Orange Index, needs in order to be able to offer appropriate advice the largest service excellence benchmark in South and services, and tells us how well we are fulfilling Africa, saw the financial services industry’s satisfaction customers’ expectations. We adopt a thorough and levels drop markedly from 62% in 2009 to 48% in consistent methodical approach to getting customer 2010. Old Mutual, however, maintained its top position feedback on our performance, monitoring complaints with an indexed score of 54% (see table below). Building equity Rank 2010 2009 2008 1 Old Mutual Old Mutual Old Mutual 2 Hollard Sanlam Momentum 3 Sanlam Liberty Sanlam 4 Metropolitan Momentum Liberty 5 Liberty Metropolitan Hollard Ethics 6 * Hollard Metropolitan * For 2010 only, the top five ranked companies were included in the results presentation Environment “It’s all about driving value to our customers and continually improving our performance against customer demands by unlocking the full potential of our people.” Rose Keanly: Managing Director, Old Mutual Service Technology and Administration Emerging markets 19 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 CUSTOMERS >> Creating value for existing and potential customers (continued) Measures of satisfaction regarding service channels (branches, self-service channels, call centres and Net promoter score correspondence) have all improved, with the call The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is based on centres and correspondence showing the most the question: ‘How likely would you be to improvement, albeit off depressed levels. recommend Old Mutual to a friend or relative, where 10 means very likely and 1 means very Customer retention provides another measure of unlikely?’ The NPS is a new measure which customer satisfaction with Old Mutual products and will help Old Mutual develop its understanding services. Figures for the average number of contracts of customer satisfaction and pursue ways to owned, the length of time that a customer has been continually sharpen its interaction. In this with Old Mutual and the number of customers who have regard, we have established a world-wide drive remained with Old Mutual across their life journey have towards NPS. Working from 2010 base figures, improved slightly over the last two years’ figures. recommended NPS targets for 2011 have been devised. It is understood that considerable work Broader market research confirms that, among the still needs to be done to understand what drives general public, client recognition of Old Mutual’s brand customer perceptions and to improve our service remains high and is stable. In the Sunday Times and products to meet the 2011 targets. Top Brand Awards 2010, Old Mutual received the highest score in the traditional long-term insurance industry and maintained its first position for the fourth Our own customer service tracking study is undertaken consecutive year. twice a year, sampling around 5 000 people who have been provided with some form of service during Customer complaints the year. The survey assesses responsiveness, Every company receives complaints. Measuring efficiency, reliability, accountability, warmth, courtesy customer complaints provides a clear indication of the and demonstrable support. This form of customer degree of satisfaction with a company. Since 2008, engagement has revealed little overall change in the we have consciously increased our efforts to listen satisfaction levels of our customers from 2009. While to customers, understand the causes of complaints, ‘delighted’ customers increased, we have not yet address root causes and ensure that service levels and managed to return to our 2008 satisfaction levels. ethical behaviour continue to improve. Mutualpark in Pinelands, Cape Town. 20 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance In addition to an internal complaints management procedure, our Office of Internal Arbitration serves as recourse for dissatisfied customers. The complaints UK FSA Treat Customers Fairly (TCF) Customers process is managed and overseen by a dedicated central team that is also accountable for complaints initiative reporting. Outcome 1 – Fair treatment of customers is The number of complaints received since 2008 has central to the corporate culture. deceased. The number of complaints received via the Outcome 2 – Products and services marketed various Ombudsman schemes has however increased, and sold in the retail market are designed to possibly a consequence of increased customer meet the needs of identified consumer groups awareness of these schemes. Fraudulent business in and are targeted accordingly. the Retail Mass Market by independent brokers led to a Financial advisers spike in complaints in that sector during 2010 (see full Outcome 3 – Consumers are provided with report on the website for further information). clear information and are kept appropriately informed before, during and after the point of In 2010, the Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South sale. Africa (OMLACSA) received six formal determinations against it from the various Ombudsman schemes. Outcome 4 – Where consumers receive advice, These are broken down as follows: the advice is suitable and takes account of their circumstances. Investing Outcome 5 – Products perform as customers responsibly Number of have been led to expect, and the associated determinations against service is both of an acceptable standard and as Ombudsman scheme OMLACSA they have been led to expect. Ombudsman for Long1 (based on the principle Outcome 6 – Consumers do not face Our workplace term Insurance of equity) unreasonable post-sales barriers imposed by firms to change products, switch provider, Pension Fund 5 submit a claim or make a complaint. Adjudicator FAIS Ombudsman – Building equity While we try to assist when complaints against Treating Customers Fairly initiative independent brokers are received, Old Mutual is The Board Committee for Customer Affairs ensures that not responsible for the advice given by independent Old Mutual treats customers fairly, while Compliance brokers, and customers are advised to take such Officers provide assurance that Old Mutual complies complaints up directly with the broker in question, or with all relevant legislation and industry codes of via the appropriate ombudsman scheme. conduct relating to the fair treatment of customers. OMLACSA is an active member of the voluntary We monitor ourselves against the UK’s Treating Ombudsman for Long-term Insurance Scheme’s Customer Fairly (TCF) principles to ensure that we Committee. The company maintains professional address customer issues in an holistic manner. The Ethics relationships with the FAIS Ombudsman and Pension Financial Services Board intends to roll out TCF from Fund Adjudicator. At a Group level, we engage annually 2011 which will be based on the six UK outcomes listed with the International Network of Financial Services above. Ombudsman Schemes, keeping abreast of international complaints management and arbitration developments. More broadly, we are pursuing a three-pronged strategy to improve customer service: • A co-ordinated customer experience drive across Environment territories to ensure that we unearth opportunities and create synergies. • A commitment to improve customer experience by scoping initiatives across full value chains. • A commitment to continual service improvement in day-to-day operations. Emerging markets 21 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 CUSTOMERS >> Creating value for existing and potential customers (continued) >> Making products and services accessible client service centres country-wide. The number of Old Mutual Finance branches has grown in two years to all since the launch to 117 by December 2010, all in The traditional financial services industry has not locations easily accessible to the market. Branches adequately answered the needs of emerging market are located in central business districts, shopping clients. Old Mutual recognises both its societal centres, townships and rural areas. Customers are obligation and the business opportunity for developing clearly feeling the benefit; their feedback indicates appropriate products and services and creating more that the business has been very well received in the accessible channels for engagement with and delivery marketplace and so we will look to build on this success to these markets. in 2011. Branches provide the full suite of loans, insurance products and customer services. We provide our services through a number of channels. While our greatest interaction is still through our My Money Plan, an Old Mutual Finance product, is contact centres, the use of our self-service channels closely tailored to our clients’ circumstances and has increased significantly over the last three years. needs. Its success has prompted the development Our branches provided 1.6 million customer interactions of other products suitable to the mass market, in 2010; 94% scored us 6 or higher out of 10 for specifically our Easy Benefit Plan. This offers employers customer satisfaction. Our branches are set to grow (especially small businesses) a means of providing through our Old Mutual Finance offerings. Internet and employee benefits, such as retirement savings, death mobile access points have become increasingly popular and disability benefits and family funeral cover, and as information channels. Our increased customer focus introduces a means of improving retirement savings has resulted in an average growth in interactions of coverage in South Africa. Launched in April 2010, this approximately 30 per cent per annum, with interactions new offering has attracted significant attention and, via these mediums reaching a million per month. with 4 000 new members already signed up, is likely to become a significant future contributor to Old Mutual’s The pace of growth of online communication and recurring premium flows. increasing demand for self-service offerings will challenge us to continue to meet and exceed the The positive response to these offerings indicates expectations of customers. High interconnection rates strong demand for easily understandable and affordable and national carrier costs are burdensome. financial products. Further complementary finance products are in development, including My Recovery Old Mutual Finance Plan and My Insurance Plan. Old Mutual Finance was set up to provide holistic finance services to our customers by providing loan finance and by empowering them to manage their finances. This ensures responsible lending through affordability assessments, risk assessments and “I want to express my appreciation on regularly benchmarking with the industry. Sales incentives are based on quality of book rather than behalf of my family for your financial quantity. Financial education is core to the lending advice and money plan. We can sleep process. stress-free nights, no more micro-loan This offering to the mass market in South Africa takes sharks. Thank you.” advantage of Old Mutual’s existing infrastructure, with 87 Old Mutual Finance consultants located in Old Mutual Old Mutual customer from a rural area near Kuruman Opening of one of the Old Mutual Finance branches. 22 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance >> Providing financial education across the life cycle to empower society Customers Old Mutual South Africa recognises the need to provide education that will empower consumers with the knowledge and skills they need to make informed 60 000 decisions about their finances. The Old Mutual Savings and Retirement Monitors 50 000 provide detailed data about the savings behaviour of working metro households in South Africa. Although 40 000 primarily a research tool aimed at helping Old Mutual understand savings behaviour in the country, and Financial thus be able to provide better financial solutions for advisers 30 000 its clients, the monitors have valuable educational potential. Not only do they help us tailor our 20 000 educational programmes more closely to needs, but we also pass this information on to government to help them frame legislation more effectively, and publish the 10 000 findings more widely for the broader empowerment of Investing society. 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total responsibly A key finding of both the Old Mutual Savings and Retirement Monitors is the need for education on financial matters, especially the value of saving FSC Masisizane FWP through regular contribution to pension funds. Financial education is also a critically important component of our Number of people provided with financial lending solutions, and is embedded in the way clients education by Old Mutual Our workplace are assisted through the application process. Our programmes dedicated to financial education are: • FSC financial education programmes (demanded by the Financial Sector Charter) • Masisizane of 20 000 participants in 2010 by 13%. Sixty-four per • Financial Well-being Programme, including the new cent of those trained were female. The increase in FSC training numbers indicates increased demand and a Building equity Fund Member Education and FIN360º component thirst for financial education. We achieved this increase • On the Money toolkit, designed to educate young on a smaller budget than in 2009, due to materials and learners trainers already being in place. • Radio talk-show programmes The Financial Well-being programme (FWP) target for The effectiveness of our various financial education 2010 was to provide financial education for 25 000 programmes is kept under review. people. A total of 6 261 participants were trained in 2010, achieving only 25% of the annual target. The The accompanying graph shows there has been an significant decrease in numbers is primarily due to overall decrease in the number of people we have employers not being willing to release employees from provided with financial education in 2010 (and therefore work to attend training. Ethics the spend on financial education) as compared with 2009. Numbers were adversely affected by the FIFA Old Mutual’s FIN360° and Fund Member Education are Soccer World Cup, the public sector strike and by new components of Old Mutual’s Financial Well-being employers being unwilling to release staff for education Programme, targeting the middle-to-high income at their expense in the poor economic climate. bracket and retirement fund members. Modules cover a range of issues, from retirement planning to estate Environment Old Mutual South Africa’s obligations to spend planning. These programmes have been rolled out in 0.2% of organisational profit after tax on consumer 361 workshops, educating 9 455 participants. FIN360° education under the Financial Sector Charter (FSC) are and Fund Member Education have been designed discharged by the Financial Education Unit, launched to complement On the Money, an existing money in May 2007. This unit delivers a financial literacy management workshop offered by the FWP, which has programme targeted at LSMs 1-5 in all nine South enjoyed success in the low-to-middle income bracket African provinces. The programme exceeded its target and schools. Emerging markets 23 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 CUSTOMERS >> Creating value for existing and potential customers (continued) Masisizane facilitates the provision of financial education to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises >> Developing fair pricing models to create with the main focus on peri-urban and rural areas value for our customers as seen in the pictures below. A total of 14 252 With the integrity of the financial sector under close participants (2009: 17 458), 72% of whom were scrutiny, Old Mutual recognises its duty to ensure fair female, were trained from January to December, with a pricing and sensible underwriting based on creating and spend of R3.66 million. It is unclear why there has been preserving value for its customers. Various indicators, such a sharp decline over the past two years. including pricing, are measured regularly and reported on to the Committee for Customer Affairs. Pricing models build in risk assessments of a person’s health and lifestyle, according to which premiums will vary. Underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain appropriate. Whole-of-life products are priced for the full term of the policy, with a variety of premium guarantee terms on offer. New business premiums are reviewed annually to ensure that we are charging customers a price that appropriately reflects the claims experience of the business. We ensure appropriate underwriting that is fair and justifiable, with any differentiation based on objective criteria. We also ensure that rating factors such as age, income and education used in the pricing models are fairly applied and avoid discrimination, being based on objective, statistical evidence. For larger corporate clients, risk premiums are reviewed annually and will depend on the previous experience of that specific group of clients. Savings product charges, including investment performance fees, are applied consistently across all savings products and in accordance with customers’ reasonable expectations of benefits. Customers receive value in the form of fee rebates. Pricing models offer customers competitive reduction in yields over the longer term. The termination values on our retail savings products are higher than the regulated minimum surrender values. Our international presence enables us to price fairly against international benchmarks. We take advantage of our economies of scale to achieve lower costs and offer greater value for our customers. The large database we have built up over time places us in a better position to understand the risks our customers face and to price for them more accurately. Where On the Money school tool kit there is a lack of data in building new pricing models or During 2010, in partnership with the Department entering new markets, we are able to rely on reinsurer of Education Old Mutual South Africa developed data as well as our international expertise. an On the Money educational tool kit aligned with the economic and management sciences Old Mutual’s overall product range is positively rated (EMS) curriculum and aimed at young learners in by all financial advisers and continues to be one of grades 4 to 6, their families and educators. The the highest rated amongst our peers. There has been initiative provided Old Mutual with an opportunity a slight decline in perceptions of investment returns to raise awareness on the importance of and annuity rates among most financial advisers since developing personal financial management skills 2009. at an early age and to raise awareness among educators and communities. The tool kit was We are continuously improving transparency and distributed to 1 451 EMS co-ordinators and disclosure of pricing models to clients in order to aid educators in 894 schools country-wide. understanding of our product offering. In addition, the OMLACSA Board Committee and the Committee for Customer Affairs (CCA) are mandated to monitor all 24 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance matters relating to customers. The CCA also approves the Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) report. >> Marketing our products and services in a responsible and appropriate manner Customers All pricing models are approved by international and With the integrity of the financial sector under close local statutory actuaries, further ensuring the fair scrutiny, our marketing approach acts proactively by treatment of our customers. This includes reviewing presenting products in the form of financial advice, premiums, minimum levels of premiums, assumptions, helping consumers understand what products they details of changes (e.g. fees), penalties and charges need depending on their life-stage and means, and on termination of a contract and underwriting then communicating the benefits, rules and implications requirements. of those products. Old Mutual complies fully with all the regulatory requirements of the Industry Code of We have put in place measures to ensure customers do Practice regarding the presentation of clear, up-tonot face unreasonable post-sales barriers to changing date information to customers. All important customer Financial a product, switching provider, submitting a claim or advisers encounters result in proactive service contact and making a complaint. We publish our claim pay-out rates regular reports are provided to clients on the progress for our life insurance products to allow customers to and performance of a large proportion of our products. assess the likelihood that any claim they submit will be paid. Old Mutual shows a higher pay-out rate than all In the context of South Africa’s linguistic and competitors who disclose this information, illustrating educational diversity, Old Mutual takes special care to that our products deliver as expected. communicate with its clients effectively. Documentation Investing (including contracts) is gradually being written in We have a few products where a small percentage of more straightforward language so that customers can responsibly the required disclosures in terms of the ASISA Code on better understand their products. Quotes are easy to Living Annuities and section 7(4) of the FAIS Act have read and comply with the principle of full disclosure, not been made, as well as a few SARAF policies where avoiding ‘fine print’. Easy-to-comprehend SMSs are annual benefit statements have not been sent. These sent to clients when premiums are missed on recurring outstanding issues will be rectified by the end of the premium policies, and clients are advised well in first quarter of 2011. advance in the event of material changes to products Our workplace or policies. Old Mutual Finance has constructed its My Money Plan loan product to generate significant savings for customers by avoiding multiple origination and administration fees and giving customers interest-back rewards when instalments are paid on time. Building equity Ethics Environment Mutualpark reception prides itself on being customer-centric and staff are Emerging always on hand to assist visitors. markets 25 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 FINANCIAL ADVISERS Enabling financial advisers to better serve customer needs Our financial adviser makes sure that the client knows what she is referring to. Material issues >> Increasing access to qualified and compliant financial advisers >> Raising the quality and professionalism of financial advice >> Supporting the sustainability of financial advisers’ businesses Our customers rely on and trust the advice that Old Mutual South Africa. Secondly, in order to we give them regarding our financial products provide the highest quality of financial advice, and services and their financial planning and we have a responsibility to ensure that our needs. This advice is provided largely through advisers (both tied agents and brokers) are our financial advisers. We therefore need firstly provided with the right skills and are updated on to ensure that we provide sufficient qualified changes in legislation. Lastly, to ensure we retain and compliant advisers to cover all potential our investment in skills and can provide our customer needs, geographic areas and language customers with continuity of service over the long groups. Our major challenge in this regard is term, we need to support our advisers in running attracting enough black African advisers to their businesses profitably. 26 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance >> Increasing access to qualified and >> Raising the quality and professionalism of compliant financial advisers financial advice Customers Community groups and individuals in remote areas With the integrity of the financial sector under close increasingly need sound advice in order to make good scrutiny, we recognise the importance of ensuring the long-term decisions regarding their finances. Old Mutual professionalism of our financial advisers. A variety of recognises its responsibility to grow its capacity to mechanisms are applied to ensure the provision of meet this demand with a pool of advisers with both the appropriate advice when serving our customers. These appropriate profile and the qualifications that comply include a rigorous agent accreditation system, adequate with FAIS standards. levels of management oversight and advice, a trackable mandatory advice tool embedded in our sales process, Old Mutual serves the market through a combination and robust internal and external complaints processes. of tied agents and independent brokers. While we have Financial increased the number of personal financial advisers Compliance with legislation advisers (PFA) and tied agents, the number of independent Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) has incorporated financial advisers that support our products has the requirements of the Financial Advisory and decreased. Intermediary Services Act (FAIS) into its business processes and has ensured that all affected businesses The tied agency force consists of full-time employees understand the requirements and have implemented (PFA), an agency franchise model and a small strategies to conform to them. Investing contingent of private wealth management (PWM) advisers. The economic downturn had a negative effect In April 2010, the new FAIS Conflict of Interest responsibly on the retention of tied agents during 2009, but 2010 amendments to the General Code of Conduct were has seen a good recovery with manpower increasing. passed, and Old Mutual initiated a project to coWe expect continued manpower growth during 2011 ordinate and manage the implementation of the new despite the impact of increased regulation and more requirements. Challenges include the complexity of stringent qualification criteria. We are working to integrating the changes, the lack of guidelines for the identify and address the cause of a decrease in the interpretation of principles-based regulations, and Our workplace proportion of black to white financial advisers over the upholding principles in a market that appears to offer last three years. unfair advantage to those who choose to ignore the spirit and intention of the regulations. We have majority brokers supporting our products, accounting for a substantial amount of our annual The Protection of Personal Information (PPI) legislation premium income. We saw a decrease in the number has been approved, with the Bill awaiting enactment. of brokers supporting our products in 2010, probably The legislation puts considerable responsibility on due to the onerous requirements and related costs of Old Mutual to ensure that all reasonable steps are taken increasing regulation and more stringent qualification Building equity to secure personal information. After considering the criteria. We also saw a rather large migration of brokers legislation, we approved a PPI Policy in December 2010, and Old Mutual Personal Financial Advisers to other life with the next step being for the business units to plan assurers. specific solutions and build appropriate metrics. We have also conducted an extensive awareness campaign, In order to ensure that we can continue to provide which will be ongoing. good advice to our customers, Old Mutual tracks the proportion of less experienced (under three years) We have completed the project specifically set up to to experienced financial advisers. The proportion of deal with the Commission regulation changes that were experienced advisers has fluctuated over the past three introduced in 2009, and have launched initiatives to years but declined overall. We will need to address this Ethics help advisers and brokers deal with the impact on their situation in order to restore a healthy distribution of businesses. advisers across the breadth of experience continuum. Training To address the challenges facing sales managers, we Advisers are trained and accredited on products developed and rolled out a Sales Manager Development relevant to the target market in which they operate and Suite in 2010. The area manager’s role has been kept informed of changes in legislation that may affect structured and documented to facilitate the coaching the way that they do business. Environment and mentoring of sales managers. To ensure that sufficient financial advisers are trained on our new While in 2008 and 2009 significant non-core training long-term savings umbrella fund for the low end of – aimed at better serving customer needs – took the market, Easy Benefit Plan, we held workshops place, this component dropped significantly in 2010 in for advisers, of which more than half received favour of a focus on core training aimed purely at FAIS accreditation. compliance. This trend has been noted as a cause for concern. Emerging markets 27 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 FINANCIAL ADVISERS >> Enabling financial advisers to better serve customer needs (continued) Customer complaints Old Mutual South Africa received a number of complaints regarding financial advisers in 2010, 50 including complaints related to independent brokers. These complaints related to advice, misselling and misrepresentation. The approach for dealing with customer complaints regarding financial advisers is the same as that used for dealing with other customer complaints, although different parts of the Old Mutual business are involved in resolving financial adviserrelated complaints. Old Mutual tries to assist when complaints against independent brokers are received, but Old Mutual is not responsible for the advice given by independent brokers, and customers must take such complaints up directly with the broker or the ombud 22.5% 34.3% 35.3% scheme. 2008 2009 2010 Development of incentives related to professionalism of service The introduction of the Conflict of Interest regulations Percentage of tied agents undertaking non-core in 2010 required Old Mutual to re-evaluate the way training versus core training it categorises and incentivises its brokers. Instead of focusing purely on productivity, the new Ambassador Indicator model represents a move towards reviewing brokers’ practices as a whole, providing an indication of our brokers’ client base and behaviour, and indicating how well our brokers look after Old Mutual customers. Masthead The Ambassador Indicator will help us find those Old Mutual South Africa helped create Masthead brokers we should develop further, those we need to in 2004 in order to assist independent financial reactivate, and those whom we should avoid. advisers (IFA) to run compliant, profitable businesses and remain in the industry, providing Customer retention quality financial advice. Masthead helps Customer retention reveals two areas of concern. members with compliance, practice management Firstly, customer retention is challenged by commission and distribution of products. structures that encourage advisers to ‘churn’ risk policies. There are no immediate prospects of a change Masthead has a national footprint with six in industry commission practises and without such regional offices and some smaller satellite offices a change, churning is likely to remain a problem. in the rural areas. The organisation has helped Secondly, customer retention is challenged by the its members significantly, allowing Old Mutual selling of products to customers who cannot afford access to cheaper outsourced distribution to the premiums involved. A recent telephonic survey selected IFAs, as well as a higher persistency of lapsed customers revealed affordability to be the and production growth from Masthead members leading cause for lapse. Various ongoing Old Mutual contracted with Old Mutual. initiatives seek to reverse this trend. They include In 2010, Masthead launched a Practice Valuation incentives, better customer and adviser communication, Model to assist IFAs to build capital value into improving opportunities to pay missed premiums and their practices, find suitable buyers and sellers revive cover and improving the process of making within the Masthead member base, do effective changes to in-force benefits. Actions in this area taken succession planning, and ensure that clients are in 2009 resulted in distinct improvements in persistency looked after once an IFA sells their practice. for both risk and savings products in the first half of 2010. 28 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance >> Supporting the sustainability of financial Customised for each participant, these businesses were visited at least four times in 2010, each in addition advisers’ businesses being benchmarked against similar practices in the Customers Old Mutual recognises the importance of developing industry in order to highlight development areas and and supporting healthy and sustainable financial opportunities. adviser businesses. This is crucial to building customer trust and relationships, providing customers with Practice of the Year competition consistency, maximising financial adviser skillsThe first Old Mutual tied financial advisers’ Practice of development spend efforts, creating more professional the Year competition was held in 2009 and the second, advisers, and building long-term capital value for with 85 entrants, in 2010. The competition was a advisers. In this regard, we are concerned at the success, and saw a slight improvement in the ‘health number of financial adviser practices that are centred check’ of entrants. Despite the competition format, on a single individual. And with the average age of the aim is to improve the rating of every entrant and Financial financial advisers in South Africa around 55, we need to generate some camaraderie amongst Old Mutual advisers focus urgently on this issue. advisers. The competition produced seven regional finalists before selecting a national winner. The finalists Increasing legislation and increasing customer service were top advisers who are all excellent role-models for expectations are placing growing pressure on financial new entrants learning effective practice management. advisory practices. To help sustain these businesses, Old Mutual provides practice management support Satisfaction of financial advisers with to tied advisers primarily through a team of practice Old Mutual Investing responsibly development managers in PFA with the support of Financial adviser perceptions of Old Mutual’s claims and Celestis, a wholly-owned Old Mutual subsidiary. benefits payments show a decline in 2010, with private This support includes adviser mentoring arrangements, wealth management being the least positive. While one-on-one coaching and group workshops for most intermediaries view Old Mutual as a wise and management and advisers, and assistance with practice knowledgeable company, some independent brokers transitioning, which ensures sustainable succession and business units feel that it is set in its ways. Our workplace and helps Old Mutual reduce the risks inherent in an On the whole, most financial adviser groups view ageing sales force. The practice management support Old Mutual as being highly trustworthy, although to independent brokers is delivered by Celestis. scores were lowest among independent brokers. Building equity Ethics Environment Emerging markets 29 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY Investing responsibly for financial returns, for social and economic equity and to save the environment We strive as individuals, as a team and as an organisation to break new ground and achieve higher levels of performance by reaching to the depth of our abilities. [Pushing Beyond Boundaries, one of Old Mutual’s Group Values.] Material issues >> Considering environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in investment decisions >> Enriching lives through socially responsible investment funds >> Empowering transformation through financing* * Reporting split between ‘Enriching lives through socially responsible investment funds’ and ‘Enterprise development’ (see page 44) Investing responsibly involves both the of the need to integrate ESG factors into all integration of environmental, social and investment decisions. This will involve engaging governance (ESG) factors into mainstream with companies rather than simply screening investment decision-making and the and avoiding stocks on ESG grounds – although development of specific funds aimed at socially this may be appropriate for some investors, and responsible investment (SRI). These funds and is the focus of SRI Funds. Old Mutual’s response products, however, constitute only a fraction to both approaches to investing responsibly is of total investment, and financial services discussed in this chapter. companies are becoming increasingly aware 30 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Indicators The indicators listed in the table below measure our performance against the material issues identified above. This is an ongoing evaluation. We are working on finding the most indicative measures and ways to measure more accurately. Customers And increasingly we will add targets for directing our future efforts. >> Indicators 2010 2009 2008* OMIGSA’s Total Assets Under Management (AUM) (R billion) R474.2 R431.4 – Total value of OMIGSA’s SRI funds ** (R billion) R32.6 R21.1 – Value of SRI funds as a percentage of total assets under 6.9% 4.9% – management Financial Old Mutual Retirement Monitor: Percentage of members that 60% – – advisers won’t trade profit for responsibility * No data available No Needs First year Improved ** Funds with mandates that include significant ESG decision-making change attention 2010 Investing responsibly >> Considering environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in investment decisions Our workplace Growing demand to fill the gap Code aims to encourage good conduct by shareholders The South African retirement industry is worth about and companies. It is envisaged that companies should R3 trillion, but only 38 investment products are SRIformulate policies on responsible investing, ensuring labelled, with an approximate value of R23 billion, that responsible investing principles are implemented representing less than 1% of total investments in the and, most importantly, adequately disclosed. It will, country. This compares very poorly with the global after the United Kingdom’s, be only the second such average, currently standing at about 5%. Given this shareholders’ code in existence. The Code has been finalised and is due to be released in the second quarter Building equity situation and the challenges facing society in emerging markets, OMIGSA anticipates that it will become of 2011. ever more accountable for the quality of investment decisions it makes, expressed not only in terms of Measuring our performance financial return on investment (ROI), but also in OMIGSA recognises its responsibility to offer investors ESG terms. Further supporting this thesis, we saw a wide range of investments that support positive an increased call for sustainable investments in the environmental and societal change. In order to meet results of the 2010 Old Mutual Retirement Monitor, and this obligation we measure the proportion of investment sustainability-related findings like these are likely to decisions that take into account environmental, become increasingly pertinent in the future. social and governance (ESG) factors. Our unlisted Ethics investments already show a relatively high percentage In July 2010, the Responsible Investment Taskforce of ESG investment decisions. Among listed investments, was established at Group level to explore how the however, the percentage of investment decisions Group could embed responsible investment principles taking into account ESG factors is low, except where in its approach. The taskforce recommended a strategic ESG issues are incorporated in risk analysis, legal approach (whether employing active engagement compliance and materially affect a company’s brand or merely screening) designed to create value by reputation or licence to operate. Environment mitigating ESG risks and taking advantage of ESG opportunities. Conclusion We anticipate that with growing demand and the Business units of Old Mutual South Africa have also increasing prominence of the United Nations Principles been closely involved in the drafting of the Code for for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), institutional Responsible Investing by Institutional Investors in South investors will increasingly look to invest in SRI-type Africa (CRISA), which was released for public comment products (especially in listed vehicles), and OMIGSA in September 2010. Together with the 2009 King Report will need to substantially increase the number of on Governance in South Africa (King III), the new investments screened for ESG factors. Emerging markets 31 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY >> Investing responsibly for financial returns, for social and economic equity and to save the environment (continued) >> Enriching lives through socially responsible investment funds In line with the general increase in the awareness Infrastructure Deal of the Year categories, and won of sustainability challenges affecting society, we the Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year award for the acknowledge our responsibility to invest in initiatives fund’s partnership with National Urban Reconstruction that will lead to significant positive environmental and and Housing Agency (NURCHA). In October 2010, societal change. Here we list and describe a number of Futuregrowth also won the Mail & Guardian’s Investing boutique funds with mandates that include significant in the Future Enterprise Development Award, which ESG decision-making. recognised the fund’s contribution to development. Futuregrowth Asset Management OMIGSA Alternative Investments Boutique: Futuregrowth is a signatory to the United Nations Housing Impact Fund Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), an Some of the existing Financial Sector Charter (FSC) investor initiative partnership between United Nations fund investments have been or are in the process of Environment Programme Finance Initiative and being transferred into the Housing Impact Fund for UN Global Compact. Futuregrowth is an OMIGSA South Africa (HIFSA). member specialising in fixed-interest and socially responsible investments (SRI), with R100 billion assets The FSC Fund was established in 2007 to provide under management in SRI funds at 31 December 2010. disadvantaged people in sectors of the economy Futuregrowth’s funds focus on the provision of targeted under the terms of the Financial Sector infrastructure and services to disadvantaged Charter with accessible finance and to make a range of communities, providing finance to institutions that other opportunities and innovations available. The FSC may not otherwise qualify for support from the Fund targets households earning less than R15 000 per traditional banking and investment processes. month and also absorbs housing-related investments In addition to providing finance, Futuregrowth also not eligible for inclusion in HIFSA (see below). invests in equity and retail property investments with a developmental nature. The HIFSA is a private fund launched in October 2010 with a total investment commitment of R9.15 billion, In 2010, on Futuregrowth’s tenth anniversary, of which OMLACSA has committed R5 billion. The fund the Infrastructure and Development Bond Fund takes a comprehensive approach to housing-related was shortlisted for the Africa Investor Awards in investments, including physical development, ownership the Infrastructure Fund of the Year and Social of rental stock and end-user finance. Active ownership in corporate fixed income Futuregrowth is primarily a debt investor, engaging Futuregrowth provided a R150 million facility to actively with issuers of corporate fixed income provide finance for the construction of community products. Strong covenants on loans protect clients and/or infrastructural projects. Futuregrowth has during the term of the loan and these frequently an active relationship with NURCHA, attending include conditions about how borrowed money quarterly review meetings to stay updated on is utilised to ensure it accomplishes the stated various projects and business issues. By mutual responsible investment goals. Good credit terms arrangement, Futuregrowth occupies a seat on can serve to protect all stakeholders, while engaged NURCHA’s board of directors. lenders help companies exercise restraint. Futuregrowth has also participated actively in Recently, Futuregrowth engaged National Urban industry-wide discussions with issuers, credit Reconstruction and Housing Agency (NURCHA), an rating agencies, regulators, exchanges and others innovative construction finance company facilitating to improve South Africa’s capital markets. It has low-income housing and small-scale infrastructure also engaged with the South African Government in South Africa. NURCHA has a 15-year track record on improving market transparency and the showing innovation, delivery and adaptation to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in its works to development needs of the country. NURCHA has implement meaningful listings requirements for provided loans to developers and contractors for debt instruments, and define rules around debt the construction of over 240 000 homes and a large placement procedures. number of infrastructure projects throughout the country. 32 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Case study Customers Umoya Energy AIIM is managing the development of the Hopefield Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff (REFIT) process, Wind Farm in the Western Cape and established at a bankable feed-in tariff, the farm is expected to Umoya Energy (Pty) Ltd in early 2008. Umoya start delivering power to the grid in 2012, crucially Energy’s investors include AIIF, KIEF, Infrastructural, filling a capacity shortfall expected before Eskom’s Developmental and Environmental Assets Managed new generating projects come on stream. Fund (IDEAS) and Tomlo Commodities (Pty) Ltd. Umoya Energy is committed to local community Financial Hopefield will have up to 100 MW of capacity at development and upliftment. Construction and an investment of approximately R2 billion, and is employment opportunities are being directed locally advisers among the most advanced large-scale commercial with knock-on commercial benefits. wind farm developments in South Africa. Extensive feasibility testing has taken place, Department of The creation of an environmental offset nature Environmental Affairs and Tourism (DEAT) and Civil reserve of almost 900 ha will ensure biodiversity Aviation Authority (CAA) authorisation has been conservation while creating ongoing employment opportunities. In addition, Umoya Energy has Investing granted, rezoning is complete and, based on the originally gazetted feed-in tariff, a bankable wind instituted bursary schemes to promote maths, responsibly resource confirmed. science and nature conservation in an attempt to support the development of schools in the area. Subject only to the receipt of a power purchase agreement under the Department of Energy’s Our workplace Building equity Ethics Environment Emerging markets 33 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY >> Investing responsibly for financial returns, for social and economic equity and to save the environment (continued) Old Mutual Property’s SRI Real OMIGSA Alternatives Boutique: IDEAS Estate Fund Managed Fund The Old Mutual Property SRI Real Estate Fund was The Infrastructural, Developmental and Environmental established in June 2007 in response to Old Mutual’s Assets Managed Fund (IDEAS) is a socially Financial and Property Sector Charter obligations, with responsible investment vehicle jointly offered by Unity assets identified and pooled from existing OMLACSA Incorporation (see above) and OMIGSA Alternative real estate portfolios. The growth in popularity of the Investments Boutique. IDEAS assets consist UNPRI prompted the further evolution of the fund into a predominantly of investments in commercially viable specific SRI fund. In August 2010, the fund, with assets development projects that aim to achieve measurable under management of R534 million, was amalgamated transformation objectives in South Africa. These with the Triangle India, Triangle Development and Field broadly include the categories of core infrastructure, Services portfolio into an enlarged OMLACSA Direct social infrastructure and environmental assets. While property portfolio. the main focus of IDEAS is on South African investment opportunities, the fund’s investment strategy also The fund invests in real estate developments that makes specific allowance (to a maximum of 15%) for aim to deliver commercially acceptable returns Southern African Development Community (SADC) while contributing to sustainable economic growth, regional investments. social development and environmental sustainability. The key challenges of the fund remain raising and OMIGSA Quantitative Investments Boutique: allocating capital to this sector, local government Old Mutual Albaraka Equity Fund skills and infrastructure constraints, and the economic Established in 1992 as the Southern Pure Fund, this environment. is the oldest ethically-screened fund in South Africa, with R950 million in assets under management. The African Infrastructure Investment Managers fund seeks to create value for investors while adhering African Infrastructure Investment Managers (Pty) to Shari’ah guidelines, as determined by the fund’s Ltd (AIIM) is the manager and adviser of a group of Shari’ah board. niche funds designed to invest in long-term African infrastructure projects that provide essential services Investment decisions are driven by both Shari’ah to the community; have a strategic competitive compliance and investment merits within the context of advantage; require significant capital expenditure; the overall portfolio. The fund serves Muslim investors expect to deliver project returns commensurate with as well as investors from other faiths whose beliefs the investment risks; and require equity-like cash flows preclude them from investing in tobacco, alcohol, and risk profiles. weapons manufacture, finance and related industries. Old Mutual has recently launched a sister Albaraka AIIM was established in 2000 as a joint venture Balanced Fund. between OMIGSA and the Macquarie Group of Australia and has positioned itself as one of the leading unlisted OMIGSA Alternatives Boutique: infrastructure equity investment managers in the Entrepreneurial Ventures Fund African market. The combined capital commitment of The Entrepreneurial Ventures Fund was established AIIM’s mandate across the four infrastructure equity as an SME division under the Alternative Investments funds is in excess of R7.7 billion. Boutique of OMIGSA in response to the lack of finance available to high growth SMEs. OMLACSA has Comanco: Community Growth Funds committed seed capital of R250 million over a threeThe Community Growth Funds are managed by the year period for investment in high growth SMEs. Community Growth Management Company (Pty) Ltd (Comanco), a company jointly owned by Unity The Entrepreneurial Ventures Fund has a strong Incorporation – which represents a group of eight trade empowerment focus and aims to promote unions – and OMIGSA. Unity Incorporation manages entrepreneurial and performance-driven partnerships social research and the screening process whilst that create value for all shareholders. Entrepreneurial the underlying portfolios are managed by OMIGSA Ventures Fund operates in the expansion phase of the boutiques. funding cycle, often the most difficult time for a startup business to access funding. Comanco promotes the observance and integration of ESG principles in the operations of a company with an investment philosophy based on the belief that sustained wealth creation is achieved through investing in socially responsible companies and holding their shares long term. Funds are invested in superior companies, with strong balance sheets, clear business strategies, above-average returns on capital invested and quality management teams, but the companies are also expected to balance generating profits for their shareholders with meeting their social and environmental obligations. 34 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Housing Investment Partners: End-users >> Empowering transformation through finance product financing In 2009, Old Mutual South Africa bought a 50% Customers Old Mutual recognises the role it should play in equity stake in start-up company Housing Investment empowering black entrepreneurs through transactional Partners (Pty) Ltd, whose other equity holders are financing and targeted investments. This is reported on National Housing Finance Corporation, a government in the chapter ‘Providing opportunities and platforms development finance institution, and Pan African Capital addressing past imbalances in South Africa’. Holdings (Pty) Ltd, a private BBBEE company. Reporting on this issue has been split between The purpose of Housing Investment Partners is to ‘Enriching lives through socially responsible investment develop and market innovative housing finance funds’ in this chapter and the ‘Enterprise Development’ solutions for lower-to-middle income earners who fall between state-subsidised housing and conventional section of the chapter: ‘Providing opportunities and Financial platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa’ mortgage finance. The main challenge is to balance the advisers (see page 44). customers’ needs and resources with attractive investor value in a commercially viable, legally compliant and sustainable structure. While the venture is still in its initial stages, Old Mutual has invested R10 million in the venture and has committed a further R25 million, to be matched by National Housing Finance Corporation (NHFC). Investing responsibly Our workplace Building equity Ethics Environment Emerging markets 35 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 OUR WORKPLACE Building a great place to work with people who do great work Old Mutual’s Workplace Heroes initiative awards employees who have inspired others to go the extra mile in delivering service and building the brand name of Old Mutual. Material issues >> Leadership capability and effectiveness: creating a leadership culture that inspires >> Strengthening our position as an employer of choice >> Growing and deploying talent to meet business needs across emerging markets >> Enabling true transformation – going beyond the numbers* * Covered largely in the ‘Building equity’ chapter In an industry characterised by new technologies, focuses on building human resources for both new products and keen competition, we have the short and long term. There is an increased to attract, develop and retain people who are focus on developing cross-boundary leadership inspired to do great work. Emerging markets competence and other skills. require the emergence of new talent and new ways of serving customers – all within a culture Key elements include: that can work together and appreciate diversity. • Improving leadership capability and effectiveness The Old Mutual Group (the Group) is currently co-ordinating its operations. This requires a • Strengthening our position as an employer of shift in the people strategy for the emerging choice markets that will include changes in the • Growing and deploying talent to meet approaches to leadership, talent, performance business needs across markets and remuneration. The new strategy, the • Enabling true transformation Old Mutual Emerging Markets People Plan, 36 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Indicators The indicators listed in the table below measure our performance against the material issues identified above. This is an ongoing evaluation. We are working on finding the most indicative measures and ways to measure more accurately. Customers And increasingly we will add targets for directing our future efforts. >> Indicators 2010 2009 2008 Total headcount* 16 211 15 644 15 912 Employee turnover (office staff) 5.9% 15.2% 11.58% Employee turnover (sales staff) 30.94% 33.08% 30.84% Financial Percentage of female employees 53.5% 52.7% 54.2% advisers Percentage of black employees 70.8% 70.12% 70.88% Number of females at top and senior management level 268 251 267 Percentage of black employees at top and senior management 34% 32% 26% level Number of staff who have been at Old Mutual for 5-10 years 2 686 2 313 2 529 Employee engagement (survey results) 75% 74% Investing Number of employees using employee well-being programme 1 599 1 680 1 571 responsibly Spend on employee well-being programme R3 mill R3.5 mill R3 mill Number of employees on medical aid 14 199 14 603 14 457 Number of employees with pension funds 18 695 17 266 16 703 Our workplace Number of employees receiving disability income 139 143 151 Percentage of workforce unionised (see page 41) 35% 33% 30% Man days lost due to industrial action 0 0 0 Skills development spend (R million) R63.7 R98.5 R117.6 Number of employees trained 10 143 10 794 12 621 Learnership spend (R million) R2.4 R7.1 R4.59 Building equity Training spend on people with disabilities R683 909 R522 088 R867 417 * Excludes Masthead (43); iLima Trust (6); HiP (6); Old Mutual Namibia Company (OMNAM) (610); No Needs Improved Old Mutual Finance (Pty) Ltd (956); Inactive Pensioners (768); Skandia (11) change attention Ethics Environment Employees celebrate Diversity Week by decorating their office spaces and by dressing in their best to reflect Emerging markets their heritage. 37 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 OUR WORKPLACE >> Building a great place to work with people who do great work (continued) >> Leadership capability and effectiveness: “Great leaders focus on removing creating a leadership culture that inspires obstacles and enabling others to succeed. We are developing leaders who display a common They are servants to causes and people set of values, who are representative of the cultures with which we work and who inspire and facilitate and they find win-win solutions.” continuous improvement. The number of employees Ralph Mupita: CEO, Life and Savings who have been at Old Mutual for five to ten years has increased 16.6%, providing a pool of experience from which these leaders can be identified. Employment equity at senior management levels has also continued to improve, though black females are still underrepresented. The employees’ perceptions of moral and >> Strengthening our position as an ethical leadership have continued to increase. employer of choice The Old Mutual Group (except China and India) is Measuring values to transform our culture currently revising its performance management system Our staff complement continues to grow, reaching in order to: 16 211 in 2010, (see exclusions beneath the indicator table), largely attributable to an increase in our sales • Move towards an Old Mutual Group approach to force. Employee turnover has decreased, but our leading people. contractor turnover figure has increased as we reduce • Embed the ACT NOW! Leadership Actions. our reliance on labour brokers. Last year we had a • Confirm the guiding principles for performance 58% response rate to the Engagement Survey and a management. 70% response rate to the Climate Survey. This is an incredible response rate for an organisation of our size. As part of this review, new balanced scorecard Results for both of the surveys improved, showing high templates are being developed, which include a levels of motivation, commitment and discretionary minimum prescribed weighting for people, culture and effort from our employees. transformation. In addition, a new evaluation tool has been developed to measure leaders and specialists Following a pilot, we plan next year to make use of above a certain level against the ACT NOW! Leadership the Barrett Culture and Values Tools which measure Actions. and map the values of individuals, leaders, groups and organisations. These tools will provide us with a Leadership and management development measure of how closely our current culture is aligned to A healthy succession pipeline is a top priority. the personal values of our employees, and a roadmap Those with high potential in the organisation are to guide our future culture change actions. We aim to offered world-class learning opportunities through build a culture of long-term sustainability, by leveraging programmes delivered in association with leading our current strengths of accountability, integrity, global tertiary institutions. In 2010, our leaders customer collaboration and our strong brand. We will participated in the Executive Education Programme, achieve this through our highly committed leaders and the Strategic Leadership Programme, the INSEAD employees. Channel Leadership Programme and the Management Advancement Programme (offered in association with Employee health and well-being the WITS Business school). In addition, OMBUS offers A new employee health and well-being strategy has a range of workshops addressing core leadership been developed and our executive health programme effectiveness. A total of 187 of these workshops were was rolled out in 2010. delivered and attended by 2 534 managers across South Africa. Executive health This year, we developed an executive health programme to improve the health and work-life balance of business leaders and, at the same time, protect the interests of Old Mutual, addressing risks related to succession planning, leadership and business continuity. ACT NOW! Leadership Actions The programme entails an annual health assessment of • Aim high and take your team with you executive staff, enabling us to pick up and manage any health issues at the earliest stage possible, and apply • Customer first – they’re the reason we’re here preventative health care. The programme also provides • Treat the business like it’s our own lifestyle management support and the overall wellness and risk management of the Old Mutual executives and • Need to listen carefully and talk honestly senior managers. Assessing the trends of executive • Own our decisions – decide and deliver staff health, it was revealed that Old Mutual is healthier than the average South African corporate. The key • Win together – help others to succeed challenge of the programme has been to get all qualifiers to attend the programme without making it compulsory. 38 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Old Mutual’s current wellness offerings for all employees Customers • Employee Well-being Programme: Driven • Incapacity management services by a toll free number 365 days a year 24/7 and • Gym: An on-site gym at Mutualpark to provides counselling on financial wellness, legal encourage physical health and exercise; advice, management support, and HIV/Aids gym membership is a pre-tax benefit; offers (including education, training and know your specialists who provide information related to status). health and exercise. • Medical aid fund • Metropolis: Discount on pathology services. • Occupational health and safety • Other Mutualpark health offerings: Chemist, Financial • Benefits: Old Mutual provides a range of eye testing, nursing sister, access to a weight flexible benefits which empowers employees to loss programme, medical suite doctors, dentist, advisers decide on how pay and benefits are managed psychologist, chiropractor and psychiatrist. at different times in their working life as their • Sports club, various sports facilities and a needs change; also includes funeral support day care centre. services for immediate family. Investing >> Growing and deploying talent to meet business needs across emerging markets Employee mobility adopted common principles and share best practice. responsibly With the incorporation of New Markets (Colombia, Several delegates from Africa and New Markets have Mexico, China and India) into Old Mutual Emerging attended OMBUS training in 2010, with more set to Markets (OMEM), there will be continued pressure for attend in 2011. Select senior executives have attended skills, knowledge and leadership transfer. There will also or are due to attend the Group’s global executive Our workplace be an increasing need to manage across cultural and development programmes. geographic boundaries. Talent management and succession planning at senior With a view towards global mobility, all these management and executive level now include all the subsidiaries (with the exception of Kotak Mahindra) territories and are discussed annually by the OMLACSA participated in the Group Employee Engagement Remuneration Committee. Survey, with Colombia and Mexico producing excellent results. A leadership change support programme was Attracting and growing talent facilitated to assist in managing the changes that had With ever-changing market demands, expansion Building equity taken place in China. These subsidiaries have adopted into emerging markets and constantly developing a common approach to business planning, financial, technology and product innovations, Old Mutual audit, risk and remuneration management, while recognises the importance of attracting and growing exploring market and product best practice. The talent that reflects the values of the organisation and ACT NOW! Leadership Actions will be rolled out during meets the evolving needs of the market. Old Mutual 2011. There have been some challenges experienced was selected to appear in the Cambridge Guide to relating to language and cultural differences, but there Excellence, a publication distributed to Cambridge is a real spirit of co-operation and support across the Students and Alumni. This was a great opportunity to regions, with cultural and language programmes now showcase OMEM as an employer on a global basis. Ethics forming part of orientation. We recently received the BEST Employers TM There are currently seven secondments from South 2010/2011 certification seal, recognising our efforts Africa to other Emerging Markets companies and in developing talent. While we provided training to two secondments from other Emerging Markets 10 143 employees in 2010 through our business companies to South Africa. There are six international school and external programmes, spending on skills secondments and three local secondments to other and learnerships decreased significantly in 2010 due companies within the Old Mutual plc Group. The African to the completion in 2009 of a major Management Environment People Strategy has been developed and is managed Advancement Programme, which required the under a common approach by the CEOs and the HR attendance of every employee across the organisation. executives of each of the countries. The CEOs and HR The improvement in our dti skills development score executives, who meet regularly during the year, have is largely attributable to improved classification and “We need to scale up and mainstream excellence in all spheres of our lives by investing in the development of top talent, and strategically and tactically leverage it to unleash our full potential as a nation.” Emerging Kuseni Dlamini: CEO Old Mutual Emerging Markets (as quoted in City Press, February 2010) markets 39 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 OUR WORKPLACE >> Building a great place to work with people who do great work (continued) accounting of our investments in this area. Attracting high-calibre black and disabled candidates to the graduate development programme still remains a challenge. We are reviewing our mentorship programme to serve a broader group than women in leadership and to be more co-ordinated across the business units. During 2010, we reviewed our contingent workforce practices to ensure fair labour practices and ‘decent work’ as defined by the International Labour Organisation. Developing human resources and 89 104 112 employee mobility across all emerging markets regions 2008 2009 2010 has become an increased focus with the incorporation of Colombia, Mexico, India and China into Old Mutual Emerging Markets. While this poses challenges relating to language and cultural differences, it also offers Number of people with disabilities trained opportunities in terms of shared learning, training, development and leadership. Transformation is about providing the skills development, work experience, management and career development opportunities for previously Old Mutual’s definition of talent disadvantaged people, including black people, disabled People in the business who: individuals and women. We held successful Women’s Day luncheons and celebrated diversity week across all • Display leadership behaviour as defined by offices. We also developed an integrated People with the ACT NOW! Leadership Actions. Disabilities Strategy to help us overcome the challenge • Have a track record of high performance. of limited participation of people with disabilities. • Have both the ambition and potential Our learnership programme continues to assist with to move to a much higher level in the the transformation of the financial services industry organisation. by providing training and work experience for talented • Possess scarce essential skills which are black applicants. In addition, our Learner’s Scholarship required to deliver strategy and who are able Programme was established in 2010 to provide to both use these skills in various parts of promising learners from previously disadvantaged the business, and can build capacity for these groups with the opportunity to finish their schooling skills in others. at top maths schools. Old Mutual’s Workplace Heroes initiative awards employees who have inspired others to go the extra mile in delivering service and building the brand name of Old Mutual. The Workplace Heroes of 2010 were announced in October, following a vote by more than 2 500 employees. First prize was awarded to Tom Juma, Head of Service Delivery, IT and Operations at Old Mutual Kenya (pictured third from the left). 40 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Other programmes The Mentorship Programme – This programme uses the capacity and skills of existing employees to nurture The Accounting Bursary Scheme – An employment new skills in the talent pipeline. It is closely aligned to equity initiative designed to generate strong accounting Customers the Women in Leadership Forum (WILF) programme, black graduates who then become Chartered but includes males and females. Accountant (CA) trainees at Old Mutual and potentially full-time CA employees at Old Mutual. Bursary students Actuarial Development Programme – In 2010, who are studying at universities are assigned to 21 bursaries were awarded to employment equity mentors who are current trainees. Thirty-nine students candidates, bringing to 52 the total number of bursary have been sponsored to go to university since the students on the programme. Programme graduates inception of the programme, with 19 currently on the are appointed into positions within OMSA where they programme. Ten bursary students have gone on to join are mentored by qualified actuaries and given tuition the CA (SA) training programme since inception. support and skills training which includes experience Financial advisers planning via a rotation process. CA (SA) Training Programme (ex TOPP) – To infuse black chartered accountants into the finance community of Old Mutual and to grow them into future business leaders. Twelve trainees have qualified since inception and a further 10 are currently on the programme. Contingent workforce In addition to permanent employees, OMSA Graduate Development Programme (GAP) – To Investing has a contingent workforce of approximately attract, integrate, develop and retain graduates at 2 000 people. Of these, 1 000 are hired directly responsibly junior and middle management level in order to address by OMSA either as fixed-term employees (FTE) scarce skills and develop a talent pipeline through an or independent contractors (IC). The remaining 18-month fixed-term contract. Since 2008, there has 1 000 are hired via temporary employment been an 81% retention rate and intake numbers have services (TES) (previously known as labour grown from 17 in 2008 to 40 in 2011. brokers). Our workplace During 2010, OMSA’s contingent workforce Industrial relations was carefully scrutinised to try and ensure Ensuring freedom of expression, Old Mutual that everybody in the pool enjoys fair labour South Africa employees are free to join a trade practices and ‘decent work’ as envisaged by the union of their choice. The two main trade unions International Labour Organisation (ILO). at OMSA, Insurance Banking Staff Association IBSA/OMREB and Sasbo Finance Union have Accordingly a number of interventions took 4 460 members and 1 100 members place, including: Building equity respectively, together comprising 35% of • HR executives in every South African the total workforce. Although slow, union business investigated all fixed-term membership continues to grow. employment contracts to ensure as far as possible that none were being rolled over OMSA lost zero days to industrial action in 2010, excessively. maintaining our record from 2009. In terms of the Council for Conciliation, Mediation and • Ensuring that, as far as possible, FTEs and Arbitration (CCMA) statistics, 74 trials were ICs hired directly by OMSA are utilised in completed. These trials resulted in 44 wins, temporary positions and to address peaks in 23 settled within mandate and seven losses. workflow, e.g. call centres and year-ends. Ethics The CCMA process has saved Old Mutual (and • An audit via Group Internal Audit of therefore shareholders and customers) over the utilisation of TES/labour brokers by R15 million. Old Mutual, which led to the inclusion of contingent workforce in the People Strategy Initiated in 2009, we now have a formalised split and Policy, ensuring that all contracts are between forums to address union matters. There legally compliant, and a review of longare now two forums that union matters are standing and rolling contracts. processed through, namely: Environment • OMDABA – which will now deal only A link has been established with the temporary with contractual terms and conditions of employment services industry at the NEDLAC employment and the annual remuneration Negotiation Forum where the future legislation review. affecting this industry is being negotiated. • Interests Consultation Group (ICG) at which IBSA/OMREB and SASBO will participate in In early 2011, there will be a continued focus on 2011 and which will deal with all employment improving this area of our workforce, including practices and employment policies amongst opening up developmental opportunities via the Emerging others. This is a major positive breakthrough Old Mutual Business School. in union relationships in OMSA. markets 41 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 OUR WORKPLACE >> Building a great place to work with people who do great work (continued) Case study Old Mutual South Africa Business School The Old Mutual Business School (OMBUS) was • Business School Website: OMBUS has its own established in 2001 and is the corporate centre website which provides relevant information on of learning for Old Mutual South Africa. The core all learning available in Old Mutual. The website purpose of OMBUS is to provide learning that is is extremely popular with over 48 304 hits by aligned to the Old Mutual business strategy and employees between the periods January and develops both individual and team performance. November 2010. The Old Mutual Business School provides learning • Tracking learning: The organisation uses to all Old Mutual employees across South Africa the Oracle Learning Management System to with certain initiatives offered globally. manage enrolments and to report on all learning undertaken across the business. During 2010, the OMBUS ran 614 workshops attended by 6 929 employees. Further services • Onboarding/Induction Programme: Five include: events were held during 2010 with a total of 233 employees attending these events. • Knowledge Hub: The OMBUS Knowledge Hub is Old Mutual’s corporate library which is open • Personal Excellence: One hundred personal to all Old Mutual employees. Products and excellence workshops were run in 2010 with services are designed to provide knowledge and 1 102 delegates attending. information in support of the strategic initiatives • Service Excellence: Ninety-two workshops of the organisation, as well as the curriculum were held in 2010, attended by 777 delegates. offered by OMBUS. Books, videos, journals and other products are linked to the competency • Computer Training: Ninety workshops were guide to promote self-directed learning. held for 540 delegates. • Financial Education: The On the Money programme was provided to 218 internal staff through 24 workshops. 42 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance >> Enabling true transformation – going beyond the numbers* * Largely reported on in the next chapter Old Mutual South Africa’s Women’s Day Diversity week Customers Once again, Old Mutual celebrated its women on South Old Mutual dedicated the week of 13 to 17 September Africa’s Women’s Day with gala luncheons and exciting 2010 to focus on diversity. The theme for Diversity expos. The luncheons allowed women to feel special Week was ‘Heritage’, which incorporated core elements and inspired and to network with other women in of diversity such as culture, traditions and nationality. Old Mutual. The day also encouraged women to do Employees celebrated by decorating their office spaces great things through the roles that they play as leaders, and by dressing in their best to reflect their heritage. policy makers, caregivers, educators, peace makers Employment equity committees across the business and role-models. Gail Curtis, vice-president of the drew on their creativity to paint beautiful murals to International Women’s Forum, was the guest speaker at show their commitment and support for diversity. Financial advisers the lunches. Old Mutual also held special engagement sessions with employees each day of the week to discuss critical issues related to discrimination and diversity. Investing responsibly Our workplace Building equity Ethics Environment Emerging markets 43 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BUILDING EQUITY Providing opportunities and platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa The transformation department celebrates Old Mutual reaching Level 2 BBBEE status in October 2010. Material issues >> Supporting the economic stability of our country >> Equity ownership: Distributing ownership fairly >> Management and control >> Employment equity: Ensuring a fair chance for all employees to fulfil their potential >> Skills development: Providing opportunities for career growth >> Preferential procurement: Influencing positive change through how we buy >> Enterprise development: Providing finance and support for black economic empowerment deals >> Socio-economic development: Supporting our communities to do great things Old Mutual recognises that a stable economy is the South Africa could be, to show how South Africa could foundation for the sustainability of the business. While work. Transformation of Old Mutual South Africa as a Old Mutual generates wealth for its shareholders, it also whole can take place only through the transformation distributes significant wealth in the form of procuring of each pillar of the dti Codes; hence they form the from local businesses, employee wages, capital material issues we address on our journey towards a payment fees, taxes and community investments and in transformed nation. so doing, contributes to the economic empowerment of society at large. In October 2010, Old Mutual South Africa was awarded a Level 2 Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment The transformation of economic empowerment is about (BBBEE) status as measured according to the dti Codes acknowledging the changing face of the country. We of Good Practice, a significant improvement from our want Old Mutual South Africa to be a microcosm of how Level 4 status in 2009. 44 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Value added statement The value added statement (VAS) is a composite table of indicators that show how Old Mutual has apportioned the direct economic value generated from its business amongst its stakeholders. Customers >> Stakeholder distribution 2010 2009 2008 2007 Direct economic value generated (R million) 77 028 71 312 14 590 73 919 Economic value distributed (R million) 72 227 62 660 26 398 72 497 Customers 56 244 44 229 6 469 50 392 Operating costs (including suppliers) (R million) 8 229 7 741 6 679 6 373 Employee wages and benefits (R million) 4 488 4 247 3 610 3 752 Financial Payments to providers of capital (R million) 1 800 4 314 7 907 7 881 advisers Payments to governments (taxes – see notes) (R million) 1 467 2 129 1 733 4 099 Economic value retained: retained earnings (economic value 4 800 8 652 (11 807) 1 423 generated less economic value distributed) (R million) Investing responsibly These indicators show Old Mutual South Africa’s scores against the dti’s Codes of Good Practice for Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE). Each score is a composite figure that reflects a number of factors contributing to the level of economic empowerment for the seven pillars making up the overall score. >> Target/ Our workplace Indicators 2010 2009 2008 2007 weighting Equity ownership 17.81 13.40 17.61 18.82 20 Management and control 7.46 6.21 6.32 5.34 10 Employment equity 11.07 9.04 7.72 4.84 15 Skills development 12.09 4.90 6.43 3.49 15 Preferential procurement 18.56 17.92 11.78 7.35 20 Building equity Enterprise development 15 15 15 15 15 Socio-economic development 5 2.83 4.28 3.16 5 Total score* 86.99 69.30 69.13 57.99 100 * The BBBEE verification certificate can be found on page 71 and the detailed dti Scorecard can be No Needs Improved viewed on the website. change attention Ethics Our overall score increased from 69.30 in 2009 to 86.99 in 2010. The accompanying graph illustrates our Total score 100 achievement over the last four years. Environment 57.99 69.13 69.30 86.99 2007 2008 2009 2010 Old Mutual South Africa’s improvement in the dti’s Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Emerging score markets 45 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BUILDING EQUITY >> Providing opportunities and platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa (continued) >> Supporting the economic stability of >> Equity ownership: Distributing ownership our country fairly The financial services industry supports the economy Performance against the dti Codes through the role it plays in allocating capital resources. Equity ownership increased from 13.40 to 17.81, Institutions such as Old Mutual collect premiums primarily due to the share price that increased over the from their customers, in return offering them security period. The accompanying graph illustrates Old Mutual against an uncertain future. This capital is then put South Africa’s progress over the last four years. to work in the marketplace, supporting businesses with the potential for growth and profit generation. A proportion of this economic value thus generated is then returned to Old Mutual’s customer base, delivering Maximum score 20 returns on its various investment and savings products. The importance of the role played by the financial services industry in maintaining the health of the economy was dramatically illustrated during the financial crisis of 2008. Irresponsible lending practices, largely in the United States capital markets, caused a general atmosphere of uncertainty that spread across the world. Old Mutual’s value added statement 18.82 17.61 13.40 17.81 for the past three years reflects the consequences 2007 2008 2009 2010 of this crisis – direct economic value generated for 2008 being only one fifth of the present year. The indirect impact of Old Mutual on the emerging market Equity ownership economies is harder to quantify. Nonetheless, the Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice recent performance of emerging markets compared with traditional western, developed economies illustrates, at least partially, the extent to which markets depend on a stable financial services sector. Transactions to improve black shareholding in South African businesses On 19 April 2005, the Old Mutual Group announced its 2007 2008 2009 2010 intention to implement certain proposals to increase 73 919 14 590 71 312 77 028 the black shareholding in its South African businesses. Old Mutual plc (the parent company of Old Mutual’s South African operations), together with two JSE-listed subsidiaries of the Old Mutual Group, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal, undertook transactions based on a common set of principles. These transactions involved the issue of new ordinary shares in Old Mutual plc, Mutual & Federal and Nedbank to various share trusts for the benefit of black employees within the Old Mutual Group and to a number of black-controlled entities beneficially owned by black clients or distributors of the Old Mutual Group, black community groups and Black Business Partners in South Africa. Subsequent to the transactions, in 2009 Mutual & Federal delisted when Old Mutual plc bought those Mutual & Federal shares owned by minority shareholders in exchange for new 1 423 (11 807) 8 652 4 800 Old Mutual plc shares, in the ratio of 1.73 Old Mutual plc shares per Mutual & Federal share. Customers Economic value Operating costs Direct economic value Value of the shares issued pursuant to the Employee remuneration Payments to providers of generated (Rm) transactions distributed capital Economic value The following table shows the value of the shares issued Payments to retained (Rm) governments (taxes) by Old Mutual plc, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal pursuant to the transactions, as well as the value they represent as a proportion of the value of the relevant Distribution of economic value generated South African businesses. The figures represent the total value of the direct black shareholdings issued See value added statement on page 45 under the transactions. 46 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Total value of OMSA Group direct black (via the Company) Nedbank Mutual & Federal shareholding Customers % value % value of of OMSA % value of Mutual & Group’s Nedbank’s Federal’s Rm business Rm business Rm business Rm Employees & management 1 689 6.66 680 2.57 357 6.00 2 726 Clients & distributors 288 1.14 1 593 6.03 30 0.50 1 911 Black non-executive – – 59 0.22 – – 59 directors Financial Communities 576 2.27 118 0.45 30 0.50 724 advisers Black Business Partners 864 3.41 590 2.23 238 4.00 1 692 3 417 13.48 3 040 11.50 655 11.00 7 112 The values in the above table are based on R14.95 per share in the case of Old Mutual plc, R74.75 per share for Nedbank and R21.33 per share for Mutual & Federal Investing responsibly The movement in the relevant share prices subsequent to the transactions is shown in the table below. Old Mutual plc Nedbank Mutual & Federal* 23.02.2011 15.07 127.60 26.07 Our workplace BEE Circular 14.95 74.75 21.33 % change 0.80 70.70 22.23 * The Mutual & Federal share price as at 23 February 2011 is an implied price based on the exchange ratio of 1.73 Old Mutual plc shares per Mutual & Federal share Principles of the transactions Alignment of value added to benefits received – Building equity In structuring the transactions, the Old Mutual Group Performance agreements have been entered into developed a set of principles aimed at sustainable with the Black Business Partners to ensure mutually broad-based empowerment, and the transactions have beneficial, enduring partnerships. The performance accordingly been based on the following principles: agreements have been designed to incentivise the Black Business Partners by aligning the rewards which they Transformation – The Old Mutual Group has receive under the performance agreements to the value designed the transactions to accelerate operational that they add to the businesses. The transactions aim transformation in its South African businesses. This to balance the economic participation by internal and extends to employment equity (particularly at the external individuals, the consequence of which is that management level), client acquisition, strategies for no single external individual is likely to benefit more Ethics underserved markets, profiling the Old Mutual Group than the Old Mutual Group’s most highly paid South and community involvement. The transactions are to African employee. be implemented as a part of the Old Mutual Group’s comprehensive approach to rapid transformation. Full economic benefits and voting rights – The transactions have been structured to ensure that Broad-based approach – The transactions are shareholders and beneficiaries have full voting designed directly or indirectly to benefit more than rights and the economic benefits attached to equity half a million black South Africans across the country, ownership, thereby ensuring that the ownership Environment including employees and management, clients requirements of the Financial Sector Charter (and and women’s groups, black trade union members, subsequent Department of Trade and Industry Codes) distributors, professional bodies, entrepreneurs and are met. In the case of trusts, which have been formed communities. The Old Mutual Group has sought to to acquire and hold shares in Old Mutual plc, Nedbank achieve an equitable balance between individuals who or Mutual & Federal as the case may be, these have are internal and external to the Old Mutual Group. been structured so as to comply with the ownership In the process, the ultimate beneficiaries of the and control requirements of the Financial Sector transactions have been reviewed to ensure that no Charter (and subsequent Department of Trade and Emerging individual benefits unduly. Industry Codes) in that the majority of trustees will be independent black people and the majority of the beneficiaries will be black people. markets 47 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BUILDING EQUITY >> Providing opportunities and platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa (continued) >> Management and control The management and control of OMSA is gradually Participants in the transactions being transformed at the very top of our organisation. The transactions involve participants selected by We have black executive board members as well as the relevant company from among the following black independent non-executive board members. Our key groups: management and control score against the dti Codes Employees and management improved from 6.21 in 2009 to 7.46 in 2010 out of a The Old Mutual Group recognises the potential of 10 points. We remain challenged by limited importance of creating an employee and participation at the top management level of black management complement that is representative people in general and black women in particular. of South Africa’s demographics. Acknowledging that the Old Mutual Group is not yet fully representative, it was proposed to set aside Maximum score 10 shares in Old Mutual plc, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal with an aggregate market value of R2 726 million to recruit, retain and incentivise black management and staff. Shares will be distributed to an estimated 29 300 Old Mutual Group employees, of whom approximately 17 500 are black. Clients and distributors Part of the Old Mutual Group’s strategy is to 5.34 6.32 6.21 7.46 increase its focus on its black client franchise. 2007 2008 2009 2010 Under the transactions, an aggregate of R1 911 million worth of shares will be set aside for clients and prospective clients and Management and control distributors throughout South Africa. Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice Of this amount, R288 million worth of new Old Mutual plc shares will be assigned to an Old Mutual South Africa Black Distributors Trust which will provide loans to assist in launching >> Employment equity: Ensuring a fair new businesses developing underserved chance for all employees to fulfil their markets, R1 593 million worth of Nedbank shares will be made available to black retail and potential corporate banking clients, and R30 million worth The purpose of employment equity is to address of Mutual & Federal shares will be set aside to workforce imbalances that are an ongoing legacy of the past. The Codes encourage this through requiring a support black people wishing to develop broker company’s employee profile to reflect the economically businesses. In all such cases, Old Mutual plc, active demographics in South Africa across all levels Nedbank and Mutual & Federal (as the case may and occupational categories. The Codes furthermore be) have determined the basis on which eligible encourage the advancement of black disabled people groups will participate in the transactions. and black women. We achieved our improved score of Communities 11.07 in 2010 (from 9.04 in 2009) through continuing An amount of R148 million worth of shares to include employment equity as a focus in all human will be allocated under the Nedbank transaction resource-related strategies and initiatives across all and the Mutual & Federal transaction to black business units. This includes recruitment, retention, communities and charitable organisations throughout South Africa. In addition, R576 million worth of new Old Mutual plc Maximum score 15 shares will be allocated to assist with the education of black members of unions and other groups who do business with the OMSA Group. Black Business Partners The transactions involve the issue of shares to companies formed by the Black Business Partners, comprising the WIPHOLD Consortium and the BRIMSTONE Consortium in the case of Old Mutual plc and Nedbank, and the 4.84 7.72 9.04 11.07 WIPHOLD Consortium and Mtha in the case 2007 2008 2009 2010 of Mutual & Federal. These consortia have been chosen as Black Business Partners to assist actively in growing the businesses and driving Employment equity their transformation. Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice 48 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance skills development, learnership and management The Old Mutual Academy programmes. Established in 2004, the academy addresses a specific need to grow new fully accredited and experienced Through our employee surveys, we encourage our Customers black financial planners to address the financial employees to identify any issues with regard to unfair planning needs of the growing black middle class and discrimination, diversity and employment equity. to provide market access for previously disadvantaged Employment equity is also a focus of communication individuals. Adding to the academy’s value proposition, programmes to ensure that transformation of our it now offers Old Mutual franchise brokers the workforce becomes ingrained in our culture. opportunity to achieve their accreditation through a ‘recognition of prior learning’ programme. From 2006, The summary of the Employment Equity Report in terms 130 learners have graduated and we have assisted in of section 22 of the Employment Equity Act can be found the placement of academy graduates with Old Mutualon the website. We report on race and gender for top and senior management in the chapter on employees. friendly brokers and banks. Financial A challenge facing trainee financial planners is the advisers >> Skills development: Providing requirement for business support to enable them to sell policies and products (under supervision) while they are opportunities for career growth going through the academy. This support is not being South Africa faces a shortage of skilled labour, provided to the extent that it is needed, an area noted particularly among the previously disadvantaged for attention in 2011. population groups. In addition to our desire to see true transformation in the country, Old Mutual has A further key challenge is the increase in new recruits Investing an interest in developing skills in order to provide for who have been blacklisted and have judgements its own workforce. Further, by economically uplifting against them. To address this, we have changed our responsibly society, we are expanding the market base for our recruitment process and will employ an updated and core business. This element of the Codes measures more comprehensive testing system in the selection skills spent on black employees and black disabled of new candidates, including a panel of subject matter employees, with a focus on the amount spent on experts for selection and profiling. black women and the participation of black people Our workplace in learner programmes as defined in the Codes. In The iLima Trust 2010, we scored 12.09 out of a possible 15 in the dti The iLima Trust was allocated R50 million from the Codes, increasing significantly from 4.90 in 2009. The Masisizane Fund to deploy retiring senior executives improved score is largely attributable to improved and managers from Old Mutual to members of national, classification and accounting of our investments in this provincial and local government that are struggling area. The decline in training spend over the period is with service delivery challenges. The iLima Trust also largely accounted for by the completion in 2009 of a assists owners of small and micro-enterprises who are major Management Advancement Programme, which supported by Masisizane to build their businesses in a required the attendance of every employee across the sustainable way and provides community development Building equity organisation during 2008 and 2009. training for those involved in poverty alleviation initiatives. These services are provided free of charge Our internal skills development is further discussed in and undertaken on a shortor long-term basis. the chapter ‘Our Workplace – Building a great place to work with people who do great things’. Our external The trust was due to close in December 2010, but due skills development is discussed in the section below on to savings made and continued income from a money the Old Mutual Academy for Financial Planners as well market account, we will keep the trust open until the as in the sections on financial education (page 26), end of September 2011. Masisizane (page 53) and corporate social investment (page 51). Ethics Maximum score 15 180 Masisizaneweighted assignments 120 Environment Governmentweighted 60 assignments NGO-weighted 3.49 6.43 4.90 12.09 assignments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Emerging Skills development iLima assignments from 2008 to 2010 Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice markets 49 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BUILDING EQUITY >> Providing opportunities and platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa (continued) >> Preferential procurement: Influencing positive change through how we buy OMSA’s central procurement is driving to increase possible 20. Our weighted spend* for 2010 was spending with vendors that have a BBBEE Level 4 rating R4.65 billion (which is 76% of compliance – above or better. To assist in this drive, we are collecting and the dti target of 50%). Our projected target for 2011 storing valid certificates from vendors, and these have is R5.26 billion. increased from 87 in 2008 to 420 in 2009 and 2 037 in 2010. The increase in compliance will help Old Mutual While Old Mutual used 202 black-owned suppliers (BO) to improve its proportion of preferential procurement and 83 black women-owned (BWO) suppliers nationally, spend as well as encourage potential vendors to become the non-availability of BO and BWO enterprises, certified and improve their own BBBEE status, thus particularly in Cape Town, remains a challenge. To promoting the transformation agenda. address this, we are engaging with selected large vendors to encourage transformation of their ownership Internally, our strategy was to engage monthly with composition; we are identifying categories where BO our business units where non-compliant vendors were and BWO suppliers can be sourced; and we are in the used in certain categories and to direct spend towards process of identifying existing BO and BWO suppliers BBBEE-compliant vendors. This increased the focus on whom we could help with their Old Mutual procurement preferential procurement across Old Mutual. Our 2010 processes. score showed an increase from 17.92 to 18.56 out of a Maximum score 20 7 6 5 4 Weighted 3 Unweighted 2 7.35 11.78 17.92 18.56 1 2007 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Preferential procurement Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice Preferential procurement spend (in R billion) * The weighted spend shows the level of preferential procurement compliance >> Enterprise development: Providing finance and support for black economic empowerment deals Enterprise development is crucial to the transformation of South Africa in that it helps to provide financing and Maximum score support for: 15 • Black-owned businesses • BEE equity deals • Infrastructural development, particularly of disadvantaged communities. Once again, we have achieved the maximum dti score of 15. 15.00 15.00 15.00 15.00 We have slightly adjusted the structuring of our 2007 2008 2009 2010 empowerment financing between the end of 2008 and the end of 2010. We have significantly increased the financing provided to the development of low income Enterprise development housing from R530 million to R2.42 billion, a 357% Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice increase, responding to the desperate need across the nation for low-cost housing. Transformational infrastructure still remains our biggest area of financing, with R4.14 billion provided in 2010. 50 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance >> Socio-economic development: Supporting our communities to do great things Customers Old Mutual Foundation From a corporate social investment (CSI) budget for 2010 of R30 million, we spent a total of approximately R22 million on activities (excluding an operational budget of R4.3 million), down from R27 million spent AgriBlack LowTransforTotal cultural SMEs income mational in 2009. Investments were largely limited by major develophousing infrabeneficiaries not complying with funding requirements. ment structure 2008 2010 We support the creation of jobs through our activities, focused on enterprise development and skills capacity Financial building. Shift in how empowerment financing was advisers apportioned from 2008 to 2010 Enterprise development Our enterprise development projects in small-scale Data is for the period December 2009 to end August 2010 agriculture, manufacturing and the environment focus (in Rand billion) on green jobs and those initiatives that are labourintensive. Case study Treepreneurs is a programme whereby facilitators from Investing the Wildlands Conservation Trust teach individuals Providing high quality transformational in townships and rural communities how to grow responsibly indigenous trees from seed and then care for the young infrastructure: DIRCO Building awards saplings until they reach a certain height. The trees are The Department of International Relations and then traded back to Wildlands for food, clothes, bicycles, Co-operation (DIRCO) recently won the SAPOA agricultural goods and tools, school and university award in the office development category for the fees before being planted back in the community’s Our workplace OR Tambo building. Old Mutual Property was one of environment, or planted out in Wildlands’ forest the strongest partners along with government in the restoration projects. The programme has grown from Public Private Partnership (PPP) responsible 300 Treepreneurs in 2004 to over 2 500 Treepreneurs for the project. This is the first successful PPP in 2010, producing around 300 000 indigenous trees that Old Mutual Property has undertaken, as a per annum. developer and shareholder, with an investment of R23.75 million in a total project worth R1.37 billion. Skills capacity building Our projects focus on: Partnering with government has been an important Building equity focus for Old Mutual Property and stems from our • Product-to-market: product, business and human stability as a company, for funding purposes as well capital development focused on the craft sector as being leaders in the property industry. • Trades and artisans: such as plumbers, carpenters and electricians • Sport: supporting talented individuals to build a career in and represent South Africa in sport Case study Old Mutual Property’s new black-owned funds Ethics Old Mutual Property has partnered with two Greenfield management companies to support Maximum score enterprise development in new and existing small 5 enterprises in the property industry. Neo Africa Properties (Pty) Ltd which intends to Environment develop a fund comprising commercial properties leased to the government that will meet the Department of Public Works’ BBBEE policy for ownership. Urban Growth Management Company (Pty) Ltd 3.16 4.28 2.83 5.00 which intends to develop a fund comprising property 2007 2008 2009 2010 investments that incorporate the core principles of responsible investment. The scope of investments will include urban regeneration and township Emerging developments, health and education facilities and Socio-economic development Score as per the dti Codes of Good Practice green buildings. markets 51 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BUILDING EQUITY >> Providing opportunities and platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa (continued) The Old Mutual Legends Programme, facilitated by successful schools. Of LEAP’s 540 learners, 99% are Fetola and Associates, operates as a ‘virtual incubator’ black South Africans from economically disadvantaged to support the growth and sustainability of small blackhouseholds. LEAP has achieved extraordinary success owned businesses and community projects in rural and in its relatively short history with a 95% average Grade peri-urban poverty nodes. The programme has grown 12 pass rate with 74% of our matriculants engaged in from 10 sites in 2007 to 30 sites across the country in tertiary studies. 2010 and was a finalist at the Mail & Guardian Investing in the Future Awards in October 2010. LEAP’s 2010 Grade 12 learners achieved a 98% pass rate. We are especially proud of our first class of Education Grade 12 learners at LEAP 3 (Alexandra) who achieved We focus on improving mathematics and science at a 100% pass rate with 74% of learners achieving secondary schooling level as well as supporting schools bachelor qualifications. In March 2010, LEAP’s first with regard to leadership and management, teaching tertiary graduate was awarded a Bachelor of Commerce functionality and infrastructure. (Finance) from the University of the Western Cape and is now working for Allan Gray Asset Management. We Our LEAP Science and Maths School programme are looking forward to this trickle becoming a flood comprises four independent high schools in Cape Town of academically and personally enabled young people and Johannesburg focusing on Grades 9 to 12 and entering the work place. serving specific communities. While the schools focus on the high quality teaching of maths, science and We continue to support Dinaledi Schools, the English, they take a holistic perspective by ensuring government’s programme to promote excellence in the good values, interaction with local communities, small teaching and learning of mathematics and science in classes, increased contact time with teachers (Saturday five adopted schools across the country. schooling and holiday programmes) and partnering with Staff volunteerism 2010 2009 2008 Volunteers Spend Volunteers Spend Volunteers Spend Payroll Giving 1 164 1 205 386 1 232 1 086 906 994 854 955 Staff Community Builder 144 2 423 878 368 5 551 500 346 5 710 300 Care & Share 2 423 2 276 797 5 689 2 882 070 4 200 1 579 547 Dinaledi Schools Honouring Ubuntu The top learner in Limpopo is from Dendron, Graça Machel was the guest speaker at the 2010 an Old Mutual Foundation Dinaledi-supported Old Mutual Staff Volunteerism Awards, which school. Seventeen-year old Tsakane Ngoepe, honoured all those staff volunteers who demonstrate who notched seven distinctions, is studying and spread Ubuntu. “To have more than half actuarial science at the University of Cape our workforce actively involved in volunteerism Town with a full scholarship from Old Mutual demonstrates that our company has a deeply South Africa. entrenched tradition of community involvement,” says Kuseni Dlamini, CEO Old Mutual Emerging Markets. 52 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Our staff volunteer numbers dropped significantly in Masisizane 2010. This drop in numbers can be attributed to the Masisizane is a non-profit organisation focusing on introduction of new measures to ensure due diligence; initiatives geared towards generating sustainable Customers changes in funding and programme structure; and the economic and social benefit for communities across initial difficulty in adapting to these changes. We will South Africa. These initiatives are financed from the address these issues during 2011. sale of shares following the closure of the Old Mutual Unclaimed Shares Trust in 2006. The budget allocation Staff donations through payroll giving since inception for 2010 was R650 million. of the programme in 2002 totals R6.4 million. The expansion of the programme from 2008 to 2009 was Masisizane aims to: due to the visible involvement of top executive support • Provide affordable access to loan financing for for the programme, proving that leadership by example entrepreneurs who are currently excluded from Financial has the greatest impact. Contributors represent less traditional funding sources. than 10% of our workforce, so there is huge potential to expand this programme. • Help improve the long-term sustainability of small advisers medium and micro-enterprises through skills Our Staff Community Builder programme application capacity building and marketing assistance. process went through a transition in 2010, resulting • Make a lasting social impact in communities in a reduced number of project applications coming nationally, while prioritising areas of greatest need. through. We anticipate a steady increase in applications for 2011. Breakdown of Masisizane fund allocation Investing The Old Mutual Property Green Support Programme Investment aims to encourage, support and recognise staff Current Masisizane initiatives (R million) responsibly members who give of their time, energy and talents SME financing 375 to play an active role in the development of their Financial education 60 communities. Annually, Old Mutual Property staff can iLima Trust 50 apply for a maximum of R3 000 to support projects Technical and marketing support 40 that they are actively involved in around youth Our workplace Promotion 25 development, education, skills development and job creation, community development, health and welfare, Micro-financing 100 early childhood development, special needs education Total 650 and culture. Case study Supporting women in small-scale farming Building equity While Mrs Nduzulwana enjoyed small-scale farming on bookkeeping, business management practices her whole life and bought a farm in 2008 under the and farming methods. Land Affairs Department’s programme, she was struck by disaster in the form of a severe drought. Through hard work and ongoing support from Not able to borrow money from commercial banks, Masisizane, the farm is thriving with 200 000 Mrs Nduzulwana approached Masisizane for a loan broiler chickens, along with a dairy, piggery, meat of R700 000, which enabled her to rehabilitate the processing plant and abattoir, vegetable tunnels and boreholes on the farm, purchase 70 dairy cattle and 30 hard-working employees. a battery of chickens, replace milking machinery, Ethics buy extra feed to prevent malnutrition, and improve Mrs Nduzulwana was named 2010 Female Farmer of conditions at the abattoir. In addition to the loan, the Year for the Eastern Cape. Masisizane provided technical support and guidance Environment Emerging markets 53 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BUILDING EQUITY >> Providing opportunities and platforms to address past imbalances in South Africa (continued) Sponsorships While Old Mutual acknowledges that its sponsorship activities are primarily related to marketing the company and building its brand, these sponsorships, covering a wide range from sporting activities to arts and culture, build emotional links with various customer and population groups, as well as the broader community. As can be seen from the accompanying graph, Old Mutual South Africa’s sponsorship increased over the last three years, with the intention to maintain it at current levels through 2011. 39.95 39.67 42.95 Million Old Mutual’s sponsorship portfolio is focused on road 2008 2009 2010 running, football, golf, arts and culture. Educational aspects of social and environmental awareness are also raised through these events through promoting Sponsorship spend volunteerism, the development of talent for the underprivileged, recycling, etc. Road running Arts and Culture We are the title sponsor of the largest road race in For the past 23 years we have sponsored the Africa, the Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon. This event Old Mutual National Choir Festival. This important attracts in excess of 27 000 runners with participants event uses choral music to bring communities and from South Africa, Africa and around the world; cultures together. The festival was nominated for a contributing approximately R230 million to the GDP of Business and Arts South Africa (BASA) award in 2010, the Western Cape. We are also title sponsors of the Om attracting over 17 000 choristers and nearly 150 000 die Dam Marathon in the North Western Province as attendees (including 4 110 Old Mutual staff and 320 well as the Buffs Marathon in the Eastern Cape. Old Mutual staff volunteers). The Old Mutual concerts Old Mutual is also a sponsor of various smaller road at Kirstenbosch, Emmerentia and the Durban Botanic races throughout South Africa. Gardens provide the opportunity for South African bands to perform and display their talent to a diverse audience. Over 5 600 trees were planted to offset the environmental impact. 54 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Golf Old Mutual has a number of golf sponsorships with the its kind in the world with nearly 1 000 players. We also largest being the Old Mutual International Pairs, the sponsor the Old Mutual Schools Golf Challenge as well Customers South African leg of the largest amateur golf event of as the Nomads Golf Association. Financial advisers Investing responsibly Football Old Mutual South Africa was the founding partner of The Old Mutual Football Academy was formed in 2002 the Dreamfields project along with BHP Billiton. This with the aim of giving talented young footballers from initiative assists communities by bringing sustainable underprivileged backgrounds the opportunity to become Our workplace soccer fields and equipment to disadvantaged professional footballers. To date, nine players from the communities across South Africa. Old Mutual is also Academy made it to the ranks of the Premier Soccer the financial services partner to three PSL clubs, Ajax League. Cape Town, Bloemfontein Celtic and Moroka Swallows. Building equity Ethics Environment The Old Mutual Mangaung Cup Mangaung Cup fact sheet The Old Mutual Mangaung Cup in Bothshabelo, a Number of attendees 22 500 pre-season tournament, features the three PSL teams that Old Mutual supports and provides Number of schools that hosted a Dreamfields event 24 the local community with the opportunity to see Number of informal vendors supported 50 top-class football. This sponsorship fulfils the Number of staff attended 350 company’s intent to support local football as well Emerging as complements its business and socio-economic Contribution to Bothshabelo GDP R4 million development initiatives in the region. Number of charity beneficiaries from event 6 markets 55 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 ETHICS Promoting ethical behaviour amongst all stakeholders to ensure overall sustainability of the business Material issue >> Combating fraud Old Mutual prides itself on its ethical standards, the Group. The number of fraud incidents with the board continuing to review the reported has increased during 2010, primarily as management of standards and striving to build a result of a spike in fictitious policies. and sustain an ethical corporate culture within >> Combating fraud Financial losses due to fraud have, however, declined. The number of finalised and proven cases of fraud The Group’s comprehensive, proactive anti-fraud increased in 2010. Group Forensics Services (GFS) strategy focuses on improving cyber-crime detection recovered or prevented R53.23 million in 2010. and prevention capability, as well as fraud reporting capabilities, thereby providing business units with early Action taken against perpetrators increased in line with warning information on fraud trends and emerging the number of incidents reported. fraud risks affecting their business sectors. Anti-bribery, corruption and security Incidence of fraud sanctions On noticing a general increase in the submission of The new UK Bribery Bill, which will affect Old Mutual fictitious policies, the life assurance industry issued a Emerging Markets business units and employees, press release urging consumers to check their bank updates and consolidates existing UK anti-bribery and statements and salary slips routinely every month. corruption legislation, provides for new offences and Old Mutual South Africa also experienced an increase extends the UK Government’s territorial legislative in the incidents of fictitious business. The increase in reach. The Bill includes a new criminal offence, namely the number of incidents of fraud from 2009 to 2010 the failure of a commercial organisation to prevent is mainly as a result of two external matters involving a bribe being paid by it or on its behalf. In order to the submission of large-scale fictitious business in the comply with the Bill and protect itself from potential Retail Mass Market segment. prosecution, we must demonstrate that Old Mutual 56 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Emerging Markets has adequate prevention procedures conflicts of interest, moonlighting, gifts and whistlein place. The main sections of the Bill are likely to be blowing. Group Forensic Services (GFS) is mandated by introduced in 2011. Old Mutual’s board of directors with implementing the Customers strategy, and independently and objectively investigates Government-sanctioned legislation prohibits business all suspicious activity and reported incidents. relationships with named persons or entities, and has a potentially significant impact on the Group because The policy applies to all employees within the Group. breaches can lead to criminal prosecution and heavy Every employee has a general duty to act in the best regulatory fines. This risk is significantly increased by interest of Old Mutual and report any dishonest or the Group’s US presence and UK listing. We need to unethical conduct. Reports can be made directly to carefully consider the consequent impact on Old Mutual GFS, or anonymously. Confidentiality is respected Emerging Markets. throughout. Financial The Group Business Protection Unit (GBPU) ensures Old Mutual communicates extensively with its that all the Group’s business units have sufficiently employees on its Code of Ethics and whistle-blowing advisers robust controls in place to manage the risk of policies. The number of tip-offs received by the corruption. The programme requires business units to independent anonymous fraud reporting hotline, understand and document their bribery and sanctions Tip-Offs Anonymous, decreased in 2010. risks, have policies in place that ensure compliance with relevant legislation and monitor these effectively, and In Kenya, Namibia, Malawi and Swaziland, all branches ensure that CEOs sign off on these processes. were sent posters promoting our confidentiality campaign. Old Mutual Zimbabwe now also subscribes to Investing The risk of bribery and corruption the whistle-blowing facility and staff training will take Old Mutual South Africa, Colombia, Mexico, Africa and place early in 2011. responsibly China have completed an assessment of their antibribery and corruption and sanctions risk. Where risks Old Mutual’s annual employee engagement survey have been identified, actions to mitigate the risks have includes an assessment of employees’ views on the been specified. The risk assessments and adequacy of company’s values. One of these values is integrity, controls have been submitted to GBPU for review and which can be used as a proxy for attitudes towards Our workplace approval. ethical behaviour. In 2010, improvements in the integrity rating were made across the category with Locally, Old Mutual South Africa’s anti-bribery ‘acknowledgment of mistakes’ showing the greatest and corruption (ABC) risk is medium to low and is year-on-year increase. adequately mitigated both by South African legislation and Old Mutual policies. In our African Operations, In a wider context, we communicate research on fraud ABC risk is high and ABC-specific legislation in the trends to business units and continue to develop and countries in which we operate is inadequate. Our policy communicate fraud-related policies. Building equity framework in these countries does not sufficiently mitigate the corruption risk and is being addressed. Old Mutual compliance with regulations In upholding our ethical standards, we will comply with In Mexico, the ABC risk is rated high, and in Colombia various items of legislation that have recently been and China medium. A mixture of appropriate training, promulgated, or are imminent, and which will affect our due diligence and recruitment vetting processes have business processes. Legislation includes the Protection been developed and are being implemented. of Personal Information, amendments to FAIS and FICA Acts, amendments to the FAIS Conflict of Interest For our African Operations, exposure to sanctions regulations and voluntary compliance with the UK obligations is regarded as minimal and existing Treating Customers Fairly initiative. We will in future practices are regarded as adequate. In Mexico, comply with the South African TCF requirements once specific residence restrictions required by legislation these have been put in place. Ethics will be included in all future investment agreements. Our Colombia operations comply with US sanctions Old Mutual is also preparing to respond to closer legislation. Specific measures are in place in China. attention by regulators. We expect increased requests for information and tighter controls from the Financial Whistle-blowing strategy Services Board (FSB). The Group has dual reporting Old Mutual has in place a comprehensive, proactive requirements, about which the FSB is particularly Environment strategy to prevent fraud. The strategy integrates sensitive. The cost of compliance is escalating – in itself policies covering the Code of Ethics, fraud, theft, a risk – and managing the mass of existing and new corruption, cyber-crime and internal irregularities, legislation with existing resources will be a challenge. “While the writing of fictitious policies is of concern to the life insurance industry, the good news is that most large financial services companies have dedicated forensic departments that will assist with the speedy investigation and prosecution of advisers submitting fictitious policies. And you will receive a refund of the premiums deducted from your salary or bank account.” Emerging Peter Dempsey: Deputy CEO of the Association for Savings and Investment South Africa (ASISA) markets 57 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 ENVIRONMENT Impacting positively on the environment The OMSA crèche was constructed in 2008 along green building principles including compact fluorescent lights (CFLs), automatic (nonessential) light switch-offs out of hours, daylight sensor controls on external lighting and area-specific lighting to reduce energy usage. Material issues >> Conducting our business in a more environmentally-friendly manner >> Raising employee awareness to influence all Old Mutual stakeholders towards environmentally-aware decisions >> Contributing positively to the environment through the way we manage our properties >> Contributing positively to the environment through the properties we develop >> Influencing positive environmental change through investment decision-making* * Covered in the ‘Investing responsibly’ chapter At Old Mutual we recognise that we affect way we manage and develop properties. These the environment both directly and indirectly initiatives have now been combined into an and acknowledge that we should reduce approved Old Mutual Property strategy which will negative impact and contribute positively now be expanded to include the entire Old Mutual wherever possible. Many of the Old Mutual Emerging Markets (OMEM). This more structured initiatives in this area have been rolled out by approach will help us to leverage greater an Old Mutual Property task team. These involve improvements, to communicate more formally looking at how we do our business, raising with our stakeholders and to encourage positive awareness of environmental issues and improving environmental impact. our environmental performance through the 58 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance The table below lists the indicators we have chosen to measure our environmental performance. Our aim is to reduce our emissions by 20% by the year 2020. As we are using 2010 as our base year for comparison, not all figures are available for prior years. >> Customers Indicators 2010 2009 2008 Emissions from the business* Travel carbon emissions (tonnes) 3 632 Amount of printing – measured in number of tree equivalents 49 60 Glass recycled (kg) 230 560 229 093 316 700 Financial Paper and cardboard recycled (kg) 1 618 250 1 962 396 1 523 700 advisers Plastic recycled (All types) (kg) 326 510 312 306 241 700 Metal and cans recycled (kg) 116 510 45 270 104 400 Emissions from the property portfolio** (information only for Mutualpark) Electricity consumption (kWh) 597 962 230 552 364 472 270 985 920 Investing Water consumption (kl) 4 199 181 4 100 604 1 068 302 Waste not recycled (kg) 4 354 480 4 698 320 – Waste recycled (kg) 2 291 830 2 549 065 2 186 500 responsibly * These results would ultimately be expressed per employee to aid with comparisons Improved No Needs First year change attention 2010 ** These results would ultimately be expressed per m2 area under management Our workplace >> Conducting our business in a more prompted the monitoring of business travel-related carbon emissions throughout Old Mutual South Africa, environmentally-friendly manner providing a baseline figure for future reductions. We Old Mutual recognises the importance of reducing its have followed this up in 2010 with the purchase of environmental impact and enhancing the environment a Microsoft collaboration tool that allows local and through the way it conducts its business. Old Mutual international instant messaging and conferencing to can best maximise its sustainability contribution by further enhance travel savings within the Group. Building equity co-ordinating its environmental strategy with the three main thrusts of the Group’s climate change strategy: Since 2009, all printing within Old Mutual Property • To continually improve the comprehensiveness and has been measured and the total amount of paper accuracy of our emissions data. printed annually is converted into the number of trees used. A minimum of the equivalent number of trees • To create initiatives to engage all stakeholders and is then planted to neutralise the effect of printing. enable participation. As an example, in 2009, Old Mutual Property printed • Set a target at Group and local level in 2011. the paper equivalent of 60 trees, and planted 250 replacement trees. Awareness drives and printing Old Mutual’s environmental policy therefore aims to double-sided in 2010 resulted in an 18% reduction in Ethics ensure that it complies with all relevant legislation and printing over 2009 figures. avoids the use of environmentally-harmful materials in the conduct of its business, limits consumption of Old Mutual uses its sponsorship activities to promote natural resources and practises effective recycling, environmentally-sustainable practices. Awarenesspromotes environmental awareness among its raising and provision of recycling facilities at the employees, and supports community activities that Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon resulted in 83% of promote environmental awareness and protection. all waste produced being recycled. Recycling efforts at Environment the Old Mutual concerts in the Western Cape recovered Realising the strategy involves the development of 15 706 kg of waste and Old Mutual sponsorship climate change initiatives with strong and reliable resulted in the planting of 5 623 trees in 2010. performance measurement indicators built in. Old Mutual Property, for example, goes further, aiming “As the challenges posed by climate change to deliver a 20% reduction in emissions per employee and a 20% reduction in emissions per m2 by 2020 from become more evident it is clear that no the 2010 base. business can ignore the environmental In 2009, Old Mutual Property established a pilot green impacts of its own operations.” travel policy. By the end of 2010, we had already Emerging Helen Wilson: Head of Corporate Responsibility: markets achieved a R5.7 million saving in travel costs and Old Mutual Group 59 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 ENVIRONMENT >> Impacting positively on the environment (continued) In 2010, the Group completed its fourth public The 360 trees planted will result in 135.3 tonnes of submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project and carbon dioxide being sequestrated over the next maintained its place on the FTSE and JSE leadership 15 years. The trees improve quality of life by providing index. The Group plans to develop tools and shade and food, and the project provides training to frameworks to help the business units deliver the community-based educators, short-term employment Group climate change strategy. Geographically, 97% and environmental awareness education. of Old Mutual’s carbon emissions originate in southern Africa, followed by the UK with 1.3% (2009 Scope 1 The Old Mutual Property stand at the South African and 2 emissions, including property portfolio). The Council of Shopping Centres in Cape Town in 2010 long-term savings business generates 86% of this. was constructed and run on a completely carbonAn overall carbon metric will be developed in 2011 to neutral basis by using wind power to power the stand. enable tracking of progress across the Group and it As part of the exhibit, we initiated a tree planting plans to expand the data-collection processes across all programme and showcased a ‘living wall’ which is business units. now growing well in our head office exhibition area. We distributed a Green Paper promoting Old Mutual Property and containing thought leadership articles >> Raising employee awareness to influence on the environment and sustainability. Finally, all Old Mutual stakeholders towards instead of collecting business cards, we used iPads to environmentally-aware decisions electronically capture potential customer details. Old Mutual is committed to raising employees’ Old Mutual Property has set the standard for carbon environmental awareness so that they can become neutral exhibition stands and it is our intention to environmental champions and a positive influence on continue the practice as a green signature. The Green the actions of the wider stakeholder community. We Paper was very successful and we plan to compile it recognise further that we need to develop a culture quarterly, not only to promote Old Mutual Property, but of sustainability within Old Mutual that is driven by also to continue playing a sustainability mentoring role key people within the business who can create and in the property industry. maintain employee commitment. Initially, internal communications around sustainability will focus on developing an understanding of sustainability and its >> Contributing positively to the links to Old Mutual’s value proposition. Subsequently, environment through the way we manage we will focus on promoting a sustainability mindset our properties along the value chain, allowing us to better engage with vendors, suppliers, tenants and investors on Historically, buildings and properties account for some sustainability. 7% of carbon emissions in a typical economy. Property management activities therefore present an ideal In November 2010, 360 trees were planted in River opportunity to improve the company’s carbon footprint. Park, Alexandra, as part of a joint initiative between Our focus in 2010 has been on stabilising the projects Old Mutual Corporate and Food and Trees for Africa. that we have implemented to ensure that savings are maintained. Following this, we aim to replicate the successes across portfolios as and where applicable. We are aware of our shortcomings in measuring and e-Filing to reduce paper usage and monitoring our resource use, especially at our leased office space offices. We need to ensure thorough and accurate In 2009, we started Project Caterpillar, which monitoring, develop carbon emission baselines and originally looked at how Old Mutual utilises office targets and put in place robust performance indicators space. As the project developed, opportunities in a documented management system for all the for improving the sustainability of Personal buildings that we manage. This will enable us to focus Financial Advisers’ (PFA) work styles became our efforts in a structured manner and report more apparent. These included flexitime working accurately and thoroughly. to reduce congestion-period commuting and a paperless e-Filing initiative, which reduces “The principles of protection and printing and paper use and the need for paper storage dramatically. Remote access through sustainable growth underlying our tree e-Filing also reduces commuting by improving planting initiative can equally be applied to the PFAs’ access to client information from financial resources in the form of retirement outside the office, and is expected to generate a forecast annualised office space rental saving savings. Our sustainable investment after our first year of R7.2 million. We plan to philosophy is aimed at achieving similar introduce an additional three pilots in 2011, protection and sustainable growth for our which will translate into a forecast 30% of our adviser force using e-Filing and storage by the customers’ retirement savings.” end of 2011. Bongani Madikiza: Managing Director, Old Mutual Corporate 60 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Old Mutual Property recognises the benefits of employing new technologies and management Case study techniques to improve the resource efficiency of Customers its buildings. While more robust data collection has Windhoek green building increased our overall energy consumption figures, we have, over the course of 2010, managed to maintain We officially opened our 21-storey Mutual and marginally increase our savings in energy and Tower in Windhoek in May 2010. The building water use. is one of the first commercial green buildings in Namibia, consuming 40% less energy than The use of advanced air-conditioning controls helped us conventional office buildings. This was achieved maintain energy savings at five Old Mutual buildings in through maximising the use of natural light and the Western Cape and realised savings at the Menlyn creating a cascading curtain of plants to provide Park Shopping Centre in Gauteng of approximately protection from the Sun. The building also Financial uses energy-efficient light sources and control advisers 875 000 kWh per month. systems to reduce consumption, an evaporative We have continued to implement high efficiency lighting fresh air cooling system, solar energy for heating replacement initiatives; one trial delivered a 30% purposes and ground water use to reduce reduction in lighting energy consumption. We have consumption from the city’s main supply by increased the use of timers, zoned sensor lighting and 50%. A recycling system is also in place. perimeter sensors for natural daylight adjustment. Investing In addition, we are investigating the use of thermal under management. For our existing portfolio, we plan storage to assist electrical load shift and are upgrading to develop a Green Building Strategy for each building, responsibly lift motors to high efficiency machines with regenerative including defined carbon emission targets. We will also drives and energy-saving destination control systems. investigate the implementation of green leases and levies, using examples of green leasing from Europe We are working to reduce the water used in the to introduce the discussion to the building industry in properties that we manage through air-conditioner South Africa. and rain water harvesting, using treated effluent for Our workplace irrigation and upgrading toilet facilities with low-flow Old Mutual Property is a member of the Green Building taps and, where appropriate, automation. Council of South Africa (GBCSA), which offers an ideal forum for the setting of benchmarks for the >> Contributing positively to the industry in South Africa. We attend the GBCSA’s annual conference to learn and to help foster a green building environment through the properties we culture change within Old Mutual Property. Old Mutual develop has applied these GBCSA’s Best Practice Guidelines Property development offers an opportunity to Matrix and Implementation Framework in the design Building equity invest in a more environmentally-friendly manner and development of Mutual Place, its proposed new and to create a built environment with a smaller Sandton head office premises. And furthermore, these environmental footprint than in the past. Old Mutual principles, although not legislated, were applied to the Property recognises that it has a significant role to play design of Namibia’s Mutual Tower head office, which in persuading investors, asset managers, developers has been built along green lines (see case study). and contractors of the merits of green building, and continues to develop its ability to define the benefits Lastly, acting in our capacity as a financial institution, of green star-rated buildings. This in turn entails we have worked to help the mining industry fulfil its addressing the challenges of measuring the impact of statutory environmental asset rehabilitation obligations green development in order to inform strategies, goals by devising contribution strategies which ensure that Ethics and initiatives more accurately. The fact that 10% of sufficient funds are set aside in the event of premature the key performance indicators for Old Mutual Property mine closure. managers and teams are linked to green building philosophies and standards is proof that we intend to succeed in achieving our green goals. >> Influencing positive environmental change through investment decision-making Our environmental strategy has provided us with a (covered in the ’Investing responsibly’ chapter on Environment structured approach to improving the environmental page 30) sustainability of the buildings we develop. We have developed our thinking and the approach we adopt In June 2010, Zonk’isizwe, a mixed-use towards the investor market in order to promote development in the Old Mutual Property pipeline, green buildings, to define green building strategies was announced as the winner of the 2010 Global for buildings in our existing portfolio, and to integrate RLI Future Project Award. The design sets a new green building elements in the buildings that we are standard for the future of eco-friendly South constructing. African developments and has been chosen Emerging The strategy has a framework and targets to reduce as one of the initial 16 projects of the global the resource consumption and environmental impact Climate Positive Development Programme. of Old Mutual Property as a business and its buildings markets 61 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 EMERGING MARKETS Integrating Sustainability into Emerging Markets beyond South Africa Our 21-storey Mutual Tower in Windhoek opened in May 2010. In addition to having operated in South Africa New Markets country overviews for 165 years, Old Mutual has been operational • Colombia in other African countries for over 100 years. We • Mexico have also operated in Colombia and Mexico since • China the 1950s and have more recently established • India joint ventures in China and India. The New Markets reporting changed in 2010 from African Operations country overviews Old Mutual plc. Both African Operations (through • Kenya the African Operations Central Unit) and New • Malawi Markets (Colombia, Mexico, China and India) • Namibia report into the CEO of Old Mutual Emerging • Swaziland Markets and governance processes have been • Zimbabwe aligned accordingly. 62 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Scale of New Markets country operations Number of Date of % Old Mutual Customers Country employees establishment ownership China 341 2004 (change of JV 50% partner: 2010) India 4 307 2001 26% Colombia 360 1953 100% Mexico 557 1959 100% Breakdown of New Markets operations Financial advisers Scale of African country operations Assets under Number of Number Date of Country management employees of clients establishment 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Kenya R6.9 R7 1 249 700 28 696 25 230 >80 yrs Investing responsibly billion billion Malawi R1.86 R2 101 100 11 734 11 724 >80 yrs billion billion Namibia R20 R17 576 535 142 444 137 000 >80 yrs billion billion Our workplace Swaziland R150 R52 33 20 10 722 10 656 >3 yrs million million Zimbabwe R7.5 R7 823 837 753 500 515 365 >100 yrs billion billion Total R36.41 Approx 2 782 2 192 947 369 699 975 billion R33.5 billion Building equity Breakdown of African operations We have a significant competitive advantage in our and governance issues, the need to provide affordable emerging markets, being able to leverage off our South products and services to lower income customers, African capability and often customising products to the responsible investment of policyholder funds, the suit various markets. We are the dominant (i.e. number increased pressure for skills and leadership capability, one) savings and investment company in Namibia, the need to uplift communities (and thus create future Zimbabwe, Swaziland and Malawi. In Colombia and markets), while ensuring protection of vulnerable Ethics Mexico, we service more than a third of the voluntary natural environments. pensions market and the growth of our businesses in Mexico and India is outpacing industry growth. While this report includes elements of the African Increasingly, Old Mutual Emerging Markets is looking to Operations and New Markets, in 2011 the reporting provide administrative support to all emerging market from all Emerging Market operations needs to be more regions from South Africa. incorporated to ensure that we are managing and reporting on sustainability in a holistic and effective A number of material issues affect the sustainability of manner. Environment our business in emerging markets. These include risk Emerging markets 63 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 EMERGING MARKETS >> Integrating Sustainability into Emerging Markets beyond South Africa (continued) A selection of sustainability activities in Emerging Markets in 2010 The framework for managing sustainability: Building a great place to work with people • All African Operations and Emerging Markets will fall who do great things under the Group Operating Manual (GOM), which • The Old Mutual Emerging Markets People Plan provides a framework within which governance and focuses on building human resources for both the risk management of the Group is formalised and short term and long term for all Emerging Markets strengthened. operations. Multinational leadership competence, • Old Mutual Emerging Markets is currently evaluating knowledge and skills will be partly facilitated its operations in other African and Emerging Markets through increased employee mobility. to assess the level of alignment with King III and to • The growth in Emerging Markets will present identify changes that would be effective in ensuring challenges and opportunities relating to diversity the required level of governance and control. – different cultures, with different governance and • Old Mutual Emerging Markets’ revised stakeholder leadership styles and skills. engagement approach will cover OMSA and the • The rest of the Emerging Markets (i.e. beyond South Emerging Markets. Africa) were included in the engagement survey for • In accordance with the Group requirements, Group the first time in 2010, with a 57% participation rate. Internal Audit interacts with the various governance • The subsidiaries have adopted a common approach groups within Emerging Markets and identifies and to business planning, financial management, audit, helps manage significant legislative or regulatory risk and remuneration. issues impacting Emerging Markets. • The ACT NOW! Leadership Actions will be rolled out to all Emerging Markets operations during 2011. Promoting ethical behaviour to ensure overall sustainability of the business • There are currently five secondments from South Africa to Emerging Markets and seven secondments • As of 2010, Old Mutual Group Forensic Services from South Africa to other operations in Africa. (OMGFS) exercises oversight of African Operations and Emerging Markets. Impacting positively on the environment • The Old Mutual Africa business has placed a Old Mutual Property’s commitment to green considerable emphasis on embedding a sound risk construction is not new and in fact commenced management, governance and control environment 20 years ago, with the construction of Eastgate Centre over the past four years. in Harare, which used design methods inspired by • OMSA, Colombia and Mexico, Africa and China have indigenous Zimbabwean masonry and the self-cooling completed an assessment of their Anti-bribery and mounds of African termites. Corruption (ABC) and Sanctions Risk. Where risks have been identified, actions to mitigate the risks have been specified. The risk assessments and adequacy of controls have been submitted to GCFPS for review and approval. The ABC risk in our African and Mexico operations is rated as high and in our Colombian and Chinese operations it is rated as medium. • A total of 6 756 employees across Kenya, Namibia, Malawi and Zimbabwe were provided with newsletters raising awareness on the confidentiality campaign. We also trained 7 751 employees on the Protection of Personal Information changes to FAIS and Old Mutual Zimbabwe now subscribes to the whistle-blowing facility. 64 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance New Market country overviews Colombia and Mexico China Customers Skandia Colombia was launched in 1953 and employs A joint venture was started by Skandia in China seven 400 people across seven cities in Colombia. The years ago, but in early 2010, Old Mutual teamed company is recognised as a premium brand that offers up with a new partner, China Guodian Capital Ltd, a long-term saving and investment products and services leading national company with interests in alternative to the market. Skandia Colombia is also a professional energy as well as financial services. The new joint portfolio asset manager, providing financial advice to venture is called Old Mutual Guodian, of which we own affluent clients as well as portfolio management to 50%. The joint operation employs 400 people, with some larger institutional investors. distribution largely through Chinese banks. Old Mutual also has a stakeholder relations office in China. Financial On the Risk and Governance side we have a welladvisers established ARC for Skandia’s businesses in Colombia and Mexico that works within GOM. Issues regarding India taxes, regulatory compliance, accreditation of advisers Old Mutual entered the Indian market 10 years ago and promotion of ethical behaviour are all dealt with by forming a joint venture with Kotak Bank. The joint under governance in the ARCs. The ARC reports venture is called Kotak Old Mutual Life Assurance through to the OMLACSA ARC. Company, of which we own 26%. Major regulatory changes in India in 2010 presented new challenges, but Investing Due to significant changes in regulation, Skandia also great opportunities. Colombia needed to strengthen the skills development responsibly programmes for and certification of its financial advisers In our Indian operations, we are educating and employees. To address this, we created a training and encouraging employees to become more programme aimed at e-learning for the distribution environmentally-friendly through a programme called force, employees and customers. We also implemented ‘One World. Handle With Care’. We also encourage a diversity programme for employees during the year. employees to conserve resources by recycling and Our workplace making use of recycled materials wherever possible. Skandia Mexico was launched in 1959 and has 500 We have saved approximately R2 million through our employees operating in 14 Mexico cities. About 350 of energy reduction initiatives. these employees are financial planners. The company aims to become the leader in long-term savings in Mexico. It offers retail affluent and corporate products China and India governance and services. On the Risk and Governance side, both China and India have active audit, risk and compliance (ARC) Building equity Skandia’s businesses in Colombia and Mexico’s CSI committees that apply high levels of governance programme is focused on providing education and standards. These committees meet and report on support to underprivileged and vulnerable children, with a quarterly basis to the respective boards in each projects such as: country. The OMLACSA Board as well as our joint venture partners’ Boards receive these reports. To Building the Future Together – Working with promote good governance and business sustainability adolescent orphans from a safe house to provide them and to assist in protecting our interest in these joint with the practical skills required to function in working ventures, Old Mutual chairs the ARC in China and vicelife. chairs the ARC in India. Nelson Mandela Day Celebration – To celebrate Nelson Mandela Day, at Skandia’s businesses in Ethics Colombia and Mexico, employees donated their time to help those in need. “Recently we changed the web page, with the aim of customers knowing more 2010 was the Skandia Green year. We developed different activities to protect and raise awareness of the about the products that we offer and environment, including campaigns for recycling, saving consulting with customers so they´re Environment resources and sorting waste. Through these activities, we are working to establish an atmosphere of respect closer to Skandia. We’ll be on Twitter and care of resources beyond the workplace. very soon and we will launch a Channel Guide too.” Florencia Zorrilla: Head of Legal and Compliance, Skandia Colombia and Mexico Emerging markets 65 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 EMERGING MARKETS >> Integrating Sustainability into Emerging Markets beyond South Africa (continued) African operations country overviews Kenya Malawi Launched 80 years ago, Old Mutual Kenya pioneered Old Mutual Malawi was established more than 80 years unit trusts and offshore investments in the country and ago, with 56 employees currently serving 11 734 continues to lead in both asset management and unit customers and assets under management of R2 billion. trusts. The business currently services 28 788 retail clients and 181 corporate clients and has assets under Risk management and governance systems and management of about R7 billion. procedures are well established and in alignment with the Group Operating Manual. Corporate sector products and services include unit trusts, group life cover and annuities and pension fund To ensure that our stakeholder engagement is management. The Retail sector offers private wealth undertaken in a structured and effective manner, EXCO management, unit trusts, risk products and annuities. members and Managers mapped out 12 categories of A mass market risk product aimed at providing for stakeholders that are managed on a weekly, monthly the needs of the uninsured populace with life cover, and quarterly basis according to a stakeholder education and investment plans has been provided engagement plan. Our major stakeholder is government since 2009. and we sit on the pension reform committee with the Reserve Bank of Malawi and the trade unions. We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. Old Mutual Kenya has a zero tolerance The principal regulators for the Old Mutual Malawi position on corruption and employees must perform business are the Reserve Bank of Malawi, the Ministry their duties in accordance with the best interests of of Finance, the Registrar of Insurance and the Old Mutual Kenya and not use their positions or Commissioner of Taxes as the Registrar of Pensions. A knowledge gained through their employment with robust system is in place that monitors changes in the Old Mutual Kenya for private or personal gain. regulatory environment that might affect our business activities. We use stakeholder engagement to collect feedback and to help us enhance our relations. We therefore map Our customers are managed through financial advisers and interact with our stakeholders regularly and ensure who communicate all changes to rates, regulatory that we communicate with different groups in ways requirements, business and reforms on a regular basis. that are meaningful to them and understood by them. Old Mutual Malawi provides continuous training and We provide financial education in an effort to increase refreshers for financial advisers and agents to ensure financial literacy and develop fair pricing models that knowledge growth and better service to existing and deliver real value to customers. We also market our potential customers. products in a responsible manner and ensure that each solution which we provide matches our customers’ In terms of corporate social investment, in 2010 we personal circumstances and risk profiles. Our financial provided funding to support a cancer initiative at the advisers are provided with frequent in-house training to Mwaiwathu private hospital, visited and donated items enhance their professionalism and quality of service to to the elderly and people living or affected with our customers. HIV/Aids in Chipagala village and supported NAPHAM, a local NGO. Old Mutual Kenya has a recently-developed corporate social investment programme which maintains a focus on sustainability and impact. The programme profiles Old Mutual as a leader in corporate social investment, positions Old Mutual Kenya as a caring corporate citizen, provides support for the needy and builds strong associations with projects close to communities’ hearts. Staff are also heavily involved in the company’s CSI activities. In order to impact positively on the environment, we encourage staff to adopt environmentally-friendly practices by recycling reusable resources, avoiding the production of waste and saving energy used at work. 66 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Namibia Swaziland Customers Old Mutual Namibia was established 80 years ago and While OMSA had serviced clients in Swaziland from is currently one of Namibia’s most dominant financial South Africa for several years, in 2008 OMSA chose to services companies and a leader in life insurance, establish a fully-fledged business in the country. asset management and pension fund administration. A The company currently employs 23 people who serve group of over 200 financial advisers and 150 contracted 10 731 customers and has assets under management independent advisers provide financial advice and of R150 million, significantly up from R52 million in education to customers. Old Mutual Namibia has 2009. R20 billion in total assets under management. We actively engage with our stakeholders to ensure Financial Governance and control has been made a strategic that we are aware of regulatory changes and that we advisers focus area for Old Mutual Namibia. We have a remain compliant. We are actively driving towards compliance function that is embedded in the business the investment of 30% of assets in the local market, and is being strengthened as part of the brief of have obtained a local shareholder investment of 15% the new Governance Executive. In order to ensure in the business and have widened our offering to the integrity of our business, we conduct routine forensic corporate market in Swaziland. We ensure the provision investigations to detect and root out fraudulent of professional financial advice through regular training business that could adversely affect our business for all our employees and brokers. Investing sustainability. We also ensure that any fraudulent sales people are barred from practising by the industry Old Mutual Swaziland’s involvement in CSI initiatives responsibly regulator so as to protect members of society from included adopting the Khayalethu Emmanuel Orphanage unscrupulous financial advisers. in Mbabane and donating 76 blankets, party packs and a large number of story books to the orphanage. We have an alternative investments fund to support Old Mutual Swaziland was also involved in the “Warm domestic infrastructural investments which has invested Up a Child Campaign”, where we made a donation of Our workplace approximately R300 million since its inception in 2004. school uniforms to learners at Maloma Primary School. We have also embarked on a property development strategy that will be effective in 2011 to further support We have made improvements in providing recognition economic development. to staff for contributions made during the year and we have greatly improved our climate survey score. Our investment strategy ensures customer security In addition, our performance and talent management at all times but also meets customer needs in line practices have matured and we are encouraging staff to with individual risk appetites. In addition, we share understand the wider business through multi-skilling. Building equity information across our offices in a routine manner to provide a more comprehensive and consistent service Zimbabwe to our customers. All our advisers are comprehensively trained and equipped with the necessary equipment to With R7.5 billion in assets under management and do business. an increase in customer numbers from 515 365 to 753 500, Old Mutual Zimbabwe remains the largest Old Mutual Namibia allocates 1% of after-tax profit to financial services company in the country and is Corporate Social Investment (CSI) initiatives annually. the largest single investor on the Zimbabwe Stock We provide bursaries to 10 students annually to study Exchange. Our services are provided by a staff at higher education institutions and provide financial compliment of 823 people. Ethics support (soft loans) and accredited training in business management to small-scale businesswomen, with seven We regularly engage with the regulators (Commissioner beneficiaries targeted annually. of Insurance), the ministries of Finance, Indigenisation and Empowerment, the Zimbabwe Association of Old Mutual Namibia’s new 21-storey head office is Pension Funds (ZAPF) and Life Offices Association the first ‘green building’ in Namibia. The building (LOA) on issues that concern the insurance industry. relies heavily on natural sunlight, uses 40 percent We consider governance issues in investment decisions less energy, has halved its reliance on Windhoek’s and consider environmental and social issues in terms Environment underground water supply and uses an evaporative of deciding which type of project to invest in. Financial cooling system that further significantly reduces advisers are provided with regular training and support electricity and carbon emissions. We are also planning and insist on the ethical conduct of all employees based to utilise green principles as we expand our property on the Code of Ethics. portfolio by developing new shopping centres in various towns in the country. We undertake a number of projects to impact positively on communities. In December 2010, we commissioned the Old Mutual Technology Centre in Mzilikazi, Bulawayo to provide access to computers and services such as internet and e-mail to children and the wider Emerging community. markets 67 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Index In preparing this year’s report, we have drawn on the GRI’s G3 reporting guidelines. A review of Old Mutual South Africa’s status against each of the GRI G3 and GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement reporting criteria as covered in the 2010 sustainability report is provided in the table below. GRI Indicator Source Page STRATEGY AND PROFILE Statement by the CEO Long-term Savings, Old Mutual plc; and Chairman, Old Mutual Emerging 1.1 8, 9 Markets About this report IFC 1.2 Material issues table 2 Governance 10 About Old Mutual Group 4 Customers 18 Old Mutual plc Annual Report 2.1-2.4, 2.6 & 2.9 Environment 58 Emerging Markets 62 www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/company-profile/old-mutual-south-africa.aspx 2.5 Emerging Markets 62 Customers 18 2.7 Emerging Markets 62 Our workplace 36 2.8 Emerging Markets 62 2.10 Throughout the report 3.1-3.4 & 3.6-3.13 About this report IFC Governance 10 3.5 Material issues table 2 Governance 10 4.1-4.7 Environment 58 Ethics 56 About this report IFC 4.8-4.9 Governance 10 Environment 58 4.10-4.17 Governance 10 MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC Investing responsibly 30 EC1 Building equity 44 Our workplace 36 Environment 58 EC2-EC5 Full GRI table in web report EC6 Building equity 44 EC7 Emerging Markets 62 Investing responsibly 30 EC8 Building equity 44 Customers 18 EC9 Building equity 44 GRI Additional Financial Services Sector Indicator Supplement Core indicator 68 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 GRI Indicator Source Page ENVIRONMENTAL EN1, EN4-EN5, EN7EN8, EN14, EN16Environment 58 EN18, EN22, EN26, EN29 EN2-EN3, EN9, EN11, EN19, EN23These are not regarded as material for Old Mutual EN25, EN27, EN30 EN3, EN10-EN13, EN15, EN20-EN21, These are not reported on by Old Mutual EN30 EN6 Investing responsibly 30 EN28 Governance 10 SOCIAL Our workplace 36 LA1-LA5, LA8-LA14 Emerging Markets 62 LA6-LA7 These are not regarded as material for Old Mutual HR1-HR2, HR4, These are largely unreported. Full GRI table in web report HR6-9 HR3, HR5 Our workplace 36 Building equity 44 SO1 Investing responsibly 30 SO2-SO4 Ethics 56 SO5 Governance 10 SO6-SO8 Full GRI table in web report FS13-FS14 Access to the disadvantaged Customers 18 Environment 58 Management of products for FS1-FS5 Investing responsibly 30 environmental and social aspects Governance 10 Customers 18 Proportion of business with social FS6-FS9 Investing responsibly 30 and environmental benefits Building equity 44 Ownership aspects re social and FS10-12 Investing responsibly 30 environmental components PR1-PR2 These are not regarded as material by Old Mutual FS15-FS16 & PR3Customers 18 PR9 GRI Additional Financial Services Sector Indicator Supplement Core indicator Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ GRI G3 Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for application level 1.1 Level C plus: Level B 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 requirements G3 Profile 3.1 – 3.8 3.9, 3.13 In applying the GRI Disclosures 3.10 – 3.12 4.5 – 4.13, Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 indicators to our 4.1 – 4.4, 4.16 – 4.17 Standard Disclosures 4.14 – 4.15 material issues in this report, G3 Management Not required Management Approach Management Approach Approach Disclosures for each Indicator Disclosures for each Indicator Old Mutual South Disclosures Category Category Africa is selfdeclaring at a Report on a Report on a minimum of 20 Respond to each Core G3 and minimum of ten Performance Indicators, including Sector Supplement Indicator C Level application. G3 Performance Performance at least one from each of: with due regard to the The following Indicators Indicators, economic, environment, human Materiality Principle by either: table provides a and Sector including at least rights, labour, society and a) reporting on the indicator or summary of the Supplement one from each of: product responsibility areas b) explaining the reason for its GRI’s requirements Performance social, economic omission Indicators for different levels of and environment compliance. areas 69 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Detailed list of stakeholders We need to engage with a range of stakeholder groups to understand their concerns, communicate with them and learn from them. These groups include: Society Political parties • Our people: Old Mutual plc board of directors, • All political parties OMLACSA board of directors, provincial management boards (PMB), sales force and all Trade unions employees in the Group • All trade unions representing over 5 500 employees • Faith-based organisations Organised Business Bodies • Media: local and international • Association for Black Accountants in SA (ABASA) • Local communities • Association for Black Securities and Investment Professionals (ABSIP) Business • Association for Savings and Investments SA (ASISA) • Customers: policyholders/customers and corporate clients (both locally and internationally) • Black Management Forum (BMF) • Shareholders • Business Arts South Africa (BASA) • Employees • Business Leadership SA (BLSA) • Distribution: IFAs, brokers and other intermediaries • Business Women Association (BWA) • The investment community in general • Business Unity South Africa (BUSA) • Specific sectors of the investment community • Institute of Directors in South Africa (IoDSA) (e.g. FTSE4Good) • National Business Initiative (NBI) • Companies and institutions in which we are invested • NEPAD Business Foundation • Suppliers • South African Chamber of Commerce and Industries • Business partners (SACCI) • Black business partners (BBP) – WIPHOLD and • South African Savings Institute (SASI) Brimstone • NGOs and SMMEs supported by the Foundation and Masisizane Government • Government: National, provincial and local • State-owned enterprises (SOE) • Institutions of democracy • Financial Services Board South African Reserve Bank (SARB) 70 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 BEE certification MEASURED ENTERPRISE Company Name Old Mutual (South Africa) Limited Refer Annexure A for subsidiaries included in the verification Trade Name OMSA Location Jan Smuts Drive Pinelands, Cape Town Registration Number 1998/012276/06 Vat Number 4880103785 Certificate Number OLD 00726 REV 3 B-BBEE SCORE PER ELEMENT Equity Ownership 17.81 Management & Control 7.46 Employment Equity 11.07 Skills Development 12.09 Preferential Procurement 18.56 Enterprise Development 15.00 Socio Economic Development 5.00 Total Score 86.99 B-BBEE STATUS 86.99 BBBEE Procurement Recognition Level 125% BBBEE Status Level Two Contributor Black Ownership 32.57% Black Female Ownership 11.45% ValueAdding Supplier Yes Enterprise Development Beneficiary Yes Beneficiary Category Category B Applicable Scorecard Generic Scorecard Applicable BEE Code Gazetted Codes 29617 Verification Date 22 October 2010 Expiry Date 21 October 2011 Turchian Davie Verification Manager AQRate has assessed and verified the relevant B-BBEE Elements of the above mentioned enterprise, to provide an independent and impartial opinion on the BEE status of the enterprise, based on the Broad-Based BEE Codes of Good Practice (Codes 000-800). BVA 021 www.aqrate.co.za 71 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 Glossary ABASA Association for Black Accountants in South Africa IFA Independent Financial Advisers ABC Anti-bribery and corruption ILO International Labour Organisation ABSIP Association for Black Securities and Investment IoDSA The Institute of Directors in Southern Africa Professionals JSE Johannesburg Stock Exchange AIIF African Infrastructure Investment Fund JSE SRI JSE socially responsible investment AIIF2 African Infrastructure Investment Fund 2 KIEF Kagiso Infrastructure Empowerment Fund AIIM African Infrastructure Investment Managers (Pty) KTI Kagiso Trust Investments Ltd KYC Know Your Client ARC Audit, risk and compliance LOA Life Offices Association ASISA Association for Savings and Investment South Africa MAP Management advancement programme BASA Business and Arts South Africa MBA Masters of Business Administration BBBEE Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment NAFCOC National African Federated Chamber of Commerce BBP Black Business Partners NAMPOL Namibian Police BEE Black Economic Empowerment NBI National Business Initiative BLSA Business Leadership SA NEDLAC The National Economic Development and Labour Council BMF Black Management Forum NEPAD The New Partnership for Africa’s Development BO Black-owned NGO Non-governmental organisation BUSA Business Unity South Africa NHFC National Housing Finance Corporation BWA Business Women Association NOCCI Northern Cape Chamber of Commerce and BWO Black Woman-owned Industries CABS Old Mutual Zimbabwe NPS Net promoter score CCA Committee for Customer Affairs NURCHA National Urban Reconstruction and Housing Agency CCMA The Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and OLG Open learning group Arbitration OMAM Old Mutual Asset Managers CNY Chinese Yuan Renminbi OMBUS Old Mutual Business School CoGTA Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Old Mutual Old Mutual Emerging Markets Comanco Community Growth Management Company (Pty) Ltd OMF Old Mutual Finance COSAS The Congress of South African Students OMGFS Old Mutual Group Forensic Services CSI Corporate social investment OMIGSA Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa DIRCO The Department of International Relations and CoOMLACSA Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa operation OMSTA Old Mutual Service Technology and Administration DoE Department of Education PERCCI Port Elizabeth Chamber of Commerce and DSM Eskom Demand Side Management Industries dti Department of Trade and Industry PFA Pension Funds Adjudicator EE Employment equity POA Principle Officers Association EMS Economic and management sciences PPI Protection of Personal Information ESG Environmental, social and governance PWM Personal Wealth Management EVF Entrepreneurial Ventures Fund REFIT Department of Energy’s Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff FAIS Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act RMM Retail mass market FSB Financial Services Board SABCOHA SA Business Coalition on HIV/Aids FSC Financial Sector Charter FSP Financial Service Providers SACCI South African Chamber of Commerce and Industries FTE Fixed-term employees SAFPS South African Fraud Prevention Service FTFA Old Mutual Corporate and Food and Trees for Africa SAIBPP South African Institute of Black Property Practitioners FWP The Financial Well-being Programme SAIF South Africa Infrastructure Fund GBCSA Green Building Council of South Africa SA-NCC South Africa-Nigeria Chamber of Commerce GCFPS Group Financial Crime Prevention and Security SAPS South African Police Services GFS Group Forensic Services SASBO The Finance Union GIA Group Internal Audit SASI South African Savings Institute GOM Group Operating Manual SRI Socially Responsible Investment GRI Global Reporting Index TCF Treating Customers Fairly HIFSA Housing Impact Fund for South Africa TES Temporary employment services HP High performance TOPP Training outside of public practice IC Independent contractors UNGC United Nations Global Compact ICASA The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa UNPRI United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment iCRaFT Integrated Capital, Risk and Financial Transformation WILF Women in Leadership Forum IDEAS Infrastructural, Developmental and Environmental WITS University of the Witswatersrand Assets Managed Fund WWF SA World Wide Fund for Nature South Africa IEFM Empowerment Fund Managers ZAPF Zimbabwe Association of Pension Funds 72 Old Mutual Emerging Markets Sustainability Report 2010 TM sweet paper by The 2010 Old Mutual Sustainability Report is printed on Sappi Masuga™ paper. Masuga™ is a locally produced uncoated paper by Sappi and is made with 90% unbleached sugar cane waste (bagesse). The remaining 10% is from a FSC™ and PEFC* certified source. The paper is produced at Sappi’s Stanger Mill in KwaZulu-Natal, which is ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and ISO 18001 certified. Being locally produced it also eliminates CO2 emissions associated with shipping. By using the Masuga™ paper for the production of this report, Old Mutual recognises the role it can play in reducing the carbon footprint of its business by supporting environmentally-friendly and innovative solutions. *The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) is an international non-profit, non-governmental organisation dedicated to promoting sustainable forest management. http://www.pefc.org/ Compiled by Trialogue Design by: GroundPepper Photography by: Roger Sedres with special thanks to Old Mutual staff and the Old Mutual archives. OM6500912 Contact details Old Mutual Transformation Office Phone: 021 509 6800 Fax: 021 509 3377 E-mail: sustainabilityreportfeedback@oldmutual.com
