Creating Futures Sustainability Report 2011 latrobe.edu.au We can all make a difference for future Generations Sustainability Sustainability Reporting Vision 2020 Principles Framework La Trobe University will be at the The University will seek to develop Creating Futures: forefront of addressing key global responsible leaders, professionals §§ reports against the Global Reporting issues and developing graduates and citizens by: Initiative’s G3.1 Sustainability Reporting with the skills and knowledge required Recognising that sustainability Guidelines at A+ level to address social, environmental and encompasses economic, social §§ is our Communication On Progress economic sustainability challenges and environmental dimensions against the United Nations Global in their chosen field. Integrating sustainability across all Compact Principles at Advanced level operations, curriculum and research §§ follows AccountAbility’s AA1000 Principles Our Sustainability Vision 2020 is Embedding sustainability in the culture informed by our Sustainability Principles §§ reports against our own targets and and practices of the University, through actions set out in our 2010 Sustainability and our belief that social, environmental the broadest engagement with staff, and economic sustainability need to be Report, Responsible Futures. students, employers and partners in integrated across everything we do and the community and in government embedded in our daily work. Becoming known as the leading Because sustainable development is a key sustainable university in Australia global issue of our times, we believe our and a leader internationally. success in realising our sustainability principles will be central to how we are judged. What is sustainable development? Sustainable development is Thus the goals of economic and social But physical sustainability cannot be secured development that meets the needs development must be defined in terms unless development policies pay attention of the present without compromising of sustainability in all countries – developed to such considerations as changes in access the ability of future generations to or developing, market-oriented or to resources and in the distribution of costs centrally planned. and benefits. meet their own needs. Interpretations will vary, but must share Even the narrow notion of physical It contains within it two key concepts: certain general features and must flow sustainability implies a concern for social §§ the concept of ‘needs’, in particular from a consensus on the basic concept of equity between generations, a concern that the essential needs of the world’s poor, sustainable development and on a broad must logically be extended to equity within to which overriding priority should be strategic framework for achieving it. each generation. given; and Development involves a progressive §§ the idea of limitations imposed by the transformation of economy and society. Gro Harlem Brundtland state of technology and social organization A development path that is sustainable in a Chair World Commission on on the environment’s ability to meet physical sense could theoretically be pursued Environment and Development present and future needs. even in a rigid social and political setting. Our Common Future (1987) Contents La Trobe University 2011 snapshot 2 Our commitment to sustainability 3 Our sustainability vision, goals and approach 4 Sustainability vision 5 Sustainability goals 6 Sustainability achievements 8 Quantified targets 8 Target scorecard 9 Our approach to sustainability and our material impacts 10 Sustainability risks 12 Stakeholder engagement 13 Education for future generations 14 Research for future generations 18 Our environmental impact 22 Our social impact: staff  32 Our social impact: students 38 Our economic and supply chain impact 44 Assurance Statement 48 GRI Application Level 51 GRI G3.1 Content Index (Concise) 52 La Trobe University 2011 snapshot at a glance Campuses and Students (EFTSL) §§ 2011 was the first full year of operation at the University’s new Shepparton campus, where students Mildura (391) and staff enjoyed the comfort and efficiency of the certified 5 Star Green Star building. §§ Capital works are taking place on other campuses, with $116 million spent in 2011, including $52 million spent on the construction of new facilities at the Albury-Wodonga (737) Melbourne campus. §§ La Trobe University received $44 million in research income in 2011. Bendigo Shepparton (345) (3,992) Melbourne (18,328) 352.5 Hectares City (120) Over six campuses, including some areas managed for significant biodiversity values. STUDENTS 1 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of students 29,273 30,858 32,373 33,507 26 ,064 Commencing enrolments 11,986 13,358 13,907 13,848 Students with a disability 1,273 1,043 1,182 NA Non-English speaking background 614 639 666 NA students Rural/remote 7,500 7,640 7,724 NA Low socioeconomic status 3,844 4,020 3,927 NA EFTSL from over 101 countries in 2011, including Low socioeconomic status as 17.4% 17.7% 16.6% NA proportion of total student cohort off‑campus students. Indigenous 111 130 117 NA 3STAFF ,100 performance Market share of Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre first preferences2 2008 2009 10.9% 10.6% 2010 11.5% 2011 12.4% Retention rate3 0.78 0.78 0.78 NA Full-time equivalent, including casual staff. Research4 2008 2009 2010 2011 5faculties Research income ($000) 40,845 38,627 41,726 43,739 Research publications 1,009 961 1,083 NA Research higher degree load 876.6 972.8 1,058.8 1,132.5 (Equivalent Full Time Student Load) Research degree completions 92 157 151 162 Business, Economics and Law; Education; Health NA Not available at time of publication. 3 Retention Rate is the proportion Sciences; Humanities and 1 2008–2011 data from the University of students commencing who re-enrol at an institution in the Social Sciences; and Science, student information systems as at following year. It excludes those 31 January 2012. Technology and Engineering. students who defer their study 2 Applications lodged with the or transfer to another university. Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre EFTSL equivalent full-time student load as at 30 September each year. 4 Research and finance data relate to year ending 31 December. 2 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Message from the Vice‑Chancellor and President Our commitment to sustainability In a global environment concerned with This goal was announced in the climate change, finite resources and Vision 2015 strategic plan and reflects broader issues of environmental, social the University’s long-standing ethos and economic responsibility, universities of social responsibility and leadership. have an important role in transforming their In August 2011, La Trobe University communities. This transformation is reliant was announced as the ‘Continuous on universities taking the determined step Improvement – Institutional Change’ Green of embracing innovation and sustainability Gown Awards Australasia winner for the as core aspects of their function. Through development of best‑practice sustainability a proactive approach, our sector can ensure governance and management structures a quality and strength of voice in shaping since 2009. Along with the Association of Professor John Dewar the direction of national and international Chartered Certified Accountants ‘Best first Vice‑Chancellor debates and public policies. time’ Sustainability Report award received and President Recent moves towards a market-driven for Responsible Futures, this shows the higher education sector in Australia have University has taken the next step in its provided challenges to our universities. sustainability journey. This is also an opportunity for La Trobe We are proud of these successes and University to reaffirm its distinctive values look forward to the challenges ahead. as a university that is responsive to and The University will seek new ways to It was a genuine privilege engaged with its community, that instils provide opportunities for students from leadership by example, and provides to take up the position relevant, useful and forward-thinking all backgrounds to develop the skills that they need for success in every aspect of of Vice‑Chancellor skills and knowledge to the next generation their lives. We are focused on delivering of leaders. We can do this by being active and President of La Trobe in debates on social, environmental and innovative curriculum to our students through our ‘Design for Learning’ initiative, University in January 2012. economic issues, and by leading in our which was developed to address the own policies and practices, and by example. changing skill sets required by today’s La Trobe University is a signatory to the graduates. The introduction of courses such As Vice-Chancellor, I am committed United Nations Global Compact. As incoming as the ‘Work Ready’ Bachelor of Arts reflects to continuing the University’s inspiring Vice-Chancellor and President, I reaffirm the our ability to listen to employer and student work and making it an even better place University’s commitment to these principles needs, ensuring that we equip graduates to learn, teach and research. through this ‘Communication on Progress’. with the high-quality skills they need as I am proud to be leading a university The United Nations Global Compact Ten they transition into the work place. already known for its commitment to Principles serve to unite organisations I want our staff, students, alumni addressing key social, environmental around the world and are an important and communities to be proud of their and economic issues of our times. step towards addressing the Millennium university – this means continuing our work Development Goals. on increasing the number of women in senior In 2011, La Trobe University took the leadership roles and implementing further ambitious step of becoming, we believe, plans to reduce energy consumption, waste the first university in the world to release and travel. In 2012, we will further embed a Global Reporting Initiative-compliant, social and environmental sustainability in externally assured sustainability report our curriculum, thereby meeting the skills using AA1000 standards – Responsible requirements of the public and private Futures – which outlined the University’s sectors. Many of our plans for 2012 are social, environmental and economic set out in this 2011 sustainability report, impacts for the year 2010 and signalled Creating Futures. the significant steps the University has made towards fulfilling its goal to ‘operate sustainability and ethically’. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 3 Message from the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) Our sustainability vision, goals and approach Creating Futures, La Trobe University’s 2011 sustainability report, is addressed to all our stakeholders, in particular our students, future students, our staff and our communities. In preparing this report we acknowledge Towards Sustainability (acts.asn.au) member the role of the university sector in driving of the Advisory Council of the Association for sustainability change and adaptation. the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Professor Carol Adams Through education and research, the Education (aashe.org) and as a member of university sector prepares large numbers the working group developing guidelines to Pro Vice-Chancellor of young people for careers where the apply the United Nations Global Compact (Sustainability) knowledge and skills required to address Principles to universities. sustainability issues, such as critical thinking This report is our ‘Communication on Progress’ and team problem-solving, are in increasing against those Principles. It also reports against demand. Universities have material, direct the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability and indirect social, environmental and Reporting Guidelines, our own Sustainability economic impacts through the research we Principles and, where available, performance do, the experience and education we provide indicators, targets and plans. to future leaders, and the ways we engage In recognition of the role of universities in with communities, government, businesses sustainable development, La Trobe University and our broader society. is a signatory to the Talloires Declaration The influence of our sector goes beyond (ulsf.org/talloires_declaration.html) and the the operational impacts that organisations Ten Principles of the United Nations Global traditionally report – we need to think Compact (unglobalcompact.org), and is an beyond those impacts and consider our Organisational Stakeholder of the Global role in society more broadly. At La Trobe Reporting Initiative (globalreporting.org). University, we pay particular attention to In our 2010 inaugural sustainability report, broadening access to students from low Responsible Futures, I highlighted some socioeconomic backgrounds and to those areas of poor performance: high greenhouse in regional communities. In this way, we gas emissions from building use and the low recognise the importance of education proportion of women in senior management. in the social, environmental and economic In 2011, we took some significant steps sustainability of those communities. to address these issues. It will take some I would like to see a greater focus on time before our plans and actions result the sustainability performance of the in performance levels with which we can university sector. As Pro Vice-Chancellor be satisfied. (Sustainability), La Trobe University has Our performance in energy consumption, supported my contribution to the work of water consumption, emissions arising from the university sector in sustainability during staff business travel and the proportion 2011 through my roles as Board Member of women in management, is of concern. of the Globally Responsible Leadership Initiative (grli.org), Vice-President (Universities) of Australian Campuses 4 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 While shutdowns of our cogeneration plant increased energy consumption, Sustainability Sustainability overall our carbon emissions were lower Vision 2020 mission and goals than 2010 levels due to the increased purchase of GreenPower. We have entered La Trobe University will be at the In developing plans for the future, the Greener Goverment Buildings program forefront of addressing key global we are mindful of the influence in order to achieve our 2020 energy issues and developing graduates universities have on equipping consumption targets. with the skills and knowledge required graduates for leadership, professional Responsible Futures was one of only a to address social, environmental and and other roles in society, and the few comprehensive university sustainability economic sustainability challenges important role of academic research reports and we believe was the first to in their chosen field. in developing solutions to climate both follow the Global Reporting Initiative’s change, world poverty, food security Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and to Our Sustainability Vision 2020 is and other sustainability challenges. be externally assured using the AA1000 informed by our Sustainability Principles Assurance Standard. In the development and our belief that social, environmental The following pages set out our of our second sustainability report, Creating and economic sustainability need to sustainability goals for 2015 and 2020 Futures, we have placed more emphasis be integrated across everything we in each of our key areas of impact. on our sustainability vision and goals, do and embedded in our daily work. We will focus on our most identifying our stakeholders and means Because sustainable development substantial impacts, to: of engagement with them and increasing is a key global issue of our times, the number of indicators on which we §§ engage with students on contemporary we believe our success in realising report. We have used the Global Reporting social and environmental issues our sustainability principles will be Initiative’s G3.1 Sustainability Reporting central to how we are judged. §§ develop our interdisciplinary research Guidelines, reporting to the A+ Application capabilities through the La Trobe Institute Level (globalreporting.org) and have for Social and Environmental Sustainability been guided by the AA1000 Principles of §§ ensure that we offer opportunities Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness (accountability.org). Sustainability to students from a diverse range of We have included data from all our Principles backgrounds and are sensitive to issues arising from our cultural diversity campuses for three years for many indicators. §§ develop curriculum on social and The University will seek to develop Data for the Australian higher education environmental sustainability issues responsible leaders, professionals sector have been provided, where available, as a benchmark for our performance. and citizens by: §§ reduce water and energy consumption, and carbon emissions from travel, and We have engaged Net Balance to carry Recognising that sustainability invest in energy efficiency. out a Type 2, moderate level of assurance encompasses economic, social using the AA1000 Assurance Standard and environmental dimensions (accountability.org). Data on student Integrating sustainability across all numbers have been excluded from the operations, curriculum and research scope of the Net Balance audit because student number data are audited annually Embedding sustainability in the culture by the Australian Government Department and practices of the University, through of Education, Employment and Workplace the broadest engagement with staff, Relations, as per the requirements of students, employers and partners in subsection 19–70 (1) of the Higher Education the community and in government Support Act 2003. The student enrolment Becoming known as the leading data included in this report is as at sustainable university in Australia 1 February 2012. and a leader internationally. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 5 Our sustainability 2015: Many of our staff work in bright open‑plan spaces with welcoming vision, goals social areas, which are almost entirely and approach paper‑free; they often work from home; many cycle to work or use public transport; they use the capability of the National Broadband Network to engage with colleagues elsewhere and they travel less for work purposes. Sustainability goals for 2015 Sustainability governance, Our environmental impact management and engagement §§ All new capital infrastructure has §§ ‘Whole-of-institution’ approach to high liveability and natural resource managing sustainability across operations, efficiency values curriculum and research §§ Facility greenhouse gas emissions §§ Partnerships with leading non-government per gross floor area and from staff organisations and public and private business travel per full-time equivalent sector organisations, themselves leading staff reduced by 15% on 2010 levels in aspects of sustainability §§ Work of staff and students conducted §§ Strong senior sustainability leadership largely without paper providing input into high‑level University §§ The University achieves minimum energy decision-making and water star ratings for appliances, §§ Recognised internationally as leading and has investigated more sustainable the sector in sustainability reporting energy sources. Our Vision and performance management Our social impact There is national and international §§ Staff and students aware and proud of §§ Recognised as an institution that awareness of La Trobe University’s the University’s social (responsibility) and enhances and provides career commitment to sustainability. environmental sustainability achievements. development opportunities for Education for future generations all, and opportunities for women This is evident in sustainability performance §§ Cross-faculty master’s and undergraduate and Indigenous staff improvements, media coverage of innovations, involvement of our sustainability programs in social (responsibility) and §§ Equal proportion of women and men leaders in national and international fora, and environmental sustainability in senior professional positions (Higher demand for staff to speak on sustainability §§ Social and environmental sustainability Education Officer level 10 and above) issues in operations, education and research. embedded within subjects where relevant §§ High proportion of low socioeconomic All students and staff are aware §§ The University is known for innovative background and Indigenous students of sustainability issues through the approaches to cross-faculty program relative to other Victorian universities. University’s focus on sustainability; their delivery that addresses key Our economic and supply-chain impact personal contributions to reducing the contemporary issues §§ Engaged with top suppliers to minimise University’s environmental impacts and §§ Provision of executive education on negative social and environmental increasing its contribution to social justice; key contemporary sustainability issues. impacts in the supply chain our online training module for staff; and community engagement opportunities Research for future generations §§ Strong regional campuses and all our in sustainability‑related work. §§ An active cross-faculty network of campuses contributing to the economies researchers addressing key contemporary of the communities they serve sustainability global and local issues, §§ High proportion of Fairtrade products and influencing policy and practice sold on campus and all staff and FURTHER information §§ The University is known for engaging students are aware that the University is a Fairtrade organisation. with business, the public sector and non‑government organisations in Our quantified targets are on page 8. developing research proposals and For more information about our communicating research findings goals and updates on our progress on key sustainability issues. please visit: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability 6 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 2020: La Trobe University will be at the forefront of addressing key global issues and developing graduates with the skills and knowledge required to address social, environmental and economic sustainability challenges in their chosen field. Sustainability goals for 2020 Sustainability governance, management and engagement §§ La Trobe University is recognised as a leading organisation in best‑practice approaches to sustainability management §§ Other universities are following our lead in adopting a whole-of-institution approach to sustainability §§ The university sector is seen as leading (rather than lagging) in approaches to sustainability management. Education for future generations §§ Every graduate understands sustainability issues relevant to their discipline and chosen field of work §§ The University is a leading provider of graduates with critical thinking and problem‑solving skills able to address contemporary international social and environmental sustainability issues §§ The University supports students to become sustainability leaders in the wider community through David Myers Building and moat system extracurricular activities. Research for future generations Our social impact §§ The University is known for knowledge §§ The University’s population reflects transfer on a broad range of sustainability the gender, cultural and socioeconomic issues, and makes significant contributions diversity of our wider communities to policy debates and practice and §§ We are recognised as providing equal technological developments opportunities, with a high proportion §§ The University has significant partnerships of women at Associate Professor and with business, non‑government Professor level. organisations, and the public sector to address social and environmental Our economic and supply-chain impact sustainability issues. §§ The University is known in the university sector and more broadly as a leader Our environmental impact in responsible purchasing and §§ Our campuses are healthier, more liveable investment practices. and more sustainable than ever before §§ Facility greenhouse gas emissions per gross floor area and from staff business travel per full-time equivalent staff is reduced by 30% on 2010 levels. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 7 Our sustainability Responsible Futures won the award for best first-time report at the vision, goals Association of Chartered Certified and approach Accountants Sustainability Reporting Awards in Australia. Sustainability achievements 2009–2011 2009 2011 §§ La Trobe Institute for Social and §§ External Sustainability Advisory Board §§ Project Manager for the Victorian Environmental Sustainability established established to guide the University’s Government’s Greener Government §§ Sustainability Taskforce established strategic sustainability direction Buildings program appointed §§ University’s approach to the management §§ Sustainability Management Committee §§ Principal Fellow in Education for and governance of sustainability agreed by established as a subcommittee of the Sustainable Development and Faculty the Sustainability Taskforce and Planning Planning and Resources Committee Sustainability Coordinators appointed, and Resources Committee, and included §§ New policies published for: to lead curriculum initiatives in the 2010 operational plan §§ energy reduction §§ La Trobe Institute for Social and §§ Environmental Sustainability Policy §§ Fairtrade Environmental Sustainability published published. §§ Responsible Futures published – La Trobe a report on sustainability research University’s first sustainability report around the University: and we believe the first university report latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/research 2010 globally to use the AA1000 governance, §§ Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) management and assurance standards; invited to speak at numerous conferences §§ Office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor followed the Global Reporting Initiative and fora on the University’s approach to (Sustainability) developed reporting guidelines managing sustainability §§ Fair Trade accreditation received §§ Business Forum and Academic Symposium §§ Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) §§ New policy for sustainable travel published on Leadership for Climate Change and appointed to the United Nations Global §§ Generations branding developed, to Sustainability attracted around 130 and Compact working group adapting signify a whole-of-institution approach 90 participants, respectively the United Nations Global Compact to sustainability and a focus on the §§ David Atkin, CEO of Cbus (an industry Principles to university operations; and University’s contribution to environmental, super fund), awarded La Trobe University AccountAbility’s Interim Standards Board. social and economic sustainability. 2010 Distinguished Alumni Award for contribution to social responsibility and sustainability in investment Quantified targets 2011 2012 2015 2020 Quantified targets 2011 2012 2015 2020 Environmental Sustainability research1 Greenhouse gas emissions (facility tCO2-e/ 5% 5% 15% 30% Staff involved in the La Trobe Institute for 100 GFA: staff business travel tCO2-e/FTE) Social and Environmental Sustainability Energy consumption (GJ per m2/GFA) 5% 5% 15% 30% Staff with active participation in the Institute 50 per annum Car use – single occupant 5% 7.5% 15% 30% Research publications from active staff 50 per annum (staff and students) Successful contracts, grants and research 3 per annum Water use (kilolitres per EFTPL) 3% 3.5% 5% 10% consultancies for sustainability research Waste to landfill (kilograms per EFTPL) 5% 7.5% 15% 30% Social: staff 2,3 Recycling (as % of combined recycling 5% 7.5% 15% 30% Female academic staff at Professor 37% 40% and landfill waste) and Associate Professor levels Paper use (reams per EFTPL) 5% 10% 15% 30% Senior female professional staff 42% 50% (HEO10 and above) Sustainability education New employment opportunities 35 Cross-faculty (social and environmental) 1 2 4 for Indigenous Australians4 sustainability master’s courses Social: students Cross-faculty undergraduate minor(s)/ 2 3 4 major(s) in (social and environmental) Low socioeconomic student participation rate3 17.24% 20% sustainability Indigenous Australian student participation rate3 160 2505 8 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 La Trobe University won ‘Continuous Improvement – Institutional Change’ at the 2011 Green Gown Australia awards, recognised for the development, since 2009, of its best‑practice sustainability governance and management structures. DID WE MEET TARGETS? 2010 2011 2011 y/N Plans/Actions Environmental  baseline actual Facility greenhouse gas emissions 0.18 0.17 0.13 Participate in Greener Government (tCO2-e/GFA) Buildings Program (see page 22 Greenhouse gas emissions) Staff business travel greenhouse gas 2.45 2.33 2.60 Improved data reporting and emissions (tCO2-e/FTE) monitoring, Faculty targets Energy consumption (GJ per m2/GFA) 0.99 0.94 1.01 Participate in Greener Government Buildings Program (see page 24 Energy consumption) Commuting (%) by car, single occupant 46% 44% 50% Promote cycling, public (staff and students) transport and carpooling (see page 26 Commuting) Water use (kilolitres per EFTPL) 8.72 8.45 9.55 Reuse water, reduce consumption and identify leaks (see page 27 Water use) Waste to landfill (kilograms per EFTPL) 34.54 32.81 35.92 Bin refurbishment, updated waste guidelines, compostable waste pilot (see page 30 Waste and recycling) Recycling (as % of combined recycling 28.0% 29.4% 25.0% Bin refurbishment, new online presence and landfill waste) waste and recycling facilities, updated waste guidelines Sustainability communications (see page 30 Waste and recycling) plan, sustainability website, and Paper use (reams per EFTPL) 3.19 3.03 2.58 Limit printer purchase and promote paperless meetings a La Trobe University Generations (see page 28 Paper use) presence on Facebook and Social: staff Twitter developed Female academic staff at Professor level 37% 37% 32.5% University Council has established latrobe.edu.au/sustainability Female academic staff at Associate 34% 37% 39% a Human Resources Planning facebook.com/ltugenerations Committee which held its inaugural Professor level Twitter: @ltugenerations meeting in March 2012. One Senior female professional staff 40% 42% 38.6% item it will consider is gender (HEO10 and above) representation at senior levels. (see page 34 Women in leadership) 1 The targets in this section relate to the EFTPL Equivalent full-time person load La Trobe Institute for Social and Environmental (full-time equivalent staff workload hours Sustainability. See the ‘Research for future + equivalent full‑time student load hours at generations’ section for a discussion of the University’s Victorian campuses; excludes sustainability research in our other institutes. international offshore, off‑campus and external) 2 Targets have not been set for each year in GJ/GFA Gigajoules per gross floor area some cases where medium and long-term (GFA in m2) targets have been set. HEO Higher Education Officer 3 Target for 2020 not yet set for some indicators. tCO2-e/EFTPL Tonnes of carbon dioxide 4 Our target is to create 35 new Indigenous equivalent gases per equivalent full‑time employment opportunities between 2010 person load and 2015. tCO2-e/FTE Tonnes of carbon dioxide‑equivalent 5 Provisional. per full-time equivalent staff workload Baselines and targets have been altered tCO2-e/GFA Tonnes of carbon dioxide‑equivalent due to improved 2010 data availability. per gross floor area Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 9 Our sustainability vision, goals and approach Our approach to sustainability and our material impacts When La Trobe University was established In recognition of these sustainability in 1967, its constitution effected a culture imperatives and the role of universities La Trobe University’s of social responsibility and care for the in addressing them, the Vice-Chancellor vision is to: local community. The University’s mission is ‘to serve its community through established a Sustainability Taskforce in 2009, comprising senior managers from the inclusiveness of its research and key University functions and chaired by ‘...transform the lives of students teaching and through the production of Professor Carol Adams. and communities through learning graduates who are well rounded citizens The culmination of the work of the and knowledge creation. We will as well as trained professionals’. Today, this Taskforce was agreement on the be nationally and internationally responsibility resonates in the University’s University’s Sustainability Principles. acclaimed in socially responsible commitment to sustainability and in its The Sustainability Taskforce also agreed teaching and research’ ambition to be a leading sustainable that the University would have a central university by 2020 (Vision 2015). approach to managing sustainability, and latrobe.edu.au/about/vision La Trobe University inspires future the following was included in the University’s generations to lead by example, challenge 2010 Operational Plan. the status quo, and make a difference on issues of social justice and environmental Sustainability section sustainability. We will embed social of La Trobe University’s and environmental sustainability in our operations, curriculum and research, reduce 2010 Operational Plan our environmental footprint, maintain §§ Establish a senior academic management principles of equality and diversity, and position and an associated office for provide a responsible and viable economic University management of Sustainability. presence to support and contribute to §§ Develop a comprehensive set of our communities. sustainability key performance indicators Globally, universities and other organisations across operations, curriculum and must respond to pressing sustainability research, and set targets for 2013 and issues in economic, environmental and intermediate years. This will include a social arenas, and not only through carbon emissions measurement system education and research: for whole‑of‑University operations. §§ economic – universities have a role §§ Develop a comprehensive governance in promoting good governance and and management reporting system management for cooperation, benefit on sustainability. sharing and poverty alleviation, and in §§ Introduce sustainability key performance recognising and taking advantage of indicators into staff performance goals opportunities in a low carbon economy where appropriate. §§ environmental – as part of the built §§ Identify projects that improve sustainability environment, universities affect and are performance. Identify initiatives that responsible for waste and natural resource engage staff and students to inspire management, and energy generation behavioural change through curriculum, and consumption education, research and activities. §§ social – universities can make a difference in promoting social justice, peace and equality, health and wellbeing, and good design of human settlements and the associated infrastructure. 10 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Stakeholder Engagement La Trobe University’s contribution to Early in 2011, the University public policy debate includes making established a formal University By engaging with stakeholders, submissions to a range of inquiries Engagement Unit to oversee the university sector can make and reviews on issues affecting the and record engagement activities. an important contribution to community as well as on more specific The Unit developed an operations global change towards a more higher education policy issues. plan for community engagement sustainable future. and in 2012 all engagement activities will be recorded and analysed to assess their impact. The Office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor §§ Association for Advancement of (Sustainability) was created in 2010 and Sustainability in Higher Education the Taskforce was replaced with a formal (aashe.org) Sustainability Management Committee, §§ Environmental Association for chaired by the Pro Vice‑Chancellor Universities and Colleges (eauc.org) (Sustainability) and reporting to the §§ Australian Government’s National Action University’s Planning and Resources Plan for Education for Sustainability Committee. The Pro Vice-Chancellor (environment.gov.au/education/nap) (Sustainability) leads the University’s sustainability focus and has responsibility for §§ Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 embedding sustainability in the University’s Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting planning and resource allocation processes. (globalreporting.org) Having established our sustainability §§ Sustainability Victoria governance and management structure, and (sustainability.vic.gov.au). targets, our current operational plan focuses We have established short (2012), on developing sustainability education medium (2015) and long-term (2020) and achieving operational targets. targets, through reviewing: This work is supported by an External §§ best‑practice and sector targets, Sustainability Advisory Board and a such as those of the Higher Sustainability Forum. These governance Education Funding Council of England and management committees allow (hefce.ac.uk/lgm/sustain/carbon) us to engage with staff, students, the National Tertiary Education Union and §§ contextual (including state and key external stakeholders. Australian Government) targets §§ the same sources as for determining Sustainability governance, In addition to our management and governance committees, we consulted key performance indicators, where management and a wide range of sources in identifying they also identified targets or stakeholder engagement key performance indicators, including: benchmarking practice. Crucial to the achievement of our §§ university sustainability reports available For example, our targets linked to greenhouse sustainability goals and targets are from university websites gas emissions were guided by targets set the External Sustainability Advisory by sustainable organisations in other sectors, Board, Sustainability Management §§ independent, privately held and the Higher Education Funding Council of Committee and Sustainability Forum. self‑funded CorporateRegister.com, England (hefce.ac.uk/lgm/sustain/carbon), Our sustainability governance and which collects and disseminates corporate and a methodology adapted from Rauch management structure is on our website: responsibility reports worldwide and Newman (2009).1 latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/governance (corporateregister.com) See supporting policies at: The Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) §§ Green League Table of UK latrobe.edu.au/policy presented the 2010 sustainability report, universities created by People and Responsible Futures and this report, Creating Planet, a student network campaigning Futures, to the University Council; and is a to end world poverty, defend human 1 Rauch JN and Newman J (2009). Defining sustainability metric targets in an institutional member of the University’s Planning and rights and protect the environment setting International Journal of Sustainability Resources Committee, to assist in embedding (peopleandplanet.org/greenleague) in Higher Education 10(2): 107–117. sustainability in everything we do. §§ College Sustainability Report Card for North American Universities (greenreportcard.org) Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 11 Our sustainability The La Trobe University Stakeholder Engagement Strategy on Sustainability Our first sustainability report, Responsible Futures, was distributed vision, goals Issues, developed by the Office of the widely and presentations seeking and approach Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) feedback on key sustainability issues in 2011, explains the process we used were made across the University. to identify and communicate with The feedback received has been our stakeholders. incorporated into our 2012 actions and longer‑term plans. Sustainability risks Key social, environmental and economic sustainability risks facing the university sector can be categorised as reputational, financial, regulatory and governance. The University’s key areas of risk lie in Reputational Financial failure to behave in a responsible manner and failures in our governance system. §§ Poor performance on gender and §§ Increase in energy prices, travel and This could involve not meeting our cultural diversity issues cost of goods that emit carbon in sustainability targets and missing out on §§ Loss of female staff member confidence in production/transport realising improved performance opportunities the organisation as an equal opportunities §§ Lack of investment in reducing energy that come from achieving targets. Initiatives employer, leading to the inability to attract consumption, travel and other emissions in place to address the risks include the and retain female staff, and loss of goodwill §§ Failure to invest in infrastructure development of plans and actions, reporting and motivation improvement, resulting in increasing against those plans, targets and benchmarked §§ Loss of status as an employer of choice inefficiency and waste data. Targets and performance are reviewed for women §§ Risk of legal action resulting from by our External Sustainability Advisory Board as well as internal committees. §§ Racist/religious incidents non‑compliance with legislation, such §§ Failure to protect the health and as the National Greenhouse and Energy Failures in governance could allow wellbeing of staff and students Reporting Act, Equal Opportunity Act unethical and inappropriate behaviour to cause financial, performance, or §§ Failure to provide a safe and §§ Unplanned cost impacts of losses due to reputational harm to the University. secure environment external corrupt or fraudulent activities. Controls in place to manage this risk include: §§ Perception of poor governance/corruption Regulatory §§ a suite of policies and procedures, §§ Perception of poor accountability §§ Potential restrictions on air travel including professional codes of conduct for use of public funds (through regulation of price), particularly §§ a system of oversight including senior §§ Greenwash – overstating positive given the importance of international management committees, project impacts and actions, while understating fee income to universities and the sector’s development and project control committees or omitting negative ones place as Australia’s fourth-largest exporter for major investments, regular meetings of §§ Unmet agreed and publicly declared §§ Punitive actions resulting from serious the University Council (our governing body) social, environmental and economic compliance breaches. and its sub‑committees (which include the sustainability targets Corporate Governance and Audit Committee) Governance §§ Poor performance on sustainability §§ formalised management reporting against key performance indicators relative strategic and operational objectives §§ Increasingly restrictive governance to the sector requirements, resulting in increasing §§ verification of controls (including an §§ Negative publicity on environmental compliance costs annual internal audit program, and a fraud performance of a supplier. and corruption investigation capability). §§ Inefficiency and corruption costs and waste associated with inadequate governance practices §§ Decreasing efficiency of resource 2012 Actions Responsibility utilisation, due to poor governance Amend the terms of reference of cyclic Director, Planning and Institutional and a lack of strategic decision making. functional and faculty reviews to ensure Performance Unit, Pro Vice-Chancellor that sustainability is appropriately included; (Sustainability) Identify potential risks and opportunities Conduct a review of operations to identify Director, Risk Management, the potential climate change and social, Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) environmental and economic sustainability risks on operations and the provision of services In the table on page 13 we identify our key Ensure that high-level governance Director Risk Management, stakeholders, their stake in our University’s committees consider the risks/opportunities General Counsel; Legal and Governance, sustainability performance and how we that climate change/sustainability presents Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) communicate with them. 12 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Stake in our SUSTAINABILITY performance 2011 Engagement Current and future students: international and domestic Mission Australia’s National Survey of Young Australians (2011) asked young Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Blog entries from key international people to indicate three issues they thought were the most important in Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn sustainability events Australia today. The environment was by far the most frequently mentioned Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU Support to students in developing campaigns topic with 44.7% of respondents identifying it as a major issue. and addressing sustainability issues missionaustralia.com.au/downloads/ Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability national-survey-of-young-australians/2011 Representation on the Sustainability Management Fairtrade fortnight Our students are future leaders who want to be prepared for Committee, Sustainability Forum, Fairtrade Market research on sustainability priorities the workplace and attractive to employers. We are addressing Steering Committee and education needs this through our Design for Learning project (latrobe.edu.au/ctlc/dfl). Responsible Futures Staff Our staff want to work for an organisation that is ‘doing the right thing’. Presentations on Responsible Futures, approaches Blog entries from key international They recognise the importance of the University’s reputation in managing to sustainability, sustainability targets and plans sustainability events sustainability. They want the University to improve its sustainability to Faculties, Divisions and at Academic Board Victorian Centre for Climate Change performance. and Senior Staff Forums Adaptation Research – sponsored Think Tanks They also want to succeed in applying for sustainability-related research Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Business Forum and Academic Symposium on grants and have opportunities to make a contribution to the reduction Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn, Yammer Leadership for Climate Change and Sustainability of harmful environmental and social impacts. Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU, UniNews Lunchtime discussion series Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability Assistance with sustainability research proposals Generations email list Treadly Tuesdays, Ride to Work Day, Family Day Representation on the Sustainability Forum and Greenies on the Green Government and government agencies A number of government agencies are working to promote improvements Victorian Centre for Climate Change Adaptation Conference keynote speeches in sustainability performance in the university sector, including: Research – sponsored Think Tanks Responsible Futures Australian Government’s National Action Plan for Education for Business Forum on Leadership for Climate Change Sustainability (environment.gov.au/education) and Sustainability and Sustainability Victoria (sustainability.vic.gov.au). In addition we engage with a number of government agencies that promote and/or regulate aspects of sustainability practice across all sectors. Our communities – urban, regional and rural We have signed Memoranda of Understanding with a number of local Public lectures and events Our partnerships with Melbourne Heart councils, which involve engaging on sustainability issues. Our regional Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, (latrobe.edu.au/partnerships/partnerships/ and rural communities face social and environmental sustainability issues, Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn melbourne-heart), the InterFaith/Intercultural and expect us to contribute to the development of solutions. Network (through our Centre for Dialogue Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU latrobe.edu.au/dialogue/projects/northernWebsite: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability interfaith/niin-hub/about-niin.html) and our new partnership with Greening Australia are Responsible Futures important to our communities Alumni The reputation of the University is important to our alumni in career Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability enhancement. We are working to develop responsible leaders of the future Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn Articles in the Bulletin and to find ways of involving our alumni in our sustainability initiatives. Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU Responsible Futures Employers Public and private sector organisations are increasingly aware of the impact Business Forum on Leadership for Climate Change Social media: LinkedIn of climate change and sustainability issues on future operations, and are and Sustainability Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability seeking graduates with the skills and knowledge to help them adapt and Market research on future sustainability skills needs the ability to apply sustainability knowledge to business and policy issues. Responsible Futures Conference keynote speeches Future generations and society at large Social, environmental and economic sustainability requires action by all Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability organisations, individuals and governments. Universities have an important Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn, COP 16/17 blog Responsible Futures role to play as educators of large numbers of future leaders and through Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU their community connections. STAFF AND STUDENT Unions Unions represent current University staff and students. They are interested Collective Agreement Committee representation in efforts to embed sustainability in the University’s operations, research and Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU curriculum and can exert a positive influence on their members, encouraging Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn behaviour change. Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability Suppliers Our suppliers provide goods and services that can have a direct impact Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability on environmental and social sustainability. They are often willing to consider Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn Meetings with key suppliers innovative approaches that lead to improved sustainability outcomes; Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU we need to engage with our suppliers to embed sustainability within our (and their) supply chains. Partner institutions for potential future students NAVITAS and Northern Melbourne Institute of TAFE provide Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability training opportunities for potential future students of the University. Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn Responsible Futures Although their interest in our sustainability performance may be low, Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU our decisions can have an impact on these organisations. Our governing body As the governing body of the University, the University Council’s role is to Social media: La Trobe Generations facebook page, Presentations to Council by the ‘identify the distinctive character of the institution, to plan strategically, and Twitter @ltugenerations, LinkedIn Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) to ensure that the University responds to the wider social context in which Videocasts, podcasts, iTunesU Responsible Futures it operates’. As such, it engages with sustainability across the University and is represented on the University’s External Sustainability Advisory Board. Website: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability University Council members are listed at: latrobe.edu.au/about/management/governance Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 13 Ms Claire Brooks, Dr Susan Dr Julie Rudner, Dr Emma Patten Lawler and Dr Ewan Silvester are and Ms Genny Blades are undertaking designing and developing a plan for a project: Embedded in research a sustainability interdisciplinary and practice: sustainability through capstone subject: Freshwater Ecology. child‑friendly cities, to identify the The subject will be delivered online learning needs of professionals so that it is available to all students. who want to advocate for children’s participation in decisions affecting the environments in which they live. Education for future generations Social responsibility has been a key The implications for the University are La Trobe University value since its inception. that critical thinking needs to be part of Sustainability With approximately 34,000 students, our all courses; ‘sustainability thinking’ needs to skills and careers reach is great and our influence considerable. The education of future generations be included within all undergraduate courses in ways appropriate to the discipline; and occurs in the classroom and outside it, that there is a need for continuing education Increasingly, sustainability increasingly in the context of new modes for people in the workplace, to improve and is one of the key challenges of communication and new opportunities update their skills related to sustainability. facing business leaders. for shared learning. The University is continually developing Principal Research Fellow: It touches every area of business – in terms of the impact that an organisation and improving curriculum, to engage Education for Sustainable has on society and the environment, and students with key areas of social and Development in terms of the ability of a business to environmental sustainability, such as global The Principal Research Fellow: Education continue to renew itself in order to meet a warming, planetary boundaries, inequality for Sustainable Development, Jeremy changing world. A deep understanding of and poverty. Our principles of curriculum Baskin, began work at La Trobe University sustainability is one of the key attributes design also ensure that graduates are in November 2011. Jeremy is assisting the we look for in our recruitment process. encouraged to think critically, undertake Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability), in research, work collaboratively to solve consultation with Faculties and other David Atkin problems and communicate effectively. key stakeholders, to: Chief Executive Officer, Cbus (an industry super fund) and Chair of the Advisory Through innovative research and teaching, §§ develop cross-faculty master’s degrees Board of the La Trobe Institute for Social the University contributes to the creation and Environmental Sustainability of new knowledge to address pressing §§ deliver professional development to assist local and global issues. staff in embedding social, environmental and economic sustainability into the Across all sectors, from business Market research curriculum to government, I have been really To assist us in implementing quality §§ develop executive education programs encouraged to see the take‑up of sustainability-related courses that will in sustainability interest in skills for sustainability. provide students with the education and §§ promote multidisciplinary research on Business knows that adopting new ways expertise required in the workforce, we education for sustainable development. of doing things, encouraging talent in have undertaken market research both the sustainability stream, will produce with students and potential employers. Education for Sustainable competitive advantage. Government The results indicate that employers are Development grants knows that their constituents are looking for graduates who can apply To assist with the development of multi‑faculty demanding better waste, energy ‘sustainability thinking’ to their key business subjects with a sustainability focus, small and water management practices. or work challenges, rather than employees grants were awarded by the Office of the These outcomes will be delivered who are ‘specialists’ in sustainability. Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) for work by accountants and well as ecologists. Organisational leaders and managers on curriculum‑related projects. Six projects Those who acquire disciplinary skills need to understand sustainability issues. were funded to a total of $29,669, two of with this edge will never want for work. The research suggested students are which are highlighted at the top of this page. Professor Kate Auty aware and interested in having a stronger Victorian Commissioner for Environmental sustainability focus within mainstream Sustainability and member of La Trobe courses (such as engineering, health University’s External Sustainability and education). Advisory Board For more information on education for future generations, please visit: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/education 14 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 NEW ROLES Trevor Budge, Faculty of Humanities The Pro Vice-Chancellor and Social Sciences; Noel Gough and (Sustainability) and the Faculty We have appointed staff Andrew Brookes, Faculty of Education; Sustainability Coordinators have in each Faculty with Katherine Legge, Faculty of Science, identified a significant number expertise in the development Technology and Engineering; Suzanne of subjects with sustainability of sustainability‑related O’Keefe, Faculty of Business, Economics content and worked together to courses including five Faculty and Law; Glenda Verrinder, Faculty of design cross‑faculty sustainability Sustainability Coordinators Health Sciences majors and minors. Key subjects and courses 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Some progress has been made in developing Conduct market research to Market research undertaken into students’ sustainability-related majors for existing inform curriculum development and employers’ opinions about sustainability undergraduate courses. These will allow Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) education and careers students to add sustainability specialisations Review faculty funding model to increase Through the development of the budget principles, to their studies, via subjects from a range incentives for multi-faculty curriculum the contribution margin methodology has of faculties. First to be available from 2013 development and teaching attempted to provide an equitable funding model are likely to be a Bachelor of Business and to faculties. This model was developed with the Vice-President, Finance and Resources/ a Bachelor of Arts with sustainability majors. guidance and support of the Budget Reference Chief Financial Officer A variety of undergraduate subjects appeal Group. The review will be continued and feedback to students across faculties; for example: used to enhance the funding model in future years. §§ Climate, Sustainability and Society Develop sustainability majors Key sustainability-related subjects have Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); been identified and majors developed – (ENV1CSS) continues to be taught Executive Deans these will proceed through faculty and with particular success at the Melbourne, University approval processes early in 2012 Bendigo and Albury-Wodonga Promote sustainability capstone experiences Due to staff changes, commencement of this campuses – the subject is presented as part of the University‑wide development of work has been delayed and will be addressed in conjunction with the Climate, capstones for our Design for Learning initiative in 2012. Funds were awarded to staff to develop Sustainability and Society public a sustainability capstone subject in freshwater Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice President lecture series, which included the ecology (see top of previous page) (Education) following in 2011: §§ Climate change: science, society and us: Dr Graeme Pearman 2012 Actions Responsibility §§ History of the Youth Climate Movement: Incorporate sustainability in the Graduate Executive Dean of Education; Pro Vice-Chancellor Ms Ellen Sandell, National Director of Certificate in Higher Education Curriculum, (Curriculum and Academic Planning) Teaching and Learning the Australian Youth Climate Coalition Develop one cross-faculty (social and Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); §§ Implications of climate change and environmental) sustainability master’s course Executive Deans its challenges: Professor Ben Gawne, Director of the Murray–Darling Develop two cross-faculty undergraduate minor(s)/ Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); major(s) in (social and environmental) sustainability Executive Deans Freshwater Research Centre Develop a process for ensuring (social and Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); §§ Australian Environmental History environmental) sustainability is embedded Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Educational Partnerships (HIS2/3AEH) is an online subject based in new subjects where appropriate and Quality); Executive Deans in the School of Historical and European studies in Melbourne, but taught across Offer grants to staff to assist in embedding Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) sustainability into existing curriculum campuses, and attended by students from a number of faculties Promote sustainability capstone experiences Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); as part of the University-wide development of Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Curriculum and §§ The Faculty of Humanities and Social capstones for our Design for Learning initiative Academic Planning) Sciences and the Faculty of Science, Review the student feedback on subjects/teaching Director Planning and Institutional Technology and Engineering are process to ensure sustainability is included in the Performance Unit working together on the development subject-related items of a new subject, Science in the Media (MST2SIM), which will highlight many sustainability‑related issues, and encourage students to understand science-based and humanities-based approaches to critical thinking and communication. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 15 Education for In 2011, La Trobe University academics organised a range of events tackling future generations sustainability and educational issues, which attracted audiences consisting of students, alumni, business leaders, academics and the general public. The events were held in Melbourne, at regional centres in Victoria and in Malaysia. Forums and events February/March July September The La Trobe Institute for Social and Regional Business Development in a Key sustainability issues in Malaysia, a panel Environmental Sustainability hosted the Variable and Changing Climate – to help discussion for the La Trobe Alumni Association Globally Responsible Leadership Initiative businesses develop adaptation plans for on the future of sustainability in Kuala 10th General Assembly, which brought climatic extremes Professor John Martin Lumpur, covered issues of water sustainability, together 45 senior academics and business from La Trobe University facilitated a improving the sustainability performance of executives from around the world to think‑tank with support from Victorian banks, focusing on the market, social and formulate and implement programs to Centre for Climate Change Adaptation environmental factors in Malaysia. improve sustainability through education Research. Presentations from the Bureau Moderated by Professor Carol Adams, of leaders and development of future of Meteorology on the latest predictions Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); included responsible leaders in three days of for climate variation in north central Datin Paduka Professor Dr Jamilah Ariffin, presentations and workshops. Victoria. Organisations including Don KRC President of the Asia-Pacific Forum on It included a Globally Responsible and Coliban Water outlined their strategies Families, President of JUITA (the Association Leadership Initiative Young Ambassadors for managing during climatic extremes. of Wives of Elected Representatives of the program for students from around the August Government of Johor), Adjunct Professor world. In conjunction with the General at the School of Social Work and Social Assembly, the Institute organised an The Critical Decade – Ideas and Society Policy, Faculty of Health Sciences at La Trobe Academic Symposium and a Business Program, Will Australians Support University; Mr Kay Luan Tay, CEO at the Forum on Leadership for Climate Change the Struggle Against Global Warming? Institute of Bankers Malaysia and Industry and Sustainability (90 and 130 participants, A conversation between Tim Flannery (Chief Adviser at Graduate School of Business respectively). The events were delivered Commissioner at the Climate Commission) University Sains Malaysia and Dato’Teo in partnership with the National Australia and Robert Manne (Professor of Politics at Yen Hua, the first Chief Executive Officer in Bank, Committee for Melbourne, Office La Trobe University). National Water Services Commission (SPAN). of the Commissioner for Environmental Climate Change – Ged Kearney, October Sustainability and the State of Victoria Australian Council of Trade Unions with participants from academia, President, a National Tertiary Education How climate has shaped the history of government and business. Union event. Australia – and the Goulburn Valley too, May seventh John Furphy Memorial Lecture, Professor Geoffrey Blainey AC. Surviving Climate Change: Climate and Community Resilience in Central Victoria towards 2030 – Professor John Martin, Director of the Centre for Sustainable Regional Communities, chaired a public meeting to discuss what life will be like under climate change. The meeting was sponsored by the Victorian Centre for Climate Change Adaptation Research. Panel members included Professor Rod Keenan from the Victorian Centre for Climate Change Adaptation Research and Kate Auty, the Commissioner for Environmental Sustainability, while Robyn Major from the City of Greater Bendigo outlined the role of local government in helping communities prepare for climate change. New Student Hub, Melbourne 16 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 461 STUDENTS 270 STUDENTS active in the La Trobe awarded a Gold, Silver Award program in 2011 or Bronze certificate on (317 in 2010, 73 in 2009). completion of the program. Student leadership 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress The Office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor Organise an Academic Symposium and Successful events were held in February and (Sustainability) is working with student Business Forum on Leadership for Climate March 2011; another Symposium: Advancing groups to help develop skills in advocacy Change and Sustainability to coincide with Sustainability and a Business Forum: Sustainable and campaign work on sustainability issues. the 10th General Assembly of the Globally Development: Beyond Carbon will be held in The La Trobe Student Union presented a Responsible Leadership Initiative February 2012 paper to the Sustainability Management Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) Committee pressing for more sustainable Communicate outcomes of public events through The use of Generations email, Facebook public transport options to our Melbourne iTunes U, the La Trobe Generations Facebook and Twitter has grown significantly during campus. We have helped students develop page, email and Twitter to allow participants 2011; Yammer and LinkedIn have also been sustainability proposals and business cases, an opportunity to provide feedback used extensively and have funded a number of student Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) projects in 2011, including projects to: §§ raise awareness about the benefits 2012 Actions Responsibility of reusable drinking bottles in carbon footprint minimisation and waste reduction Communicate outcomes of public sustainability Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) events through iTunesU, the La Trobe Generations §§ install and monitor a tyre inflation device facebook page, email and Twitter, to allow to improve tyre pressure levels in cars on participants opportunities to provide feedback our Melbourne campus Organise an Sustainability Symposium: Advancing Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) §§ establish a national inter-university mooting Sustainability in Education and Research and competition on environmental law a Business Forum: Sustainable Development: Beyond Carbon §§ engage with the community on food security using local urban food projects Partner with online engagement organisation Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) in Bendigo. OursayAust.org to encourage sustainability dialogue with internal and external stakeholders Volunteering Allocate (social and environmental) Executive Deans The increase in volunteering in 2011 is largely Sustainability Faculty Coordinators to work due to an enhanced communications and with the Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) marketing campaign, and an increase in on the development of new postgraduate courses/majors and embedding (social and clubs and societies accessing the La Trobe environmental) sustainability in the curriculum Award program. Develop informal and informed sustainability Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability), We will continue to promote commencing learning opportunities for students, staff Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Equity and Student Services) students’ participation in the La Trobe and the community outside the classroom Award. Award staff will engage with community organisations to help students access volunteering opportunities. This is particularly important for international students, who often lack community networks to establish opportunities on their own. Find out more about the La Trobe Award at: latrobe.edu.au/students/get-involved/ latrobe-award Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 17 Research for future generations La Trobe University was established ‘to serve the The La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science (LIMS) is an international leader in research community and in particular the citizens of Victoria in molecular sciences, biotechnology and by making knowledge available for the benefit of all’ nanotechnology. Sustainability research conducted by the La Trobe Institute for La Trobe University Act 1964 Molecular Science includes: §§ the development of resistance in We have a responsibility to taxpayers Sustainability research and the crop plants using recombinant DNA to support economic, social and cultural University Institutes and Centres technology – Hexima, a biotechnology development by providing educational company founded by Professor Marilyn opportunities, undertaking research and Each of the Institutes contributes to Anderson (Biochemistry), Professor acting to sustain the communities of sustainability research. The University’s Adrienne Clarke (Chancellor of La Trobe which we are part. Research Plan for 2012–2015 was published University) and colleagues, is developing in 2011 – in section 1.2 ‘Further develop high new plants (e.g. cotton, wheat and canola) The University’s strategic plan, Vision 2015, quality university research centres’, the plan provides mechanisms to achieve this that express genes (information from identifies the roles and strategic aims of the genes is used to produce a gene product) objective and, with the development of the Institutes: Research Plan for 2009–2012, the University that make them resistant to major crop established four cross-disciplinary Institutes: Institutes and Centres play a significant role pests; this work has enormous potential in promoting cross-disciplinary research for reducing the use of chemicals and §§ La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science strengths of the University, and in identifying the chemical load on the environment §§ Institute for Human Security emerging fields of research. Institutes and §§ ecological studies in biodiversity – Dr Jan §§ Institute for Social Participation Centres are important sites for staff and Strugnell (Genetics) works on Antarctic students to be better connected to a range Ocean biodiversity, including sequencing §§ La Trobe Institute for Social and of researchers at La Trobe and fulfil a similar the genome of the Antarctic giant octopus, Environmental Sustainability. role for researchers on regional campuses. and with Dr Nick Murphy (Genetics), on The Centres and Institutes provide an research projects on biodiversity recovery opportunity for a significant number after fire and fisheries management, of academic staff from more than one particularly on the sustainable fishing of discipline area to focus their research effort crustaceans such as crayfish; Dr Murphy on a common field of enquiry. They have also works on groundwater management the role of being substantial and strategic in the Great Artesian Basin, specialising focal points for research effort and funding in the biodiversity and population genetics applications (Research Plan for 2012–2015; of invertebrates such as insects and pages 22–23). small crustaceans in water soaks in the Australian deserts. Dr Howard Nicholas, Education LIMS, Architect’s impression 18 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Three workshops involving 52 sustainability researchers representing all of the faculties were held in February 2011 – workshop participants discovered other researchers across the University working in areas adjacent to their own. The La Trobe Institute for Social and Environmental Sustainability contributed to the intellectual climate and helped forge connections between sustainability research groups, individuals, early career researchers, research students, business and non-government organisations. In 2011, the La Trobe Institute for Social and Environmental Sustainability assisted researchers to build on research strengths identified in the sustainability research report, Current Research and Future Opportunities (latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/research), and worked with them to identify emerging areas of investigation and to match these to promising research at the University. The information set out in Current Research and Future Opportunities was an opportunity Professor Roger Parish, School of Life Sciences to bring together researchers to ask them how connections might be facilitated across faculties and disciplines. The Institute for Human Security The Institute for Social Participation fosters interdisciplinary research on fosters interdisciplinary research that will The Institute hosted a Seminar all aspects related to human security as provide new perspectives on the implications Series to extend the conversation on defined by the United Nations Commission of social participation and social exclusion. interdisciplinarity, participated in forums on Human Security ‘as far more than the In 2011 the Institute for Social Participation and think-tanks, provided seed funding for absence of violent conflict. It encompasses contributed to sustainable development interdisciplinary research and sustainability human rights, good governance and through, for example: projects, and engaged in various other access to economic opportunity, education activities around the University. §§ hosting an international event, Social and health care’. In 2011 the Institute for Participation: Knowledge, Policy and Practice University Centres affiliated with Human Security contributed to sustainable Conference in November with speakers the La Trobe Institute for Social and development through, for example: and presenters from various healthcare and Environmental Sustainability include: §§ sponsoring and presenting at the related professions, as well as health care §§ AgriBio latrobe.edu.au/agribio Australian Council for International consumers. Key speakers included: §§ Centre for Sport and Social Impact Development conference: ‘An Australian §§ Reverend Tim Costello (World Vision) latrobe.edu.au/cssi Approach to Development? People, §§ Professor Tom Couser (Hofstra University) §§ Centre for Sustainable Practice and Policy’ §§ Professor Marcia Rioux (York University) Regional Communities §§ research by Sue Chaplin on: latrobe.edu.au/csrc/ §§ Professor Paul Smyth ‘Climate‑related displacement and human (Melbourne University) §§ Centre for Technology Infusion security in South Asia: a review of the latrobe.edu.au/tech-infusion social science research’ §§ Dr Guy Johnson (RMIT University). §§ Centre for Water Policy and Management §§ collaborating with Oxfam and a joint §§ researching and writing a book based on latrobe.edu.au/cwpm workshop: ‘The Big Push Forward, the presentation and discussions arising from the conference to be published in 2012 §§ Murray–Darling Freshwater Australian Debate’; the Big Push Forward Research Centre mdfrc.org.au is a network of practitioners exploring §§ contributing to policy development in useful approaches to impact assessment the areas relevant to social participation, The University’s Research Plan and reporting of international aid including submissions to the Productivity for 2012–2015 is available at: programs and projects. Commission. latrobe.edu.au/research Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 19 Research for future generations Opportunities in The theme of this think-tank was managing business growth in central Victoria in the sustainability a changing climate, and it provided an research environment opportunity for business leaders, government officials and academics to engage with each other and to learn about regional business Forums, think‑tanks and workshops operations under a changing climate. Centres across the University hosted a wide The newly formed Centre for Water Policy range of sustainability-related forums in 2011. and Management hosted the 4th annual In February 2011, the La Trobe Institute for Water Forum at the Albury-Wodonga Social and Environmental Sustainability held campus, giving participants the opportunity three themed workshops where participants to discuss key issues relating to water spoke briefly about their work and identified management, and encouraging friendly possible cross-disciplinary collaborations. and informed debate and discussion. Smaller groups then discussed and noted Transformative applied research barriers to collaboration, and ways that the Institute might facilitate different disciplines AgriBio is a world-class facility for working together. agricultural biosciences research and development and is a joint venture between The Centre for Sustainable Regional La Trobe University and the Victorian Communities hosted the Victorian Government, through the Department Centre for Climate Change Adaptation of Primary Industries. Research Annual Forum in Bendigo in 2011. Professor David Karoly This forum included a keynote speech by AgriBio will enhance Victoria’s capacity Mike Hulme from the University of East for preparedness, rapid detection, response Seminars and working paper series Anglia and Professor of Climate Change: and management of plant and animal pest and disease outbreaks, to help to protect In 2011, four respected sustainability ‘Re‑structuring climate policy: the Hartwell the state’s $11.8 billion agricultural sector. professionals spoke at the Lunchtime Seminar approach’. Participants were able to engage The facility will strengthen Victoria’s Series organised by the La Trobe Institute in a wide range of workshops on topics international reputation for plant, animal for Social and Environmental Sustainability. including ‘Policies and governance to and microbial biosciences and bioprotection The aim of this series is to contribute to the support integrated landscape management research and diagnostics. sustainability research environment by asking in a changing environment’, ‘The arts the speakers to share their insights on using of communication’ and ‘Scenarios of The Centre for Technology Infusion has interdisciplinarity to solve complex problems climate adaptation’ (co-presented by a key strategic priority to further develop (within an overarching theme of working Penny Whetton, Senior Principal Research collaborative relationships both nationally across disciplines in sustainability research). Scientist in the Climate Projections Science and internationally. Specifically, this included discussion around: Team at Commonwealth Scientific and The mission of the Centre is to stimulate Industrial Research Organisation Marine §§ working between academia, industry, major opportunities for economic growth and Atmospheric Research). and government and non-government by pioneering future directions and organisations The Centre for Sustainable Regional innovations with focus on strategic Communities also held a Victorian Centre and translational research and product §§ working with disciplines outside one’s own for Climate Change Adaptation Research realisation, through integration of and how this might influence the work Think Tank in 2011: ‘Regional business complementary research expertise in §§ techniques useful in research, development in a variable and changing micro/nanotechnologies, and information management, mentoring and planning climate: strategies for central Victoria’. and communication technologies. of interdisciplinary research. 20 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 GREATER LINKS The Office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor At the end of 2011, the University (Sustainability) and our Procurement established a memorandum of Linking Unit are working with academics understanding with Greening in developing our framework for Australia (Victoria) who relocated sustainability managing sustainability issues in to our campus to develop partnerships researchers the supply chain and is involving with our researchers. with operational academics in the Greener Government Buildings program. challenges New sustainability 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress projects in 2011 Provide opportunities for sustainability La Trobe Institute for Social and Environmental Projects developed during 2011 address researchers to collaborate across disciplines Sustainability research report published: a broad range of sustainability issues, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) Current Research and Future Opportunities including: rural community resilience; latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/research water markets in the Murray–Darling Basin; Workshops held to appraise researchers of economics of climate change adaptation; colleagues’ work in other disciplines and to ecosystem services policy in Australia; form a stronger network of multidisciplinary sustainability researchers human rights reporting and disclosures by ASX 200 companies; measurement Generations email list continued to provide of sustainability performance reporting a forum for research dissemination, news on sustainability research and funding opportunities in the public sector; and children’s rights and business principles. La Trobe Institute for Social and Environmental Sustainability Advisory Committee identified key Projects funded by the Australian issues and encouraged research collaborations Research Council’s Discovery scheme Provide seed funding for multidisciplinary $21,931 funding provided to 12 researchers for commencement in 2012 (and through sustainability research projects and identify and research funding opportunities identified. the National Health and Medical Research external sources of funds Council and other Australian Government Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) funding organisations) will address a number of issues related to sustainable development through the Australian Government National 2012 Actions Responsibility Research Priority Areas: Provide opportunities for sustainability Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research); §§ An Environmentally Sustainable Australia researchers to collaborate across disciplines Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability); Institute Directors; Executive Deans §§ Frontier Technologies for Building and Transforming Australian Industries Submit a major bid for sustainability research Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); funding that requires more than one discipline Research Centre Directors §§ Promoting and Maintaining Good Health or approach §§ Safeguarding Australia. Engage in at least one sustainability research Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); Social and environmental sustainability‑related activity per year with a clear benefit to Research Centre Directors projects funded to begin in 2012 include: regional Victoria determining the responses of diverse Engage in public advocacy and knowledge Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); animal taxa to global change to improve transfer on sustainability issues Research Centre Directors; Academic staff conservation efforts; linking soil acidification Link researchers to sustainability issues Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) with carbon dynamics in Australian in operations and education agroecosystems; testing the importance of large-scale climate factors to plant community assemblies following land‑use change; and, examining the relationship between spatial mobility and young people’s transition through higher education to adulthood, to guide regional development policy to enhance human potential. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 21 Our facility greenhouse gas emissions were 0.13 tonnes per square metre, meeting our target of a 5% reduction from 2010, and performing better than the Sustainable Campus Group (SCG) university average (0.16 tonnes per square metre in both 2009 and 2010). Our environmental impact 5% 15% 30% reduction reduction reduction Greenhouse emissions and targets 2009 2010 2011 2011 2015 2020 gas emissions Type of greenhouse gas/metric Results Target Facility 0.22 0.18 0.13 0.17 0.15 0.13 tCO2-e per gross floor area m2 Our greenhouse gas emission inventory includes Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, as Staff business travel 2.73 2.45 2.60 2.33 2.08 1.72 defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.2 tCO2-e per full-time equivalent staff workload Since 2009, we have reported our Staff and student activities 0.01 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.03 Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions tCO2-e per equivalent full-time person load to the Australian Government Department Waste data emissions contribution to staff and student activities unavailable for 2009 of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGER Act). In 2011 we developed a University-wide Greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions by Scope (tCO2 -e) Gas Emissions and Energy Management 2011 Plan, which included initiatives to reduce 74,266 30% 53% 17% our energy use and emissions. Data from Scope 1 previous years have been restated as more 2010 information has come available. 72,278 38% 43% 19% Scope 2 Scope 3 Our greenhouse gas emissions can be 2009 categorised into specific areas of our 77,600 25% 58% 17% tCO2-e = tonnes CO2 equivalent operations, including: §§ facility – emissions from the use of our campus buildings, including stationary While the SCG exclude student residential We plan to greatly reduce our facility fuel use, electricity and heat buildings from their benchmarks, the greenhouse gas emissions through §§ staff business travel – emissions from University and TEFMA include them if participation in the Victorian Government’s vehicles used for business travel, including they are managed by the University. Greener Government Buildings program, our fleet, private cars, hire cars, taxis which will give us an in‑depth understanding Applying the emissions intensity of normal and aeroplanes of our energy and greenhouse gas footprint Victorian grid electricity to our GreenPower §§ staff and student activities – emissions purchases, our facility emissions were and how we might prioritise improvement from activities such as paper use and 0.19 tCO2-e/GFA (higher than the TEFMA works. Intensive audits and the tendering waste sent to landfill. Australian 2009 mean at 0.14 tCO2-e/GFA). process will be undertaken in 2012, with In calculating facility greenhouse gas works to start in 2013. Costs associated The difference in our facility emissions emissions for this report, we have assumed with the program will be offset by energy between 2010 and 2011 was due to the that our GreenPower purchases are from cost savings over a period of approximately cogeneration plant at the Melbourne campus a zero emissions source, but note that they seven years (from 2013). operating at reduced capacity for the first are not treated as such for the purposes half of the year and not at all for the second Our staff business travel greenhouse gas of the NGER Act. half, and changes in energy use (see next emissions exclude a number of sources It should be noted that while the SCG allow section). As a result the University purchased where our data are inadequate, including offsets and GreenPower as an emissions a higher proportion of grid electricity than some domestic flights, business travel in neutral power source for benchmarking, in 2010. The increased energy consumption novated lease vehicles and a proportion of The Tertiary Education Facilities Management was offset by an increased proportion of travel in hire cars. The emissions associated Association (TEFMA) do not recognise GreenPower purchased in 2011 (47% of all with the University’s vehicle fleet are offset offsets for their benchmark. (TEFMA use the electricity used by the University in 2011, through GreenFleet; this offset is not Australian Government’s NGER methodology). compared to 10% in 2010). considered for our greenhouse gas inventory. 22 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Participation in the Victorian Government’s Greener Government Buildings program will give us an in‑depth understanding of our energy and greenhouse gas footprint and how we might prioritise improvement works. Staff members are not currently required 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress to use the contract travel providers for Produce a greenhouse gas emissions management Completed domestic travel, and it is not feasible plan that includes reduction strategies to reach to track business travel emissions from our greenhouse gas reduction targets non‑contracted travel providers. The tracking Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) of business travel will be improved in 2012; investigations are underway to remove gaps Develop data collection systems for: In progress; 2012 data expected to be reported in air travel data and include (potentially) domestic air travel (Scope 3), novated lease business-subsidised novated lease vehicles. vehicles (Scope 3), hired vehicles (Scope 1 and 3), CO2 and N2O gas cylinders (Scope 1) We did not meet our 2011 target due to a Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); decrease in staff numbers and 1% increase Director, Finance Operations in flights (the biggest contributor, at 89% of staff travel emissions). This increase was due to increases reported from existing sources 2012 Actions Responsibility and the addition of new sources: Navigator Conduct a study that quantifies the financial Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); Travel Management (2010 and 2011) and implications to the University of a carbon tax Vice‑President, Finance and Resources/ National Travel Bendigo (2011 only). and emissions trading scheme Chief Financial Officer Our staff and student activities greenhouse gas emissions include emissions associated Greenhouse gas Staff business travel with waste to landfill (Melbourne campus), emissions and targets (tCO2 -e/FTE) paper and domestic postage; more data are now available so the values have been FACILITY 2020 1.72 restated for 2009 and 2010. (tCO2 -e/GFA) 2015 2.08 We observed a small decrease in activities emissions in 2011, with a reduction in 2020 0.13 2011 2.33 domestic postage and paper use offsetting 2015 0.15 2.60 the slight rise in waste going to landfill. Staff/student commuting between home 2011 0.17 2010 2.45 and the University is excluded. In 2011, we 0.13 2009 2.73 began collating data on the use of dry ice (solid CO2), and CO2 and N2O gas cylinders, 2010 0.16 for some laboratories. These data will be 0.18 Staff and student activities considered for inclusion in the 2012 report. (tCO2 -e/EFTPL) 2009 0.14 Continuous improvement in our data 0.16 2020 0.03 collection methods means that we have been able to state more precisely (or restate) 0.22 2015 0.04 the volume of greenhouse gas emitted in 2009 and 2010. 2011 0.04 0.04 2010 0.04 2009 0.01 2 Greenhouse Gas Protocol (2004). tCO2-e/EFTPL kilograms of carbon dioxide The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate equivalent gases per equivalent full-time Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised person load Target Edition). Available from: ghgprotocol.org tCO2-e/GFA tonnes of carbon dioxide TEFMA Australian mean EFTPL Equivalent full-time person load equivalent gases per GFA SCG university mean GFA gross floor area in metres squared TEFMA Tertiary Education Facilities Management Association (only 2009 mean data available) La Trobe University SGC Sustainable Campus Group Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 23 Our environmental impact Energy consumption 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Communicate Energy Efficiency Policy Communicated through UniNews, Facility energy consumption has increased to University community presentations to staff, Facebook, etc by 7% over the past year. Our total energy Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) consumption by operation and facility Continue T8 and T5 fluorescent light retrofit Completed energy efficiency key performance indicators Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations include the electricity produced by the cogeneration plant, electricity used from Initiate Level 2 and 3 energy audits to identify Not completed in 2011; decision taken to major sources of energy use in each building sign up to the Greener Government Buildings the grid, stationary fuels and natural gas, and potential improvements in energy efficiency program and complete these audits in 2012 but exclude the energy from natural gas across all campuses as part of the program used in our cogeneration plant. This allows Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations us to compare our facility energy efficiency with other universities that do not have an operating cogeneration plant, but differs 2012 Actions Responsibility from NGERs reporting. Ensure that the purchase of 25% GreenPower Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations Facility energy consumption includes is implemented across all of the University’s all electricity consumed by University large electricity accounts facilities whether it is sourced from the Complete Level 2 and 3 energy audits Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations grid (62,159 GJ in 2011, 81,297 GJ in 2010), to identify ways to improve energy efficiency GreenPower (55,888 GJ in 2011, 9,469 GJ in across all campuses 2010) or the cogeneration plant. The figure Engage in an energy performance contract through Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations also includes fuels for stationary plant and the Victorian Government Department of Treasury equipment. The data for 2010 and 2011 have and Finance’s Greener Government Buildings been updated due to better data availability. program, implementing energy, carbon emissions and water use reduction programs Energy reduction initiatives in 2011 included the T8 to T5 fluorescent light retrofit program Conduct a lighting trial in one building on each of Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations and better communication of the Energy the Melbourne and Bendigo campuses, swapping existing light globes for more efficient LED globes Reduction Policy to staff and students (through presentations, UniNews, facebook Where possible, limit the rollout of split system Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations and switch off stickers). Our Infrastructure air conditioning/heating to be planned through and Operations Division reviewed the the Greener Government Buildings program and the 10‑year Capital Development Plan (within building automation systems in a number requirements of the University’s Thermal Comfort of buildings. An improved reporting program Guidelines and OHS) will result in further efficiency gains. Plan energy reduction initiatives that are Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations The University has begun the Greener not covered under the Greener Government Government Buildings program and Buildings program for 2013 significant energy savings are expected Link researchers and students with operational Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) over a 7 to 10-year period. Level 2 energy projects and initiatives concerned with energy and water audits will begin in the first reduction and renewable energy use quarter of 2012 and Level 3 energy and water audits will be completed by the end of 2012. Our Beechworth campus is now closed; its energy is included in our total energy use, but excluded from the facility energy efficiency KPI. 24 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Our Melbourne campus has a Whilst the cogeneration plant was A review of options for replacing cogeneration plant that produced online for most of 2010, it operated for the existing cogeneration plant is 38,931 GJ of electricity in 2011 less than half the year in 2011 increasing occurring as part of the University’s (compared to 84,850 GJ in 2010). purchases from the electricity grid. capital development program. Total energy consumption by operation (GJ) Facility energy efficiency (GJ/GFA) 2011 2020 0.69 327K 96% 4% 2015 0.84 2010 2011 0.94 310K 95% 5% 1.01 2009 389K 94% 6% 2010 0.83 0.99 Facility Target 2009 0.68 Staff business travel TEFMA Australian mean 0.78 SCG university mean GFA gross floor area in metres squared GJ gigajoules 1.23 La Trobe University GFA excludes Shepparton (2009–10); SCG Sustainable Campus Group Beechworth campus; Osborne Street TEFMA Tertiary Education Facilities campus, Bendigo; residential facilities Management Association and other minor sites Energy production Melbourne campus cogeneration plant Natural gas Melbourne campus Electricity consumed by Melbourne Our cogeneration plant uses natural imported to fuel the cogeneration plant campus buildings (energy consumption 24,996 GJ) gas to produce electricity and heat cogeneration plant produces electricity (as high‑temperature hot water). Metering Electricity consumed by the La Trobe (energy consumption (energy production of the high‑temperature hot water began in Medical Centre and exported to the grid 241,546 GJ) 38,931 GJ) (energy exported 13,935 GJ) June 2011 and will be reported in future years. GJ Gigajoules Any energy or heat used by other organisations located on our grounds, or exported to the grid, is not included in 2012 Actions Responsibility our inventory of greenhouse gas emissions. Collect data on high-temperature hot water Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations For more information, read our case study at: production by the cogeneration plant (Melbourne campus) for inclusion in future reports latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report Other emissions to air La Trobe University reports to the National COMPOUND (kG/year) 2009 2010 2011 Other emissions-to-air Pollution Inventory as the cogeneration data are presented in Carbon monoxide (CO) 4,696 7,965 7,761 financial year timeframes plant at our Melbourne campus is a source to correspond to the of air emissions. These emissions are below Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) 33,645 32,544 32,936 relevant National Pollution thresholds set by EPA Victoria. They do not Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 173 81 149 Inventory submissions. pose a threat to human and environmental Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 506 139 486 health and are accounted for in the natural gas component of our greenhouse gas Particulate matter 1,486 1,084 1,598 emissions inventory. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 25 Our environmental Overall, two-thirds of commuters travelled by car, at both the impact Melbourne and Bendigo campuses. Car (single occupancy) use rates increased at the Melbourne campus in 2011, and was above target for both sites (50% at Melbourne and 45% at Bendigo, compared to the target of 44% at the Melbourne campus). Commuting 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Join the Metlink Commuter Club to provide staff with Completed Annual travel surveys for staff and a 10% discount on annual public transport tickets students have been conducted at through a fortnightly payroll deduction (after tax) the Melbourne campus since 2009. Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations A survey was conducted at the Bendigo Install three additional TramTracker screens across On hold; responsibility moved to Marketing campus in 2011 for the first time. the Melbourne campus and Engagement, to progress in 2012 A quarter of commuters walk to the Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations Bendigo campus, but a much smaller Expand the transport survey to the Bendigo campus Completed proportion do so at the Melbourne Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations campus. (Note: The commuter counting points on the University perimeter exclude staff members and students 2012 Actions Responsibility who live on campus). Communicate public transport options Executive Director, Marketing and Engagement; Commuting data for the Melbourne and benefits to the University community Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); Executive and Bendigo campuses are available at: Director, Infrastructure and Operations latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/ Conduct a bike-share pilot project Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations 2011/data on the Melbourne campus The University joined the Metlink Install additional bike racks on the Melbourne Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations Commuter Club in late 2011, offering and Bendigo campuses discounted annual pass (Myki) cards to Expand and promote carpooling initiatives, Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations; staff to encourage public transport uptake. including a phased increase in carpooling Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); The new carpool system to be launched parking spaces to meet increased demand Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Equity and Student Services) in 2012 is intended to convert more car Continue to work with the Victorian Government Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations; (single occupancy) commuters into car to introduce new public transport options Chief Operating Officer (multiple occupancy) commuters. to all campuses For more information on sustainable Seek academic and student involvement Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) forms of transport and details of our and support in sustainable transport options carpooling program, see: and projects latrobe.edu.au/travelsmart Install three additional TramTracker Executive Director, Marketing and Engagement screens across the Melbourne campus Review the provision of travel allowances/benefits Executive Director, People and Culture; for senior employees to ensure that more sustainable Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) forms of transport are promoted MELBOURNE Campus transport 2020 32% survey results AND TARGETS 2015 39% Car (single occupancy target) 2012 43% Car (single occupancy) Car (multiple occupancy) 2011 44% Public transport 2011 50% 17% 25% 6% Bicycle Motorcycle 2010 46% 21% 23% 7% Pedestrian 2009 51% 20% 21% 6% 26 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Water tanks have been installed at the cogeneration plant and reuse of the plant water on the Melbourne campus is being implemented. Water use Total potable water use Potable water use (kilolitres) (kilolitres per EFTPL) Total potable water use has increased by 12% 2011 257,924 2020 7.84 over the past year. This is due to significant leaks on the Melbourne campus, which are 2015 8.28 2010 230,055 being located and repaired. A water leakage 2012 8.41 detection program has been implemented and our Infrastructure and Operations Group 2009 190,271 2011 8.45 are also implementing the recommendations 9.55 of a 2011 water consumption study on the Melbourne campus. 2010 17.68 The University’s Environmental and Shepparton is excluded from the 2010 results 8.72 Resource Efficiency Program (EREP) plan and Mildura from the 2009 results (no data), while Beechworth campus is excluded altogether 2009 6.88 was finalised in 2011, generating approximately as the campus closed in 2011. Potable water use 34.1 megalitres in savings annually. at the Mildura campus was 1,054 and 882 kilolitres 7.69 In 2011, we conducted a study on the in 2010 and 2011 respectively. feasibility of implementing water meters EFTPL Equivalent full-time person load Target on all floors of every building across all SCG Sustainable Campus Group SCG university mean campuses. Our Infrastructure and Operations The SCG university mean was based on 6 and La Trobe University Division is in the process of installing 12 universities in 2010 and 2009 respectively. improved data collection systems and water audits are scheduled for 2012 as part of the Greener Government Buildings program (see ‘Energy consumption’ for details). 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Some landscaping at the Melbourne campus Initiate water audits for all campuses to identify Not completed in 2011; decision taken to is irrigated with water from the University’s major sources of water use in each building and sign up to the Greener Government Buildings stormwater mitigation systems, which potential improvements in water use efficiency program and complete these audits in 2012 includes a network of wetlands connected Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations as part of the program via the moat system. Stormwater is collected Implement a number of water reuse projects, In progress; water tanks installed at cogeneration from surrounding suburbs and roads, filtered including the reuse of the cogeneration plant plant and final commissioning due early 2012 naturally, and delivered to Darebin Creek. water on the Melbourne campus Thus potable water use is reduced. In 2011, Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations water quality was reviewed through a land and water management study. Improve data collection systems for water use Data collection software currently and recycling being implemented We are investigating ways to incorporate Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations; the wetland network and moat into student Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) learning and capital developments, to gain a better understanding of biodiversity values. Data collected through these projects will 2012 Actions Responsibility enable the University to benchmark and Implement priority water consumption Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations improve biodiversity. reduction projects on the Melbourne campus Install residential shower timers in existing Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations Bendigo residences Conduct a study to determine the viability of Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations stormwater metering on the Melbourne campus Seek academic and student involvement Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) in water projects and initiatives Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 27 Our environmental Members of Council, its committees, Academic Board, the Planning and impact Resources Committee, Directors and Heads of Schools committees now use tablet devices at meetings as a move to paperless meetings. Paper use 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Set printer defaults to double sided Completed for new multifunction devices, in All paper purchases from April 2011 have Chief Information Officer, Information progress for existing ones; we need to encourage had 100% post-consumer waste recycled and Communications Technology individuals to do it for personal printers content. Due to improvements in data Improve conference room facilities and the use Completed, see main text for details tracking, we have restated the paper usage of laptops over personal computers to promote for 2009 and 2010. We have achieved paperless meetings our targets for paper reduction and the Chief Information Officer, Information percentage of paper used with 100% and Communications Technology recycled content. Increase the amount of paper purchased that Completed, see main text for details Upgrades to conference and meeting contains recycled content (ongoing until all room facilities and wireless networks have paper is 100% recycled) contributed to reduced paper use. Members Vice President, Finance and Resources/ of Council, its committees, Academic Board, Chief Financial Officer; Pro Vice-Chancellor the Planning and Resources Committee, (Sustainability) Directors and Heads of Schools committees Set targets for the number of additional printers Targets not set, but purchasing team and faculty use tablet devices at meetings as a move purchased and leased directors are limiting new printer purchasing and to paperless meetings. Chief Information Officer, Information removing printers from individual offices and Communications Technology Paper use AND targets (reams/EFTPL) 2020 2.23 100% 2015 2.72 50% 50% 2012 2.87 60% 40% 2011 3% 2.58 30% 62% 5% 2010 3.20 79% 12% 9% 2009 3.01 72% 14% 14% Target 100% recycled Target plantation Plantation 100% recycled 1–49% recycled 50–99% recycled 28 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 The University’s new land and water management plans will help guide management of our biodiversity assets; our Infrastructure and Operations Group is currently reviewing the plans’ suggested actions, with implementation expected to commence in 2012. Biodiversity 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Develop a land and water management Completed The 28 ha La Trobe Wildlife Sanctuary at the plan for all campuses, identifying species Melbourne campus (latrobe.edu.au/wildlife) of ecological significance and many other areas of remnant and Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations high‑value ecological communities are Initiate a program that tracks the water quality Not completed in 2011, but the land and water managed by the University across the and ecological health of the moat system management plan is a first step Melbourne, Bendigo and Albury-Wodonga Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations campuses. From June 2011, the University no longer manages the Gresswell Habitat Link, Gresswell Hill and Gresswell Forest 2012 Actions Responsibility Nature Conservation Reserves (the reserves Develop a program for implementation of the Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations reverted to state government management). land and water management plan over 5 years, starting in 2012 The University undertakes targeted, detailed flora and fauna assessments Implement best‑practice water and feral Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations across its grounds and at possible future fish management procedures in the La Trobe infrastructure development sites, in Wildlife Sanctuary order to be fully informed of biodiversity Conduct a study to calculate approximate carbon Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations attributes and possible impacts from offsets as a result of vegetative areas on the both direct and indirect influences. Melbourne campus We are building a database of trees and Seek academic and student involvement in Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) native vegetation, vertebrate terrestrial land and biodiversity projects and initiatives and aquatic fauna, and significant species and develop research opportunities with and habitat features. This means that we Greening Australia (Victoria) can identify opportunities and constraints for the development of natural and built environments. These data will be updated in 2012 through fauna surveys. Built environment Net gain to biodiversity is achieved by following established stepped procedures Our participation in the Victorian Environmentally sustainable design principles to first avoid loss wherever possible, then Government’s Greener Government Buildings are incorporated into new developments to minimise, and finally to offset where program demonstrates our commitment and refurbishments for the University no other reasonable alternative is available, to environmentally sustainable design, through updated design standards, requiring allowing infrastructure or other forms improving the water and energy efficiency a five‑star Green Star design minimum of University development to progress. of our facilities. (as established by the Green Building Council Where offsetting is required, the University of Australia for environmental performance dtf.vic.gov.au/CA25713E0002EF43/pages/ complies with Net Gain Policy for Habitat by an education building). dtf-projects-greener-government-buildings Hectare specification and protection (habitat hectare is a measure of the quality and quantity of native vegetation for a site). The first and only requirement for a Net Gain 2012 Actions Responsibility offset necessary for a campus development All new buildings are to comply with disability Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations; occurred in 2011, due to the creation of a car standards codes or have an action plan to ensure Pro Vice-Chancellor (Equity and Student Services) compliance with the Disability Discrimination Act park required for people working at our new AgriBio facility. The positive outcome is the All new buildings and renovations will meet Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations provision of an increased area of protected rigorous criteria for sustainability as identified in the habitat hectares to be maintained for a design standards and in line with Green Star ratings (Green Building Council of Australia) minimum of 10 years. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 29 Our environmental impact Waste and recycling 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Develop a consolidated waste policy Drafted in 2011 for consultation and approval We apply the waste hierarchy for all campuses in 2012 principles of reduce, reuse and recycle Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); Executive (see: epa.vic.gov.au/waste/#heirarchy). Director, Infrastructure and Operations; Director, ICT In 2011, we installed 64 new recycling and Refurbish general waste and recycling bins on Completed landfill bin units at the Melbourne campus, the Melbourne campus through the Public Place and refurbished a further 72; 30 new bin Recycling Grant funds units were installed at the Albury-Wodonga Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations campus, and four bin units each were Implement recycling programs and expand as Completed; electronic waste and mobile phone refurbished for the Mildura and Shepparton appropriate to regional campuses; collect data recycling programs were expanded to regional campuses. Bins at the Bendigo campus through two waste audits per campus in 2011 campuses, and two waste audits were completed will be upgraded in 2012. Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations at all campuses Over the last year at the Melbourne Improve waste data collection systems Completed campus, we recycled 25% (28% in 2010) Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations of our general waste through comingled recycling. We also provide fluorescent tube, e-waste, toner cartridge and mobile phone 2012 Actions Responsibility recycling services. By comparison, in 2010 Develop requirements for waste, composting and Director, Financial Operations; Executive Director, the Sustainable Campus Group Universities recycling in contracts with food service vendors, Infrastructure and Operations recycled, on average, 23% of their waste. residential colleges, campus catering and campus Electronic waste and mobile phone recycling child care centres programs were expanded to regional Develop green cleaning procedures and reduce Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations campuses, while a recycling programs the use of toxic chemicals in the cleaning process plan was developed and two audits carried Upgrade external rubbish and recycling bins Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations out at each campus. Over 1,230 items of on the Bendigo campus furniture have been provided for reuse Trial an organic waste program with one Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations over the past three years. residential college on the Melbourne campus For more information on the waste Install enviropoles for smokers on the Mildura, Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations and recycling services offered on Shepparton and Albury-Wodonga campuses our campuses, see: and increase the number of water fountains latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/ on all campuses practises/recycling Begin interior bin upgrade program Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations on the Melbourne campus Source information from other universities/ Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations industries on reducing construction and demolition waste, and draft appropriate procedures Implement communication and engage with students Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) and other stakeholders to reduce bottled water consumption, reduce waste and increase recycling Link researchers and students with waste and Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) recycling operational projects and initiatives Mandate recycling standards in contracts with Director, Financial Operations; Executive Director, food service vendors as leases come up for renewal Infrastructure and Operations 30 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 35.9 KILOGRAMS 25% general waste of waste per person in recycled in 2011. 2011, well below the SCG 2010 university mean of 138.7 kg. General waste disposed to landfill recycling rate (KG per EFTPL) (% of general waste) 2020 24.2 2020 36.4% 2015 29.4 2015 32.2% 2012 32.0 2012 30.1% 2011 32.8 2011 29.4% 35.9 25.0% 2010 138.7 2010 23.0% 34.5 28.0% 2009 48.1 Melbourne campus data shown. 2009 and 2010 data have been corrected Target and targets revised accordingly. SCG university mean EFTPL Equivalent full-time person load La Trobe University SCG Sustainable Campus Group Products and services Multifunction printers purchased and leased The number of multifunction printers 2011 purchased and leased by Campus 87 78% 22% Graphics (the University’s print provider) has decreased by 16% since 2009, in line 2010 with University efforts to centralise 97 76% 24% printing in areas (supporting resource 2009 Purchased reduction efforts). 104 76% 24% Leased Leased printers are taken back by the lease company at end-of-life for refurbishment or recycling. 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Our Information Communication Technology Initiate a policy and process that does not allow for Completed division is currently working on collecting additional printers to be purchased by working groups data on the sustainability of our equipment Director, Information and Communications and processes. Technology 2012 Actions Responsibility Develop a business case for including Adobe Director, Information and Communications Acrobat Professional in the standard operating Technology environment to enable the annotation of documents without printing Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 31 Our social impact: staff Staff categories At the end of 2011, we had approximately 3,100 full-time equivalent staff. This is a 7% decrease on 2010 staffing levels (2009 and 2010 data have been restated to ensure inclusion of casual staff). Full‑time equivalent movement from 2010 to 2011 reflects a decision by the Vice‑Chancellor in August 2011 to place a recruitment freeze on the University. This has meant that positions made vacant have not been filled leading to fewer full‑time equivalent staff at 31 December 2011. There was a greater decrease in casual staff than in full-time staff in 2011 resulting in an increase in the proportion of full-time staff. The staff population became comparatively younger in 2011, with a drop in employees aged over 50 and an increase in staff aged 30–50 years. More information on staff categories can be found online: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/ report/2011/data Professor Ishaq Bhatti and students, Borchardt Library Staff by employment type Staff by employment type (Full-time equivalent ACADEMIC) (Full-time equivalent PROFESSIONAL) 2011 2011 1,526 63% 12% 25% 1,574 73% 14% 13% 2010 2010 1,680 60% 12% 28% 1,656 72% 14% 14% Full-time 2009 2009 Part-time 1,611 58% 15% 27% 1,547 72% 14% 14% Casual Staff by age group (Full-time equivalent) 2011 3,100 41% 46% 13% 2010 3,335 49% 38% 13% Aged over 50 2009 Aged 30–50 3,159 50% 38% 12% Aged under 30 32 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 51% STAFF 59% STAFF under 50 years under 50 years of age in 2010. of age in 2011. Staff turnover and new hires In 2011, the staff turnover was just over 11% The University offers parental leave for (the same as for 2010). We have restated all employees (other than casuals), with previous years’ data to include casual staff a high rate of people returning to work human rights in turnover, and provide turnover alongside after maternity/paternity leave (about the comparable new hires data. 90% returned to work after leave in 2011). Our human rights policies The closure of the Beechworth campus led The data for turnover, new hires and return to can be viewed at: to a high turnover there in 2011. Five FTE work after parental leave are available online at: latrobe.edu.au/policy staff members remain at Beechworth; others latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/data either left the University or relocated to other campuses. Staff turnover (%) 2009 2010 2011 NEW HIRES (%) 2009 2010 2011 Age Age Over 50 14.6% 9.0% 8.0% Over 50 4.1% 4.1% 3.5% 50–30 17.7% 16.2% 12.6% 50–30 15.1% 15.5% 8.9% Under 30 6.8% 7.1% 13.6% Under 30 14.3% 13.8% 12.1% Campus Campus Shepparton 5.9% 3.1% 8.7% Shepparton 17.8% 13.3% 2.2% Mildura 12.0% 3.9% 14.1% Mildura 13.1% 8.7% 7.7% City 12.8% 14.5% 18.4% City 20.0% 6.8% 9.5% Melbourne 14.6% 11.9% 10.9% Melbourne 9.5% 10.1% 7.1% Bendigo 17.3% 9.4% 6.8% Bendigo 9.1% 8.1% 7.5% Beechworth 3.9% 9.2% 193.7% Beechworth – – – Albury-Wodonga 14.8% 12.1% 11.1% Albury-Wodonga 5.2% 8.3% 6.6% Gender Gender Male 13.1% 10.8% 10.1% Male 9.0% 9.2% 7.1% Female 16.0% 12.0% 11.3% Female 9.9% 10.0% 7.2% Turnover: Number of full-time equivalent (FTE) New hires: Number of full-time equivalent (FTE) staff members who leave over the year divided staff members who begin employment over the year by the total FTE (as at 31 December that year). divided by the total FTE (as at 31 December that year). 2012 Actions Responsibility Induction for new staff to include Executive Director, People and Culture; sustainability practices Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) Induction for new academic staff to include Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); embedding sustainability in courses Executive Director, People and Culture Review staff recruitment and promotion Executive Director, People and Culture processes in light of aging workforce Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 33 Our social The ratio of female professional employees at the University (64%) is impact: STAFF on par with the Universities Australia 2010 mean, while 53% of academics at La Trobe University are women compared to 43% for the Universities Australia 2010 mean. Women in leadership Female professional staff at Higher Education Officer HEO10 and above The proportion of female staff in senior The proportion of female professional 2015 50% academic roles (Associate Professor staff at Higher Education Officer Level Level D and Professor Level E) is greater HEO10 and above is less than the Universities 2011 42% than the Universities Australia mean for Australia mean for 2009 and 2010. 39% 2009 and 2010 but compares poorly given For further information see our the higher proportion of female staff overall 2010 45% Equal Opportunity for Women in the (53% compared to the Universities Australia Workplace Strategic Plan 2010–2015. 40% 2010 mean of 43%). 2009 41% Proportion of women in high-level 32% governance committees Female academic staff at Professor Level E 2010 2011 2010 2011 2015 40% 44% 50% 33% 43% 2011 37% 33% 2010 23% UNIVERSITY COUNCIL Academic Board 37% 2009 22% 34% 2010 2011 2010 2011 17% 27% 35% 30% Female academic staff at Associate Professor Level D 2015 40% Planning and Resources Committee Head of School Committee 2011 37% 39% 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress 2010 32% Review promotion and recruitment Promotion and recruitment processes 34% processes for executive senior management are scheduled for review in 2012 role classification positions 2009 31% Executive Director, People and Culture 35% Establish and monitor achievement of targets Delayed pending arrival of new Vice-Chancellor; for women on high-level governance committees human resources planning subcommittee of Target Executive Directors, Executive Deans Council established in 2012 Universities Australia mean La Trobe University 2012 Actions Responsibility Review staff age group diversity/balance Executive Director, People and Culture Promotion criteria were amended to facilitate and consider the need for policy/guidelines promotion through teaching excellence. This resulted in an increase in the proportion of applications from to encourage change women and a high success rate. 34 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 In our 2011 Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency Employer of Choice for Women submission, the University’s overall gender pay gap was reported as 17.5% as at 31 March (18.2% in 2010) for ongoing and fixed‑term staff. This 5 ABS (2011). Average Weekly Earnings – Trend, is close to the Australian average of May 2011, Cat. 6302.0, (released 18 Aug 11) 17.2% for people working full-time.5 Australian Bureau of Statistics: Canberra. Salary and benefits Gender pay gap FEMALE TO MALE wage ratio 2011 0.90 Our employment terms and conditions, We further analysed the wage ratio 0.94 salary scales, classifications, superannuation for the University by breaking the and other entitlements are outlined in the results down by employment type, 2010 0.92 La Trobe University Collective Agreement, and compared the salary for entry‑level 0.94 which as of 2011 covers all of our staff. employment classifications to the federal The Agreement outlines a variety of minimum wage. 2009 0.93 resignation and termination notice periods To view the results, and minimum 0.94 for employees employed under different wage averages by gender, see: conditions. A wide range of benefits and latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/ entitlements are offered to staff members Professional report/2011/data at La Trobe University, including childcare Academic facilities, access to gym and swimming facilities, an employee assistance program, salary packaging, parental leave, flexible conditions and a wellness program. Equal opportunities for Indigenous Australian staff (Full-time equivalent) To see more details, including a copy Indigenous Australians of the 2009 Collective Agreement, visit: 2011 16 latrobe.edu.au/jobs/working/benefits Indigenous Australian students who have A number of initiatives are also in place to subscribed to receive updates from the 2010 14 support staff transition from the University, Indigenous Employment Database are including superannuation seminars; University notified of employment opportunities 2009 10 policies allowing reduced workloads whilst directly. In addition, Indigenous Student protecting superannuation contribution Services receive a job vacancy list weekly arrangements and potential retirement to share with Indigenous students. Aboriginal elders are invited to perform incentives to eligible staff; and severance People and Culture are working with Welcome to Country for major University pay (with consideration of age and years of faculties and divisions to identify areas events. We are not aware of any incidents service) is provided as per the University’s where Indigenous students can combine infringing the rights of Indigenous people Collective Agreement. People and Culture are study and employment. by the University over the past few years. working with Alumni and Advancement to For more information, see: develop a program to enable retired staff to Each year, we celebrate Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultural events. These latrobe.edu.au/indigenous stay engaged with the University community include observation of the National Day of Read our Indigenous Employment Strategy: by becoming alumni and participating in the Healing and NAIDOC (National Aboriginal latrobe.edu.au/jobs/our-employmentalumni volunteering program. and Islander Day of Commemoration) week. strategies Staff are entitled to join the union (www.nteu.org.au/latrobe); union representatives attend and speak to new 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress staff at the bi-annual 'Welcome to La Trobe' Ensure that employment opportunities are Ongoing induction sessions and are provided with an communicated to our Indigenous students on‑site office and facilities to enable staff to Executive Director, People and Culture access their services. Staff can deduct union fees from their pay and are provided with time release or leave to participate in union 2012 Actions Responsibility activities. The National Tertiary Education Union Maximise employment opportunities within Executive Director, People and Culture; are a party to the collective bargaining process, faculties and divisions through traineeships, Pro Vice-Chancellor (Equity and Student Services) and are consulted on organisational change cadetships, fixed‑term and continuing matters that have a significant impact on staff. appointments and secondments Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 35 Our social In keeping with the University’s commitment to equality and human The program aims to promote the understanding and practice impact: STAFF rights, University Council mandated of human rights. It provides in 2005 that all fixed‑term and information on equal opportunity, continuing employees complete disability support, cultural diversity, the Equity and Diversity Awareness anti‑discrimination, harassment Program, and then undergo refresher issues and responsibilities including training every three years. University policy and procedures. Human rights training In keeping with the University’s commitment The Equality and Diversity Centre, in Equality and Diversity to equality and human rights, University consultation with People and Culture, training (HOURS) Council mandated in 2005 that all fixed‑term is currently considering how to improve and continuing employees complete the protocols to remind staff that completed 2011 728 Equality and Diversity Awareness Program, Equality and Diversity Awareness Program and then undergo refresher training every attendance is mandatory. The program is 2010 1,380 three years. currently under review. This year, 182 of our staff completed Security staff receive ongoing training in 2009 1,280 Equality and Diversity Awareness Program common law and legislation relevant to training, totalling 728 person-hours. The their work practices. In addition, in 2012, lower number of training hours in 2011 all security staff, including third-party For more information about our Equality and results from many staff having already contractors, will complete Equality and Diversity Awareness Program training, see: completed the training. Diversity Awareness Program training, latrobe.edu.au/equality/staff/ some as a refresher. awareness-programs.html Staff development 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress and performance Develop a plan to improve outcomes of University investment in staff training In progress; People & Culture have developed a Capability Framework identifying desirable Executive Director, People and Culture staff capabilities in light of the University’s goals; All permanent and fixed-term staff learning and development activities will be members (with a contract of more than developed following a ‘capability gap analysis’ based on the Capability Framework 12 months) complete an annual performance plan. In 2009 and 2010, there were Improve data collection systems In progress; People and Culture, and Information separate processes for academic and with respect to training and Communications Technology, have committed professional/general staff. In 2011, a single Executive Director, People and Culture to the development and implementation of the online Performance Development System; funding online performance development system has been approved as a 2012/2013 work task by was implemented (performance plan the ICT Strategy Committee completion data are unavailable prior to this implementation). Develop employee benefits and value propositions Pending; awaiting completion of Marketing and Executive Director, People and Culture Engagement’s review of University branding The University invested $2,467,907 in staff training and development in 2011 Each division and faculty to develop actions Completed; actions incorporated into in Workforce Plans in response to Staff Climate operational plans ($796 per full‑time equivalent staff). Survey results During 2011, our People and Culture All Executive Deans and Executive Directors Division led a University-wide collaboration to develop the content for our Employee Value Proposition. 2012 Actions Responsibility Our Organisational Development unit Incorporate leadership and responsibility for Executive Director, People and Culture was established mid-2009 to provide sustainable development into core job descriptions and responsibilities professional and career development opportunities for staff in organisational Each division and faculty to develop actions Executive Directors and Deans learning, continuous improvement and in Workforce Plans in response to Staff Climate Survey results development of people. 36 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 $2.5 An online health and wellbeing program was launched in early 2010 to provide staff with access to a range of information and programs. MILLION invested in staff training in 2011. Occupational grievances, bullying threatening behaviour or discrimination and assaults health and safety 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Information on health and safety Initial contact NA 28 9 Threatening 14 6 5 /enquiries behaviour governance and training can be found at: latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011 Formal cases 21 12 16 Aggravated assaults 1 4 6 /complaints The number of workers’ compensation Includes staff, students, contractors claims and associated costs has increased Continuing 0 3 1 and University visitors. since 2010, largely due to increased costs Completed 21 9 15 associated with psychological injury and Initial contact data not available in 2009. Oh&s incidents 2009 2010 2011 musculoskeletal claims. Total occupational health and safety incidents People and Culture dealt with 25 grievance complaints or enquiries, with all but one Hazard reports (no injury) 64 61 66 closed by the end of the year. In response to an incident in which a Incident reports (no injury) 166 261 284 Most incidents concerned bullying (44%) person jumped from a balcony, automatic Incident reports (injury) 223 262 258 or management style (20%), while the door locks have been changed. By campus remained covered interpersonal conflicts In January 2011 a fire caused damage in a Albury-Wodonga 13 28 12 (12%), workload (8%), conduct (8%) and residential college at the Melbourne Campus behaviour (8%). Beechworth 3 11 3 (WorkSafe notifiable incident). The building The coronial inquest into the student was unoccupied at the time and the fire was Bendigo 42 68 75 who died on campus during Orientation believed to have started in a roof space with Melbourne 341 393 437 Week in 2010 is still to take place. the exact cause unknown. City 3 17 10 Mildura 23 19 12 Shepparton 8 1 16 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Off‑campus 20 47 43 Provide online training in occupational An online training module on occupational health health and safety responsibilities and and safety responsibilities has been developed By person (injury only) hazard management for staff and is now available to the University community Staff 141 145 133 Manager Occupational Health and Safety Student 64 97 104 Develop and implement safety management Development and implementation of safety Contractor 2 5 5 plans at faculty and division level management plans at faculty and divisional levels is progressing according to plan, with a number Visitor 6 4 11 Manager Occupational Health and Safety of plans now completed; expected completion Other 10 11 5 by end of 2012 By gender (injury only) Provide an online health and wellbeing An online health and wellbeing program was program for all staff launched in early 2010 to provide staff with Female 158 185 168 Executive Director, People and Culture access to a range of information and programs Male 65 77 90 Host worker health checks in partnership In partnership with WorkHealth Victoria, the Workers compensation claims with WorkHealth were provided for students University provided employee health checks Total number of claims 30 33 37 and staff in Victoria in 2010, the health check program was continued Claims involving lost time 10 14 16 Manager Occupational Health and Safety in 2011 and expanded to include eligible students at the Melbourne and Bendigo campuses Total lost time (days) 163 286 500 Includes staff, students, contractors and University visitors. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 37 La Trobe University has the highest proportion (23% in 2010) of students who have a home postcode in regional Victoria. In 2011 at least 43% of our domestic undergraduate students were ‘first in family’ (i.e. neither parent had a university qualification). Our social impact: students Human rights, SUCCESS RATE Participation equality and diversity LOW SOCIOECONOMIC LOW SOCIOECONOMIC In 2011, our student body was at 26,064 2010 85.0% 2015 20.0% equivalent full-time student load, a 4% 85.5% 2011 16.8% increase from 2010. 87.0% 2010 15.6% Domestic students made up 75%, our international onshore students 21% and our 2009 85.3% 12.8% international students located at overseas 86.0% 16.6% campuses 4% of the student body. 88.4% 2009 15.3% 12.7% STUDENTS 2009 2010 2011 REGIONAL 17.7% Domestic 17,863 18,749 19,452 2010 87.1% International on-shore 5,045 5,602 5,503 89.9% REGIONAL International off-shore 672 757 1,109 90.4% 2010 18.2% Total 23,580 25,108 26,064 2009 87.5% 17.7% 90.5% 32.4% 91.4% 2009 18.0% 17.5% Indigenous AUSTRALIAN 33.3% 2010 71.7% 71.9% Indigenous AUSTRALIAN 81.3% 2012 160 STUDENTS 2009 69.6% 2010 1.4% 67.2% 0.7% 84.3% 0.5% Target 2009 1.4% Australian universities mean 0.6% Victorian universities mean 0.6% Optometry student La Trobe University 38 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 REPRESENTATION Students on 19 STUDENTS Out of 40 available positions, 12 students filled 19 of these positions. Student involvement decision-making improves communication were on decision-making committees committees in 2011. between staff and students, There were 18 in 2010 and encourages student and 20 in 2009. engagement and learning. As part of our commitment to social This was distributed via an internal inclusion, we offer a range of services for competitive funding round where students who may require support during projects were considered by the their time at university, there is a major Access and Achievement Committee. focus on students from low socioeconomic The La Trobe University Muslim Student backgrounds, regional areas, Indigenous Guide outlines the location of prayer rooms, Australian students and students with halal food on and around campus, Islamic a disability. student groups, and external community To measure the success of our initiatives and religious support. For the Melbourne for these student groups, we track the campus; download from: participation and success of each group. latrobe.edu.au/international/predeparture/ La Trobe University has the highest settling/religion/muslim-students proportion (23% in 2010) of students The University produces a Celebrating who have a home postcode in regional Cultural Diversity calendar, which lists Victoria. In 2011 at least 43% of our major events in cultural and religious domestic undergraduate students communities. This assists staff members were ‘first in family’ (i.e. neither in scheduling exams and class activities. parent had a university qualification). The calendar is available online: Our Indigenous Australian student latrobe.edu.au/equality/CD-calendar.html participation rate is lower than the national average because the proportion 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress of Indigenous Australians in Victoria is Develop specific targets for low socioeconomic and Completed lower on average compared to other Indigenous Australian student numbers with faculties states and territories in Australia. Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President La Trobe University’s 2011 participation (Education); Deans of Faculties data and the Victorian and Australian means Implement projects under the Higher Education Completed, see main text for details were not available at the time of publication. Participation and Partnerships Program, which The Australian Government Department enhance the participation of students from a low socioeconomic background of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations has not yet published the 2010 Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President success rates. Most recent data indicates (Education) La Trobe University has higher success rates Implement a University-wide Indigenous Education Strategy drafted; awaiting final data from than the Victorian and national averages Strategy, which includes specific strategies and Planning and institutional Performance Unit in all categories. targets to increase the participation of Indigenous Australians in teaching and learning, research We have developed an Indigenous and community engagement at the University Education Strategy, which has been Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice‑President through an exhaustive consultation process, (Education) including all faculties across all campuses, and Elders and representative groups throughout Victoria. We anticipate that 2012 Actions Responsibility the Strategy will be launched in 2012. Increase the participation rate of low socioeconomic Pro Vice-Chancellor (Equity and Student Services); In 2011, the University approved students to 17.24% of total student cohort levels and Executive Deans $350,000 worth of projects under achieve 160 Indigenous student enrolments the Higher Education Participation and Disseminate guidelines for teaching, learning Director, ICT; Executive Director, Marketing and Partnerships Program (HEPPP), which and other University communications to comply Engagement; Pro Vice-Chancellor (Curriculum is funded by the Australian Government with Disability Discrimination Act provisions on and Academic Planning); Pro Vice-Chancellor Department of Education, Employment accessibility as per the University Disability Action (Equity and Student Services) Plan 2005–2010 and Workplace Relations. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 39 Our social impact: students 85.2% First-year retention rate in 2009, exceeding the Australian universities mean of 84%. Undergraduate student engagement In 2011, a substantially redesigned First Year Experience program was implemented across the University, providing an improved level of service to students in all faculties across all campuses. The program will be extended in 2012. Australasian Survey of Student Engagement This survey, run by the Australian Council for Educational Research and participating higher education institutions from Australia and New Zealand, provides information on ‘the time and effort students devote to educationally purposeful activities and on students’ perceptions of the quality of other aspects of their university experience’ acer.edu.au/research/ausse/overview Moat system, Melbourne campus It targets first and third-year students across the University. The average for first‑year students' overall satisfaction (71%) was close First-year students’ satisfaction THIRD-year students’ satisfaction to the Australian universities mean and a rise on previous years. Third‑year students’ 2011 72% 2011 67% overall satisfaction also rose slightly for 2011, 73% 61% above the Innovative Research Universities mean. Innovative Research Universities is 71% 66% a network of seven Australian universities 2010 70% 2010 65% that conduct research of national and international standing. 71% 66% 69% 64% First-year student retention rate 2009 71% 2009 66% We measure the retention rate of first-year students, which is the number of first-year 70% 65% students continuing study the following year. 67% 66% La Trobe University’s first-year retention rate was 85.2% in 2009 exceeding the Australian Australian universities mean universities mean of 84%. At the time of Innovative Research Universities mean publication data for 2010 and 2011 were not available. La Trobe University 40 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 COMMITTED Ec0-friendly 90% in 2011 90% in 2010 attitude Our consistent eco-friendly attitude. Australian universities mean 88% Commitment to addressing Australian universities mean 89% International universities mean 87% climate change, recycling, International universities mean 90% Innovative Research Uni mean 86% sustainable energy use and other Innovative Research Uni mean 88% sustainability issues on campus. International satisfaction with overall satisfaction with learning experience overall living experience Student Barometer 2011 85% 2011 86% The International Student Barometer is 84% 87% an annual survey that provides us with 84% 86% the perception, expectations and experience of international students studying outside 82% 86% their home country. 2010 86% 2010 85% La Trobe students reported a significant 84% 86% increase in ‘opportunities to teach’ (75%, compared to 62% in 2010) in 85% 86% the ‘learning’ section of the survey. 83% 86% The noticeable decrease in satisfaction rate is in ‘satisfaction towards accommodation 2009 85% 2009 85% cost’ (Living section of the survey) from 86% 89% an already low 62% in 2010 to 52% in 2011. 87% 89% This reflects the current relative strength of the Australian dollar. 84% 87% A summary web page is available to inform students and staff about the International universities mean satisfaction with University’s performance on international overall SUPPORT SERVICES Australian universities mean student satisfaction at: Innovative Research Universities mean 2011 87% latrobe.edu.au/international/ life/supportservices/isb La Trobe University 88% 89% 88% 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress 2010 85% Implement a redesign of first-year experience Completed 86% programs across the University Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President 87% (Education) 86% 2009 86% 2012 Actions Responsibility 86% Develop structured processes through which Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President student satisfaction data (such as Australian (Education); Director Planning and Institutional 85% Graduate Survey, Australasian Survey of Student Performance Unit 81% Engagement and student feedback on subjects/ teaching) must be considered by faculties and their intended actions reported centrally Lobby for incorporation of sustainability-related Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President questions in student surveys conducted through (Education) the Australian Graduate Survey and Australasian Survey of Student Engagement Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 41 Our social impact: students 49.1% Course Experience 52.2% Postgraduate Research overall satisfaction overall satisfaction in 2011 (44.2% in 2010 in 2011 (62% in 2010 and 34.1% in 2009). and 56.9% in 2009). Graduate experience The Course Experience Questionnaire is used to survey our recent graduates, while the Postgraduate Research Experience Questionnaire is used to survey recently graduated postgraduate research students. Both surveys are part of the Australian Graduate Survey, and provide useful data on student satisfaction. The Course Experience Questionnaire is completed four months post course completion. Course Experience overall satisfaction 2011 49.1% 2010 47.7% 44.8% 44.2% 2009 38.2% 33.9% 34.1% New Student Hub, Melbourne Postgraduate Research overall satisfaction 2011 52.2% 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress 2010 58.9% Allocate resources to provide all faculties Completed with detailed analysis of Course Experience 59.6% Questionnaire data 62% Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Education) 2009 57.7% Implement Design for Learning course design Completed and ongoing work 59.1% principles to address feedback on course structures on embedding sustainability 56.9% Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President (Education) Australian universities mean Innovative Research Universities mean La Trobe University 42 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 There were 227 complaints or The number of inquiries to the Equality grievances from students, staff and Diversity Centre dropped to 39 in and the community in 2011, a 2011 (from 57 in 2010), with only three decrease of 17% on 2010 figures. enquiries leading to formal complaints. University grievance management system University Ombudsman* Often deals with appeals; covers all grievances to do with the University (as well as Navitas English) Information on our grievance metrics FACULTY STUDENT SCHOOL EQUALITY PEOPLE AND is available at: OFFICE(S) COMPLAINTS OFFICE(S) AND DIVERSITY CULTURE* latrobe.edu.au/ Faculty-related OFFICE* School-related CENTRE* Workplace and academic and academic and employment sustainability/ Academic, general, Discrimination, general grievances residential and general grievances bullying and grievances report/2011 other grievances harassment *Data on grievances are collected by these offices STUDENTS STUDENTS & STAFF STAFF (data will be collected from all areas in 2012) Grievance 2012 Actions Responsibility management Coordinate regular meetings of complaint managers Pro Vice-Chancellor (Equity and Student to better respond to emerging trends and significant Services); Executive Director, People and Culture; risk issues, and to ensure up-to-date knowledge of Executive Deans Staff, students and other members of the issues and processes across the University University community can have their say Investigate the potential for developing a Pro Vice-Chancellor (Equity and Student and seek resolution for their concerns via coordinated complaints database to track cases Services); Executive Director, People and Culture a range of offices. and process of resolution University Ombudsman Student Complaints Office Equality and Diversity Centre Most of the complaints were from students. From 80 enquiries between the Office There were three formal complaints in Complaints of an academic or administrative opening in July 2011 and December 2011, 2011 and five in 2010. Almost half of the nature were the largest groups, but there were there were 63 formal cases. All but four inquiries in 2011 were related to bullying. also significant numbers of grievances related cases were closed by the end of the year, Similar to previous years, there were to visa issues (29) and students seeking with 41% of cases being resolved within a about twice as many inquiries from women. release letters (25). week. Only 19 cases took longer than three The large number for ‘other/not disclosed’ weeks to resolve. is partly due to people choosing not to disclose their incident type for the record. Complaints 2009 2010 2011 COMPLAINTS 2011 INQUIRIES 2009 2010 2011 Academic 52 79 56 Academic 26 Bullying 4 11 17 Administrative 43 73 41 Administrative 27 Sexual harassment 7 7 4 Other 134 122 130 Residential 6 Employment 3 0 1 Total 229 274 227 Other 21 Discrimination 8 10 7 Total 80 Racial/religious vilification 0 3 0 ‘Other’ includes issues relating to visas, Other 7 26 10 release letters, interpersonal issues, plagiarism, Total 29 57 39 appeals, misconduct, industrial activity, etc. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 43 $373.7 MILLION received from government in 2011, a 1.5% increase from 2010. Our economic and supply chain impact Economic performance ($000) 2009 2010 2011 performance Australian Government financial assistance: • Australian Government grants 208,048 265,908 263,190 • HECS-HELP – Australian Government payments 85,392 94,961 101,180 We receive financial assistance from • FEE-HELP 6,532 7,209 9,324 government in the form of research grants, State and local government financial assistance 8,483 5,673 6,345 higher education loans, scholarships and HECS-HELP – student payments 12,122 12,938 12,252 funding for capital works. In 2011 we received $373.7 million from government. This is Fees and charges 118,004 126,172 115,070 a 1.5% increase from 2010. Investment revenue 7,259 8,032 13,732 Our annual reports are available from: Consultancy and contracts 42,613 42,172 41,332 latrobe.edu.au/about/management/ Other revenue 43,464 47,469 55,596 governance Deferred government superannuation contributions 8,737 7,963 482 Total revenue (direct economic value generated) 540,654 618,497 618,503 Operating costs -122,383 -118,492 -134,404 Employee wages and benefits -323,798 -356,270 -359,485 Payment to providers of capital -3,570 -3,333 -3,195 Other categories of expenditure -38,159 -41,162 -37,634 Total expenses (economic value distributed) -487,910 -519,257 -534,718 Net operating results (economic value retained) 52,744 99,240 83,785 Current and non current assets 1,095,553 1,205,464 1,300,882 Current and non current liabilities 213,879 224,584 235,860 Equity 881,674 980,880 1,065,022 Financial assistance received from government ($m) 2011 46.3% 29.6% 5.7 13.4% 373.7 2010 45.6% 27.8% 5.8 16.8% 368.1 2009 50.5% 30.6% 6.7 7.3 300.0 C’wealth Grants Scheme, other grants Voluntary Student Unionism Higher Education Loan Program Other capital funding Scholarships Australian Research Council Department of Innovation, Other government assistance Industry, Science and Research 44 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Indirect economic impacts in regional As a large organisation we also make Victorian communities arise through significant direct economic contributions our knowledge diffusion activities, to the communities surrounding our student expenditure and the provision campuses; we have begun collating of jobs and graduates. the relevant data, which will be reported in our next sustainability report. Direct and indirect The University responded in June 2011 with a high-level report to the Planning and Our Beechworth campus closed in 2011; tenants and the local community were economic impacts Resources Committee: Advance Melbourne’s consulted, with a decision on the future North – A Regional Strategy for the La Trobe of the site yet to be determined. Our indirect economic impacts are the University Melbourne campus, which set More information is available at: additional impacts of money circulated out current strategic developments with latrobe.edu.au/news/articles/2011/article/ through the economy. Our University has regional stakeholders and key partners options-sought-for-beechworth-campus a strong network of regional campuses of the University. The intention is that the University will collect data on economic latrobe.edu.au/news/articles/2011/article/ located in Albury-Wodonga, Bendigo, impacts as they relate to the strategy. beechworth-facilities-to-close Mildura and Shepparton. These campuses make valuable economic contributions to their surrounding communities. NORTH Link is a business network and regional development partnership representing Melbourne’s northern region 2012 Actions Responsibility and is based on the Melbourne campus. Develop a methodology to measure the University’s Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations; The organisation has carried out research and indirect economic impacts on its surrounding Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) communities through the provision of infrastructure, reported on aspects of the University’s direct services and research and indirect economic impacts in this region, such as the contributions that international Conduct a needs assessment of community Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability); students make with fees and additional food, infrastructure and services to determine Executive Director, Infrastructure and how the University can contribute to its Operations; Executive Director, Engagement accommodation and transport expenditure, surrounding communities and Marketing the value of knowledge diffusion activities, and the capacity of the University to develop Improve timetabling and course flexibility Deputy Vice-Chancellor and Vice-President of educational offerings to regional (Education) international networks for the region’s communities (ongoing) business community. Visit: melbournesnorth.com.au Anti-corruption A new structured learning program will be launched in 2012, which covers aspects of We assign responsibilities to named individuals, provide awareness of anti-corruption practices. In addition to this requirements, and undertake monitoring In 2011, our Internal Audit Office carried out training, relevant policies and procedures and reporting on compliance (including 14 financial and compliance audits to assess are available on the staff intranet (including any breaches). the effectiveness of our risk management, fraud and corruption prevention, our code control, and governance processes, and of conduct, conflicts of interest, and the audits and employee incidents analytical software was purchased to assist acceptance of gifts, benefits and hospitality). in identifying corrupt behaviour. 2009 2010 2011 The University is being proactive in this There were no reported cases of corruption Employee corruption 3 1 0 area and has developed a Legislative and in 2011 (internal or external), no cases of incidents Regulatory Compliance Framework in anti-competitive behaviour, nor any fines order to identify compliance requirements Financial and 18 20 14 or sanctions for noncompliance with laws (including anti-competitive legislation). compliance audits and regulations. 2012 Actions Responsibility Deliver a control and fraud self-assessment Director, Risk Management Unit program across the University Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 45 Our economic and 51% of La Trobe University students who completed the International supply chain impact Student Barometer survey in 2011 are satisfied with their cost of living (on par with the Universities Australia mean). Procurement practices Cost of living and La Trobe University has a procurement minimum wage policy that guides our approach to sustainable procurement. La Trobe University’s Melbourne campus Minimum wages for University staff are is located outside the city centre in the well above the Australian minimum, with To view the policy see: northern suburbs, so accommodation academic minimums almost twice the latrobe.edu.au/policy/documents/ nearby is more affordable. Australian minimum wage. procurement-policy.pdf Accommodation is also very affordable in The 2010 values have been restated based We provide local suppliers with the the areas where the University’s regional on the new calculation method (considering opportunity to quote for goods or services campuses are based. The campuses are that staff may start above the minimum for the relevant regional campuses and close to town, and are serviced by point in a Level). organisation-wide. For example, the University public transport. has engaged a local travel management company for the Bendigo campus. Supplier selection criteria were reviewed in MINIMUM WAGE LEVELS 2009 2010 2011 2011, to include: compliance to specification; Australian Government minimum wage 1.00 1.00 1.00 innovation; departure from conditions of Academic minimum wage (Level A, point 1) 3.13 3.03 3.03 contract; financial viability; customer service; Casual academic minimum wage (research assistant 1) 1.92 1.93 1.95 risk and insurance; quality assurance; conflict of interest; capability/capacity; environmental Professional minimum wage (HEO1, point 1) 1.41 1.40 1.41 considerations; past performance; tendered Casual professional minimum wage (HEO1) 1.53 1.54 1.55 price; and strategic and structural (this includes location). In 2011, we expanded the sustainability section in our tender assessment 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress documentation. Train staff who make major purchasing decisions Completed, ongoing Procurement staff members are currently in sustainable and responsible procurement undertaking training on including sustainability Director, Financial Operations and responsible procurement criteria in all Initiate a dialogue that quantifies environment Dialogue initiated, ongoing purchasing decisions. Our Director, Financial costs and carbon footprint of La Trobe University’s Operations, is chair of the Sustainable 10 largest suppliers Procurement Committee (a subcommittee Director, Financial Operations of the Australian University Procurement Network). National industry‑wide guidelines Amend the selection criteria of the tendering Completed assessment process to incorporate sustainability were endorsed in 2011. Director, Financial Operations Procurement staff have met with the University’s top 10 suppliers (by spend) to discuss sustainability performance 2012 Actions Responsibility and receive reports. The Procurement Implement and communicate a ‘locally produced’ Director, Financial Operations Unit is working with the Office of the procurement policy and include requirements for Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) and use of food produced locally (where available) academics to develop a benchmarking in contracts with food service vendors and in tool to measure the suppliers’ progress. residential colleges and child care While we do not currently actively screen suppliers for human rights or environmental factors, we have started a dialogue with our key suppliers on these areas. 46 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 RESULTS We are an 71% 81% 98% accredited Fair of retail outlets and caterers spent on Fairtrade tea spent from faculty/ offer Fairtrade products. (from none in 2010). division funds on Trade University Five outlets have a Fairtrade We introduced a Fairtrade Fairtrade coffee requirement in their lease. option in 2011. (up from 96% in 2010). Fairtrade 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress Initiate a process to move towards all University Incomplete; the Estates Development Leasing The Fairtrade initiative aims to promote retail outlets offering Fairtrade products as a team are assessing the impact of this action better living standards in developing nations condition within leasing contracts as they come by ensuring a fair price is paid for tea and up for renewal coffee products produced. Executive Director, Infrastructure and Operations In 2011, discussions were initiated with Implement a process to encourage Fairtrade In progress our Marketing and Engagement Division products being purchased for events and corporate regarding availability of Fairtrade products gifts, where Fairtrade certified products are available at University corporate events. Through these Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) discussions, awareness of the University’s commitments has been raised and events such as the Food and Wine Festival (held in 2012 Actions Responsibility July) incorporated Fairtrade products and Increase the number of retailers offering Fairtrade Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability) retailers. We intend to do further work in products and the range of products offered 2012 to encourage this support. Investment practices Our University invests funds with our external fund managers: Industry Funds Management and Victorian Funds Management Corporation. Our investments include approximately $7 million invested in Australian equities through Industry Funds Management and $20 million invested as a long-term commitment through Victorian Funds Management Corporation. Both funds have environmental, social and governance policies, which can be viewed online: http://www.vfmc.vic.gov.au/Governance/ ESG.aspx Students gather in the Agora, Melbourne campus Throughout 2011 the Investment Portfolio Sub-committee of the Finances and Resources Committee met regularly with 2011 Actions/Responsibility Progress the Industry Funds Management and the Engage with our current fund managers regarding Completed Victorian Funds Management Corporation, the incorporation of environmental, social and with whom the University holds equity governance factors when selecting our investments investments and its long-term investment Chief Financial Officer portfolio, respectively. Engage with investment service suppliers to raise Completed, see main text for details At the Investment Portfolio Sub-committee the profile of environmental, social and governance meetings, members have the opportunity to issues in order to ensure our investment service suppliers address and strengthen their commitment discuss with the fund manager representatives to these issues all financial, governance, social, and Chief Financial Officer environmental activities and issues. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 47 Independent Assurance Statement To the Vice-Chancellor, Assurance Standard and Objectives Assurance Type and Scope Pro Vice‑Chancellor (Sustainability) The assurance process was undertaken in Net Balance provided Type 2 assurance and Management Team at accordance with the AA1000 Assurance in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008). La Trobe University: Standard (AA1000AS (2008)). The standard This involved assessing the organisation’s provides a comprehensive way of ensuring adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility La Trobe University (‘La Trobe’ or ‘the an organisation is responsible for the Principles (2008) and assessing the accuracy University’) commissioned Net Balance management, performance and reporting and quality of the sustainability performance Management Group Pty Ltd (Net Balance) of its sustainability issues. This is achieved information contained within the Report. to provide independent assurance of the through evaluation of the organisation’s The review of adherence to the principles 2011 Sustainability Report (the ‘Report’). adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility was undertaken using the criteria outlined The Report presents La Trobe’s sustainability Principles (2008), and by reviewing in the AA1000 Assurance Principles Standard performance during the period 1 January the accuracy and quality of disclosed (2008), while assessment of the accuracy 2011 to 31 December 2011. La Trobe University sustainability performance information. and quality of sustainability performance was responsible for the preparation of the The AA1000 Accountability Principles information was undertaken using the Global Report and this statement represents the (2008) used to assess La Trobe’s Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Reporting assurance provider’s independent opinion. processes include: Principles for Defining Quality. Net Balance’s responsibility in performing its Inclusivity: An assessment is made as assurance activities is to the management of Assurance Level and Limitations La Trobe University alone and in accordance to whether the University has included The level of assurance provided is moderate, with the terms of reference agreed with its stakeholders in developing and as defined by the scope and methodology them. Other stakeholders should perform achieving an accountable and strategic described in this assurance statement. their own due diligence before taking any response to sustainability. The assurance scope covered the whole of action as a result of this statement. Materiality: An assessment is made as the Report and focussed on systems and to whether the University has included activities of La Trobe during the reporting in its report the material information and period, with the following exceptions: data required by its stakeholders to make §§ The scope of work did not involve informed judgements, decisions and actions. verification of financial data, other than Responsiveness: An assessment is made as that relating to environmental, social to whether the University has responded to or broader economic performance. stakeholder concerns, policies and relevant §§ The scope of work did not involve the standards and adequately communicated verification of data relating to student these in its report. numbers as these are verified through other means. §§ The assurance provider’s involvement with stakeholder engagement was limited to reviewing external and internal stakeholder engagement processes and outcomes. §§ Only the Melbourne Campus was visited as part of this assurance engagement with other campus data being reviewed remotely. 48 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Assurance Methodology Our Independence Materiality: The assurance engagement was Net Balance was not responsible for In 2011, the Office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor undertaken between January and preparing any part of the Report. During the (Sustainability) reviewed its materiality March 2012, and involved: reporting period Net Balance also provided research undertaken in 2010 to update what §§ Preparation of a materiality register assurance over La Trobe University’s National was considered material for inclusion in the (list of key sustainability issues) using the Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) 2011 Sustainability Report. This year’s report five-part materiality test. This included a submission. As these services were of an was further expanded to incorporate more comparison of La Trobe against its peers, audit nature, they are complimentary to detailed performance information aligned a review of key risks, a tertiary sector this engagement and do not impact upon to Global Reporting Initiative disclosures. review, a review of selected Australian Net Balance’s independence. Net Balance The University’s Vision and Goals cover the media reports, and a policy review. confirms that we are not aware of any issue key topics of Governance, Management and that could impair our objectivity in relation Engagement; Education and Research for §§ Interviews with key functional managers to this assurance engagement. Future Generations; and, Environmental, to better understand how La Trobe is Social, Economic and Supply Chain Impact. addressing key sustainability challenges Our Competency The Report presents performance information and how sustainability is integrated within The La Trobe University assurance on all of these material impacts. the University. engagement was carried out by an Responsiveness: §§ A review of the stakeholder engagement experienced team of professionals led activities undertaken by La Trobe during by a Lead Sustainability Assurance In 2011, the University released its the reporting period and how the results Practitioner (Lead CSAP). The project first Sustainability Report. This report of this engagement inform the University’s included personnel with expertise in provided information on the University’s sustainability strategy and continuous environmental, social and economic approach to social, environmental performance improvement. performance measurement across a and economic sustainability strategies, range of industry sectors. Net Balance activities, performance and targets. §§ A review of La Trobe‘s key is a global leader in the use of the During the year the University also sustainability strategies, policies, AA1000AS, having undertaken more developed the above mentioned objectives, management systems, than 100 assurance engagements in Stakeholder Engagement Strategy measurement and reporting procedures. Australia over the past five years. on Sustainability Issues. This strategy §§ Interviews with key personnel responsible was further supported by a Sustainability for collating and writing various parts of Findings and Conclusions Communications Plan to guide how the Report to substantiate the reliability Adherence to AA1000 Principles the University delivers information and of selected claims. seeks to change behaviour on sustainability Inclusivity: §§ A review of the Report for any significant issues. To ensure that La Trobe is meeting In 2011, La Trobe University built on the anomalies, particularly in relation to the needs of its stakeholders and working work undertaken in previous years to claims as well as trends in data. towards achievement of its Vision 2015 further engage with stakeholders on §§ Assurance of 48 selected data points objectives, the University should focus sustainability issues. The Sustainability and statements and examination of on addressing gaps in the integration Management Committee, Sustainability the systems and processes that support of sustainability into research and Forum and the External Sustainability the claims. teaching curricula. Advisory Board continued to operate §§ Collecting and evaluating evidence to throughout the period. These mechanisms support the assurance work undertaken. allow the University to engage with key management personnel, staff, students and industry experts on sustainability topics. During 2011 the University also developed a Stakeholder Engagement Strategy on Sustainability Issues. This strategy identifies key stakeholder groups, outlines their interest in the University and the activities used to engage with each group. Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 49 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Reliability of Performance Information The Way Forward §§ Ongoing development and Based on the scope of the assurance To ensure that La Trobe continues implementation of the sustainability process, the following was observed to be at the forefront of sustainability strategy to drive improved performance with regard to performance information: management and reporting in the tertiary in the areas of energy consumption education sector, Net Balance recommends in buildings, staff travel, sustainable §§ The level of accuracy of sustainability the following: procurement, women in management, performance information was found salary equity, water consumption, to be acceptable. §§ Further implementation of the Stakeholder paper use and waste management. §§ Data trails selected were generally Engagement Strategy on Sustainability Issues to ensure a coordinated approach §§ Development of data control procedures identifiable and traceable, and the to engaging with and seeking feedback for each sustainability indicator which personnel responsible were able from stakeholders. Now that an extensive document the process for collecting, to demonstrate the origin(s) and list of stakeholder groups has been recording, analysing, managing and interpretation of data. identified, it is recommended that the storing data that is reported on an §§ The sustainability performance disclosures annual basis. This would ensure consistent University expand its current stakeholder presented within the Report appropriately indicator measurement and reporting engagement processes to enable two-way reflect environmental, social and economic over time, and improve retention of communication with a broader range performance achieved during the period. supporting information. of stakeholders, particularly students. Overall, it is Net Balance’s opinion that the Engagement should be focussed on those §§ The University should focus on its information presented within the Report issues most relevant to each particular reporting systems related to greenhouse, is fair in all material respects. The Report stakeholder group. This approach will energy, water and waste in order to was found to present a reliable account of ensure that the University is responsive improve the completeness and robustness the University’s sustainability performance to a diverse range of stakeholder needs. of these data sets. during the reporting period. §§ That the materiality review process Net Balance has also provided additional be documented each year to provide a suggestions for improved reporting. These prioritised list of issues which takes into are outlined in a detailed report presented account the relevance and significance to La Trobe University’s management. of each issue to both the University and On behalf of the assurance team its stakeholders. In the future, the results 23 March 2012 of materiality assessments and reporting Melbourne, Australia practices should also be tested with stakeholder groups to ensure they are addressing stakeholders’ key issues. §§ Further development of planning systems, processes and knowledge Kim Farrant sharing mechanisms that facilitate Associate Director, Net Balance & Lead CSAP the integration of sustainability into the University’s curriculum and research activities. 50 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 51 GRI G3.1 Content Index (Concise) Profile Disclosure AND Category Reported Report Section or Full GRI Content Index Page 1.1 – 1.2 Strategy and analysis Fully Our commitment to sustainability 3 Our sustainability vision, goals and approach 4–13 2.1 – 2.7, 2.9, 2.10 Organisation profile Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI 2.8 Fully La Trobe University 2011 snapshot 2 Our social impact: staff: staff categories 32 Our social impact: students: student categories 39 Our economic and supply chain impact: economic performance 44 Our economic and supply chain impact: direct and indirect economic impacts 45 3.1 – 3.3, 3.5 – 3.12 Report parameters Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI 3.4 Fully Back page 3.13 Fully Our sustainability vision, goals and approach 5 Assurance statement 48–51 4.1 – 4.4, 4.6, 4.17 Governance, commitments and engagement Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI 4.5 Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI G3 DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI Performance Indicator AND Category Reported Report Section or Full GRI Content Index Page EC1, EC4 Economic performance Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: economic performance 44 EC2 Partially Our sustainability vision, goals and approach 4–12 EC3 Fully Our social impact: staff: salary and benefits 35 EC5 Market presence Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: cost of living and minimum wage 46 EC6 Partially Our economic and supply chain impact: procurement practices 46 EC7 Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI EC8 Indirect economic impacts Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI EC9 Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: direct and indirect economic impacts 45 EN1 – EN2 Materials Fully Our environmental impact: paper use 28 EN3, EN4 Energy Fully Our environmental impact: energy consumption 24–25 EN5 – EN7 Partially Our environmental impact: energy consumption 24–25 Our environmental impact: commuting 26 EN8 Water Fully Our environmental impact: water use 27 EN9 Partially Our environmental impact: water use 27 EN10, EN15, Water; biodiversity; products and services; overall Not latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI EN27, EN30 EN11 – EN13 Biodiversity Fully Our environmental impact: biodiversity 29 EN14 Partially Our environmental impact: biodiversity 29 EN16 – EN18 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Our environmental impact: greenhouse gas emissions 22–23 EN19, EN21 Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI EN20 Fully Our environmental impact: other emissions to air 25 EN22 Fully Our environmental impact: waste and recycling 30–31 EN23 – EN24 Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI EN25 Partially Our environmental impact: water use 27 EN26 Products and services Fully Our environmental impact: products and services 31 EN28 Compliance Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: anti-corruption 45 EN29 Transport Fully Our environmental impact: greenhouse gas emissions 22–23 Our environmental impact: commuting 26 LA1 Employment Fully Our social impact: staff: staff categories 32 LA2 Fully Our social impact: staff: staff turnover and new hires 33 LA3 Fully Our social impact: staff: salary and benefits 35 LA4 – LA5 Labour/management relations Fully Our social impact: staff: salary and benefits 35 LA6, LA8 – LA9 Occupational health and safety Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI LA7 Fully Our social impact: staff: occupational health and safety 37 LA10, LA12 Training and education Partially Our social impact: staff: staff development and performance 36 LA11 Fully Our social impact: staff: salary and benefits 35 LA13 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Our social impact: staff: women in leadership 34 LA14 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully Our social impact: staff: gender pay gap 35 52 Creating Futures · Sustainability Report 2011 Performance Indicator AND Category Reported Report Section or Full GRI Content Index Page HR1 Investment and procurement practices Partially Our economic and supply chain impact: investment practices 47 HR2 Partially Our economic and supply chain impact: procurement practices 46 HR3 Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: procurement practices 46 Our social impact: staff: human rights training 36 HR4, HR11 Non-discrimination; remediation Fully Our social impact: staff: occupational health and safety 37 Our social impact: students: grievance management 43 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI HR6, HR7 Child labour; forced and compulsory labour Not latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI HR8 Security practices Fully Our social impact: staff: human rights training 36 HR9 Indigenous rights Fully Our social impact: staff: equal opportunities for Indigenous Australians 35 HR10 Assessment Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI SO1, SO9, SO10 Local communities Partially Our economic and supply chain impact: direct and indirect economic impacts 45 SO2, SO4 Corruption Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: anti-corruption 45 SO3 Partially Our economic and supply chain impact: anti-corruption 45 SO5 Public policy Fully Our commitment to sustainability 3 Our sustainability vision, goals and approach 4–13 Research for future generations 18–21 SO6 Not latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI SO7 – SO8, PR9 Anti-competitive behaviour; compliance Fully Our economic and supply chain impact: anti-corruption 45 PR1 Customer health and safety Partially latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI PR2 Not latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI PR3, PR4, Product and service labeling; marketing Fully latrobe.edu.au/sustainability/report/2011/GRI PR6 – PR8 communications; customer privacy PR5 Product and service labelling Fully Our social impact: students: undergraduate student engagement 40 Our social impact: students: International Student Barometer 41 Our social impact: students: graduate experience 42 This report was compiled and written by the team in the Office of the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Sustainability). Information and data collection involved a large number of people from across the University. Feedback on this report and suggestions regarding our sustainability plans and activities can be provided to generations@latrobe.edu.au or through facebook.com/ltugenerations Connect facebook.com/ltugenerations TM twitter.com/@ltugenerations iTunes Search La Trobe University on iTunes U La Trobe University on YouTube youtube.com/latrobeuniaustralia latrobe.edu.au CRICOS Provider 00115M
