2010 Sustainability report Handelsbanken in brief Handelsbanken has been conducting banking operations since 1871 and has the oldest listed share on the Stockholm stock exchange. We are a full-service bank with a strictly decentralised way of working and a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks on our five home markets: Sweden, Great Britain, Denmark, Norway and Finland. Handelsbanken has almost 11,000 employees, working in 22 countries. 49 branches 53 branches 83 branches Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no: 502007-7862 Registered office: Stockholm www.handelsbanken.com This Sustainability Report is also available in Swedish. Contents Page INTRODUCTION – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY What is sustainability for Handelsbanken? 2 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Corporate social responsibility 3 – part of our corporate culture OVERVIEW What we have achieved so far 4 Handelsbanken’s stakeholders 5 CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION 461 Handelsbanken’s concept and organisational structure 6 45 branches PRINCIPLES AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance at Handelsbanken 7 Corporate governance structure 8 branches THE COMMUNITY Handelsbanken in the community 10 THE WORK OF THE BANK Satisfied customers 11 Skilled staff 12 High ethical standards engender trust 14 Corporate social responsibility 15 FINANCIAL ASPECTS Financial value creation 16 Responsible lending 17 Responsible investments 18 THE ENVIRONMENT Good environmental activities generate dual benefits 20 Handelsbanken Group 2010 2009 INITIATIVES AND AWARDS Profit before loan losses, SEK m 16 278 17 115 Initiatives and awards 22 Net loan losses, SEK m -1 507 -3 392 ABOUT THIS REPORT Operating profit, SEK m 14 770 13 727 Contents and restrictions in this report 24 Return on equity total operations 12.9% 12.6% Loan loss ratio 0.10% 0.21% GRI INDEX Loans to the public, SEK billion 1 482 1 477 Index according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 25 Average number of employees 10 850 10 821 CONTACT No. of branches in Sweden 461 461 Contact 28 No. of branches in rest of Nordic region 147 146 Important dates 28 No. of branches in the UK 83 62 No. of branches outside home markets 32 35 Financial ABOUT THIS REPORT Rating 31 Dec 2010 Long-term Short-term strength Handelsbanken’s first sustainability report covers activities and results during the 2009/2010 calendar years. The report describes how the Bank works with its most Standard & Poor's AAA-1+ important sustainability issues, in relation to the main stakeholders. It has been prepared in Fitch AAF1+ accordance with Global Reporting Initiatives’ (GRI) reporting guidelines. On page 24 we describe how Handelsbanken has worked with the guidelines to produce this report, as Moody's Aa2 P-1 C+ well as the limitations. In Handelsbanken’s assessment, the report fulfils level C. There is a comprehensive index according to GRI principles on pages 25-27. This report constitutes DBRS AA (low) Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress to Global Compact. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 1 INTRODUCTION – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY What is sustainability for Handelsbanken? For Handelsbanken, sustainability means meeting customers’ needs for financial products and services in a responsible manner, providing its shareholders with a strong return, and being a good employer and market player, making a positive contribution to the community and its development. DEFINITION impact, i.e. their ability to influence customers’ actions in environIn addition to its financial goal of having higher profitability than mental matters, etc. when credit is granted. In Handelsbanken’s its competitors, Handelsbanken aims to act in a socially responsiassessment, however, the Bank’s ability to influence customers’ ble manner. It is therefore natural for the Bank to work with the actions is normally relatively limited. The bank also performs a questions of sustainability that often come within the concept of separate environmental review when granting credits. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). For Handelsbanken, CorIn general, banks have heavy exposure to social risks. Thereporate Social Responsibility is a voluntary responsibility for how fore, a bank has greater opportunities to make a difference when it the Bank’s operations affect the community from an economic, comes to social and civic responsibility, particularly in its role as a social, ethical and environmental perspective. lender. A loan loss often conceals a personal tragedy for a customer. Therefore, it is important that the Bank’s lending is responA LONG TRADITION OF SUSTAINABILITY WORK sible, based on a close assessment of the customer’s repayment Sustainability has long been an integrated part of the Handelscapacity. A weak repayment capacity can never be accepted with banken concept of how successful banking operations should be the argument that the customer is prepared to pay a high interest run. Dating back to 1900, the then management of the Bank rate. The aim of short-term profits for the Bank must take second looked after the employees’ interests over and above the legally place to what can be considered sustainable in the long term. That stipulated requirements, for example in terms of the staff’s penis one reason why Handelsbanken does not apply performanceor sion terms and entitlement to paid annual leave. In the early volume-based bonuses, or other forms of variable compensation, 1970s, Handelsbanken was a pioneer in giving seats on the comin its traditional banking operations. pany’s board to employee representatives – in their capacity as Handelsbanken takes responsibility by managing risks in such shareholders – by allocating part of the Bank’s annual surplus to a way that as few customers as possible have difficulties in makthe staff-owned profit-sharing foundation, Oktogonen. ing payments, and we can therefore remain a bank with stable finances that makes a positive contribution to its customers, its OUR OBJECTIVE shareholders, and the community in general. How a company communicates information about its sustainability activities is important, but even more vital is how it acts in its SUSTAINABILITY FOR A BANK day-to-day work. The objective of Handelsbanken’s sustainability The recent global financial crisis has made it clear that, for a bank, work is to act responsibly and to run a sustainable operation. To the most fundamental criterion for sustainability is survival. follow up the sustainability work, we must identify relevant and A bank must be run in such a way that it is always able to fund measurable indicators for how the Bank’s sustainability activities its operations, so that it can survive unaided. This means that perform over time, and compare them with those of peer compaa bank’s top priority must be to maintain the confidence of its nies with similar conditions. This work is carried out through our customers, its bond investors, the supervisory authorities and its own analyses of the Bank’s impact, and in discussion with external shareholders. Such confidence is based on the assumption that the stakeholders. bank’s operations are sound. It is therefore vital that corporate social responsibility is an integral part of all Handelsbanken’s OUR ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF OUR OPERATIONS operations. Taking responsibility is a vital element of a successful and sustainable banking operation. Handelsbanken has great financial SUSTAINABILITY – A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE responsibility for the funds that it is entrusted to manage. In addiIn a time of financial turbulence, it has become even clearer that tion, in the Bank’s view, it has a responsibility for the environment banks which have acted responsibly have a competitive edge, for – for acting socially and ethically in relation to all its stakeholders. example in terms of their ability to fund themselves on the interDifferent sectors have larger or smaller impacts within the varinational market, and the terms they receive when doing so. ous areas of responsibility. A bank’s direct environmental impact is Private customers, too, attach great importance to the fact that fairly limited, even though Handelsbanken endeavours to minimise a bank has acted responsibly. During the recent financial crisis, the carbon dioxide emissions, etc. generated by our operations. having funds on an account with a secure bank came to be seen External analysts often highlight banks’ indirect environmental as an increasingly attractive option. 2 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Corporate social responsibility – part of our corporate culture Sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR) are deeply rooted in Handelsbanken’s culture and method of working. Indeed, for several years we have reported on these issues in our annual report and on our website. In addition to our internal steering documents and guidelines that govern Handelsbanken’s actions, in 2009, we decided to become a member of the voluntary initiatives Global Compact and Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI), which are both UN initiatives aimed at companies. The principles in these initiatives are totally in keeping with the values and principles that already apply at Handelsbanken. In recent years, there has been a growing interest in issues related to CSR from our customers and the world at large. In response to this interest, we have prepared this separate sustainability report to give a more detailed report of how Handelsbanken views corporate social responsibility. Pär Boman, President and Group Chief Executive Stockholm, March 2011 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 3 overview What we have achieved so far During the financial crisis, Handelsbanken has received neither the Swedish government’s capital support and guarantee programmes nor any support from a central bank. Financial aspects Social responsibility • Every year since the early 1970s, Handelsbanken has had • In 2010, Handelsbanken’s loan losses corresponded to 0.10 higher profitability than the average of peer banks. per cent (0.21) of lending. This can be compared with the average figure for the other major Nordic banks which was 0.38 per cent • Over a long period the Bank has grown organically, and on no (1.02). occasion during the recent financial crisis did it need to ask for a capital contribution. • Handelsbanken had the most satisfied customers of the major banks in Sweden. This applies for both private and corporate • Handelsbanken has paid a dividend to its shareholders for many ­customers. The Bank tops these lists in all its home markets. years in succession, including during the recent financial crisis. • Total absence due to sickness for staff in Sweden is low, and de• By virtue of its profit level over many years, Handelsbanken has creased for the fourth year running to 2.8 per cent (3.1) with 1.1 been one of the largest payers of corporation tax in Sweden. percentage points of this figure being long-term sick leave (1.4). • External employee turnover continued to be low at 3 per cent (3). • At Handelsbanken, 98 per cent (98) of all managers in Sweden are recruited internally. For the Group as a whole, the equivalent figure is 90 per cent (92). Environmental performance Signficant events • Handelsbanken’s total carbon dioxide emissions from the emis• In 2009, Handelsbanken signed the UN’s Global Compact. sion areas reported by the Bank decreased by 15 per cent from • Handelsbanken adopted the UN Principles of Responsible 2009 to 2010. Investment (PRI) in 2009. • In order to encourage the selection of green cars as company • In 2010, a Committee for Corporate Social Responsibility cars, the Bank has decided to subsidise these. 35 per cent of was set up, with the aim of co-ordinating the reporting of company cars are classified as green cars. the Bank’s CSR work. • The proportion of green electricity is 67 per cent for all the Nordic countries and 77 per cent for Swedish operations. 4 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 overview Handelsbanken’s stakeholders For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility means acting in such a way that our stakeholders’ confidence in the Bank is maintained. THE BANK’S STAKEHOLDERS seven days a week. By being sensitive to customers’ requests and Many private individuals, organisations and companies are affected questions, Handelsbanken can provide responses and meet the by how Handelsbanken acts in various matters. The Bank must customers’ expectations. live up to the reasonable expectation of these stakeholders and Read more about Handelsbanken and its customers on page 11. act in such a way that their confidence in the Bank is maintained. Handelsbanken’s main stakeholders are its customers, employees, Employees shareholders and bond investors, as well as the community at large, All employees participate in their unit’s annual business planning. mainly in the form of the financial supervisory authorities in SweThis is followed by the individual planning dialogues and perforden and the other countries where the Bank operates. mance reviews which are the link between the goals of the business operations and those of the employee. The result is an action CONTINUOUS DIALOGUE plan which is followed up regularly and then forms the basis of the It is important that the Bank keeps itself up-to-date with the individual salary dialogue review between employee and manager. wishes and requirements that various stakeholders have as regards Handelsbanken. Therefore the Bank has a continuous dialogue Shareholders with its customers, staff, shareholders and investors, as well as Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who ultimately decide with authorities and other public organisations. about the Bank’s governance. The shareholders exercise their right to decide on matters relating to the company at the AGM. Customers Here, individual shareholders have the opportunity to put quesThe most important dialogue occurs at the thousands of meettions to the Bank’s board and senior management. Information ings with customers that take place at more than 700 btanches, or in preparation for AGMs as well as minutes of past AGMs can be by phone, where the Bank offers personal service 24 hours a day, viewed on the Bank’s website. The Bank’s Investor Relations Department provides shareholders, Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) analysts and other capital market players with information regarding Economic flows to and from various groups of stakeholders Handelsbanken’s share, activities and financial performance. SEK bn 2010 2009 2008 Public authorities and society at large DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with supervisory Customers authorities, central banks and regulatory bodies, as well as Income after deduction for loan losses and before fees to Stability fund, Deposit guarantee, etc. 30.4 29.5 28.4 governments and parliaments. The Bank also has a dialogue Value created by serving customers 30.4 29.5 28.4 with non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The Bank’s decentralised organisational structure means that ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE Handelsbanken is firmly established in the local community. Employees Salaries 6.4 6.7 6.1 Provision to profit-sharing foundation 0.8 0.7 0.0 Payroll charges and other staff costs 2.3 2.6 2.1 ORS CU Cost for employees 9.5 10.0 8.2 EST ST NV OWN S Public authorities and society at large ER Suppliers* 5.5 5.2 5.1 ER O M S/ Tax costs** 4.0 3.5 3.4 I Fees to Stability fund, Deposit guarantee, etc. 0.6 0.6 0.1 Government bank support received Participation in government guarantee programmes To society 10.1 9.3 8.6 ES Shareholders SO YE Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 5.0 4.4 8.4 CI ET O New share issue Y PL Transactions with the shareholders 5.0 4.4 8.4 EM Reinvested economic value (”remaining in the Bank”) 5.8 5.8 3.3 * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement The various stakeholders all have expectations of Handelsbanken. What they have in The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income genercommon is that they would all like the Bank to be stable, and responsive to their wishes. ated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The How well the Bank manages to live up to these expectations and address each stakedate comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. holder’s questions will have an effect on the continued success of Handelsbanken. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 5 CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION Concept and organisational structure Handelsbanken’s idea of how to run a successful full-service bank is essentially based on trust and respect for the individual – both customers and employees. THE HANDELSBANKEN CONCEPT Responsibility for the customer always lies with the local branch, Handelsbanken’s concept of running a successful full-service bank but regardless of where an employee works in the organisation, is essentially based on trust and respect for the individual – both the aim of their work is the same – to meet the customer’s requirecustomers and employees. Trusting our staff and giving them a ments. Some customer requirements may require specialist expergreat deal of freedom to do their job provides a good basis for sattise, and the branch may then delegate the business responsibility isfied customers and profitable business. to a regional unit or a central business area. The interplay between the branches and central business areas and departments creates a PRODUCTS AND SERVICES dynamic organisation, which benefits customers. Handelsbanken is a full-service bank for private and corporate Central business areas and product owners are responsible for customers. Our most important products, in social and purely developing competitive products in their respective areas. In these financial terms, are those linked to the Bank’s lending: mortgages cases, the specifications are made by experienced branch staff who, for households and financing of companies on the Bank’s home at their branches, see on a daily basis see what their customers expect markets. On the savings side, the dominant products are deposit in the way of service. accounts, equity funds and fixed income funds. Here, the Bank offers the opportunity to save in mutual funds with a specific SUSTAINABLE GROWTH MODEL investment focus. Handelsbanken also carries out trading in Handelsbanken grows mainly through organic growth. This emissions allowances. In the future, the Bank expects demand means that instead of growing by making large acquisitions, the for both funding and management of environmental projects to Bank will grow branch by branch, customer by customer. To increase. complement this, Handelsbanken may make small, add-on acquisitions, provided that these can easily be incorporated into the MARKETS Bank’s working methods. The Bank offers a full range of financial products and services on By giving priority to organic growth in countries with a stable the Bank’s home markets in Sweden, Great Britain, Denmark, economy and an established infrastructure, the Bank wants to miniNorway and Finland where the Bank has almost 700 branches. mise the macro-economic risk that easily results from rapid expanWith the primary aim of providing customers on the Bank’s sion in emerging markets. home markets with service, the Bank has operations in a total of 22 countries. In addition to its home markets, the Bank serves local ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES customers by pursuing branch operations in the Netherlands, One member of the Group management team has overall responGermany and other countries. sibility for ensuring that Handelsbanken identifies and addresses the sustainability issues that are relevant to the Bank. DECENTRALISED ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE FOCUSING In 2010, a Committee for Corporate Social Responsibility was set ON THE CUSTOMER up, with the aim of co-ordinating the reporting of the Bank’s CSR The belief in people’s will to always do their best and their abilwork. The Committee consists of representatives from bank branchity to make the right decision at the right time is the basis of the es, the central administrative functions, Group Finance, Corporate strong decentralisation at Handelsbanken – a working method Communications, Investor Relations, Asset Management, lending that helps to create a sense of involvement and job satisfaction. and Personnel. All business decisions that affect the individual customer’s relaIn 2009, a special Committee for Responsible Investment tionship with the Bank are based on the customer’s requirements within the Handelsbanken Asset Management business area was and are made by the local bank branch. Handelsbanken’s methods established, to ensure compliance with the Bank’s responsible of work and organisational structure are based on the branches’ investment policy. responsibility for individual customers and not on the central Information regarding corporate governance and control systems departments’ responsibility for product areas or market segments. in Handelsbanken may be found on pages 7–9 of this report. No-one has better knowledge of the specific demands that apply in the local market than the local branch. Hence, the Bank seldom works with central marketing plans or advertising campaigns. Handelsbanken has consistently and successfully applied these working methods for many years. 6 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 PRINCIPLES AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance at Handelsbanken The strong corporate culture is of major importance in governance of the Bank. The operations of Swedish banks are regulated by law, and bankInternal control ing operations may only be run with a license from the Swedish The responsibility for internal control and compliance is an Financial Supervisory Authority. Handelsbanken applies Swedish integral part of managers’ responsibility at all levels in the Bank. regulations both in Sweden and in its operations outside Sweden. This responsibility means that appropriate instructions and proThe host country’s regulations are also applied, if these are stricter cedures for the operation must be in place, and compliance with or in other respects deviate from the Swedish regulations. these procedures must be monitored regularly. Sustainability The Bank’s corporate governance report is based on a shareissues, too, are part of the responsibility of all managers within holder perspective. The sustainability report takes a broader the Group. The compliance function offers advice and support in approach, and also includes stakeholders that are usually covered by regulatory matters and follows up compliance within the Bank to a the concept of corporate governance, such as customers in general, greater extent. Internal control and compliance work are subject to but particularly deposit customers, bond investors and supervisory internal and external risk-based auditing. authorities, on whose confidence the Bank is dependent. Information and dialogue PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT Providing frequent, regular information about the Bank’s work and HANDELSBANKEN results is a basic responsibility to the Bank’s various stakeholders. Handelsbanken has developed a strong value base for how bankIncreasingly, the Bank must also meet requirements for informaing work should be carried out. This corporate culture is detion regarding sustainability. In recent years, the Bank has had meetscribed in detail in an internal document called Our Way. This ings with several owners with a special focus on sustainability issues. document describes the Bank’s goals, ideas and way of working, At these meetings, the Bank’s guidelines for responsible investment and is read and discussed by all employees of the Bank. Thus it has and environmental considerations in lending have been discussed. become the Group’s most important policy instrument. This is Handelsbanken endeavours to meet these information requirenot, however, sufficient from a corporate governance perspective. ments by open communications regarding the Bank’s work in the relevant areas. Policy In parallel with informal discussions, the board has established POLICY DOCUMENTS principles, strategies, limits and target figures in a series of policy documents and instructions. An overview of the Bank’s policies • Credit policy and guidelines is set out at the bottom of this page. Pages 8–9 give • Operational risks an overview of the structure of the Bank’s corporate governance. • Capital policy • Financial policy • Financial risk policy • Information policy • Ethical guidelines • Compensation policy • Policy for internal audit operations • P  olicy for managing and reporting events of material importance • P  olicy for the Bank’s use of the external auditors’ services • Policy for independent risk control • Policy for compliance • P  olicy for agreements relating to the engagement of third parties • P  olicy on money laundering and financing of particularly serious crime • P  olicy for responsible investments (set by the asset management unit) handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 7 PRINCIPLES AND GOVERNANCE Corporate governance structure Handelsbanken’s shareholders are ultimately responsible for making decisions about the Bank’s governance. At the AGM, the shareholders appoint the board, the board chairman and auditors and decide how the nomination committee will be appointed. The board is responsible to the owners for the Bank’s organisation and management of its affairs. The auditors report to the AGM on their findings. The diagram below provides a summary of how governance and control are organised at Handelsbanken. Corporate governance structure – an overview 1. Shareholders 2. Nomination committee and AGM 3. External auditors 4. Board 5. Credit committee 6. Remuneration committee 7. Audit committee 9. President and group chief executive 8. Internal audit 10. Central credit 11. CFO 14. Corporate Group Finance 13. Compliance department governance and accounting 12. Risk control Elects/appoints/initiates Informs/reports 1. SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING board and also fees to the chairman and other members of the board. The Shareholders exercise their right to decide on matters concerning committee’s task also includes evaluating the work of the board, primarily Handelsbanken at the shareholders’ meetings, which are Handelsbanken’s based on the report that the chairman of the board submits to the committee. highest decision-making body. The AGM decides on any changes to the The committee also proposes the appointment of the auditors, and their fees. Bank’s articles of association – the Bank’s most fundamental governing document – and on matters such as the adoption of the income statement 3. external AUDITORS and balance sheet, discharge from liability for the board, the new board, The AGM currently appoints the auditors for a period of four years, which new auditors and also remuneration to the chairman of the board, the other guarantees continuity and depth in their auditing work. The auditors are board members and to the auditors. The AGM also decides on guidelines for accountable to the shareholders at the AGM and submit an audit report remuneration paid to senior management. covering matters such as the annual report and the board’s administration. The auditors report regularly, orally and in writing, to the audit committee 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE concerning how their audit was conducted and their assessment of the The AGM decides how the nomination committee will be appointed. The Bank’s administrative order and control. The auditors also submit a summary nomination committee’s task is to prepare and submit proposals to the next report of their audit to the whole board. AGM regarding the appointment of the chairman and other members of the 8 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 PRINCIPLES AND GOVERNANCE 4. BOARD of the Handelsbanken Group. In addition to instructions from the board, the The board is responsible for the Bank’s organisation and manages the group chief executive is obliged to comply with the provisions of the Swedish Bank’s affairs on behalf of its owners. The board is to continuously assess Companies Act and a number of other statutes concerning the Bank’s the Bank’s financial situation and ensure that the Bank is organised such accounting, management of funds and operational control. that the accounting records, management of funds and other aspects of the Bank’s financial circumstances are satisfactorily controlled. The board 10. CENTRAL CREDIT DEPARTMENT establishes policies and instructions on how this should be executed, and The Bank’s Central Credit Department is responsible for maintaining the establishes a work procedure for the board and also instructions for the group Bank’s credit policy, primarily by preparing every major credit case that the chief executive. These central policy documents state how responsibility and board’s credit committee or the whole board decides on. The Head of Credits authority are distributed among the board as a whole and the committees, presents all cases to the group chief executive before they are submitted for and also between the chairman of the board and the group chief executive. a decision. The Head of Credits reports to the group chief executive and is a The board appoints the group chief executive, and also executive vice member of the board’s credit committee. presidents and the Head of Internal Audit. The chairman is responsible for evaluating the board’s work and informs the nomination committee of the 11. GROUP FINANCE result of the evaluation. Group Finance is responsible for control systems, reporting, control, bookkeeping, accounting and taxes. It is also responsible for the Group’s liquidity, 5. CREDIT COMMITTEE funding and capital, and for the Group’s overall risk management for all The credit committee decides on credit cases where the amount exceeds risks except credit risk. For a detailed description of this risk management, the decision limit applying to the regional bank boards and to the board of see note G2 on pages 81–95 of Handelsbanken’s Annual Report for 2010. Handelsbanken International. Cases of major importance are referred to The Head of Group Finance, the CFO, also has the main responsibility for the full board for a decision. The credit committee comprises the chairman independent risk control (section 12 below) and reports on all the Group’s of the board, the vice chairmen, the group chief executive, the chairman risks, including credit risks at aggregate level, to the group chief executive, of the audit committee, three board members appointed by the board to the board’s audit committee and the board. circulate on the committee with two-year mandates, and the Head of the Central Credit Department. The heads of the regional banks and the Head 12. RISK CONTROL of Handelsbanken International are responsible for reporting to the credit Risk Control is responsible for the overall internal reporting of all the Group’s committee. material risks at an aggregate level. This responsibility comprises credit, counterparty and market risks (interest rate, exchange rate, equity price and 6. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE commodity price risk), operational, liquidity and insurance risks and also The remuneration committee regularly evaluates the employment conditions risks related to variable compensation. The task of risk control is to identify, for the Bank’s senior management in the light of prevailing market terms for measure and monitor the Group’s risks, to inform the board and bank their peers in other companies. The committee’s tasks include preparing management about these risks and to analyse development of the risks. the board’s proposals to the AGM concerning guidelines for remuneration The management of the individual risks is, however, the task of the operating to senior management and the board’s decisions on these conditions for unit that is responsible for the customer or counterparty (account manager) senior managers and the Head of Internal Audit. The remuneration committee or responsible for conducting a certain transaction (business manager). The consists of the chairman of the board and two members appointed by the Head of Risk Control reports to the CFO. In addition, the Head of Risk Control board. makes regular reports of his observations to the group chief executive. 7. AUDIT COMMITTEE 13. COMPLIANCE The audit committee monitors the Bank’s financial reporting by examining The compliance function is responsible for ensuring that laws, regulations all crucial accounting matters and other factors that may affect the and internal rules, as well as accepted business practices or norms, are qualitative content of the financial reports. The committee also monitors complied with in the operations conducted by the Handelsbanken Group the effectiveness of the Bank’s and Group’s internal control, internal audit that are subject to a licence. The function must interpret the applicable and risk management systems as well as the external auditors’ impartiality regulations and inform the units concerned about risks that may arise in the and independence. It evaluates the audit work and assists the nomination operations as a result of inadequate compliance, assist in identifying and committee in appointing auditors. The audit committee comprises the assessing such risks and assist in drafting internal regulations. The function chairman of the board and two other members appointed by the board. informs the Bank’s management and board regularly in matters concerning One of these two members is the committee’s chairman. compliance. The Bank’s chief lawyer is responsible for the compliance function. Compliance officers have been appointed in all business areas and 8. INTERNAL AUDIT in all countries where the Bank operates. Internal Audit performs an independent and impartial audit of the operations and financial reporting of the Handelsbanken Group. A central task for Internal 14. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit is to assess and verify the internal control. The unit ensures that decisions made at the AGM and by the central board as well as changes in legislation, regulations and corporate governance code are 9. PRESIDENT AND GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE implemented in policies, guidelines and instructions with the aim of stipulating The group chief executive is appointed by the board to lead the operations responsibilities and authorities internally at the Bank. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 9 The community Handelsbanken in the community By running stable, long-term operations that focus on customer needs, Handelsbanken is contributing to economic development in the community. THE BANK’S TASK IN THE COMMUNITY Our aim is that customers should be able to move freely between The banking system is principally a support function for the real our various meeting-places – but have the same ability to take care economy. What essentially legitimises a bank’s operations is its of their business, regardless of whether this is at a branch or in a ability to manage the savings of those who wish to postpone their smartphone. consumption and lend these savings to companies and households Therefore we are constantly working to develop and improve that wish to consume and invest now. Thus, redistributing savings these meeting-places outside the branch – to simply increase our over time becomes a bank’s main task. By being a bank with stable availability all the time, to be there for our customers, whenever finances and a stable presence, Handelsbanken aims to fulfil its and wherever they need us. role as a responsible institution. Handelsbanken has 461 branch offices in Sweden. Thus the CONTRIBUTIONS TO RESEARCH AND HIGHER EDUCATION Bank has by far the largest branch network in Sweden and a wider Since 1961, Handelsbanken has on a number of occasions geographical spread than any other player on the Swedish banking awarded grants for economic research through allocations to two market. On its other home markets in Great Britain, Denmark, independent research foundations: the Jan Wallander and Tom Norway and Finland, the Bank also has nationwide branch netHedelius Foundation and the Tore Browaldh Foundation. Taken works. Handelsbanken has a total of 720 branches in 22 countries together, these foundations are one of the most important sources around the world. of funding for economic research in Sweden, and their financing includes two professorships. In 2010, 140 grants (150) were HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY awarded for a total of SEK 133 million (140). High cost-effectiveness allows the Bank to retain a local presence and thus continue to fulfil an important function in local commuNEW PROFESSORSHIP AT STOCKHOLM SCHOOL OF nities, including places where other banks have closed their local ECONOMICS branches. In almost 40 towns in Sweden, Handelsbanken is now In collaboration with the Stockholm School of Economics, the only bank to have a branch. Handelsbanken always aims to Handelsbanken has enabled the creation of a new professorial offer its customers better service and greater accessibility. chair. The chair will focus on external accounting and financial Handelsbanken is convinced that a local presence is necessary. analysis. The basic concept of the Bank’s way of operating is that decisions Good accounting is one of the cornerstones of a sound econoare made as close to the customer as possible, including decisions my. The opportunity and ability to be able to analyse companies’ to grant loans. In concrete terms, this means that credit requests financial positions in a fair manner is fundamental to well-funcare processed and – with few exceptions – decided by the local tioning credit and capital provision in society. branch where knowledge of the customer’s circumstances is the best. This approach means that Handelsbanken has close ties with PERSONAL FINANCE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE the local community. Handelsbanken supports initiatives that improve young people’s knowledge of personal finance by sponsoring information camSERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD paigns and contributing knowhow. Ung Privatekonomi (“Young By providing financial and advisory services, Handelsbanken, Personal Finance”) is a school information project that contribtogether with other players in the financial sector, fulfils an utes to Swedish upper secondary school students’ and teachers’ important function in society, contributing to its development. knowledge of personal finances and savings in equities and mutual In addition to being a link between various market players, the funds. The project has achieved good results, with the great maBank’s task is also to execute payments and, together with other jority of students reporting that their knowledge had increased. In banks, to maintain a functioning, efficient payments system. the 2008/2009 academic year, roughly 12,000 students attended Naturally, corporate and private customers alike appreciate talks throughout Sweden. The “Ung Privatekonomi” book, having a bank branch in the town where they live or operate. For which had been produced as part of the project, was launched in Handelsbanken, it is therefore important to offer customers the the second half of 2008. So far, it has had a print run of 35,000 best availability on the market. Although evening and Saturday copies, which are used regularly as educational material. For the opening hours are becoming more common at Handelsbanken, 2009/2010 academic year, the aim was for 13,000 students to there are times of the day when branches are not open. Therefore, attend the talks. a few years ago, the Bank set up Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service, which corporate and private customers can call 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and receive assistance and advice from experienced bank staff. 10 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 Customers Satisfied customers For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting the individual customer’s requirements rather than selling individual products and services. One of Handelsbanken’s cornerstones for achieving its goal of For the Bank’s financial advisory services, gaining a total overview long-term profitability is to have more satisfied customers than of the customer’s circumstances and financial situation is at the comparable banks in the Nordic region and Great Britain. Satisvery core of the Handelsbanken way of working – regardless of fied customers stay, and they do more business. They are also the whether the customer is a private individual or a company. Based most important ambassadors for reaching new customers. on this, the adviser and the Bank can provide customers with proposals and guidance on financing, payments or investments AT THE TOP ON ALL HOME MARKETS that are adapted to each customer’s requirements and investment Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction surveys to be horizon, as well as their knowledge and understanding of the risks very important. Every year, Swedish Quality Index (SKI) and its related to each type of investment. sister company EPSI carry out independent surveys of customer The Bank’s customer information must be clear, factual and satisfaction, based on a European standard. Every year since the easy to understand. Terms and conditions for the Bank’s services survey started in 1989, Handelsbanken has been unchallenged in must be clear and not arbitrarily changed. the No.1 position for both private and corporate customers. The 2010 results showed that Handelsbanken had gained top HANDLING OF CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS positions in all the Nordic countries and Great Britain, among Part of the work of achieving and keeping satisfied customers both private and corporate customers. The survey in Sweden involves handling the complaints that come in to the Bank in a also shows that in the past decade, Handelsbanken has had a manner which inspires confidence. Handelsbanken takes cushigher average increase in customer satisfaction than any of its tomer complaints very seriously and regards them as a stage in peers. This result is proof of Handelsbanken’s success in workdeveloping its operations, together with its customers. ing consistently and continuously with building up long-term Handelsbanken has well-developed procedures for handling customer relationships. customer complaints. Complaints by customers must be dealt with in the first place by the branch responsible for the customer THE RIGHT ADVICE TO THE RIGHT PERSON in question, quickly and correctly, with the attention that each Having the most satisfied customers is the result of long-term, case requires. If the customer wishes to pursue the matter, there determined efforts. An important starting point is that the Bank is a designated complaints officer in each regional bank and subsimust always be available when the customer needs help and addiary who continuously follows up complaints made to the Bank. vice or wants to do business. Longer opening hours at branches, In addition, there is a complaints manager at the Group level, easy-to-use online services and personal advice over the phone, who regularly reports to senior bank management, regional 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, are important ingredients in this. banks and product owners. Customer satisfaction, private customers 2010 Customer satisfaction, corporate customers 2010 Index Index 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Great Britain Sweden Denmark Finland Norway Great Britain Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Average of Nordea, SEB and Swedbank Average of Nordea, SEB and Swedbank handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 11 Employees Skilled staff Irrespective of where in the world Handelsbanken opens branches, the Bank wants its decentralised work method and belief in the individual to apply throughout its operations. All employees, irrespective of where in Handelsbanken they work, FOR GENDER EQUALITY – AGAINST DISCRIMINATION have a joint responsibility for the satisfaction of Handelsbanken’s Handelsbanken’s fundamental human outlook is one of trust in customers. With almost 11,000 employees in 22 countries, many and respect for the individual. There must be no discrimination of whom have daily contact with customers, common ideas on of any kind at Handelsbanken. how the operations should be run are needed. The fundamental Handelsbanken’s equal opportunities policy states that equal means of control is the company’s values and business culture. conditions must apply to men and women regarding career development within the Handelsbanken Group. An important element STAFF DEVELOPMENT of the Bank’s work related to equality is increasing awareness of At Handelsbanken, employees are responsible for their own skills how social and cultural norms affect us in our daily lives. As part and competence development, and also for sharing their compeof this process, the Group’s senior management, personnel managtence with others in the Handelsbanken Group. The knowledge ers and union representatives have participated in gender equality acquired by employees in their daily work is the most important courses. source of increased professionalism. The goal is for the proportion of female and male managers to All employees should take part in their unit’s business plancorrespond to the overall gender distribution at the Bank. At yearning process, to create a sense of involvement and commitment end, 38 per cent (38) of managers in the Handelsbanken Group to reach set targets. Guided by the business plan, employees meet were women. The proportion of women among the total number their immediate superior for a planned and structured personal of employees was 53 per cent (53). Of the twelve members of the planning and development dialogue. This involves a discussion of Bank’s board elected by the AGM, three are women. the employee’s contribution to operational goals and the condiThe work of promoting equality aims to make it easier for both tions required to deal with specific tasks. The discussion leads to women and men to combine employment with parenthood. an individual action plan which is continuously followed up. This then forms the basis of the salary dialogue review between manWORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH ager and employee. The overall objectives in matters regarding the work environment focus on health. Employees should enjoy good health, develop INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET on a personal level and function in an optimal way. This is a longAs the Bank’s culture and values are so important, internal term goal that includes factors such as balance in life, clear and recruitment is crucial to Handelsbanken. Managers must be honest communication, having the skills and competence needed exemplary ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culture, which to perform tasks and deal with work-related situations, having explains why most managers are recruited internally. In 2010, 98 pride and confidence in one’s work, respecting others and being per cent (98) of all managers in Sweden were recruited internally. respected oneself. For the Group as a whole, the corresponding figure is 90 per cent All employees are responsible for creating a positive working (92), including those markets where the Bank established operaenvironment at Handelsbanken. In Sweden, managers who have tions relatively recently. been assigned responsibility for the working environment must, in In all its recruitment, it is important to Handelsbanken that the co-operation with working environment representatives and other Bank’s values and decentralised method of working appeals to the staff, compile a work environment status report at least once a year. individual concerned. This includes both the physical and the psychosocial environment. The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s operations and the Average number of employees 2006–2010 employee’s development. 12 000 11 000 Business plan process 10 000 9 000 8 000 Business planning 7 000 Salary 6 000 dialogue PLUS 5 000 review CUSTOMER 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 Individual Action follow-up planning 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sweden Denmark Great Britain Norway Finland Other countries 12 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 Employees The results are discussed in the unit’s operational planning. In their work at the Bank and in their private affairs, employees Health promotion activities are considered to be very important. must refrain from business transactions that violate the Bank’s Employees of Handelsbanken are offered a wide choice and large rules or current legislation. Employees must not handle matters number of subsidised group and individual health promotion in which they or a relative have a personal interest nor matters activities. The aim is to reach all employees and to strengthen the for companies in which they or a relative have a material interest. sense of community at the Bank. Health promotion and working Handelsbanken’s employees must also refrain from transactions environment activities are components of the long-term process to or other commitments that may seriously jeopardise their own create the conditions for good physical and mental health in the financial position. Employees must notify the Bank of assignments work place. outside the Bank and obtain approval. These rules also apply to Handelsbanken also has its own sports association. Dating back secondary occupations and certain posts in clubs, societies and to 1919, with around 3,600 members, the association is one of the like. Remuneration for being a member of a board on behalf the largest of its kind in Sweden. To stimulate interest in art and of the Bank must be paid to the Bank. crafts the Bank also has an Art Association with 3,500 members. It is one of largest and best-reputed art associations in Sweden. OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S PROFIT-SHARING SYSTEM A condition for achieving the Bank’s financial goal of achieving WORKING CONDITIONS AND UNION RIGHTS higher profitability than comparable banks on its home markets One component of Handelsbanken’s culture is the traditionally is that employees outperform their peers in the rest of the sector. good relationship with the trade union. There is an ongoing diaTherefore, the board considers it only reasonable that employees logue between union representatives and managers concerning should receive a share of any extra profits. Every year but two since changes and new services to be launched – and this takes place at 1973, the board has decided to allocate part of the Bank’s profits the very early stages. to a profit-sharing scheme for its employees. The funds are managed by the Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation. CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES An allocation is made only if the Bank’s return on equity is It is important that the Bank’s employees are not suspected of takhigher than a weighted average of other listed Nordic and British ing improper advantage of knowledge about the financial markets banks. All employees receive an equal part of the allocated which they obtain in the course of their work. All employees must amount and the scheme includes all employees on the Bank’s five be familiar with the local insider trading laws and observe the home markets: Sweden, Great Britain, Denmark, Norway and Bank’s own rules for employees’ and closely-related persons’ priFinland. As of 2009 it also includes employees in the Netherlands, vate securities and currency transactions. This means that certain Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Taipei. categories of employee within Handelsbanken that have knowlThe profit-sharing scheme is long-term, as payments canedge of the stock market are not permitted to process transactions not be made until an employee has reached the age of 60. One in which they, or persons closely relate to them, have a personal of the fundamental concepts in managing the foundation is interest. The same applies to companies that these employees have that a considerable part of the funds are invested in shares in a significant connection with or personal commitment to. Handelsbanken. Age and gender distribution 2010 Sickness absence rate in Sweden Age Men Woman 652010 2009 60-64 % Men Women Total Men Women Total 55-59 Aged 29 or younger 1.3 2.1 1.7 1.4 2.8 2.7 50-54 Aged 30-49 1.3 3.2 2.4 1.6 3.3 2.5 45-49 Aged 50 or older 2.3 5.3 3.9 2.5 6.1 4.5 40-44 Total sickness 35-39 absence 1.6 3.7 2.8 1.8 4.1 3.1 30-34 of which long-term 25-29 absence 0.4 1.7 1.1 0.6 2.1 1.4 20-24 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. Long-term -19 absence is a period of absence of 60 days or more. 1 200 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 200 400 600 800 1 000 1 200 Number of employees handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 13 Ethical standards High ethical standards engender trust Handelsbanken’s business opportunities and success on the market derive from the trust it enjoys from customers and financiers, as well as the general public, public authorities and its employees. A decentralised organisation must have common ideas on how the operations should be run. The basic guidelines for every employee’s actions are formulated in the Bank’s ethical guidelines. ETHICAL GUIDELINES AT HANDELSBANKEN All new employees who handle customer transactions participate Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines state that operations must be in a training course which explains all aspects of these matters. characterised by high ethical standards. Employees must conduct themselves in a manner that upholds confidence in the Bank. A BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION fundamental, self-evident rule is that the Bank and its employees To avoid being in a position of dependence in relation to the Bank’s must comply with the laws and regulations that govern the Bank’s customers, employees must observe the Bank’s rules as regards operations in various ways. The guidelines are reviewed every year giving and receiving personal gifts. These rules must also be obby the board, based on changes in legislation and the business served when entertaining. Business trips must always be paid for world’s expectations of companies, as well as the Bank’s experiby the Bank. Bonus points and similar discounts which employees ence of regular internal work and observations from the Bank’s have obtained in connection with work for the Bank (e.g. business comprehensive internal control. trips) may only be used for business purposes. Employees who are in doubt when applying the Bank’s ethical guidelines and dealing with related issues must contact their THE BANK AS A CUSTOMER immediate superior to find out what is ethically acceptable. As a Handelsbanken purchases goods and services from Swedish guide, employees are encouraged to ask themselves: “Can I acand international suppliers. Ethical considerations are just as count for my actions to the other employees of the Bank, to the important for the Bank in its role as customer as when it supplies public authorities, the press and other media and the general pubservices and products. To avoid incurring obligations in relation lic without having the slightest doubt as to whether my conduct to suppliers, the Bank also has rules regarding receiving and givhas been ethically acceptable?” ing personal gifts and for business entertaining. Environmental considerations are included in all purchase decisions. An ongoing MEASURES AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING, FINANCING OF dialogue is maintained with the Bank’s suppliers to promote and TERRORISM AND ECONOMIC CRIME develop environmental considerations. To facilitate the drafting Money laundering means actions taken in order to hide or transof specifications there is a template for supplier agreements, with form gains from criminal activities. Financing of terrorism means examples of how environmental requirements should be specified. the collection, provision or receipt of funds for the purposes of terrorism. The Bank must not participate in transactions which may be suspected of being linked to criminal activities, or transactions of which the employees do not understand the implications. Nor should the Bank participate in transactions implying assistance in tax evasion. The foundation for this work is knowledge of the customer and understanding of the customer’s operations, so as to be able to react to abnormal transactions. HANDELSBANKEN’S ETHICAL GUIDELINES COVER • High ethical standards • Laws, regulations and guiding principles • Economic crime • Customer relations • Conflicts of interest • Human rights • Conduct of employees • Confidentiality • Environmental matters 14 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible advisory services and lending, as well as efforts to have satisfied customers and be a good employer. The expression ‘corporate social responsibility’ reflects the strong INTERNAL WORK CONCERNING social aspects of a responsibly run banking operation. While CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY environmental risks, for example, have a relatively limited impact, At Handelsbanken, responsibility for matters concerning corpothe social risks associated with traditional banking operations are rate social responsibility relating to personnel policy lies with the more substantial. There is a risk that irresponsible lending will not Head of Central Personnel who is also an executive vice president only affect the bank, but also have major social consequences for and a member of the senior management team. the customer. This is one reason why Handelsbanken does not apIn connection with the business planning, each local unit preply variable compensation in its traditional banking operations. pares a working environment plan. Gender equality plans are also For those who wish to evaluate a bank in terms of sustainability, set up locally. one method is to study the bank’s risk tolerance, to get an idea of The policies and agreements relating to corporate social responthe bank’s approach to risk, or to study the actual outcome of loan sibility can be found on Handelsbanken’s intranet to which all losses. employees of the Bank have access. RESPONSIBLE ADVISORY SERVICES EXTERNAL DIALOGUE CONCERNING For the Bank’s financial advisory services, gaining a total overview CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of the customer’s circumstances and financial situation is at the Handelsbanken maintains a dialogue with the Swedish Equality very core of the Handelsbanken way of working – regardless of Ombudsman on matters concerning corporate social responsiwhether the customer is a private individual or a company. Based bility. The Bank also has a representative on the central gender on this, the adviser and the Bank can provide customers with proequality committee where both the union organisations and the posals and guidance on financing, payments or investments that Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions parare adapted to each customer’s requirements. Within investments, ticipate. it is important that the advisory service takes into account the customer’s knowledge and understanding of the risks related to each HUMAN RIGHTS type of investment. Handelsbanken endorses the principles set out in the United The Swedish Financial Advice to Consumers Act requires that Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This means that all employees who work with providing customers with financial the Bank strives to support and respect the protection of internaadvice be certified. These staff then take an annual knowledge tional human rights within the area which the Bank can influence. update in the area of investments and insurance, in order to meet It also means that the Bank endeavours to ensure that it is not indevelopments in this field and the need for up-to-date informavolved in any breach of human rights. When granting credits, the tion for customers. At the last year-end, Handelsbanken in SweBank takes account of its customers’ attitudes to human rights. den had just over 4,300 employees who were certified to provide financial advice. COLLABORATION WITH ECPAT Together with the Swedish Bankers’ Association, Handelsbanken has started cooperating with ECPAT. The overall objective of the Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1997-2010 cooperation is to prevent commercial exploitation of children by preventing and obstructing monetary transactions made as pay% ment for child pornography. 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 -0.2 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. One manifestation of this is the fact that for many years, the Bank has had considerably lower loan losses than the rest of the sector. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 15 Financial aspects Financial value creation Handelsbanken’s higher profitability benefits society at large, as well as the Bank’s shareholders. The Bank is one of the largest payers of corporation tax in Sweden. During the financial crisis, Handelsbanken has neither received government aid nor participated in any state guarantee programme. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CREATES ECONOMIC DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE VALUE Handelsbanken’s higher profitability benefits society at large, as Handelsbanken’s financial goal is to have higher profitability than well as the Bank’s shareholders. During the most recent economic the average of the comparable banks operating on the Bank’s cycle, the Bank has paid dividends to its shareholders every year, home markets. The Bank has achieved this goal every year since while remaining one of the largest payers of corporation tax in 1972. One condition for attaining this goal year after year is Sweden. to have a sustainable concept of how the Bank should be run. Handelsbanken aims to accomplish its goal by having more satisINDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS fied customers than other banks, while keeping costs lower. Opportunities… A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and responsibly, has a stability THROUGHOUT THE FINANCIAL CRISIS substantial positive impact on the economy in general. This apDuring the financial crisis, Handelsbanken has received neither plies not only to direct economic effects such as paying corporathe Swedish government’s capital support or guarantee protion tax, but perhaps even more to the more indirect economic grammes nor any support from a central bank. On the contrary, effects. For example, these can be when the Bank finances growth the Bank was a net lender to the Swedish government. and increased employment in companies or, by granting a mortNor has Handelsbanken needed to ask its shareholders for a gage, enables a family to move to a new town where the employcapital contribution during the current crisis. ment situation is better. Handelsbanken is the largest financer of companies in Sweden, and one in four Swedish houses or apartments is financed by the Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Handelsbanken Group. Economic flows to and from various groups of stakeholders … and risks SEK bn 2010 2009 2008 Banks and the financial system are vital to the economy as a DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED whole. If there is a crisis in the financial system, there is a risk Customers of widespread negative social and economic effects. On several Income after deduction for loan losses and before fees to Stability fund, Deposit guarantee, etc. 30.4 29.5 28.4 occasions in the past few decades, the State in Sweden and in many Value created by serving customers 30.4 29.5 28.4 other countries have been compelled to intervene and support individual banks financially, in order to avoid bankruptcy and ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE untold consequences for customers, investors and employees, Employees as well as tax-payers and society at large. Salaries 6.4 6.7 6.1 Even if the situation is not as serious as a bank having to reProvision to profit-sharing foundation 0.8 0.7 0.0 ceive state financial aid, banks’ actions are vitally important to Payroll charges and other staff costs 2.3 2.6 2.1 the stability of the financial system. A fundamental condition for Cost for employees 9.5 10.0 8.2 stability is that banks act in a sound, responsible manner, so that Public authorities and society at large confidence in them is maintained. Suppliers* 5.5 5.2 5.1 Tax costs** 4.0 3.5 3.4 Fees to Stability fund, Deposit guarantee, etc. 0.6 0.6 0.1 Government bank support received Participation in government guarantee programmes To society 10.1 9.3 8.6 The table of created and delivered direct economic value shows how the income Shareholders generated during the year by Handelsbanken’s operations is allocated over various Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 5.0 4.4 8.4 stakeholders. The calculation is based on figures in the income statement and in accordance with GRI’s guidelines. The items allocated in the table are based on New share issue broader value created where salaries and other administrative costs (suppliers) Transactions with the shareholders 5.0 4.4 8.4 are added to the operating profit. The purpose is to show in a basic way how HanReinvested economic value (”remaining in the Bank”) 5.8 5.8 3.3 delsbanken creates value for its stakeholders and in the economic system in which the organisation works. The table provides an overview of the direct measurable * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders and thus to ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement development in the community. The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The date comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. 16 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 Granting credits Responsible lending Financial advice in conjunction with lending must always be based on the customer’s needs and financial position. When credit is granted, great importance is attached to the cusPROJECT FINANCE tomer’s ability to fulfil his commitments. Responsible lending Infrastructure projects are sometimes associated with environmeans that the Bank does not grant credit to customers who do mental risks, for example. The Bank is only involved in project finot have the basis to repay their loans. Such responsibility benefits nance to a limited extent. When this does occur, they are projects both the individual customer and society at large. Deficiencies with clear links to Handelsbanken’s home markets. As with other in a customer’s repayment capacity can never be ignored on the credit assessments, decisions regarding participation in project grounds that the Bank is being offered good collateral or high finance are subject to Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines and remargins. strictive approach to risk. ETHICAL MATTERS RELATED TO LENDING ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS WHEN LENDING An important matter in terms of ethics and principle is the exFor many years, credit assessments carried out by Handelsbanken tent to which the Bank should bear the responsibility for what have taken into account how environmental risks affect the cusits customers do. This could, for example, apply to a borrower tomer’s repayment capacity. This is particularly important in the that manufactures products that are dangerous to health, has a case of customers engaged in environmentally hazardous activities manufacturing process that affects the environment adversely, or selling products that involve environmental or health risks. or refuses to allow its employees to exercise their union rights. For property-related lending, it is important to take into account Handelsbanken’s view on the appropriate balance between high whether environmentally-harmful activities are or have been ethical standards and its interest in generating income is based on conducted in the property or whether the property itself has a the principle that it is the customer that is fully responsible for its harmful effect on the environment. Environmental factors in the operation and how it is run, but that a fundamental condition for vicinity of the property are also taken into consideration as much lending is that the operation is lawful and fulfils all requirements as possible. from public authorities. The Bank’s additional responsibility in In the Bank’s decentralised structure, the branch that is responthese examples is limited to an assessment of the credit risk – i.e. sible for the customer carries out the credit risk assessment. Thus the risk that the customer’s product cannot be sold, or that more the branch also carries out the assessment of how environmental stringent environmental requirements for the customer’s manurisks affect the customer’s repayment capacity. The credit risk asfacturing process will cause the company’s repayment capacity to sessment is part of the business evaluation, which is the Bank’s deteriorate. method of assessing a customer, and the business relationship This principle is normally applicable in the Bank’s home marwith the said customer. A business evaluation is always drawn up kets, which are countries with advanced legislation regarding for new credit decisions and also for annual monitoring of credits health protection, the environment and union rights, and public and customer relations. The structure and methodology of the authorities that monitor compliance with laws and directives. business evaluation are a good aid for the branches when it comes In countries where legislation and supervision by public auto identifying and assessing risks. The business evaluation is also thorities are less developed, the principle should be applied with the documentation basis for evaluation of the credit risk at higher caution. Although the Bank runs its own operations only to a levels in the Bank, and for the branches’ follow-up of environmensmall extent in such countries, international companies on the tal issues in the credit risk assessment. Bank’s home markets may do so. In this respect, international For a long time, the Bank has taken a restrictive approach to agreements and standards (e.g. the UN Universal Declaration of risk in its lending – including environmental risk. This culture and Human Rights, the UN Global Compact and the OECD guideexpertise on the part of the staff is best maintained and developed lines for multinational companies) may play an important part in in day-to-day work at the branches. In addition, there are special guiding the ethical assessment. If a company claims to apply these business assessment training programmes at regional level. international agreements, this would tend to indicate that the Bank’s principle can also be maintained in these cases. FINANCING OF ENVIRONMENTALLY RELATED INVESTMENTS This is manifested, among other things, in the Bank’s credit Based on a long-term personal relationship with the customer, the policy, according to which the Bank shall respect human rights Bank aims to offer financial services adapted to the customer’s reand fundamental principles of working conditions and environquirements. Customers that require financing of environmentally mental considerations, regardless of where in the world its operarelated investments will be granted this within the framework tions are run. These matters are to be taken into account both of the standard customer relationship. The Bank takes a positive for new credit decisions and for annual monitoring of credits and view of financing such investments. For example, the Bank has customer relations. produced internal information material for the branches concerning financing of wind power. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 17 Responsible investments Responsible investments Handelsbanken aims to provide a good return on the capital that our customers have entrusted us to manage. At the same time, there are now greater requirements that investment operations should contribute to sustainable development. Handelsbanken Asset Management has signed the UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UN PRI), which means that we have undertaken to integrate sustainability issues into our investment decisions and to practice active ownership. Handelsbanken’s view is that a responsible attitude is essential to Actively managed funds and portfolios are analysed regularly, long-term value creation in a company. Investing our customers’ with the aim of identifying companies whose operations are not assets in a responsible manner is therefore a vital prerequisite for in keeping with these fundamental values. This work is carried out achieving the company’s goal of generating a strong long-term with the assistance of an independent consultant. Thus, the Bank return on customers’ investments. Interest in sustainability isas an asset manager is able to act regarding deviations from intersues is increasing among institutional and private investors alike, national standards and conventions, for example by entering into as is the wish that these issues be integrated into the Bank’s asset a dialogue with the company. Depending on how this dialogue management. On the Bank’s home and international markets, the evolves, Handelsbanken Asset Management will decide on possible UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UN PRI) have acted future action. This work may also involve collaborating with other as guidance for how asset managers and capital owners work with owners or voting at AGMs. If the Bank’s assessment is that this sustainability issues. Handelsbanken became a signatory to these type of action does not affect the company’s behaviour in the right principles in 2009. direction, it is possible to exit the investment by selling the holding In addition to a commitment to integrate sustainability issues of shares or bonds. into investment analyses and investment decisions, signing these In 2009 and 2010, Handelsbanken Asset Management started principles means that we will also aim for more transparency relatdiscussions with a number of companies whose operations in some ing to environmental, social and corporate governance matters in respect contravene international standards and conventions. the companies we invest in and for increased co-operation between, for example, investors and asset managers concerning these issues. HANDELSBANKEN PARTICIPATES IN SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2009 and 2010, Handelsbanken Asset Management, together Handelsbanken Fonder’s ownership role as a fund management with other major Swedish investors took part in the Sustainable company, on behalf of the unit-holders and the mutual funds, Value Creation project. For the participants, the aim of the prois based on its corporate governance policy. The ownership role ject was to highlight the importance of Swedish companies workmust be exercised in such a manner that the value of the compaing with sustainability issues in a structured manner, since this is nies and thus the value of the funds has optimal performance in regarded as a condition for long-term value creation in a company, the long term. This is managed in matters concerning the comand therefore also a condition for long-term financial returns. In position of the companies’ boards and the procedure prior to and 2009, Sustainable Value Creation carried out a survey of how the at shareholders’ meetings. The fund management company also largest 100 Swedish listed companies work with these matters. In regularly follows the performance of the companies in the funds’ 2010, the project worked with following up the survey. portfolios, including direct contact with the company in question. SAVINGS PRODUCTS WITH A SPECIAL INVESTMENT FOCUS POLICY FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The Bank’s customers sometimes demand investment options Handelsbanken’s policy for responsible investment is an integral where special consideration is taken of the investment focus. part of the corporate governance policy. Handelsbanken’s policy Handelsbanken offers two funds – one Swedish, one global – that for responsible investments is based on international standards invest in companies that have been approved in a review based on for the environment, human rights and working conditions, and specific ethical selection criteria. The funds do not invest in comagainst corruption and controversial weapons. This policy covers panies whose production or sales mainly derive from munitions, investments in actively managed mutual funds and portfolios, as tobacco and tobacco products, alcohol, betting or pornography. opposed to index-based management. Actively managed mutual Handelsbanken also offers a fund that invests in companies whose funds and portfolios make up some 60 per cent of the assets manoperations are based on using technologies and methods to limit aged by Handelsbanken Asset Management, which at the end of global warming. At year-end 2010, the total value of these three 2010 amounted to SEK 254 billion. funds amounted to SEK 6.3 billion. 18 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 Responsible investments INVESTMENTS IN COMMODITIES ment options based on forward contracts on various commodities Our customers are increasingly wanting to invest in commodities and not the actual commodities. This means that the Bank does (raw materials). Investments in financial instruments based on not offer trading in actual raw materials, only the opportunity to raw material prices are mainly a method for companies that are trade in the price of various commodities. dependent on the prices of raw materials to reduce their risk, for In pace with the increase in investor demand for investments in example by price hedging. commodities, questions arise as to how far these investments can More recently, interest in commodities as a financial investment be considered to be responsible. For commodities, the principles to has increased. There are several advantages to investing in raw guide investors are not as well developed as for equity investments, materials as a complement to traditional investments in shares and for example. We plan to be active participants in future discussions interest-bearing instruments. Handelsbanken offers many investand development of a similar approach concerning this class of asset. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 19 THE ENVIRONMENT Good environmental activities generate dual benefits The Bank aims to minimise its negative impact on the environment. Consistent and long-term improvements will often generate dual benefits: not just environmental gains but also cost savings. As far as it is technically and financially compatible with the Bank’s undertakings, Handelsbanken aims to promote long-term sustainable development. Handelsbanken has signed and complies with a number of voluntary agreements, such as the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development and the UN Environment Programme – Banks and the Environment. In 2009, Handelsbanken joined the UN’s Global Compact voluntary initiative. DECENTRALISED ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES In practice, environmental work often involves taking many small steps which, together, contribute to a better environment. Thriftiness, renewal, sorting and recycling are key to Handelsbanken’s internal environmental activities. The Bank endeavours to include environmental considerations in decisions on investments and purchases. As with other areas of responsibility at Handelsbanken, responsibility for the practical side of environmental activities is decentralised. All managers have ultimate responsibility for environmental matters at their units. At each regional bank and subsidiary, as well as at the central head office, there are designated environmental co-ordinators. purchased for operations in Sweden was 77 per cent and for the HANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT whole of the Nordic region, 67 per cent. Handelsbanken’s direct environmental impact largely concerns its Deep water source cooling is used during from December to consumption of energy, materials, equipment, travel and transMay for the properties of the head office as a complement to the port. use of cooling machines and district cooling solutions. Deep water For several years, the Bank has measured and reported the carsource cooling involves taking water from the Baltic Sea using heat bon dioxide emissions generated by its own operations in Sweden exchangers. as the result of travel, electricity and heat energy. In 2010, these The Bank’s computer rooms are actively working with “green emissions went down by around 20 per cent compared with 2009. IT”, which can minimise Handelsbanken’s environmental impact through creative solutions. One example of this is virtual server Impact on climate technology. This means that several systems can share one server, In 2010, the Bank purchased environmentally friendly electric which in turn means that the number of physical servers can be power, which derives largely from hydroelectric sources. For reduced. Every physical server generates a great deal of heat, 2010, the proportion of environmentally friendly electric power and this means that every computer room must have powerful Tjänsteresor, Sverige Business travel, Sweden CO2 Km million tonnes 25 3 500 Carbon dioxide emissions 3 000 tonnes 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 20 Electricity consumption, 2 500 Nordic countries 1 464 2 482 2 585 2 131 2 373 15 2 000 Electricity consumption, Sweden 867 1 945 2 258 1 647 1 850 1 500 10 Heating, own properties, Sweden 1 181 1 344 1 266 1 284 1 000 5 Transport of valuables, Sweden 128 289 209 500 Business travel, Sweden 2 216 2 417 2 945 3 371 2 895 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Air Rail Car CO2 emissions 20 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 THE ENVIRONMENT r­ efrigeration units. These units consume a great deal of electricity, EMISSIONS TRADING but due to the virtual technology which reduces the number of Handelsbanken carries out trading in emissions allowances, and servers, less heat needs to be cooled, which results in lower electricthe Bank’s share of trading in these rights increased sharply in ity consumption. 2010. Many industrial companies with a surplus of emissions allowances have chosen to sell rights. This is partly because awareMore efficient equipment and utilisation of resources ness and understanding of this trading has increased, and partly Electronic processing of supplier invoices is gradually being inbecause the economic situation has meant that companies have creased, which reduces the use of paper and transport. had more allowances to sell. To reduce energy consumption, old printers, fax machines and In the long term, Handelsbanken expects increased demand for scanners are being replaced by multi-function machines including both funding and management of projects relating to renewable environmentally certified machines with environmentally friendly energy. toner. A further long-term aim is to reduce paper consumption. When old equipment is to be scrapped, the Bank ensures that it is THE FUTURE recycled in an environmentally friendly manner. An important element in the environmental work is to raise awareness within the Bank of its direct impact on climate. 2010 Travel saw the launch of a new piece of training material “An environThe distribution between car, train and air travel for business purmental review of your workplace,” with the aim of providing poses was more or less unchanged in 2010 compared with the preinspiration and more information about climate impact, including vious year. Video conferencing is increasingly used by more and the small measures that can be taken at your own workplace. more of the Bank’s units to reduce the amount of business travel. As an alternative to business travel, Handelsbanken will actively In order to encourage the selection of green cars as company vework to increase the number of its video installations, to create hicles, the Bank has decided to subsidise these cars. The proportion opportunities for employees to use video-conferencing. of green company cars was 35 per cent in 2010. Since 2010, an overhaul of ventilation control systems has been in progress in the Bank’s properties, in order to make the systems HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT more efficient, reduce power consumption and achieve a better In addition to the Bank’s own consumption of resources, there is working environment. an environmental impact that is mainly linked to lending and asThe Bank is also working to increase the proportion of green set management operations. electricity that it buys in 2011 and also to increase the amount of For more details, see page 6 and pages 17–19. refuse which is recycled. Elförbrukning Norden Pappersförbrukning Electricity consumption, Sweden Central distribution CO2 GWh tonnes No. million No. of customers thous. 60 3 000 70 1 100 50 2 500 60 880 50 40 2 000 40 660 30 1 500 30 440 20 1 000 20 220 10 500 10 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total electr.cons Of which green electr. CO2 emissions Sheets Envelopes Active online customers handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 21 Initiatives and awards Initiatives and awards Handelsbanken collaborates within and outside the financial sector in initiatives that are designed to increase awareness of sustainability and corporate social responsibility. INITIATIVES Ecpat In 2009, Handelsbanken, together with the Swedish Global Compact Bankers’ Association, started cooperating with ECPAT. In 2009, Handelsbanken signed the UN’s Global The overall objective of the cooperation is to prevent Compact, cementing the Bank’s expressed supcommercial sexual exploitation of children by preventport for universal human rights and corporate ing and obstructing monetary transactions made as payment for social responsibility. Global Compact is an initiachild pornography. tive aimed at companies which advocates ten prinECPAT Sweden is part of ECPAT International which has ciples based on international conventions. These member organisations in more than 70 countries. ECPAT is principles, which were established in 2000, include human rights, working to prevent and stop all forms of commercial sexual labour laws, the environment and anti-corruption. exploitation of children: trafficking of children for sexual purposes, child pornography and child sex tourism. UN PRI The UN initiative PRI (Principles for World Childhood Foundation Responsible Investments) was launched in Since 2010, Handelsbanken has sup2006 as a collaboration between UNEP ported the World Childhood Foundation FI and Global Compact, as well as corporate players. Its aim is to in its work to protect children’s rights to a promote responsible ownership among institutional investors and secure childhood. In this way, based on Handelsbanken’s fundato work for increased openness and awareness of environmental, mental idea of trust and respect for the individual, the Bank aims social and corporate governance issues in the companies in which to contribute to giving children the opportunity to develop into these players invest. In 2009, Handelsbanken signed the PRI, strong, confident, responsible people. which encompasses more than 880 capital owners, asset managers The aim of the World Childhood Foundation is to protect chiland research houses around the world. dren’s rights to a childhood, and particularly to work for better living conditions for children in marginalised environments all over UNEP FI the world. The Foundation supports projects that focus on chilThe UN Environmental Programme has a special dren in institutions, homeless children, young parents and sexually organisation that works with how the capital markets abused children. The World Childhood Foundation was formed in can promote the adoption of best environmental 1999 by H.M. Queen Silvia of Sweden. and sustainability practice. Among other things, the almost 200 financial institutions that support Collaboration with Swedish Sea Rescue Society the initiative contribute to research into and knowledge of how In collaboration with the Sea Rescue sustainability issues can be integrated into financial decisions. Society, Handelsbanken has made Handelsbanken has been a member of UNEP FI since the midpossible the launch of another rescue 1990s. boat. The Sea Rescue Society was started more than 100 years ago and today has 1,800 volunteers and 64 rescue stations with 160 ICC boats ready to turn out 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Together The International Chamber of Commerce they make up 70 per cent of all sea rescue efforts in Sweden and (ICC) has developed a Business Charter, with this is done with no state subsidies. Operations are entirely based the aim of guiding the world’s companies in on membership, donations, gifts and volunteer efforts. their efforts to fulfil their environmental commitments. These The Sea Rescue Society saves lives at sea. Its vision is zero deaths commitments are in compliance with national and international at sea and it also works on a preventative basis and with research guidelines and standards for environmentally aware governance. and development. In the past few years, the Society has focused Handelsbanken has signed the Charter and complied with it on new, state-of-the-art boats built for sea rescue, more stations since the 1990s. to enable quicker rescues, and increased training for volunteers. 22 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 Initiatives and awards Ethibel Sustainability Index AWARDS The Brussels-based Ethibel provides the financial market with information on compaBest corporate governance report nies’ CSR work. Its analyses are carried out For the sixth year running, PwC has evaluated the corporate by the Vigeo research company, and based on governance reports of Swedish listed companies. Of 261 compathese results Ethibel creates a universe that forms a platform for nies’ reports, Handelsbanken’s corporate governance report for sustainability products and responsible investments. The Svenska 2009 won the prize for the best report. Handelsbanken class A share has been included in the Ethibel The competition aims to demonstrate good application of the EXCELLENCE Investment Register since 2004, and is also inSwedish Code of Corporate Governance based on four criteria: cluded in the ESI EXCELLENCE index, which is based on this completeness, credibility, comprehensibility and value creation. universe. The jury especially noted how Handelsbanken has developed its description of the Bank’s governance model and risk management Customer satisfaction and how sound, profitable operations are based on good corporate Handelsbanken had the most satisfied governance. Part of the citation said “in the Bank’s ‘Principles for customers of the major banks in Sweden. corporate governance at Handelsbanken’, goals and strategies are This applies for both private and corporate clarified, related to a corporate culture supported by a compensacustomers. The Bank tops these lists in all the Nordic countries tion system that contributes to loyalty and stability – factors which and in Great Britain. Swedish Quality Index (SKI), is a system are of crucial importance for a financial institution with high risk for compiling, analysing and distributing information about entailed in its operations. The reader is invited to study quite brilcustomers’ expectations, perceived quality and evaluation of liant risk information at an overarching level with the opportunity goods and services. Helping to run SKI is the international of more in-depth information.” organisation EPSI Rating (European Performance Satisfaction Index), which conducts comparable surveys in almost 20 INDEXES AND SURVEYS countries. Research and development related to the surveys is conducted regularly at SIQ (the Swedish Institute for Quality) Handelsbanken is scrutinised and assessed by both customers and and the Stockholm School of Economics. financial market players. The outcome, and the assessment of the Bank that results from this, show how well Handelsbanken is livSustainable Value Creation ing up to their expectations. Together with a number of major Swedish institutional investors, in 2009, Handelsbanken took part in the Sustainable Value CreaOMX GES Sustainability tion initiative. In a survey, the 100 largest listed Swedish compaTogether will the GES Investment Services renies were asked a series of questions regarding guidelines, implesearch company, OMX has launched a number mentation and governance of sustainability issues. The aim was to of sustainability indexes that provide investors provide the companies with a better understanding of the issues with a universe of companies that are fulfilling that are relevant to investors, and to provide support for the develsustainability requirements. Handelsbanken opment of communications and reporting. The project members has qualified for the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden index, as will, in various ways, each use the companies’ survey responses as well as the OMX GES Sustainability Nordic index. a basis for their dialogues and investment decisions as owners. Both indexes are based on a ranking of how well companies are In its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed Swedish comworking with environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. panies, Handelsbanken has itself responded to the survey on its The companies that receive the highest scores qualify for the indexes. work. Handelsbanken received particularly positive comments regarding the board’s responsibility for sustainability issues. FTSE4Good Handelsbanken has been selected to be included Index for corporate social responsibility in the international FTSE4Good Index. The reIn the 2009 edition of the insurance company Folksam’s index search analysis is provided by EIRIS, one of the for corporate social responsibility, Handelsbanken achieved a leading research houses for analysis of corporate high position in its sector. The assessments are based on compasocial responsibility. Investors and owners use the FTSE4Goods nies’ information on how they manage environmental and social index to identify companies that fulfil globally recognised standissues, and communicate their results. Overall, Handelsbanken ards for corporate social responsibility. The index is independent is assessed as being among the best-performing financial sector and based on analyses of companies’ work with environmental performers in terms of environmental matters and human rights. matters, human rights and the other areas that come under corpoAmong the financial players Handelsbanken is in second place, rate social responsibility. Handelsbanken has been included in the and overall it is number 30 out of the 251 Swedish stock market index since 2001. companies that were surveyed. handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 23 ABOUT THIS REPORT Contents and restrictions in this report For greater transparency, Handelsbanken has pooled information on the Bank’s sustainability activities in a separate sustainability report, in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. For many years, in annual reports and on the Bank’s website, we have reported relationships with our main stakeholders – customers, employees, investors and the community at large – and how the Bank’s operations affect the environment. THE WORK OF PRODUCING THE REPORT Profile: Company information An internal Committee for Corporate Social Responsibility has worked with defining Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities Indicators: Indicators: Indicators: more clearly, from a broader stakeholder perspective. By “stakeECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL holders,” the Bank is referring to groups that are affected to a (EC) PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE (EN) (LA, HR, SO, pR) large extent by the Bank’s actions and/or groups that affect the Bank. Following a continuous dialogue with various stakeholders, Sector supplement: the most important aspects of sustainability have been identified. Financial service sector supplement Ahead of this report, the special dialogues conducted were mainly (FSSS) with internal stakeholders. RELEVANCE FOR A BANK IN THE NORDIC REGION AND GREAT BRITAIN To complement the general framework, GRI has developed secRelevance and materiality are key GRI concepts. The sustainabiltor supplements (e.g. the Financial Services Sector Supplement, ity issues have been analysed based on their relevance to our stakeFSSS), which focus on particularly relevant sustainability issues in holders and to the Bank’s ability as regards long-term value creaspecific sectors. The Financial Services Sector Supplement applies tion. We have prioritised the information that has been deemed to to banks, insurance companies, asset management companies and be particularly relevant to the operations, which means that indiother investment houses. cators from GRI’s Financial Services Sector Supplement have been Handelsbanken has opted to complement the general frameincluded. Banking operations have a limited direct environmental work and report on a number of indicators from the FSSS (the FS impact, and therefore, based on internal research, a number of indicators in the GRI table). GRI environmental indicators have been deemed to have less relevance for our sector. Handelsbanken’s providers are located in DATA COLLECTION AND LIMITATIONS the regions where Handelsbanken operates, e.g. real estate owners At present, Handelsbanken has joint group data in the personnel that provide premises for bank branches, or suppliers of office maarea (LA), which is fully reported. For the environmental perforterial. In these cases, the risks relating to social issues and working mance area (EN), data is limited to the Nordic operations, with conditions among providers are deemed to be limited. the focus being on Swedish operations. The information in the In some cases, we have reported about indicators that are not report covers the largest and most important parts of the operaprioritised, and in some cases we have compiled these in a separate tions. No corrections or amendments with reference to previous appendix available at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng. information included in annual reports have been made. All figures reported in the sections on Employees and EnvironWHAT IS THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – GRI? mental Performance are included in the Administration Report in Some 1,800 companies worldwide report according to the GRI Handelsbanken’s 2010 annual report, which has been examined guidelines for sustainability reporting, and in the past few years by external auditors. The report covers events and activities durthe figure has grown steadily. The aim of GRI is to create coning the 2009 and 2010 calendar years. ditions for comparing companies’ sustainability activities to a greater extent, within the same sector or region. The main components of the reporting framework are standReport Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ ard details of the company’s operations – a ‘profile’ – as well as Report on 1.1 Report on all criteria listed for Level C plus: Same as requirement for Level B reporting of governance and results indicators in three areas of 2.1–2.10 1.2 OUTPUT G3 Profile 3.9, 3.13 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 Disclosures 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 responsibility: economic (the EC indicators in the GRI table), environmental responsibility (the EN indicators in the GRI table) Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures and social performance (the LA, HR, SO and PR indicators in Not Required Management Approach Disclosures for each Management Approach Disclosures for each Indicator Category Indicator Category the GRI table). These indicators reflect issues that are broadly G3 Management OUTPUT Approach Disclosures established in international principles and initiatives for corporate social responsibility. Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 A company can choose the extent to which it reports, accordG3 Performance Performance Indicators, at least one from each of Performance Indicators, at least one from each of and Sector Supplement* Indicator with due regard to ing to the application levels A, B and C. In this first report, OUTPUT Indicators & Economic, Socal and Economic, Environmental, the Materiality principle. Sector Supplement Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Society, Performance Indicators Product responsibility. Handelsbanken has opted to apply level C. The Bank has focused on the most important indicators, and reports to a greater extent *Sector supplement in final version than the C level necessarily demands. 24 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 GRI index Index according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This is Handelsbanken’s first separate sustainability report, GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS produced according to the GRI guidelines for reporting sustainIn its day-to-day work, Handelsbanken complies with Global ability activities, version 3.0. In Handelsbanken’s assessment, the Compact’s principles for human rights, labour laws, the environinformation in the report corresponds to GRI application level C. ment and anti-corruption. This report presents some of the activiThe table below includes all the core indicators and supplementary ties and results achieved by Handelsbanken within these areas in indicators that have been deemed relevant to Handelsbanken’s 2010, and constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Prooperations. In addition, at the bottom of the table on page 26, we gress (CoP), the formal reporting commitment for members report relevant information on management approach and results of Global Compact. indicators from the GRI Financial Service Sector Supplement (FS), RG Version 3.0/FSS Final Version. The symbols in the table show the relevance that each indicator is deemed to have in relation to Handelsbanken’s operations. PROFILE: COMPANY INFORMATION Page Scope 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Comments from the group chief executive 3  1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 2, 16  2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation Inside cover  2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Inside cover  Inside cover, 1,  2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR 165–171 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Inside cover  Inside cover, 1,  2.5 Countries where the organisation operates AR 165–171 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 36–37, 44  2.7 Markets Inside cover, 1  2.8 Scale of the organisation 1  2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 24–35  2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 23  3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 1, 24  3.2 Date of most recent previous report 25  3.3 Reporting cycle 26 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 27  3.5 Process for defining report content 2, 24  3.6 Boundary of the report 24  3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 24  3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 24, AR 71  3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation principles  3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 24  3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 24  3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 25–26  3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 24  Key to symbols  Relevant to a Nordic bank.  Reported. AR Refers to the 2010 Annual Report.  Partly relevant to a Nordic bank.  Partly reported. All other page references refer to the 2009/2010 Sustainability Report.  Not relevant to a Nordic bank.  Not reported. www Refers to the GRI supplement at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 25 GRI index PROFILE: COMPANY INFORMATION Page Scope 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 8-9  4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role 8-9  4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members AR 51  4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the board AR 49  4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives 5  4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board AR 50–52  4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board members AR 50–51  4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 6-7  4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 7–9  4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance 9  4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is applied  4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles or other initiatives 22  4.13 Memberships in associations 22  4.14 List of stakeholder groups 5  4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 5  4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 5  4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 5, 7  INDICATORS Page Relevance Scope 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EC) Disclosure on management approach/economic AR 9–13  EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed 5, 16   EC2. Financial impact, and risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate changes 2, 17, 20–21   EC3. Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AR 97–100   EC4. Financial assistance received from government 5, 16   EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers   EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 12   EC8. Infrastructure investments and services mainly provided for public purposes 10, 22   EC9. Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 2, 10, 16   6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (EN) Disclosure on management approach/Environment 6–7, 14, 17, 18–20  EN1. Materials used by weight or volume www   EN2. Percentage of recycled input materials   EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary source   EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 20   EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvement 20–21   EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products/services 17, 20–21   EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and results 20–21   EN8. Total water withdrawal by source   EN11. Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of biodiversity value   EN12. Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity   EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 20–21   EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions www   EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 20–21   EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances, weight   EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions, weight   EN21. Total water discharge   EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method www   EN23. Number and volume of significant spills   EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 20–21   EN27. Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed   EN28. Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws No significant fines in 2010   EN29. Environmental impact of transports 20–21   Key to symbols  Relevant to a Nordic bank.  Reported. AR Refers to the 2010 Annual Report.  Partly relevant to a Nordic bank.  Partly reported. All other page references refer to the 2009/2010 Sustainability Report.  Not relevant to a Nordic bank.  Not reported. www Refers to the GRI supplement at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng 26 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 GRI index INDICATORS Page Relevance Scope 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (LA, HR, SO, PR) Disclosure on management approach/Social 6–7, 11–15, 17–18  Employment and working conditions (LA) LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 12   LA2. Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 4, 12–13, AR 42   LA3. Benefits provided to full-time employees 12–13   LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 13   LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes and whether this is specified in the collective agreement www   LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, total work related fatalities per region 13   LA8. Education, training, prevention and risk-control programs in place to help employees and their families or members of society regarding serious disease 12–13, 15   LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee, split into personnel categories   LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 12   LA13. Composition of governance bodies and employees according to diversity indicators 12, AR 60-63   LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women per employee category   Human rights (HR) HR1. Proportion and number of Investment agreements that include human rights clauses, or that have been examined on the basis of human rights 14, 17, 18   HR2. Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken   HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken www   HR5. Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken   HR6. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and actions taken   HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken   Society (SO) SO1. Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities   SO2. Business units analysed for risks related to corruption AR 59   SO3. Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 14   SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption   SO5. Participation in public policy development and lobbying   SO8. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws No significant fines in 2010   Product responsibility (PR) PR1. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed and the proportion of product categories evaluated   PR3. Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such information  requirements  PR5. Results related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 11, 23   PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes for marketing communications 11, 15   PR9. Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use of products and services No significant fines in 2010   FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Page Relevance Scope FS. Product and Service Impact Section FS1. Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 6, 17–19   FS2. Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 17–19   FS3. Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included  in agreements or transactions 17  FS5. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities 17–19   FS8. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit 18   FS9. Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures 17   FS10. Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted  on environmental or social issues 18  FS11. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental screening 18   FS12. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right to  vote shares or advises on voting  FS13. Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 10   FS15. Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 11, 15, 17   FS16. Initiative to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 10   Key to symbols  Relevant to a Nordic bank.  Reported. AR Refers to the 2010 Annual Report.  Partly relevant to a Nordic bank.  Partly reported. All other page references refer to the 2009/2010 Sustainability Report.  Not relevant to a Nordic bank.  Not reported. www Refers to the GRI supplement at www.handelsbanken.se/csreng handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 27 Contact Contact Contact If you have comments or questions regarding this report, please contact Handelsbanken’s Corporate Governance unit, email: csr@handelsbanken.se. Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity no: 502007-7862 Central Head Office Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 8 701 10 00 www.handelsbanken.com FINANCIAL INFORMATION The following reports can be downloaded or ordered from Handelsbanken’s website: www.handelsbanken.se/ireng. • annual reports • interim reports • risk reports • corporate governance reports • fact books • sustainability report IMPORTANT DATES 2011 9 February Highlights of annual report 2010 27 April Interim report January – March 2011 20 July Interim report January – June 2011 26 October Interim report January – September 2011 28 handelsbanken  Sustainabilit y report 2010 www.handelsbanken.com +46 8 701 10 00 SE-106 70 Stockholm Production: Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printing: Larsson Offsettryck AB. Photos: Henrik Bonnevier and others.
