NEW ways Magazine Contents page 22 Discover A portrait of our home – innovation made in Münsterland page 40 the future of liquid Service – wherever you need us, we’re there. Always page 54 techno­logy – with Growth strategy – actively shaping the future page 68 Termotek – finding a partner for the future technotrans. page 78 Social responsibility – being conscientious 4 5 Global local patriots The Sassenberg location – technotrans shaping the future with German expertise. Magazine page 22 6 7 International experts Our strength, worldwide – precision liquid technology for industrial applications. Magazine page 20 8 9 Constant companions technotrans practises customer centricity – ­in its ideas, its technical solutions and its service. Magazine page 40 10 11 Meticulous publishers Through gds AG, we provide efficient services and software for Technical Documentation. Magazine page 48 12 13 Visions based on knowledge Building on our expertise, we are constantly making inroads into the markets of the future. Magazine page 54 14 15 technotrans expertise – the tried-and-tested gateway 124 to tapping the markets US of the future $ billion This is the revenue growth that industry experts expect to see in the worldwide packaging market between 2012 and 60 % 2016, from a base of € 696 billion in 2011. The two biggest sales markets are the USA and China. 440 % The global market share of German printing press manufacturers. This underlines their predominance and shows that printers worldwide regard “Made in Germany” as a worthwhile investment. As a long-standing part­ ner, technotrans too benefits from this The amount by which the laser systems strong branding. market has grown since 1993. By com­ parison, the machine tool market has expanded by 80 % over the same pe­ riod. Other figures illustrate the huge promise of laser technology. In 2009 revenue slumped by 25 % to € 3.9 bil­ lion worldwide. Yet it had bounced back­ to pre-crisis levels by 2011. 4.5 € billion more than 140 € That is the volume of orders received by exhibitors at the EMO, the leading billion international exhibition of the machine­ is invested every year in printed adver­ tool industry. Nearly 65 % of the vi­si­tors tising. That represents around 70 % of­ from all over the world came with the all advertising spending. specific intention to invest – proof of the steady upward trend in that in­dus­ try. And one from which t­echnotrans is already benefiting as a new player in special niches of this industry, e.g. with its new toolsmart. 16 17 Neat networkers Finding the perfect partners in each other. Jointly identifying synergies. Building success on equal terms. Magazine page 68 18 19 Thoughtful thinkers Social and ecological responsibility are important to us – technologically and socially. Magazine page 78 20 21 Success Or: how to stories from around do the right thing the world. technotrans America gds Germany wherever you are. Termotek goes USA 450,000 legally watertight pages in 68 countries technotrans’ international sales and service net­ One of the bigger customers in the portfolio of gds work attends to customers’ needs in each individ­ AG is SIG combibloc, for which it produces tech­ ual market. When those markets contract, as has nical­documentation. Because a new packaging happened in the USA, the team’s spirits may well material for the manufacture of carton board was technotrans Australia suffer. So the news that the sales team is now introduced, all operating manuals for the machines Down Under, up with the leaders able to represent Termotek AG, too, was enthusi­ already in production use had to be updated. In­ astically received. The potential is huge, the prod­ struc­tions on how to check the packaging were also Equipping a printing press can be compared with ucts much sought-after, and technologically this is compiled. gds took charge of the entire editorial specifying a car. But unlike in the car industry, this familiar territory. The only barrier to be overcome review process, the compilation of the special doc­ optional equipment normally comes not directly were the inhibitions at making contact with cus­ uments, their translation into 23 languages, the from the press manufacturer, but from specialist tomers from an entirely fresh industry. Termotek customs formalities and the logistics. In total, over suppliers such as technotrans. And on a printing helped matters along, and the first deals closed 2 ½ years around 450,000 printed pages were press it isn’t simply about enhancing comfort and are an added motivation. placed in around 1,000 individual packages and convenience; it boosts efficiency, in other words distributed to 68 countries. profit. With the help of colleagues from Singapore, the Australian subsidiary – a small undertaking for such a vast country – has managed to convince the bigger sheet-fed offset printers scattered through­ out the continent, but also important local news­ papers, of the added value to be derived from technotrans India central ink supply systems, high-efficiency filtration Green Printer Award 2011 systems and water preparation systems. It looked for The Times of India at each customer’s specific circumstances as a matter of course and underpinned everything with The “Green Printer Award” was launched in India technotrans France technotrans England technotrans’ renowned quality service. by our fledgling subsidiary in 2010 as a way of Global networks, local benefits Great ideas for large formats raising awareness of sustainable production in that market, too. It is presented to companies The graphic arts industry is a village. Every country­ The English abbreviation for the giant presses built that have taken measures to protect the environ­ has a dense network of federations and work groups by Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG is simply ment, e.g. by reducing waste or reconditioning that regularly swap notes. So word of mouth ­is “VLF” – for Very Large Format. This could hardly process fluids. The 2011 award-winner was the still a very powerful form of advertising. When the be more fitting when you are talking about a max­i-­ newspaper printer of “The Times of India”. It Japanese printing press manufacturer Komori made mum format width of 162 cm. The leading UK also streamlined its processes in an environ­ a recommendation to a French customer on how it printer Butler Tanner & Dennis, based in Frome, mentally friendly way by systematically applying could add value to its production process, it was Somerset, has invested in such a press. When ­technotrans solutions. Now, for example, when the referring to technotrans filtration and preparation choos­ing the dampening solution circulator and presses are started up it is no longer necessary systems. Komori’s recommendation held sway, and ink roller temperature control unit for this high-tech to print 600 or 700 specimen sheets; a maximum the customer was delighted with the results very giant, its choice was obvious. “The ­techno­trans of 200 are needed.­The amount of paper saved is shortly after installing the systems. The next printer­ beta.c combined unit with central water ­cooling six tonnes per year, or 22 trees. As a tribute to the soon came calling with the same requirement. was recommended to us by Heidelberger”, ex­ environment, the Indian experts have also cut CO2 That, too, is part of technotrans’ strategy: making plains Plant Manager Warwick Larkman. “The emissions and water consumption, drastically re­ sure customers with global spread use our techno­ waste heat from the presses is kept in a closed duced energy consumption and moreover planted logical innovations wherever they are – in the circuit, so it has no influence on the climatic con­ 500 new trees in the vicinity. ­interests of users. ditions in the printing hall.” technotrans was also the obvious choice for Butler Tanner & Dennis be­ cause the printer had long been convinced by its excellent standard of service. 22 23 INNOVATION MADE IN MuNSTERLAND 1 Made in Sassenberg – for use worldwide HOW LIQUID TECHNOLOGY FROM UP COUNTRY SPREADS WORLDWIDE Sassenberg is a pretty little town in the Münster­ land region with a population of around 14,000. Surrounded by green meadows and open spaces, it is not exactly where you would expect to find a globally successful enterprise. But this is the home town of technotrans, one of the biggest and most expert suppliers of liquid technology. A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 24 25 components and standard products sourced from nature is sustainable and justifiable. That is why we specialist suppliers. This approach enables us to have signed up to the “Global Compact” initiative respond very flexibly to requests for customerof the United Nations, through which the partici­ 2 specific solutions. At the same time we set great pating companies subscribe to shared values. We Where the liquid technology of the store by well-qualified employees and efficient are also actively supporting the “Friedensdorf e.V.” future is taking shape processes. initiative, which focuses on providing medical as­ sistance for specific patients and running aid pro­ 3 Through its breadth of expertise, the company is jects for children all over the world. High-quality assembly processes with also tapping new areas of business with long-term attention to detail prospects. We use the full battery of our resources­ to guarantee technotrans permanent market suc­ cess and ensure that customers and partners worldwide will continue to benefit from our prod­ ucts and innovations “Made in Sassenberg”. Against this backdrop, we are also eager to demon­ strate ecological and social responsibility be­ cause we believe that economic success is only possible if people also ensure that the impact that their ideas and actions have on humankind and “Innovation, creative engineering skill and “Made in Germany” 4 quality are what these From the logistics centre to products are all about.” destinations worldwide. Maybe this success owes something to the company’s Münsterland origins and the region’s people.­ They are renowned for their down-to-earth­manner and collaborative spirit, but also for their determi­ nation and foresight. At technotrans, highly moti­ vated people produce innovative technology fit for the challenges of the future. Local roots, global outlook Since 1970, we have been building impressively For all our international make-up, the nerve centre­ high-quality equipment and systems for cus­tom­ of our activities is in Sassenberg. This is where ers­from the printing industry as well as other the high-quality products are created that have sectors. These customers are spread all over made techno­trans famous, such as temperature the world – because mechanical engineering is a control technology, filtration solutions, prepara­ prime example of Germany’s export prowess. In­ tion systems and central ink supply systems. The novation, creative engineering skill and “Made in main clients for our peripheral systems come from Germany” quality are what these products have the printing industry, but we have been steadily always been about. We supply products that de­ and systematically widening our area of activity. light our customers and bring them real benefits. For example the Technical Documentation arm of Through their reliability, precision and tailormade the company offers internationally usable tools solutions. and assists companies with editorial processes. Since 2010 we have also been working with com­ As a forward-looking company, technotrans used panies in the field of laser technology, e.g. through its own core skills to successfully integrate other the partnership with and subsequent takeover of companies into the group from an early stage, and Termotek AG and with other renowned companies forge long-term ventures and partnerships with in that industry. As a systems supplier we fa­vour trailblazing technology carriers. mod­ ular concepts comprising self-developed A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 26 27 “Optimised, efficient assembly processes.” A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 28 29 Partners on equal terms We are able to deploy this strength in both the research and technotrans sees itself as not simply a supplier, but as a development area and in production, with the result that both 5 companion. In partnership with our customers, we investigate we and our customers acquire a stronger market position. their specific requirements to make sure our systems and This is not about innovation for innovation’s sake, but about We build our own refrigeration technology, which is a core component equipment always represent the best possible solution for the compelling ideas that have a sound technological basis and of many products task in hand. And because this approach means we are the produce genuine high quality. 6 ones who time and again have set standards that become accepted worldwide, we are able to keep our production op­ Electrical systems that not only look good, but work erations particularly economical. The modular technical so­ “We offer tailormade reliably, too lutions are based on our many decades of experience in solutions for a wide variety 7 temperature control, filtration and the preparation of liquids. of problems.” Our full prowess is demonstrated in the way all these skills The dual-control principle helps to ensure that all components interact come together in an expert systems supplier for customers to maximum possible effect who expect more. technotrans makes use of expertise it has acquired over several decades, the latest research tools, cutting-edge pro­ The most impressive aspect of technotrans’ equipment and duction methods and successful development strategies. We systems is their selective, meticulous technology that per­ explore every possibility in our quest for new solutions and fectly matches that of our customers and often delivers the technologies, e.g. partnerships with institutes and universi­ solution to a problem. Our products also offer a high ROI and ties, so that our equipment and systems are state of the art. are easy to operate and service. We furthermore espouse the We get involved in interdisciplinary and international ven­ user's interests by majoring on energy efficiency, environmen­ tures because we know that only open horizons offer the tality and sustainability. That’s because we supply products scope for developing superlative technology. And we keep our that already have one eye to future. As a result, they are production operations efficient, sustainable, cost-conscious attracting a following in other sectors as well as the printing and flexible, because we believe this is the best way to con­ industry. tinue being a success. At technotrans, technological expertise goes hand in hand with a service culture that strives for customer satisfaction throughout a product’s entire life. We regard being available 24/7 as a matter of course. We are likewise there to offer solutions for virtually all challenges that might arise in the customer’s production operations. A direct hotline, worldwide parts service and expert service technicians on the ground are all part of the deal. And there’s much more, too. technotrans This is the essence of our mission – to deliver greater effi­ ciency, better productivity and more success for our custom­ offers superlative ers and partners. technology Motivated by experience Our goal at technotrans is to surpass not just our customers’­ expectations, but our own expectations, too. We would like to use everything we have learned in the past to create new success stories. When we act, we are swift and focused. Not because we are forced to be, but because we are exception­ ally motivated. Because we know that all the experience in the world counts for nothing if you don’t use it to shape the future. And we make the most of another of our strengths: speed. A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 30 31 8 The assemblies comprise various components, which are first tested and then preassembled 9 Maintaining order, however tiny the detail, helps to keep everything well organised 10 Pride at another completed order: the unit can now undergo functional testing A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 32 33 From Minimum to Maximum Day by day, our products produce 9,000 g On a hair-raising roller coaster, g-force – in other words the load on a body from acceleration – is between 5 and 6 g. In other words, between five and six times the force of gravity acts on the body. We’re not satisfied with that for our spinclean.d. astonishing statistics – both great and small – This dampening solution cleaning unit generates in the areas of temperature control, a centrifugal force of 9,000 g for optimum clean­ filtration and preparation. ing quality and highly reliable processing. 35 t minus plus 160 bar Our ink pumps circulate the highly viscous printing ink along pipes to the printing press at this enor­ mous pressure. It permits a delivery rate of up to 20 kg per minute, which the highest-performance is the capacity of the newspaper presses can easily get through. A fast, largest ink tanks we clean and efficient affair. have ever installed 0.05 ºC technotrans uses temperature measurement tech­ nology accredited by the Federal Institute for Physics >99 % The fluidmaster.110 is a compact, high-quality unit and Technology that is capable of measuring to for reverse osmosis that is used predominantly within 0.05 °C over a range from 10 to 150 °C. That in electroplating and electronics manufacturing. enables us to regulate temperature control circuits Thanks to its ingenious technology, it achieves a with a proven accuracy of +/0.1 °C. Which the salt retention rate of more than 99 %, which is in­ users of our technology rely on in practice. dispensable for hitch-free production. A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 34 35 11 Our employees are one of our biggest strengths 12 A small excerpt of the big picture that is more than the proverbial sum of its parts… tional scale is an important success factor. This approach also reinforces common ground interna­ tionally and exploits different outlooks in engen­ dering new ideas. It is clear wherever we are active technotrans – an entity that thrives on its immediate­horizons in their quest for solutions just how successful this method is: on external as­ employees. not just for the present, but for the future, too. signments our efficiency, creativity and customer They are the hand, soul and mind of everything we Because a good idea is a good idea, whoever centricity are richly praised. Our equipment and do. They make sure we play to our strengths in produces it. We expressly encourage this atti­ systems encapsulate our expertise in many dif­ every area of the company. They create the posi­ tude. Our efficient business units consolidate the ferent ways. We want these factors to remain our PROFESSIONAL, PRODUCTIVE tive, professional atmosphere that our customers, expertise present in each technology area into benchmark, which is why we do all we can to sup­ AND TRULY PROFICIENT. too, sense. And they have stood by their company throughout difficult times. That’s something we can spe­cialist teams which consider the current and future requirements of our partners and custom­ port our employees – on a specialist, social and interpersonal level. be proud of, and it makes us confident that we can ers professionally and purposefully. But for some rise to all future challenges. projects, we also take the opportunity to bring to­ gether the expertise of more than one unit for Our employees demonstrate their desire for su­ optimum, forward-looking results. perlative achievements every day, in every area of the company, and are thus spurred on to new Specifically when it comes to technotrans’ world­ heights. They have the ability to look beyond their wide activities, exchanging ideas on an interna­ A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 36 37 A portrait of our home _ _ A portrait of our home 38 39 think Finally. A visit to the dentist that was worth it in a double sense. Because that’s when I came up with a potential source of revenue outside the printing industry. When the phone rang, I didn’t really know what to make of it at first. technotrans weren’t proposing anything specific and I didn't really know what they wanted from us. After talking to them One that used our core skills of cooling, filtering and metering, things were a little clearer. They wanted to sell us something. “As forwardof course. It was the cooling lubricants that fired my imagina­ Interestingly, they themselves didn’t know exactly what it was. tion. While leafing through a brochure for dental labs in the It wasn’t much more than a general idea. But it actually waiting room, it suddenly struck me: cutting processes also sounded quite good. At our first meeting we soon got onto the involve cooling. And cause lots of very fine surplus material. topic of cooling lubricant preparation and how there was room The solution would be a combined unit that cleans the cooling for improvement. I then realised that technotrans might be lubricant, prepares it and returns it to the production process. able to deliver firm improvements to the processes going thinkers we When looking for a suitable partner for the project, I thought on in our equipment. They told us more about their plans of Sauer, a company that is part and how they would envisage of the Gildemeister Group and a partnership with us. They were makes precision 5-axis CNC maThere’s potential in really engaging and enthusi­ everything. Especially if ­chine tools with integral ultra-­­­ astic. So we agreed we would like to reflect sonic technology for use in such both explore the idea in greater areas as dental technology.­So the next day I got in touch with you’re prepared to change depth. We soon saw the process take on firm contours: a lively their development department the way you think and act. dialogue by phone and e-mail With bold ideas and the and asked for an appointment ensued, and we were wowed by on ourselves, with them. At the company’s their professionalism. So we headquarters in Stipshausen we first presented our technologies right partner. really looking forward to the next meeting, when ­technotrans and then our idea. The concept of wanted to show us some very using a combined unit for preparing cooling lubricant was not in specific plans. And that’s what they did. We were immediately­ our partners itself new for Sauer’s engineers. But our concept was persua­ impressed by the new unit. We’d already been getting on sive: a compact, user-friendly unit that is installed directly on splendidly, because such a venture was a breath of­fresh air. the machine and operates efficiently – a space-saving, eco­ The whole undertaking moved up a gear when ­technotrans­ nomical solution. We agreed to investigate the idea further in offered to build us a prototype. How could we refuse? Es­ close consultation with Sauer. After all, the new unit ultimately pecially as they were so eager to respond very directly to and the world.” needed to reflect their requirements. That kicked off develop­ our requirements in many areas such as filtration and user ment of the toolsmart. Deploying our ample engineering ex­ friendliness. A few weeks later, they phoned to ask when they pertise, and after plenty of emails and phone calls, our team could call again. So we arranged an installation date and drew up the plans for a new unit that we presented at our next eagerly awaited the next developments. Communications meeting. Of course we were nervous, because Sauer wasn’t started buzzing again, and we just had to bide our time until just any company – they were one of the technology leaders.­ the truck with the new unit pulled up outside our building… But we knew as early on as the development phase that we were onto a good thing. All the analyses, measurements and plans looked very promising. And that’s how it turned out: our ideas were well-received and we were given the go-ahead to build a prototype that we would place at Sauer’s disposal as a test system. We built it largely from equipment modules that feature on our systems for the printing industry. In other words, Christian Walczyk we had plenty of experience with them. The filtration stage Head of technotrans industrial was the only section for which entirely new modules were system solutions created, because the requirements to be met were different. When the prototype was ready, off it went to Stipshausen. 40 41 Wherever you need us we’re there. Why Service from technotrans always means that bit extra. 1 Readiness and dedication go hand in hand service _ _ service 42 43 Service from technotrans is an important All customer requirements are acted upon individu­ way of increasing customer satisfaction. It ally, flexibly and professionally by our expert, mo­ plays a vital part in a company’s success. tivated employees. That is of course particularly Today, for tomorrow. im­portant in major projects that not only involve That is why we at technotrans take the topic of supplying equipment and systems, but also project service very seriously. After all, a lot of money is­ planning, assembly and installation work up to the tied up in our customers’ machinery and the cost point of commissioning. In such cases it is par­ of lost production can soon escalate. Furthermore, ticularly important to get everything right from the as a general rule nobody knows equipment and outset, so that the results live up to the customer’s systems better than the people who have built expectations in every respect. It naturally also in­ them. We are not only aware of that; we act upon cludes product-centred, practical briefings, training it. We are customer-centred, flexible and above all and advancement to ensure that operators and available internationally at 19 locations. This ef­ users are able to use equipment expertly. ficient service network of around 150 employees makes sure our customers are satisfied – all over And there is yet more to technotrans Service: our the world. employees provide swift, practical answers to tech­ nical questions so as to keep disruptions to the One-stop service production process to a minimum. They make sure So that we can attend to our customers’ needs parts and consumables reach the customer as even more comprehensively and consistently, we quickly as possible through a carefully planned in­ are steadily optimising our service structures. To ternational service network. Regular maintenance do this, we study the needs and preferences of work reduces the risk of breakdowns and increases our customers and their markets. The wide-rang­ production reliability. That is something else that ing experience that we have gained internationally our worldwide customer service provides locally. over recent decades is of course invaluable when Our qualified engineers are perfectly equipped with handling change. So that we can keep all process­ special tools to carry out repairs or modifications es as efficient as possible, every customer is as­ directly at the customer. They analyse the situation signed a product specialist as their counterpart and find the best possible solution, perhaps repair to answer technical questions and handle every individual components or enable the customer to aspect of service cases. Customers genuinely ap­ carry on operating a machine in emergency mode preciate this all-round support. until the cause of the fault can be definitively eradicated. 24 hours, 365 days The very core of the Service organisation is Cus­tom­ er Service Support, which attends to t­echno­trans International, connected and customers’ every need through an integrated flexible – technotrans Service ap­proach. A technical officer carries overall res­ knows no boundaries. And pon­si­bility for a service order, including engineer provides the best solution for ­­call-outs and the administrative processes. This the customer, every time. ensures that all services and processes can be coordinated smoothly. Customer Service Support is flanked by service force planning. It organises the engineers’ appointments and clarifies all im­ 2 portant aspects of travel. The Service area also As well as our products, this range of services – strong partnerships often stretching back many helps with the internal and external training cours­ The most important thing: thorough which we can also provide on behalf of other com­ years with many of our customers. As well as being preparation and perfect equipment es that provide professional, specialist a ­ dvanced panies – helps to keep our own customers happy convinced of the merits of our service philosophy, training for both our own employees and our cus­ and satisfied. We are never far away anywhere in we find it repeatedly offers up scope for new dis­ 3 tomers’ technical staff. the world, respond quickly and flexibly, and always coveries and insights. To the benefit of our cus­ We are there for our customers 24/7. focus on the solution. 24 hours a day, 365 days a tomers and our products. Every day of the year year. Thanks to this approach, we have developed service _ _ service 44 45 “Customer-oriented service is one of the most important success factors.” service _ _ service 46 47 “and that allows us to estimate directly what field service and training capacity will be needed, then we can schedule everything with the members of the other Service areas.” Thanks to the service network’s out-and-out international nature, this approach is ideal for the customer. Because of the way it improves processes, technotrans can re­ spond even faster. And with technotrans experts available all over the world, customers are able to contact an expert who can help solve their problem at any hour of the day or night. “We want to go the extra mile in Service,” declares Anne Beckmann, “and the proof that we manage to do this is there in both our satisfied customers­ and our determination to find individual solutions. “I see our employees repeatedly demonstrate their flexibility every day.” After all, we do keep encountering exceptional chal­ lenges. Once, our staff sent an urgently needed part overnight from Sassenberg to Prague by taxi. That meant the customer was very quickly able to resume production. And if the customer so wishes, in extreme cases we’ll even charter a plane.” Anne Beckmann finds such anecdotes are what give her The service is good. But nothing is so good it Undaunted by major tasks work some extra spice. “Although my activities are cannot be improved. Restructuring a corporate area is normally a very largely of an organisational nature, I see our em­ Change is part of everyday corporate life, be­ labour-intensive and above all organisationally de­ ployees demonstrating their flexibility every day or “We know our cause if you fail to change you stand still. All the­ manding project. “We already knew the customers­ spontaneously putting ideas into practice.” customers are satisfied same, there are some situations where continu­ were satisfied with our service. But we wanted to ous change is no longer enough to reach the be even better.” It was in this vein that Anne Beck­ On top of these measures, technotrans is devel­ with our service. next level. That normally calls for a project. And mann approached the task of taking technotrans oping service tools that will bring even greater ef­ But we still want to be technotrans’ Service area found itself in such a Service to a new level. The aim was to implement ficiency. For instance it is planning a kind of Wiki even better.” situation. Responsibility for ensuring the project a holistic, process and user-oriented approach that compendium to list all previously known problems, succeeded was delegated to Anne Beckmann, is based on a clear strategy: getting Service to with links. This will pool the service experts’ spe­ 29, who joined the company in 2002 and started follow the products into the markets. Customer cialist knowledge in one place, simplify searches her career with a dual course of studies in busi­ Service Support was created to put the plan into and give quicker access to solutions. The field ser­ ness administration. Even before completing the action. “We want customers to have a contact vice, too, benefits from professional tools that for qualification she was working in the Service area, person who coordinates everything that matters instance coordinate international service engineer initially as assistant to the Head of Service. Fol­ in a service project, from start to finish,” says calls depending on the immigration requirements lowing the rollout of SAP, she then became team Anne Beckmann. One of the most important or­ for countries worldwide, and arrange any visas or 4 leader of Service Call Planning. So not only does ganisational changes involved bringing the admin­ vaccinations that are needed well ahead of time. she have a deep understanding of the subject; istrative processes under the umbrella of Service Customers and technotrans’ own employees are not Customer-oriented: team discussion for the Service organisation she also knows the various processes and or­ Support. In other words controlling everything the only ones to benefit from the new structure and ganisational tasks in the Service area. This was cen­trally, whether the clarification of technical the tools; these also make life easier for partners 5 the basis on which she was given the task of re­ matters, preparing the quotation, processing the and subcontractors working on the project. structuring the service portfolio and also made order, shipping the materials the engineer needs, The results depend on the performance of each member of the team team leader of technotrans’ new Customer Service invoicing or chasing up any accounts receivable. Support. In this capacity she coordinates both her “Before we start, we discuss contractual aspects own task area as well as the interfaces with the and the technical approach with customers and field service and training areas. identify the contact persons,” explains Beckmann, service _ _ service 48 49 gds AG, or the art of being understood 6 However complicated it is, correctly gds finds the right words “Take A and place in fruit basket B for also be combined as required. This v­ ersatility is un­­ change colour yellow.” doubtedly one reason for the success of gds AG. Who has not come across such bizarre wordings in The company is now also active in a large number operating instructions or manuals? Less of a prob­ of European countries and in regular contact with lem, maybe, when you are dealing with every­day various technical universities, associations and products. But when you are talking about tech­ federations. nical processes, expensive machinery or training documents, the problem can very soon become a costly one. Every company that makes technical­ “gds offers a wide range products has to compile technical documentation.­ of products and services The quality of which is crucial. International stand­ that simplify the entire ards, regulations and laws have to be complied documentation process with, and texts, photos and drawings have to be for customers.” clear and intelligible. That is a constant challenge that companies cannot afford to take lightly. “A high point in the history of gds AG to date came The technotrans subsidiary gds AG – “gds” stands in October 2011, when it scooped three awards at for global document solutions – has embraced the the dokupreis, a competition sponsored by the Ger­ task of tackling this issue not just on behalf of man professional association for technical commu­ technotrans, but also for other companies. It does nication and Information-Development (tekom)”, so with speed, flexibility and professionalism. gds explained gds Chairman Ulrich Pelster. The recent was created out of the former “Technical Documen­ years’ success is also reflected in the steady rise tation” department at technotrans AG. Since 1998 in its employee total and the opening of additional it has also been performing this task for other com­ locations. And gds AG is primed for further growth. panies – with notable success. gds offers a wide With products and services that bring clear bene­ range of products and services that not only sim­ fits for the customer. plify the entire documentation process for cus­ tomers, but also demonstrably reduce costs by At the very heart of gds’ solutions is the docuglobe between 30 and 70 percent as well as providing content management system. It is based on the greater legal certainty. The starting point is a ra­ principle of modularisation: documents are broken tionally structured range of services, which can down into logically usable component segments, the contents of which can be edited and modified quickly and easily. All segments are kept in the database, ensuring that all users retrieve the same version. The advantages are obvious. Doc­ uments can be produced to an especially high, guaranteed standard of quality, and managed very efficiently. service _ _ service 50 51 gds AG is the service therefore makes documents easier to follow. 7 provider for technical Specifically in documentation, effective, easily un­ Clear and easy to understand: documentation. derstood instructions are more important than ele­ technical documentation from gds gant phraseology. docuterm delivers these in an Structured, legally secure especially simple and efficient way, and is thus an 8 and international. ideal gateway to professional documentation. gds performs services on behalf of a large number of companies With individual service For a quick, dependable and customised solution to and ingenious tools. technical documentation, there is the docuconsult service. gds performs a comprehensive analysis of the safety aspects and semantics in the docu­ mentation, but also investigates the potential in respect of processes, quality and costs. Docu­ ments can furthermore be analysed and optimised in such a way as to project a positive image of the company. The docuconsult service also includes There are many more useful features in docuglobe, tailored consultancy, training, seminars and in-situ such as convenient tools for translation into various support involving both its own products and the languages and language management, straight­ products of renowned partners. forward publication in a variety of media formats, automated processes, clever search func­tions, To guarantee customers a comprehensive service version management and traceable archiving. “gds means and flexible support, customers can access our Moreover, it interfaces with MS word to make the docuportal over the Internet. This is the quick and comprehensive task of editing appreciably simpler for all users. easy way to submit translation enquiries, commis­ docuglobe is thus a system that every company can service with a sion jobs, transfer high volumes of data or log use. Alternatively, gds AG can be commissioned to strong focus on support requests, and customers have a constant handle the task. innovations, overview of their processes. developments and For this, gds offers its documate service, which in­ trends in the The services provided by gds AG appeal to a grow­ volves e.g. professional authoring and updating of field of technical ing circle of companies. The docuglobe software technical documentation for various customers. It alone achieved revenue growth of 50 percent in can also provide in-depth advice on the structur­ documentation.” 2011. This achievement undoubtedly owed much ing and integration of various documents. This to its high functionality and the comprehensive service enables companies which are not large service, but also to a strong focus on innovations, enough to justify an internal Technical Documen­ developments and trends in the field of technical­ tation department to obtain professional support documen­tation. As well as the fact that customers for the task. The benefits for the customer are ob­ find gds’ approach as simple as ABC. No doubt vious: the economy of outsourcing, professional about it. execution, and a significantly reduced liability risk in a product-related area that is highly sensitive for manufacturing industry. Another service available from gds is docuterm ter­minology management. Company-specific ter­ minology is as much a part of corporate identity 9 as the logo or corporate design. It also helps cus­ tomers to find their way around various documents docuglobe – gds’ successful product which is already benefiting more with greater ease and localise the content faster.­ than 1,000 users docuterm standardises the terminology used and service _ _ service 52 53 learn We were naturally quite tense and were wondering whether the whole thing would work in the way we and Sauer imagined it would. The prototype was to be installed in the company’s show­ Obviously we were curious. In theory it all sounded great, but would it really work in day-to-day use? To put it to the test, we’d decided to install the toolsmart on one of our machines in the showroom where we demon­ room on a machine that cuts e.g. dentures from ceramic strate our products to potential customers. We were keen “Problems discs. The process generates ceramic sludge as a waste on being able to filter out the particles generated during product. Our prototype’s task was to remove this residue grinding and cutting processes so that the cooling lubricant from the cooling lubricant, clean the fluid, cool it down and can be reused. Problems arose after the first few tests. The return it to the production cycle. Ideally without any consum­ filter soon got blocked. Fortunately we weren’t too worried, ables being needed for the filtration process. That was the because­we were sure technotrans would come up with a so­ theory. In practice, as we discovered in tests over the next lution. And they did. Though not for long. In the course of the are really few months, this proved to be the biggest challenge. The test phase we then started to process different materials mixture of ceramic particles on­the machine. The new filter and cooling lubricant formed a didn’t like it. So we needed a sludge that blocked up the filter There is an ongoing solution, which our counter­ fairly quickly, rendering it unser­ learning process involved parts at technotrans very soon just hidden viceable. So our team fever­­ishly produced: they simply took a set to work on finding a solu­ tion – and identified one fairly in developing something standard filter as used in the printing industry, and it seemed quickly. At least, until Sauer new and using it successto do the trick. It took a few more started to process other mate­ fully. Everyone involved phone calls and visits to each solutions rials such as glass on the same other’s plants to get to that machine. The new filtration con­cept, too, now came up against can benefit if they are point. It almost made us a bit suspicious that the people from its limits. But giving up is not in prepared to depart from technotrans were so friendly our character, so we continued the well-trodden path. and committed. Was it all just from which to work on the problem. And aca ploy to get their foot in the ­tually found quite a simple so-­ door? It’s so rare for suppliers lution. We tried a standard filter, which is known in the print­ to act like partners and be so hugely supportive. But because ing industry as beta.f. Although we hadn’t managed to cre­ ­they kept it up, we came to realise that they really meant it. ate a consumables-free filtration system, it was at least an Ultimately we were convinced that technotrans’ main aim was you learn.” effective way of filtering out various materials. Over the entire to learn hand in hand with us, and venture into new territory period we managed to build up very good mutual trust with that would above all bring our companies long-term benefits. Sauer, a fact reflected in the visits we paid each other. And it transpired that these two companies from utterly different branches of industry had a surprising amount in common. We found we all love the beef roulade in gravy served up by our canteen chef. Common ground facilitates not just partner­ ship, but also communication, and it helped along the devel­ opment of the prototype right through to its final form. Andreas Schwarz Head of Application Engineering, SAUER GmbH 54 55 Actively ­shaping the ­future How we and others rate the prospects, and what conclusions we draw from that. 1 The toolsmart is causing a stir in the machine tool industry Growth strategy _ _ Growth strategy 56 57 Can electronic media such as the Internet be 19th century. The Internet makes it even easier a substitute for print media? For example in to organise this grouping and gathering around emerging economies such as China? particular social interests. Dedicated websites for We ought to kick the habit of asking “print OR everything from cats to knitting enjoy phenome­ Mr Horx, what do you read at your breakfast web” and consign that debate to history. We need nally high click rates. table – a daily newspaper hot off the presses, to distinguish between a medium’s editorial func­ or an iPad? tion and its sales channels. An editorial office ei­ Are there parallels between today’s cultural “There will An iPad. We only take one daily newspaper, as a kind of cellulose backup version in case we ­can’t ther is or isn’t a good mouthpiece for information and opinion, a mediator between the world and “We let the fear pessimism and the widely held belief at the time of the first railways that travelling at high always be newspapers get on the Internet. It also helps to get the ­fire going. But we still value quality journalism on the the individual. It doesn’t really matter whether the content is ultimately delivered with the help of of what we might lose as a result of speeds would be bad for people’s health? Such sentiments are certainly something of a con­ and books.” iPad. We have subscribed to the Economist via printing presses or servers, both can be ­censored change triumph stant in human psychology. Behavioural psychol­ an app, and also to Die WELT, Die ZEIT, TIME and or blocked. When you take a closer look at China’s­ ogy talks of “loss aversion”. We let the fear of what over the prospect NEWSWEEK. We do appreciate good content. media landscape, you also discover it has far we might lose as a result of change triumph over more­diversity than we generally think. The media of opportunities the prospect of opportunities and gains. The In­ A relatively large number of American newslandscape is incredibly vibrant, but in a very differ­ and gains.” ternet is a huge revolution in the way we access papers have folded in the past few years. A ent way. Asian countries are simply leapfrogging knowledge, data and expertise. But we are more study has revealed that the turnout in electhe newspaper age that has of course been very worried about losing that old-style sermonising tions has dipped noticeably in those regions formative here in Europe. journalism. It’s sheer nostalgia, but that’s how that have lost their newspapers. Isn’t that people are. The future isn’t necessarily our strong worrying? What would we be lacking without print mepoint, because things could turn out differently to It is, but that isn’t a new phenomenon and I think dia? “High-quality journalism that takes readhow we are used to them being… we might be jumping to the wrong conclusions: a ­ ers by the hand and enables them to take a politically disengaged population is the cause, ­not glimpse behind the scenes,” as the Editor-inMr Horx, radical change and even faster proa consequence, of the media crisis. And the media Chief of The New York Times wrote? gress are the hallmarks of our age. Books bestructure in America is very different. There has High-quality journalism isn’t a question of the me­ came widely available 500 years ago and have never been a self-improving middle class or a co­ dium. We don’t ask: “Will the future be shaped by shown astonishing longevity. The video casherent social discourse to quite the same extent. aircraft OR cars?” They are both aspects of mobil­ sette came out less than 50 years ago and has America is a genuine multicultural society and the ity. No one medium has ever supplanted another long since been supplanted by other media. Is newspapers are dotted around specific regions one entirely. The advent of television didn’t cause there a future for printed information? all over the continent; television was always the cinema to collapse, despite what the prophets of Are we really living in an age of faster progress? ­utterly dominant medium. The New York Times is doom predicted. But when new media channels What is getting faster? The fight against cancer?­ putting up a fight and going onto the offensive ­on arrive on the scene, the existing ones “mutate”, The average speed of cars? Our conquest of the Internet, and The NEW YORKER won’t go b ­ ust they have to adapt. In future, books will have to space?­­The intellectual grasp of our politicians? either. The Internet tends to devour those media look more attractive and smell nicer than they do The relaxed futurologist would say the hallmarks that can be substituted with faster, more easily today, quite simply because they no longer have of our times are a slowing-down and an optical searchable formats. It’s simply quicker and more a monopoly as data carriers. By responding to illusion: we are confusing compression with accel­ direct to handle car adverts and infotainment over such feedback, they will evolve with ever greater eration. We now register more simultaneity on our the Internet. And over long distances, such as in diversity. planet, we are influenced by many occurrences America, paper is moreover not an energy-efficient that used to make absolutely no difference to us. way to circulate content. Quality is relative, isn’t it? Nowadays we have­ We are entering an age of interdependence. But a media landscape in which thousands of that also means we will experience many renais­ Would there be justification for granting ailchannels are competing for that rare resource: “The future isn’t sances. The old keeps coming round again. ing newspapers protection as having “public our attention. Do we have media competence necessarily our utility”? in our DNA, or how do we know what sources strong point, beWill there come a time when the only use for Matthias Horx Aren’t they already protected? In many countries we can trust? cause things could printed paper will be as packaging material? Born 1955; the highest-profile and most ­ newsprint prices for instance are subsidised, or As individuals, and as groups that form soci­ Never. There will always be newspapers, and books­ influential futurologist in the German-speaking turn out differnewspapers pay different VAT rates. Seriously, eties, we simply have a variety of interests. And too, because paper is a brilliantly simple data car­ world and author of many successful books. ­ In 1999 he set up the “Zukunftsinstitut”, ­ isn’t that like saying horses should have been media have very many different functions. On the ently to how we are rier that won’t crash on you. There might not be ­a forecasting think-tank that now advises many subsidised when cars came along? We have other one hand they promote social discourse. But used to them being.” QUITE so much printed paper around. But the poor European companies in all sectors. Since 2007 he has also been a lecturer in trend and options for guaranteeing the functions of the press. that’s only a tiny part of it. Media also want to trees will thank us for that. And let’s be honest, future research at the Zeppelin University in ­Friedrichshafen. His latest book ­“Das MegatrendMaybe by reviving the subscription idea as part arouse the public’s attention and scandalise it. especially when you think of all the chemicals and Prinzip Wie die Welt von morgen entsteht” ­­ of a package that includes cultural offers. Some That’s what the tabloid media do, in both elec­ energy we’d save, is it really necessary to put as (“The Megatrend Principle – ­the Shaping of Tomorrow’s World”) ­was published by ­ regional newspapers already sell their customers tronic AND paper form. They also seek to build much as we do to paper? DVF in 2011. cheap electricity and regional mobility services… communities. There is nothing fundamentally new in that, either: there have always been media to serve special interest groups, and the trade jour­ nals for specific professional groups triggered a veritable boom in the printing industry in the late Growth strategy _ _ Growth strategy 58 59 A strategy focusing on What’s coming, ­ sustained what’s here to stay, and growth New markets what counts: the future Mr Brickenkamp, you took the helm at techno­ 200 1 of technotrans trans in time for drupa 2008. Has the company Technology and Services, in million € changed since? gds AG 2008 was of course a really bad time to be taking over at technotrans. Straight afterwards the eco­ nomic environment changed dramatically within the space of just a few months and we were plunged into the worst economic crisis since the Second Machine tools World War. But we’ve used the time effectively dur­ ing that crisis and paved the way for a measured strategic shift that means the company can now 150 turn its attention to additional sales markets. So an example of how a crisis also offers opportunities? Termotek / Lasers Yes, the famous Max Frisch said: “A crisis is a pro­ ductive state. You just have to eliminate the after­ taste of catastrophe.” Of course, objectively a 50 percent fall in revenue is a catastrophe, but only for the time being. Such a situation also gives you the Flexographic printing opportunity to re-examine your whole established way of doing things and consider new ideas that in “normal” circumstances wouldn’t get a look in. 100 Digital printing And those new ideas became visions? Reflecting on our core skills and creating the busi­ ness units, which are directly responsible for­rev­ enue, were important steps along the road towards now tapping sales potential outside the printing industry. And over the next few years that will be the key feature of techno­trans’ growth. Matthias Horx has written how he’s convinced there will always be a place for newspapers and books. 50 Print We also believe in packaging, whether it’s made The Board of Management of technotrans AG from paper, card or film. The printed medium, what­ Dirk Engel, Finance Director; ­ ever form it takes, will be around for many years Henry Brickenkamp, Spokesman of the Board of Management; Dr. Christof Soest, ­ yet, and plenty of printing presses will be sold over Technical Director (from left) the coming years and decades – equipped with technotrans equipment and systems. But we don’t believe that will be sufficient to create the growth story that every company needs. 1978 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Growth strategy _ _ Growth strategy 60 61 Don’t more major acquisitions also increase making price concessions – ultimately to the det­ and its production use. It undoubtedly helped that the risks? riment of your own profitability. But if we identify we were able to build on that past experience but So are you planning to turn your back on your Every acquisition of course carries its own risks, scope for offering customers superior technology are now more professional at handling such pro­ home market in the foreseeable future? and we always face a variety of challenges. For in certain markets, we will simply develop those cesses and refining our technologies because we No, certainly not! We’ve been a systems supplier the takeover of Termotek AG, we adopted an ap­ markets through organic growth. “We are well have decades of experience behind us. to printing press manufacturers for 30 years, and proach that we found to be very effective. First served with the over that long period we’ve built up a unique prod­ we reached a cooperation agreement; in other So which application markets do you rate as systems supplier technotrans came through the crisis of 2008 – uct portfolio that makes us a preferred partner of words, both companies had ample opportunity promising? idea, because 2009 quite well. What is your formula for keepthose customers. to get to know each other over that period and We have adopted a very broad-based approach and it means we have ing the company on track when the going gets assess whether their expectations of each other our toolsmart development, a preparation system tough? Printing presses will become even more efficient were realistic. Also, the way we structured the for cooling lubricant, is starting to bear fruit for value added Although technotrans is a global group of compa­ to offer.” in the future, and customers in areas such as “To secure longpurchase price ensured that the former owner will example in the machine tool industry. The sys­ nies, at heart it is a medium-sized enterprise with large-­format packaging will want a higher level of term growth continue­to contribute actively towards its suc­ tems supplier principle has stood us in very good all the advantages that entails: flat hierarchies, automation. In serving those requirements we can cess in the capacity of manager, and reap the stead in that respect. In other words we supply short decision-making paths, low vertical integra­ play to our strengths. prospects for financial rewards. Last but not least, we’ve delib­ customers not just with one vital component, but tion and a collaborative corporate culture. That technotrans, we erately avoided integrating the company fully, to with several, which combine to form a system and creates an ideal basis for responding swiftly and And in future we will also be able to make the core are expanding preserve the entrepreneurial leeway that is essen­ are coordinated. We then package everything in a flexibly to a changing economic environment. And skills that we've acquired in this market available into different tial for above-average success. That then keeps user-friendly cabinet that matches their machine, thanks to our structures, we are also in a position to other sectors, as a way of shoring up our future markets.” the risks moderate. to emphasise the value added we are giving the to accommodate unexpected surges in growth with growth. end user. equal ease. In taking over Termotek, you have ventured But isn't expanding into new markets a very into a new market, laser applications. Mr It all sounds great, but doesn’t it involve a costly affair? How much are you having to Brickenkamp, what makes that an interesting lengthy journey through uncharted territory? invest, Mr Engel, and where will the money prospect for technotrans? Consider technotrans’ corporate history: it built its come from? Along with other industry insiders, we expect the first dampening solution circulators for the print­ First of all, let me say that technotrans is tradi­ market for printing presses to remain flat over the ing industry in 1977, then technotrans became a tionally a company that finances its entry into new next few years, or at best achieve marginal growth. standard supplier for Heidelberger and Manroland markets from its own resources. So by choice we The market for laser applications is abso­lutely in 1992. We’d been working towards that break­ will continue to provide funding for this expansion ideal­for making sure our company nevertheless through for 15 years. This time, only slightly more from within the company. We’ve previously been enjoys long-term growth prospects. The range­of than two years elapsed between the initial idea able to do that quite successfully, for instance applications for lasers is steadily growing,­the when­developing new products internally and then market keeps expanding and we are able to share successfully bringing them onto the market, or in that growth by deploying our original core skills. when­ever we’ve made corporate acquisitions such­ as Termotek AG, which we financed from cash flow What share of your revenue do you think that in 2011. market might one day represent? I could well imagine that if the economic environ­ In your opinion, how relevant is it in that rement remains more or less normal, products for spect that technotrans is listed on the stock the printing industry will account for only about exchange? half of the Technology segment’s revenue by 2015. The capital market is an important extra option For that purpose I’m assuming our core business that we always keep in our sights as a way of will make stable progress and that we’ll be able to financing our growth targets. Depending on the size create extra potential for growth in areas such as of the acquisition target, capital-market instru­ flexographic printing and digital printing. I would ments may have a greater or lesser significance. expect to see a good one-third of revenue coming For our last corporate acquisition we used our from the laser technology area, with various other treasury shares to finance it alongside cash and markets accounting for the balance. earn-out components. That solution allows the former owner or owners to share in the collective Is Termotek a sign that you are aiming for success of the integrated entity. A sensible split of future growth mainly through acquisitions? equity and borrowed capital keeps us in a position There are various arguments in favour of acquisi­ to act at all times and therefore gives us some tions: first of all, they get us towards our goal faster. degree of control over our financial dependence Then there’s the consideration that you can often on lenders. only edge out established market participants by Growth strategy _ _ Growth strategy 62 63 “We are proud of our ­employees and our technological expertise.” Growth strategy _ _ Growth strategy 64 65 Dr Soest, you are also responsible for the even more. Growth will come first and foremost in Quality Management area. To be honest, that markets outside the printing industry, the revenue sounds rather dull... share of which is initially to be increased to 30 It’s anything but dull; modern quality management percent. Wherever appropriate, we will accelerate not only includes classic quality assurance, it’s organic growth through suitable acquisitions. We also an integral part of corporate management. will meticulously exploit the potential for synergy By systematically strengthening the emphasis on­­ so that we can also achieve our future profitability processes, QM is a driver of improvements to both­ goals. technotrans used to post EBIT margins of efficiency and effectiveness, so it steadily en­ more than 10 percent, and it’s our aim to achieve hances our company’s fitness. When you practise that once more. Ultimately we want to achieve quality management as an integral function of the figures that will keep all our stakeholders happy: company, processes work more effectively and our customers, our employees, and of course our everyone has less reason to get irritated about shareholders. things that aren’t working. QM can therefore also be a “feel-good factor” for the company. What’s more, I regard modern quality management­ tools as preventive instruments that directly im­ pact customer satisfaction and reduce the number of complaints. In that respect QM makes a sub­ stantial contribution to corporate success. Mr Engel, corporate success is a good catchword. What are your goals for the future? technotrans’ corporate success is closely linked to our strategy of profitable growth. For me as Finance Director, profitability is naturally expressed 3 by the relevant performance indicators. The main financial ratio that we in the technotrans Group The measurement and control ­methods are constantly use is the EBIT margin as our earnings target. Over being refined and optimised the next three years, we have set ourselves the goal of getting back up to the double-digit rates of return that we were used to some years ago. Whether we achieve that goal will depend on the 2 Dr Soest, you joined the Board of Management promising rate. But despite the division of respon­ one hand on choosing the right growth segments Mechanics and electronics are at at the start of 2011. Where have you rung in sibilities, the Board of Management regards itself and on the other hand on strengthening our com­ the heart of the expertise that we also pass on to our apprentices the changes in your area of responsibility? as a team and – as befits a company of our size – petitive position. It will requires us to stump up the I am responsible for the areas Purchasing, Produc­ is deeply involved in its day-to-day running. necessary investment capital and resources. tion, Logistics and Quality – and after the crisis there were various opportunities here to further Does technotrans have more innovations for Mr Brickenkamp, what is the biggest challenge optimise processes and prepare the organisation the printing industry in store? facing technotrans? for expansion into new markets. One important Of course, because we are constantly involved in The biggest challenge is all about something see­­ aspect, for example, was how to integrate the the printing press manufacturers’ teams that are mingly minor: ensuring that the spirit of t­ echnotrans cor­responding functions at Termotek in order to working on innovations; that way, our technolo­ does not go under amid the company’s transfor­ tap the synergy potential. At the other end of the gies perfectly reflect the needs of our customers mation. We are able to rely on an incredibly mo­­­ spectrum, my responsibilities also include the right from the outset. There are also internal and tivated, dedicated team. We know that we can draw Research & Development area. external innovation workshops held quite regu­ customers into our spirit of enthusiasm. And we larly as an opportunity for some interdisciplinary know that we are adept at handling our technologi­ So how significant is Research & Development thinking outside the box, so that we can together cal skills. Demonstrating that every day is the very for technotrans? optimise the printing press technology of the fu­ foundation of our success, and we can rightly be Research & Development is a very important area ture and make it more efficient. Customers hold proud of that. of activity. It is the birthplace of many new tech­ technotrans in high regard as a development part­ nologies and therefore of the future product range, ner. A lively exchange of ideas with customers and And if you could gaze into a crystal ball, where too, drawing as it does on the expertise and crea­ external partners, too, is fundamentally a very im­ do you think you would find technotrans in tivity of the people at technotrans. One focal area portant part of innovative capability because it three or five years’ time? of technology is of course laser technology, which helps to generate new suggestions and ideas. In the recent past we have been preparing the I am very familiar with, because it is a very inter­ way for getting technotrans back on a pathway of esting prospect from both a sales and a techno­ growth. In three to five years we aim to be gen­ logical perspective and is also growing at a very erating revenue of € 150 million again, perhaps Growth strategy _ _ Growth strategy 66 67 act After the successful tests in Sauer’s showroom, we wanted to extend the toolsmart field tests. For a long time, it proved quite difficult because many cus­ tomers weren’t interested in a prototype, or just ordered new Because the project had started so well, we naturally wanted to keep improving the prototype hand in hand with technotrans. We could ultimately envisage using toolsmart on other ma­ machines with the old configuration. In other words, we only chines, too. technotrans was probably thinking the same, “There are knew what we had learned at Sauer. Occasionally we were and in August they presented us with a concept for an entire asked to advise Sauer’s customers on how to solve their product family. We really liked it. But then they let the cat problems. Although this led to isolated contracts to install out of the bag. They wanted to show the toolsmart at an more beta.f filters, nobody was interested in a complete exhibition in which our parent company Gildemeister, and toolsmart. So we, along with the application engineers and therefore we ourselves, would be taking part. At that stage the service personnel who provide the backup for the pro­ of the process it took us rather by surprise but it was ac­ some things totypes, just kept gathering valuable experience. In summer tually quite an interesting prospect. So we quickly ordered 2011 we made Sauer the offer two toolsmarts for Ultrasonic to develop a product family machines that we wanted to based on the toolsmart for vari­ feature at the show. This is a ous sizes of machine. We also Acting is the best range of machining centres for you Just have way to achieve things. told them that technotrans was glass, ceramics and hard met­ going to show the toolsmart als, for use mainly in labs and on its own stand at the EMO. Shortly after that, we were given In your own company, for tool and mould making. The delivery deadline of four weeks the contract to build two units at your partners, and was quite short, but based on to do. Because for the demo machine on the Gildemeister stand. But only if in markets worldwide. our experience of technotrans we knew they would meet it. We we could deliver them within four categorically didn’t regret our weeks. That naturally fuelled our decision. The show in itself was ambitions, and we completed the new units in time. The very successful, and now the level of follow-on orders is also sometimes show’s success served to confirm just how good our idea looking good. That, along with the phase of intensive collabora­ was: not only did Gildemeister sell both its machines, but a tion, made it clear that technotrans wanted more than just to whole series of follow-on orders were taken. The key factor “get in with us”; we concluded it is a valuable partner for our was that the toolsmart technology is a clear improvement on success. We knew we wanted to see more from them. At the the norm. Everything is neatly packed into a very compact end of 2011 we told them we wanted to equip the entire the means is unit, and its design blends subtly into the existing premises. Sauer showroom with toolsmart. And we appointed them as Customers from the lab environment found that particularly serial supplier for the Ultrasonic. Because this partnership important. They were entirely won over by its performance, is genuinely productive, and because we are already looking user friendliness and ease of servicing. That enthusiasm forward to new ideas. Discussed in depth over a plate of their was probably what swayed Sauer to spring another surprise delicious roulades. the end.” on us. At a meeting in December 2011 they told us that not only was the entire showroom to be equipped with toolsmart, but that it immediately wanted technotrans as a serial sup­ plier. That was the best possible endorsement of our deci­ sion to look beyond our immediate horizons. Dirk Bövingloh Head of Fluid Conditioning Business Unit, technotrans AG 68 69 Finding partners for the future 1 Entering into long-term alliances technotrans and Termotek – an engaging success story “The only constant is change.” This quotation by Heraclitus highlights an important aspect of techno­trans’ philosophy. For an international com­ pany, it is all part of the standard processes to monitor economic changes and trends, and assess what impact these have on its own situation. At technotrans, this also means for example expand­ ing the company appropriately, taking its own core skills as the starting point. A successful example of how it has expanded its scope of activities is gds AG, a provider of technical documentation ser­ vices that grew out of a department of technotrans and now has international operations. termotek _ _ termotek 70 71 Another option for corporate development is takeovers. Throughout its history, technotrans investment ties up financial resources, which are then not available for investing in the technology. WITH A 75 percent SHARE, has merged with other companies on a number of occasions, often very successfully. The Termotek A blessing, because new sales markets can be tapped, accelerating future growth. TERMOTEK IS THE MARKET takeover illustrates very well how to accomplish LEADER FOR DIODE LASERS. this with positive results. “The highly focused THERE ARE CURRENTLY ABOUT Termotek AG is a manufacturer of cooling systems for lasers. Its products are tailored to individual business model as the basis for a very successful 40,000 TERMOTEK CHILLERS customers, systems and operating principles, and are notable for their durability and reliability. They development.” IN USE WORLDWIDE. are used mainly in the semiconductor industry, in medical equipment, in laser marking systems and Frank Domnick realises that he can’t transform in plastics welding. Termotek’s success stems Termotek into a global player on his own. So at the from the expertise of its own personnel, who create height of the economic crisis of 2008 – 2009, in­ tailormade, progressive solutions for its custom­ stead of turning to the banks he sets out in search ers. The brand is well-established on the market of an industrial partner. and has for example already sold about 40,000 2 chillers for diode lasers in use worldwide, giving it The first time Henry Brickenkamp and Frank a market share of 75 percent. Domnick meet across the same table, they dis­ Founder and Chairman Frank Domnick cover just how much their two companies have Yes, but in common. First of all, the technology. Where as 3 The year is 1998. Frank Domnick decides to go technotrans supplies cooling technology in the Primed for expansion: the head office it alone and establish Termotek AG, giving firmer medium to high performance segment, Termotek in Baden-Baden contours to a success story that has actually al­ has specialised in small and micro performance ready started well before the company’s founding. categories. They are an excellent fit, without any He has spent many months analysing technologies overlap. and markets with exceptional insight, so that he can position his business at exactly the right point. The result is a highly focused business model: tech­nologically sophisticated chillers, exclusively for applications in the growth market of lasers. These thorough preparations rapidly pay dividends: the company grows quickly, as do its workforce and revenue. Ten years on, and Frank Domnick can look back on the company’s remarkable progress. Termotek is now the market leader for chillers for diode lasers. It sells them to customers all over the world, and he is convinced that Termotek will continue to grow. A merger of successful partners: All he needs to do now is invest in international technotrans and Termotek ex­pansion so that he has a presence in his custo­ mers’ markets. That’s all. Two companies pooling their expertise. As with many companies in a similar situation, the need to spread internationally is both a bless­ In a high-growth, ing and a curse. A curse, because the structural forward-looking sector. Ready to create fresh potential and synergies. For an innovative, productive future. termotek _ _ termotek 72 73 And a partnership would give both companies the major customers expect this from their suppliers opportunity to offer their own customers solutions as a matter of course. And Termotek would be able from the partner’s product range. Then there is the to make use of technotrans’ R & D department for aspect of internationalisation, of course: joining the development of new products. In return, the forces would give Termotek access to technotrans’ latter would benefit from Termotek’s expertise in international sales and service network and it “The growth the lower performance segment, smoothing the wouldn’t have to invest in its own structures. market of laser way for applications e.g. in digital printing. Termotek is technotrans had just started to look specifically fits in perfectly with technotrans’ In parallel with these deliberations, as the months financially stable, for new potential applications for its core skills. The growth market of lasers fitted in perfectly with strategy.” passed technotrans increasingly came round to the view that taking over Termotek would be the independent, and this strategy. But obviously the more unknowns right decision. The project was put to the Super­ a global player. there are, the greater the risk. On paper, Termotek visory Board in December 2010 – with success. and its management, customers and markets all To make sure both parties’ underlying aims of the looked highly promising. But it remained to be merger would be achieved and to create a per­ seen whether the expectations would be fulfilled manent instrument of governance, an integration in practice. team meeting at regular intervals was set up. technotrans and Termotek stayed in touch with Learning together each other. Information was exchanged, ideas The takeover of Termotek is technotrans’ first bounced around and various models for a joint where the acquiree continues to operate as a sep­ future were considered. All these deliberations led arate entity. There are various reasons for this ap­ to a partnership agreement between the two com­ proach. One is the earn-out component that was panies in summer 2010. This was in effect a trial agreed. For three years, the Termotek chairman period giving the two companies the chance to get re­ceives a profit share and therefore a personal As the partnership progressed, the learning curve for laser cooling is estimated at € 150 – 200 mil­ to know each other better, explore their strengths in­centive to contribute actively towards further­ rose. If both partners’ combined strengths were lion. Termotek will address this potential by offer­ and weaknesses, and define the benefits to both ing the company’s goals. In return, Termotek re­­ to be used optimally, they would have to be mo­ ing existing and new customers above all highersides of a joint future. This was also a chance to ceives support from technotrans in the areas of bile, regularly examine how their goals were to be performance components. check whether the chemistry between those at purchasing, development, sales, service and qual­ achieved, and make changes wherever necessary. the helm of each company was right and wheth­ ity management. For example, responsibility for The dynamism of the markets in which Termotek All’s well that ends well er Frank Domnick’s optimism about Termotek's purchasing has passed to technotrans’ Purchas­ operates successfully is reflected in the junior “Accessing new An acquisition is never easy. But, as Termotek’s future corporate development was justified. An­ ing Manager, and there are future plans to handle partner’s corporate culture. technotrans’ wealth markets to secure case shows, it offers plenty of potential, from other important aspect of the agreement was a certain administrative tasks such as payroll ac­ of experience is helping to develop structures and sustained growth.” accessing new markets, through new ideas on ­­ one-way purchase option that gave technotrans counting in a shared service centre. There were processes profitably. And friction is sometimes all structures, to new products. technotrans has recog­ the chance to take over Termotek AG at a later also changes in the sales area, above all for part of the process of finding new solutions, which nised that a company needs a driving force, espe­ date – on terms already agreed in advance. technotrans. Termotek expects the potential inter­ is progressing ever more smoothly. cially if you yourself do not have any experience national new customers it has identified to receive in the market you have bought into. In that respect The first steps towards the future active sales support. Success confirmed it makes sense to bind in the management of the The months that followed were a very exciting After one year as part of the group, Termotek’s acquiree and let it share in the success of the comand busy time, because the expectations on both performance has been impressive in every respect. bined entity. Meanwhile the experience has served sides were of course high. One aspect being Revenue has risen from € 7.9 million to almost to confirm technotrans’ philosophy of looking be­ considered by technotrans was how to integrate € 10 million and the company is operating very yond its own horizons and accessing new markets Termotek into its own supply structures, enabling profitably, confirming Frank Domnick’s optimism. if you are able to build on your own expertise in the company to secure much better purchase It’s figures are also proving reliably plannable, the process. For sustained, future-proof growth. terms than previously. This involved identifying If both partners' as was highlighted in the way it achieved the tar­ where existing suppliers were able to supply prod­ combined strengths are gets for 2011. Termotek is financially stable, inde­ uct components to both companies. Termotek to be used optimally, their full pendent, and now a global player. The company’s now wanted to tap into the international sales potential must be unlocked. potential is in the order of € 20 – 25 million, with and service network, so as to avoid investing in double-digit growth rates over the next few years. its own structures. Meanwhile, with technotrans The acquisition has also had a positive impact on as its partner, it would be able to go knocking on the capital market’s view of technotrans. Various the doors of global players that would not normal­ analysts see the group as heading in the right ly consider Termotek as a supplier in view of its direction, partly thanks to Termotek and the fresh small size. Once again, technotrans’ international markets and potential to which it has given ac­ service network came into play, because many cess. The market potential in the overall market termotek _ _ termotek 74 75 4 Lasers are used in medical technology for diagnostics and therapy Abundant potential: the market for laser technology Today, laser technology is used not just increased by 90 percent. Gerhard Hein, Director in research, industry and medicine, but in of the Laser and Laser Systems Work Group with­ ­almost all aspects of life. in the German Engineering Federation (VDMA), In everything from laser readers for barcodes to declares: “It’s clear that the industry in Germany data transfer equipment and tattoo removal. In is ahead in the global race to catch up.” industry and manufacturing there are many differ­ ent methods involving the use of lasers, ranging Other figures, too, illustrate just how promising from materials processing to sensor technology the area of laser technology is. The sales volume and measurement technology. Materials pro­ in 2011 was more than € 6 billion worldwide. cessing is the main market for laser technology, Experts anticipate that this market segment will accounting for over 60 percent of the market. In grow at an annual average of 9 percent over the medicine, it is used for example in diagnostics and next years, and therefore much faster than the therapy. Especially in those areas, there is huge economy as a whole. Emerging markets in Asia future potential and the general growth prospects and Eastern Europe will play an especially big part are correspondingly considered to be very good. in this development. As in all areas, laser technology too experienced a drop in market volume of 20 to 25 percent in the economic crisis of 2009. By 2011 it had recovered almost entirely from that slump. “We reached that point one year earlier than in all the forecasts made in early 2010,” remarks Peter Leibinger, Managing Director of Trumpf Laserund Systemtechnik. The combined volume of German ­manufac­turers has risen by 54 percent, exports are up 62 percent and the inflow of orders has termotek _ _ termotek 76 77 “As a technology The number of applications for lasers is growing. Technological development of the future, laser applications pick up on is opening up new potential applications. The market has high long-term global megatrends.” growth potential. Innovations and success in those markets need to be innovative and focused The industry believes there is significant potential in pushing ahead with new developments that use in many areas. The growing complexity of materials their skills, and enter into strategic partnerships. and the way they are processed, along with the need for production methods to be as low-pollution Continuing growth as possible, not only calls for innovations but is The large number of projects being funded world­ creating good growth opportunities. The German wide, the industry’s innovative capability and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research shares extensive research and development work in the that view. It is supporting the strategy process of photonics area will generate abundant potential the photonics sector through the “Photonics Re­ over the next few years. Those who actively prime search Germany” programme, which is targeting their company to harness and build on this pro­ total investment of € 30 billion by 2021. Through gress will continue to benefit from the positive this programme, the ministry will be supporting mar­ket development and performance of one of the industry’s efforts by providing funding of € 100 the most important future industries. million annually for four years from 2011. As a technology of the future, laser applications 5 pick up on global megatrends. The watchwords are connectivity, mobility, customisation, energy Medical technology is a major area of application efficiency and lightweight construction. Lasers are the ideal way to realise these in many areas. 6 Players who can provide rational, cost-effective and sustainable products will almost automatically Miniature labelling with the help of lasers share in the industry’s blossoming. But the will to innovate is important. 7 It is therefore essential to know the future key mar­ Precise, efficient materials processing thanks to lasers kets. Industry experts have identified a number of business areas; the most important include hightech materials processing, micro materials process­ ing, communications, display technology, medical technology, printing technology and military tech­ nology. Those who want to operate successfully termotek _ _ termotek 78 79 Led by our “Let us choose to reconcile the creative forces of private entrepreneurship with the needs of the disadvantaged and the requirements of future generations.” conscience Why our philosophy of Think-Learn-Act is universally valid technotrans, As an internationally active company, believes it has an obligation to follow a clear-cut, moral set of values in its activities. And to advocate these among its customers and partners, too, wherever possible. It was this out­ look that encouraged technotrans to sign up to the UN Global Compact initiative in 2006. This initiative now has over 8,000 members who actively seek to bring about improvements in the areas of human technotrans is proud to operate according and Principle 9: should encourage the develop­ Reflection and action rights, labour standards, environmental protection to these ten principles: ment and diffusion of environmentally friendly Implementing the ten principles is a permanent, and anti-corruption. Its participation is based on ten Principle 1: businesses should support and re­ technologies. Principle 10: businesses should ex­citing challenge in everyday corporate life. 1 principles derived from the Universal Declaration spect the protection of internationally proclaimed “technotrans work against corruption in all its forms, includ­ Especially because of its international outlook, Nobel Peace Prize winner Kofi Annan of Human Rights, the International Labour Organi­ human rights within their sphere of influence, and ing extortion and bribery. technotrans must continually reassess whether launched the Global Compact believes it has an zation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles Principle 2: they should make sure they are not its own measures are in keeping with the values and Rights of Work, and the Rio Declaration on En­ complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: obligation to follow technotrans consciously chose to subscribe to to which it has subscribed. And the upholding of vironment and Development. All members under­ businesses should uphold the freedom of asso­ a clear-cut, moral the Global Compact not only as a means of these principles is not simply a private matter; take to strive to implement and uphold these ten ciation and the effective recognition of the right set of values in joining with others to pursue these goals, but it must be thrown open to scrutiny each year in principles wherever they are active and wherever to collective bargaining, as well as Principle 4: its activities.” also out of the need to embrace values that have the form of a progress report. This approach is they are able to exercise influence. Nobel Peace the elimination of all forms of forced and com­ worldwide validity both internally and externally. intended to prevent participation in the Global Prize winner Kofi Annan expressed the aims of the pulsory labour, Principle 5: the effective abolition And also because we believe that this is the Compact becoming nothing more than lip service. initiative in the following terms: “Let us choose to of child labour and Principle 6: the elimination of only way to build an econo­mically successful, unite the power of markets with the authority of discrimination in respect of employment and oc­ viable future. universal ideals. Let us choose to reconcile the cupation. Principle 7: businesses should support creative forces of private entrepreneurship with a precautionary approach to environmental chal­ the needs of the disadvantaged and the require­ lenges, Principle 8: should undertake initiatives ments of future generations.” to promote greater environmental responsibility, Social responsibility _ _ Social responsibility 80 81 Elementary, though sadly not for everyone Promoting and supporting the principles of the Global Com­ technotrans promotes and protects human rights and is not pact in respect of the environment is a key aspect of our party to human rights abuses. It is important for us to create economic activity. technotrans will continue to place environ­ a positive, productive climate for everyone in the company’s mental protection and sustainability at the heart of its activi­ operating sphere. This was again examined in 2011 through ties, from the development of new products to their use at worldwide audits, because the management of the compa­ customers. Until everyone is green. nies in our group is obliged to comply with and promote the ten principles of the Global Compact. In 2011 the audits Seven percent that you do or don’t have again found no evidence of departures from the principles in According to the World Bank, corruption costs the equivalent respect of human rights. Furthermore, they did not reveal any of about seven percent of every person’s output, on average. pointers to how technotrans might do even more for human That does not just mean we are all making financial sacri­ rights within its sphere of influence. However, we will continue fices, but demonstrably makes services that are influenced to monitor our practices very closely and take opportunities by corruption excessively expensive and poorer. A disadvan­ to step up our involvement in this area. So that something tage for the whole of society. Furthermore, corruption has as elementary as human rights is assured for everyone. long ceased to be a mere peccadillo; it is an offence that can cause considerable harm to a company’s image. In im­ Fairness cannot be divided plementing the Global Compact in our group, we therefore In addition, all over the world we advocate compliance with the made it utterly clear very early on that corruption has no relevant labour standards, support for trade unions and the place in our business model. In 2011 we elaborated on active combating of child and forced labour, as well as the com­ this basic stance in bringing out a more detailed corruption bating of discrimination in employment. The people who work guideline that is valid worldwide. Because we want to con­ for technotrans are appointed on the strength of their quali­ tinue to impress purely on the strength of our performance. fications. Unreservedly. Guidance to that effect is set down for instance in management manuals, compliance with which is equally examined in regular audits. Here, too, there was no “The principles of the cause for criticism in 2011. Nor has it hitherto been possible Global Compact in respect of to identify how technotrans might increase its efforts in this the environment are a key aspect respect. For more fairness all round. of our economic activity.” When being green saves money, everyone’s in favour Another fundamental area of involvement is the environment. No end in sight Everyone has long since come to realise that this is no longer There are still many tasks to be done worldwide. We will con­ a matter of ideology, because the way we behave substantially tinue to do everything in our power actively to support the affects the future and – putting it more bluntly – our wallets. The Global Compact, and we subscribe to the initiative and its rising cost of energy and commodities is (finally) affecting the principles. behaviour of both consumers and manufacturing companies worldwide. On behalf of the Board of Management technotrans became active in green engineering very early on. We were often ahead of our time in that respect, but good ideas are patient. Today, energy-saving components are the norm in our equipment, and even customers that do not think “green” per se appreciate the advantages of central heat re-­ covery because it specifically cuts energy costs. Particularly subsidiaries operating in emerging economies are eager to Henry Brickenkamp promote the idea of sustainability more forcefully in their markets. For example our Indian subsidiary launched a “Green Printer Award” in the same year that it was founded. The winner was The Times of India, whose impressive initi­ a­tives to protect the environment and resources were pro­ 2 claimed to a wide audience at the award ceremony. And Clean air and clean water ­because clients like responsible producers, sustainability are vital resources both now and also brings a competitive edge. in the future Social responsibility _ _ Social responsibility 82 83 d ­ eliveries of relief supplies, medicines and food to NGO 2,796,170 passenger miles partners on the ground. The aim of these projects is to help to make life worth living people to help themselves, and thus also to help children without needing to separate them from their families. Wars and conflicts have been steadily on the increase for a number of years. Sometimes flaring up The third area of activity is the Friedensdorf Education Centre. so quickly that the victims often have no chance to Its focus is promoting peace studies in Germany. It received get out of harm’s way. state recognition within just a year of its founding, in 1986. Among those left worst off are children, mainly due to poor At the meeting venue in Oberhausen, a wide variety of groups medical care in the regions affected. Friedensdorf Interna­ can explore the topics of peace studies, development poli­ tional (“Peace Village International”) is an association that tics, intercultural encounters and global learning. Then there has been tackling this and other problems since 1967. It are various seminars and workshops taking the form of multihandles worldwide medical and humanitarian projects, as well as organising peace studies activities in Germany. The main focus of the association’s work involves providing medical as­ “technotrans is an active sistance for specific patients. It helps bring children in need supporter of Friedensdorf of medical care e.g. from Afghanistan or Angola to Germany, International because it performs where clinics provide in-patient treatment free of charge. The Vardan, Karomat, Hashmatullah, Siria, Giorgi, Dinara, children are then taken to the “Peace Village” in Oberhausen constructive work with long-term age 11, from age 6, ­from age 11, from age 6, from age 10, from age 8, from for rehab or orthopaedic treatment. It cares for up to 500 benefits for the future of both Armenia Tadzhikistan Afghanistan Angola Georgia Uzbekistan children and young people each year, and prepares them for those directly affected and their return home. During their stay, they are able to play and the wider community.” have fun, but also receive support from youth workers. As well as this main strand to its work, Friedensdorf Inter­ day leisure activities and events. Another important aspect national finances and organises humanitarian and medical is the direct encounters with the children and youths being projects worldwide in order to create new prospects for chil­ supported by Friedensdorf International. This provides an op­ dren in crisis-stricken regions. For example it has founded portunity both to get to know different cultures and to build 17 Peace Villages and set up more than 100 base stations, on what has been learned through exchanges with those health facilities, orthopaedics workshops, etc. It has even affected. funded a fishing training ship. It also organises regular The work of Friedensdorf International and the Friedensdorf Education Centre involves not just a huge amount of logistical and organisational work, but also a high financial outlay. Merely providing transport and care for the children and youths at Friedensdorf costs over € 4 million per year. This money comes from members and supporters, but is raised mainly through donations. Depending on the economic situa­ tion the level of donations is prone to fluctuate, which is why the Friedensdorf Joint Foundation was established in 2001 to safeguard the institution’s work in the long term. technotrans is an active supporter of Friedensdorf Interna­ tional because it performs constructive work with long-term Friedensdorf International is there benefits for the future of both those directly affected and the to help children and young people. wider community. Instead of making Christmas gifts, in 2011 In Germany and all over the world. we therefore made a donation to Friedensdorf. We also so­ licited donations on our website and will be publicising the project during the 2012 drupa exhibition. Social responsibility _ _ Social responsibility 84 85 A fresh start for Sardor from Uzbekistan Along with ten other children as well as workers from the Three years ago Sardor, who is now seven years old and Healthy Generation Foundation, Sardor boarded a flight to comes from Bukhara in Uzbekistan, was severely scalded with Germany in August 2011. In several operations carried out at boiling water in a domestic accident. Due to the poor medi­ a clinic on the Lower Rhine, the scar tissue was removed from cal services available in his home country, his injuries were the individual fingers. The missing tissue was replaced with not attended to properly. Although they healed, the scars left skin grafted from the boy’s midriff. Between the operations behind caused considerable disfigurement: Sardor’s fingers Sardor lived at Friedensdorf, where he soon made friends with became fused together into a mere fist, rendering his hand other children from Uzbekistan and other countries. virtually useless. The lack of medical expertise or the right equipment in Uz­ “The lack of medical expertise bekistan made it almost impossible to treat these complica­ or the right equipment in tions. The situation was made worse by the poverty of his Uzbekistan make treatment family of six. His parents are simple farmers without any there almost impossible.” substantial financial means. They are unable to afford spe­ cialist medical treatment to help give their son future inde­ pendence. Nor is there any social safety net in Uzbekistan. Once all his wounds have healed, he will start rehabilitation This would have condemned Sardor to a life on the margins at Friedensdorf. He will have to train hard before he is able of society. to use his hand to grasp, eat, write and play. And above all 3 so that he can soon go home to his family in Uzbekistan. Once he has finished In desperation, his parents contacted the Healthy Generation In parallel with receiving physiotherapy, he attends school at his treatment, Sardor will be able to use his hand again Foundation in Uzbekistan, a partner organisation of Friedens-­ Friedensdorf. He loves it, and is relishing the prospect of dorf. They were in luck, because a few weeks later a team from going to school back home in Uzbekistan. 4 Friedensdorf would be visiting the country, and they were Friedensdorf receives no state given an appointment. All of a sudden, there seemed to be a funding for its work glimmer of hope. The Friedensdorf representatives took X-ray pictures and other documents back to Germany so that doc­ tors there could assess the prospects of helping Sardor. A short while later, his parents received the news that ­Sandor would be going to Germany on the next Friedensdorf aid ­mission, to have his hand operated on. Social responsibility _ _ Social responsibility 86 Thank you, 637 times over. To our employees for their commitment and solidarity. Concept and realisation cyclos design GmbH, Münster Print Rasch Druckerei und Verlag GmbH & Co. KG, Bramsche printed with Heidelberger Speedmaster SM 102-10P6 with the following technotrans equipment: combination unit beta.C 480G for dampening solution circulation, ink roller temperature control system, alcosmart AZR, beta.PS-C2-10/50: pump station, recooling systems, 2 x washstar for 5 printing units each printed climate-neutrally Id-No. 1217356 technotrans AG Robert-Linnemann-Straße 17 · 48336 Sassenberg Phone +49 2583 301-1000 · Fax +49 2583 301-1030 info@technotrans.de · www.technotrans.de
