Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 EnviroNment Community Business Table of conTenTs 01 01 02 03 03 03 04 05 05 05 About the Report The First Steps The Chairman’s Getting to Know DM9 The History Timeline Our Vision, Mission, Our Commandments Commandments for Commandments for Message Values and Commitment Service Creation or Production 05 05 05 05 05 06 06 07 07 07 Commandments for Commandments for Commandments for Commandments for Commandments for Main Awards Main Awards Corporate The Shareholders Grupo ABC Corporate Communication Media Planning Financial Human Resources in Our History in 2011 Governance and Sustainability Administration 07 07 07 07 08 08 08 08 08 08 DDB WORLDWIDE Administration, Manual for Manual of Behavior in RENOVA9 Plastic Elevators Residue, Recycling and Energy Eco9 Operation and Finances Relationships Social Networks Inclusion Council With the Press 08 08 08 08 08 08 08 09 10 10 9 Water Emissions Location Anywhere Ofﬁce, Car-pooling DM9bike O Our Stakeholders Our TURMA System of Admission Flextime and Teleconferences 10 10 10 10 11 12 12 12 12 13 Performance Campus 9 Programs for Renove Human Rights Our Community Actor Agent Activator Our Product Assessment Quality of Life 03 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 01 About the Report As benchmark, we use a series of sustainability reports produced by companies established in Brazil and in the United States and follow the methodology of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the main global reference on the subject. GR1 3.1; 3.2; 3.3; 3.4; 3.5; 3.6; 3.7; 3.8; 3.9; 3.10; 3.11; 3.13; 4.13; PR6 04 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 The first steps of a long path to be built DM9DDB OBBEYS AND ACTS This first edition of the DM9 Sustainability Report agencies, DM9Sul and DM9Rio, opened in late United States and follow the methodology of the IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL is another step in the path chosen by this agency September and which operated, until the closing Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the main global in order to become a company which is more of this report, still in provisional facilities. The goal is reference on the subject. ETHIC RULES, STANDARDS and more sustainable, inclusive and responsible, that these agencies operate 100% in accordance AND CONDUCTS THAT GUIDE undertaking, therefore, a formal commitment with the DM9 sustainability practices during 2012. We appreciate the effort of all the professionals ADVERTISING IN BRAZIL. THESE with the long-term development of its business who participated in the preparation of this report RULES ARE STIPULATED BY and the community. As the first report, of a series The data presented in this report was obtained with and committed themselves with the agency to build THE FOLLOWING Entities and that will be published on a yearly basis, this the assistance of the several related audiences this long path towards sustainability. Information associations with which we document provides a summary of what has and the structure of the report follows the and suggestions on the contents of this report can summary provided by GRI, except for some be sent to the email imprensa@dm9ddb.com.br have a relationship: been made by the agency in its 22 years of history, with special highlight to the actions necessary adjustments because DM9DDB is a CENP: Conselho Executivo service provider and not an industry that produces performed and the results obtained in 2011. das Normas-Padrão physical goods. The social and environmental CONAR: Conselho Nacional For the realization of the report we used as a basis information is managerial and of public knowledge. de Autorregulamentação the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative As for the financial information published herein, We APPRECIATE the effort of Publicitária (GRI), using indicators developed internally, without it complies with the guidelines of our American all the professionals who the assistance of an outside consultant. Social, shareholder, the DDB WorldWide Network, owned participated in the preparation ABP: Associação Brasileira environmental and financial indicators, in general, by Omnicom Group with shares listed on the of this report and committed de Publicidade refer to the agency DM9DDB, located in São New York Stock Exchange. It is noteworthy themselves with the agency to IAB: Interactive AdverTIsing Paulo, and to the agency’s office in Brasília, and that the pictures used in this document are build this long path towards Bureau do Brasil meet the criteria to acheive the level B of the of our collaborators authorship, who voluntarily GRI. These criteria are listed at the beginning of produced them in a collaborative campaign sustainability. Grupo de Mídia do Brasil each chapter and are also in accordance with toward creating the report. As benchmark, we the Global Compact and ISO 26000. Were use a series of sustainability reports produced excluded from the report the newly founded by companies established in Brazil and in the 05 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 02 the ChAiRMAn’s MessAGe SeRgio valente, pReSident of dm9 gRi 1.1; 1.2 06 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 with shareholders, with our TURMADM9, with We are taking the first steps along this path that customers, with suppliers, with the market and lies ahead. Hard work and commitment will be the community. We want to work in a chain, needed. Barriers, aversion to changes will emerge absorbing and disseminating best practices so and convenience may even seem like the easiest that together we succeed in building a future in solution to be adopted. But DM9 is made by which man is placed in the middle, producing non-conformed people. And like a magnet, we and generating wealth, but in a way that allows attract partners who are non-conformed as well. continuity, always. And never exhaustion. We are confident that together, with persistence and commitment, we will help to build a future full of possibilities in which the respect of man by man and the environment produce more equitable societies. Our first steps along this DM9DDB path that we are building today to take us to tomorrow are reported herein. I hope you enjoy not only what we did, but what we will do with this commitment to sustainability. And if anyone, and the choice when reading this report, is motivated to implement sustainability in their personal and/ or professional lives, we will have achieved another victory. for sustainability Thank you and good reading. Sergio Valente, president of DM9 Last year, when we started thinking about how In our work relationships, the concept of to commemorate the agency’s 22nd anniversary sustainability takes shape with the formalization celebrated in September, we made a decision of our ethical standards and transparency to which we are sure will impact the entire future of the market. In the operation, sustainability the agency: we decided to make a commitment comes with a reaffirmation of our commitment to sustainability. Indeed, a commitment to a to make a profit to shareholders through the sustainable project, of broad spectrum, that seeks provision of quality service to our customers. the perpetuation and continuous improvement With our “TURMA” (GROUP), sustainability is In society, we commit to realized with our commitment to the personal of our values, business, community, marketplace, further develop the economy, environment and country. and professional development of each employee, roles of agent, actor and with specific actions for new talents. activator we play today We set the date with the campaign DM9 Plastic Free, taking out of circulation more than 200,000 In society, we commit to further develop the roles and which allows us to plastic cups and more than 30,000 plastic bottles of agent, actor and activator we play today and intervene in order to per year by replacing disposables used for our which allows us to intervene in order to improve improve our community. internal consumption by personalized glasses, our community. Finally, we applied the concept mugs and squeezes. The action had a symbolic of sustainability to the environment. In 2011, after nature: it was an actual landmark for DM9DDB’s eliminating plastic from our operation, we became option for a responsible operation both from the a signatory company of the Global Compact; we business, and from the social and environmental systematized a series of specific actions that standpoints. The sustainability gains wider already existed in the agency so they became applications and starts to permeate our work more solid as regular practices and decided to as a guideline to be followed in our relations produce this first social report. 07 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 03 GettinG to know dM9 gRi 2.1; 2.2; 2.3; 2.4; 2.5; 2.6; 2.7; 2.8; 2.9 08 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 03 The History The history of our agency began on September and partners to a dinner party at which they 19th, 1989, with the launch, in São Paulo, of DM9. confirmed the intention of building a national The brand had been created in Bahia years agency to an economy increasingly strong. With before as a regional agency, but was bought by the investment confiscated, the dinner was held Nizan Guanaes and João Augusto Valente, at McDonald’s. Guga, in partnership with Icatu Bank , to have its history rewritten. The plan: to bring it to São After this memorable meeting, the agency followed Paulo and thus build a national agency, with the trail planned by the shareholders, advancing Since then, DM9 started to prestige and international recognition. at a rapid pace to double revenue in its second build a history in which the year of activity. With the corporate success on critical success went hand In the morning of that Monday, DM9 as we know it the way, earning creative recognition was a today was created. A motivated team working matter of time. And it came in 1993 when the in hand with the success at a fast pace to win the market. The operation agency won the first Grand Prix in the history of before the audience. was in full swing when, three days before Brazilian advertising in the most relevant global completing six months, the agency and the advertising awards, the International Advertising country were surprised by a strict plan for Festival in Cannes, with “Umbigo”, created for restricting the money flow. Fears of an economic Diet Guaraná Antarctica. stagnation was in the air. For DM9, however, the crisis was considered an opportunity. Nizan Guanaes, who besides partner was the president, along with Affonso Serra, advertiser who had joined the company shortly after the founding of the agency, invited clients 09 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 in convergent thinking in which the offline advertising started to be considered along with online advertising. The recognition of innovation in communication came again in the Cannes International Festival, when DM9 was the first Brazilian agency to win the title of Interactive Agency of The Year. It was also under Valente’s chairmanship that the sustainability concept started to guide our business. The renowned Instituto de Desenvolvimento Gerencial (Social Development Institute) was hired to assist in the review of the agency’s processes setting stretch, but acheivable goals, profit to shareholders, prestige for business, in 22 yeaRS of aCtivity, dm9ddb training new talent, training for employees, project haS in itS poRtfolio: 4 agenCy management and social responsibility and, more of the yeaR awaRdS, 2 gRand pRix and 92 lionS in the recently, environmental sustainability. inteRnational CanneS feStival. The DM9 brand grew and incorporated more and more relevance, and an expansion process started to be carefully planned by the president, Sergio Valente, and by the COO, Alcir George Leite. Among the many possible paths, the model chosen was the launching of independent agencies, but which carried the brand, and Since then, DM9 started to build a history in Guanaes and João Augusto Valente left the especially the values of DM9. Thus, two agencies TECHNICAL CARD which the critical success went hand in hand company. Affonso Serra took the chair and were created. DM9Sul, whose partners are with the success before the audience. The headed the team for two years until DDB invited Márcio Callage also in the role of president, and tRade name: dm9ddb campaign “Mamíferos”, created for Parmalat, former members to return to the agency. The Everson klein, planning vice president; and CoRpoRate name: ddb bRaSil had become a fever in Brazil and was invitation was accepted, but this time, the pair DM9Rio with Polika Teixeira, as partner and publiCidade ltda essential to consolidate the success of the was associated to DDB through the holding president, and Alvaro Rodriguez, partner and dm9ddb Staff: 333 employeeS agency. Then came also the classics such YPY, which later changed its name to Grupo creative vice president. Our goal is that, in the CountRy of aCtivity: bRazil, as “Pipoca com Guaraná”, “Completamente ABC, constituted months before with Icatu course of 2012, the two agencies will be already São paulo (headquaRteRS), Louco” for Itaú Seguros, and the Campaign Bank. Since then, DM9DDB started to have the in their permanent headquarters allowing their bRaSília (offiCe) “Amigos” for Bavaria beer. stock setup that remains today; having DDB alignment to the sustainability policies already Worldwide and Grupo ABC as partners. ShaReholdeRS: Rede ddb implemented by DM9DDB. With its work recognized in major industry woRldwide and gRupo abC awards worldwide and relevant brands in With Guga and Nizan, the copywriter Sergio de ComuniCação In 22 years of activity, DM9DDB has in its portfolio: its portfolio, the agency began to attract Valente who had worked at DM9, returned to the 4 Agency of the YEAR awards, 2 Grand Prix and main pRoduCtS: adveRtiSing, the interest of international chains. Finally, agency as vice president of Creation to contribute publiCity, digital 92 Lions in the International Cannes Festival. It is in 1997, DDB Worldwide, from the powerful to the resumption of values and the agency’s the winner of 14 Caboré awards, collects 6 times Omnicom Group, made an irresistible offer creative DNA. In the years that followed, the Best Agency of the Year, 18 Abril Publicity Awards and put DM9 as leader of the largest Brazilian organizational culture was solidified, allowing the and 14 Professional of the year awards from Rede advertising market business until then, implementation of the succession plan that led to Globo. In 2011 it was the only communication turning it into DM9DDB. The following year, Sergio Valente’s presidency in January 2005. company in Brazil to be featured on the Você S/A the agency became the first out of the Guide of the Best Companies to Start Career. USA-England axis to devote to become In his first year of management, Valente brought Agency of the Year at Cannes, a feat that new accounts to the portfolio and incorporated was repeated in 1999. A year later, Nizan into the agency’s creative DNA the pioneering 10 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 1989 1990 1993 1997 HEADQUARTER IN SÃO PAULO 1st GOLDEN LION IN THE PRESS MEDIA GRAND PRIX ASSOCIATION TO DDB CANNES FESTIVAL On September 19th, 1989, Nizan Guanaes The only Grand Prix of the Brazilian On June 13th, 1997, DM9 won a foreign and Guga Valente, in partnership The winning curriculum of DM9 in Cannes publicity in the International Publicity partner: DDB, the largest American agency, with Banco Icatu launched DM9 in was inaugurated with the ﬁlm “Grávida” for Festival in Cannes: the “Umbigo” advertise, which belongs to the communications group São Paulo, with 20 employees and Metalúrgica Matarazzo, in 1990. for Diet Guaraná Antarctica. Omnicom. The agency started to be called investment of US$ 1 million. A few DM9DDB. months later, Affonso Serra e Geraldo Walter joined the society. 11 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 1998 1999 1999 2000 2000 AGENCY OF THE YEAR IN THE AGENCY OF THE YEAR IN THE DM9DDB – 10 YEARS DM9 – No. 1 OF THE EXIT OF NIZAN GUANAES CANNES FESTIVAL CANNES FESTIVAL RANKING AND JOÃO AUGUSTO To celebrate 10 years of the VALENTE The Brazilian DM9DDB was Two times Champion: DM9DDB agency, a large re-founding For the ﬁrst time, the agency elected Agency of the Year in the is elected again Agency of project of the agency was undertook the leadership in the On March 22nd, 2000, 45th International Publicity Festival the Year in the International developed to make it more efﬁcient ranking of the largest agencies DM9DDB announced the in Cannes. In the same festival, the Publicity Festival, Gran Prix that and ready for the next 10 years. of the country in media share. withdrawal of Nizan and agency won ten Lions. accompanies another 11 Lions. The source was Ibope Monitor. Guga Valente. Affonso Serra took the chair. 12 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 2002 2002 2005 RETURN OF NIZAN GUANAES AND JOÃO AUGUSTO VALENTE SERGIO VALENTE UNDERTAKES JOÃO AUGUSTO VALENTE UNDERTAKES THE PRESICENCY THE PRESIDENCY OF DM9DDB In the morning of March 13th, 2002, João Augusto Valente, Guga, undertook In January 2005, at age 40, the copywriter the DM9DDB employees were surprised the presidency of the agency, bringing Sergio Valente undertook by the presence of Nizan Guanaes at the Sergio Valente back as vice-president the presidency of DM9DDB. In only agency, who resumed the partnership and training him to undertake the six months, he led the company in with DDB through the holding YPY, presidency in a succession process. conquering clients such as Terra, current Grupo ABC. Santher and Sundown. 13 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 2005 2008 2009 2011 DM9DDB GROWS AND WINS THE A CONVERGING AGENCY DM9DDB – AGENCY OF BEST COMPANY TO START THE CAREER, NEW TITLE OF INTERACTIVE As continuity to the project that led the THE YEAR IN CANNES SUSTAINABILITY AND EXPANSION AGENCY OF THE YEAR agency to be the Interactive Agency of The Brazilian agency conquered its fourth In 2011, DM9DDB prepared for the The corporate success started again to walk the Year in Cannes, DM9DDB assembled a Agency of the Year Award in future with focus in people, sustainability hand in hand with the creative success. converging structure to incorporate online the Cannes Festival. and expansion. The work that led the agency Twelve new accounts entered the agency’s tools experts to its production process. to be Plastic-Free resulted in the Global client portfolio which won the 2nd Grand Compact certification and in the production Prix and the title of “Interactive Agency of of its first Sustainability Report. nd The Year”, on the 52 International Cannes The focus in people gave DM9 the title of the Publicity Festival. only Communication Company to appear in the First Ranking of the best Companies to Start a Career, edited by Você S.A. And as expansion plan, DM9 opened two new agencies, DM9Rio in the capital of Rio de Janeiro and DM9Sul, in Porto Alegre. 14 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 04 Everyone who knows DM9 REALIZES we’re different, we are fierce, nonconformists. Here at DM9 we Our Vision, are never satisfied, WE want to do better, but we seek perfection within unquestionable ethics. Mission, We respect our competitors, shareholders, customers, and partners. We like and defend fair Values and competition. At DM9, the means are as important Commitments. as the ends. We are a light, transparent agency, committed to our values. Each of us is responsible to defend, maintain, and perpetuate this culture that sets DM9 apart from any other agency. We are a different agency. We are valiant. GRI 4.8 ISO 26000: 6.4; 6.6.5 15 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Vision Being the best and most desired multiplatform advertising agency in Brazil and one of the best in the world; with focus on convergence, we want to be one of the three largest and most awarded in the Brazilian market and a global reference. 16 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Mission Enchant the world with the power and value of our ideas. 17 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Values We are a company WITH A PASSION FOR advertising, committed to quality and innovation, seeking success within an unconformity that always moves forward, WITH a behavior based on transparency. We believe and work under the rule of meritocracy in a routine determined by teamwork: the TURMADM9 in which ethics is paramount to building a consistent future. 18 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 a s e A o e O 9n e w o N t b n n n c s e e I o l e s A r n r’ l f o G s m i o r f i m e u E a z i u t n t M t a a r y g i t t s n e l E t y i i m n N u c d O o b o t y t T e n n l 19 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 T Capacity to, through ethical behavior, mobilize, generate, support, and implement ideas, processes, products, services and new or significantly different relationships that encourage new creative and innovative levels. u (Sense of Urgency) Ability to identify relevant actions on a timely manner to meet the internal and external demands of an ethical organization. R (Focus on Results) Ability to make things happen, with quality and effectiveness, continually meeting or exceeding the results and profitability of the agency. It includes knowledge of business and agency processes. M Planning Capacity, Leadership, Organization and Control, in order to ensure compliance with the interests of the company and all its stakeholders (customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and society). A Capacity to establish bonds between yourself and the agency, with loyalty, desire to contribute, sense of pride, of belonging and permanency in the group. D Capacity to undertake commitment to results, to persist in the pursuit of excellence. M The ability to think as a team, to raise forces, to unite people with the same purpose and desire to build something that exceeds what has already been established. 9 Nonconformity Symbol The 9 always shows us that there is always room for improvement, one can always improve to get to 10. 20 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 The success of our customers. The recognition of our company. OUR GOALS The appreciation of our work. Sustainable and responsible actions. 21 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Being respected and recognized consistently for our creative, innovative, and strategic communication solutions, focused COMMITMENT on generating constant results for the customers and on increasing profitability for shareholders, always acting in an ethic and sustainable way; being a desired and essential partner for customers, suppliers, and talents. A creative reference IN Brazil. 22 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 02 05 Our Commandments 23 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 COMMANDMENTS SERVICE 1 Be the “process owner”, a Project Leader. 2 Be the manager of the brands. 3 Know the tools that the agency provides to solve customers’ problems and their updates. 4 Be a relationship administrator. 5 Be a good salesman and advocate the creativity values. 6 Be a generator of business for the agency and of opportunities for the client. 7 Master the language of marketing, business and Portuguese. 8 Be a translator of the real CLIENT needs. 9 EncouragE client’s business growth as well as the own client’s growth within the agency. 24 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 COMMANDMENTS CREATION OR PRODUCTION 1 Be a generator of ideas and not just advertising. 2 Know the brand’s history, the business, the client’s universe and its relationship with the agency. 3 Know and help develop the clients’ strategy and be creative within it. 4 Know the new tools and their creative potential. 5 Work as a team. 6 Be a generator of business for the agency and opportunities for THE cLIENT. 7 Be the spokesman of the new, the unusual, the surprising. 8 Profit from the cost/benefit relation of each job. 9 Be a facilitator of ideas FOR the client and at the agency. 25 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 COMMANDMENTS OF THE CORPORATE COMMUNIACTION AND SUSTAINABILITY 1 Be a manager of the DM9 brand, use communication tools to build the image of the agency in accordance with its strategic positioning. 2 Ensure constant growth of the agency’s prestige through visibility and recognition of actions. 3 Be a guardian and disseminator of the brand values. 4 Create solid and ethical relationships with journalists and opinion makers. 5 Ensure transparency and accuracy of information disclosed by the company and its spokespeople. 6 Care to reduce potential trouble spots involving the agency. 7 Make sustainability a value practiced in the social, environmental and business spheres. 8 Be a reference, partner, and service provider to the other departments. 9 Ensure that any new communication tool is used in a pioneering, innovative, ethical, transparent way and in accordance with the DM9 Conduct Manual. Both through the institutional channels, and through the main executives and employees. 26 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 COMMANDMENTS MEDIA 1 Master the media tools techniques. 2 Develop effective and creative media strategies. 3 Be a great negotiator. 4 Deeply understand the cLIENT’S business. 5 Be an investment advisor to the client. 6 Be recognized by the market as a business generator. 7 Innovate and capture trends. 8 Be compromised with the result of the client and the agency. 9 Be a facilitator of ideas for the client and the agency. 27 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 CommandmentS planning 1 maSteR the bRand inveStigation, Client and CommuniCation toolS. 2 be ReSponSible foR the evolution of the bRandS and ClientS. 3 tRanSlate the exiSting inputS into inSightS to CReation. 4 meet and diSSeminate ChaRaCteRiStiCS of the Client’S buSineSS heRe and abRoad. 5 be a StRategiC ConSultant foR the ClientS, developing new buSineSS oppoRtunitieS foR the agenCy. 6 be the SpokeSpeRSon and the tRanSlatoR of the Client. 7 be a tRendhunteR. 8 be a deCodeR of the CommuniCation made by the agenCy and ClientS. 9 be a good StoRytelleR. 28 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 COMMANDMENTS ADMINISTRATIVE FINANCIAL 1 Be a partner of other areas. 2 Focus on the client. 3 Improve the area’s qualification. 4 Be committed to the expenditure and waste control. 5 Be committed to the rules and policies of the shareholders, either Grupo ABC or DDB. 6 Be committed to the quality of the work. 7 Provide accurate and reliable information about the business, which will guide the business administration and decision-making. 8 Focus on the review of processes and new solutions in the I.T. areas that aim at increasing business efficiency. 9 Be a manager, BE controllED, committed AND strategic. BE a good negotiator and technical advisor. 29 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 9 COMMANDMENTS HUMAN RESOURCES 1 Be a strategic partner of the areas. 2 Entertain and welcome every new collaborator presenting part of the DM9 culture. 3 Be a change agent: learn how to constantly make things happen. Know how to plan the change process in all areas. 4 Be a spokesperson for the interests of the collaborators. 5 Generate intellectual capital through the FORMULA: intellectual capital = competence x commitment. 6 Create A talent training structure. 7 Be knowledgeable of the agency’s business: be a professional with a holistic view and not a mere observer of the areas. 8 Own personal credibility: Reliability is the hallmark of HR. Be the steward of organizational values and the reliability must be achieved through relationships with partners. 9 Provide better HR practices: work with the provided information, in order to make better decisions in context. 30 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 06 Main Awards IN History THE Only Brazilian agency elected 4 times Agency of the Year, winner of 2 Grand Prix and 92 Lions in the Cannes Festival . GRI 2.10 31 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Winner of 14 Caboré* Awards, 6 among them were of “Best Agency”. 18 Abril de Publicidade Awards. 14 Professional of the Year Awards from Rede Globo. 5 Grand Prix in the El Ojo de Iberoamerica. 5 Grand Prix in the Brazilian Publicity Festival – ABP. 4 Grand Prix in the FIAP – Iberoamerican Publicity Festival . 3 Grand Prix in the New York Festivals. Grand Prix and 41 statuettes in the Clio Awards. Grand Prix in the MMOnline/MSN award. Grand Prix in the El Sol. Grand Prix in the Wave Festival. Grand Prix in the International Publicity Festival in Portuguese Language – Sinos. 9 times elected as Agency of the year in the Columnists Award. 8 times elected as Agency of the year in the Popular Vote Award. 2 Golden, 1 Silver and 1 Bronze Pencils in the One Show; 1 Golden, 1 Silver and 2 Bronze Pencils in the One Show Interactive, in addition to more than 40 merit awards. Silver in the Effie Awards Brasil. Yellow Pencil in the English D&AD Yearbook, British Design & Art Direction. 2 times winner of the People’s Voice Award in the Webby Awards. Winner of the La Copa de Iberoamérica in the Fiap. 12 campaigns awarded in the D&AD, in addition to several awards in the Andy Awards, London Festival, Art Directors Club, Communication Arts, El Ojo, Globes Awards, Fiap, El Sol, Webby Awards, New York Festivals etc. Caracol de Plata Award for best film and best philanthropic advertise of the Iberoamerican region. Winner cases in the Maximídia, Estadão Media Award (including Grand Prix), Folha/UOL media Award and About media Award. Marketing Best Award as one of the best companies of the century. Winner of the Latin America Effectiveness Awards of Advertising Age. 32 Sustainability Report *The most relevant brazilian award. DM9DDB 2011 Main Awards IN 2011 33 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 1st Golden Lion in Direct in Brasil, in addition to 1 Silver and 1 Bronze Lion in the Cannes festival. CREATIVE Grand Prix and Reader’s Opinion Award in the Abril Publicity Award. the Only Brazilian Agency awarded in the Andy Awards. 6 golden, 4 silver, 4 bronze in the Popular Vote. 1 golden, 5 silver, 2 bronze in the São Paulo Columnists Award. 1 golden, 2 silver, 2 bronze in the Brazilian Publicity Festival (ABP). 5 golden, 1 silver, 3 bronze in the Wave Festival. 3 silver and 3 bronze in the Clio Awards. 2 golden AND 3 silver in the ANJ. 3 silver, 3 bronze and 6 year awards in the Clube de Criação Yearbook Award. the Iberoamerican Cup with best piece for Business to the Public, in addition to 3 golden, 4 silver, 1 bronze in the FIAP. 1 golden, 1 silver, 1 bronze in the El Sol. 5 merit awards in the One Show. 4 Honoree in The Webby Awards. 1 bronze and 1 merit in the Art Directors Club. 1 Yellow Pencil, 1 nomination e 2 In Book in the D&AD. Silver in the Effie Awards. Entered with 2 campaigns in the Communication Arts Advertising Yearbook. Awarded with the best use of radio and best use of magazine in the MaxiMidia. Silver in the Effie Awards. 2 awards in the Forrester Groundswell Award. 1 gold And 1 silver in the El Ojo de Iberoamerica. Sustainability Report 34 DM9DDB 2011 07 Corporate Governance GRI 4.1; 4.4; 4.6; 4.7; 4.9; 4.11; 4.12:4.17; SO3 GC 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 ISO 26000 6.3; 6.6.3 35 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 More than a policy or an established code, DM9DDB is a company that has transparency rooted in its culture and ethics permeating each of its values in favor of building a better future. We like to nurture candid relationships with the market, with shareholders and with our workforce, which we call TURMADM9. With other agencies, we reinforce a competitive relationship based on fair competition that is won or lost according to the quality of the work done. No disloyal artifices, much less illegal. Relationships are always honest and transparent. Corporate Our governance policy is improved every day. In Brazil, we do not have shares listed on stock exchanges, but as part of the Omnicom Group listed on the New Governance York Stock Exchange we ran under the rules imposed on public companies with securities traded abroad. Our other shareholder, Grupo ABC, has publicly acknowledged its intention to go public at a date not yet disclosed, a plan that works as a motivator so good that governance practices are adopted wholeheartedly by the agency. The DM9DDB governance structure is comprised by our Board of Administration, Operations and Finance responsible for defining the guidelines of the agency, monitor the results and submit regular truthful and transparent information We like to nurture candid to the shareholders. relationships with the market, with shareholders and WITH our workforce, which we call TURMADM9. 36 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 07 the shAReholdeRs 37 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 07 Grupo ABC Founded in 2002 by Nizan Guanaes and João the global leaders that are part of the CGI Augusto Valente, in partnership with Banco Icatu, (Clinton Global Initiative) led by former U.S. and which now also have in their partnership President Bill Clinton, and has been Sergio Valente and Bazinho Ferraz, Grupo ABC appointed by the Financial Times as one of 18th largest media group IN the world. is the largest 100% Brazilian marketing group the five most influential Brazilians (June and the 18th largest media group in the world. 2010). In 2010, he received another award: There are over two thousand talents and 180 PODER magazine, in partnership with The clients distributed in 12 companies divided into Americas Business Council Foundation the areas of advertising, direct marketing, content, (SEF), granted to Guanaes the “Poder ABC and entertainment. With a strong international Business Award” for his entrepreneurial expansion plan and performance in Brazil, United vision. States and Europe, Grupo ABC was appointed as a Global Growth Company by the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2010. Its chairman, Nizan Guanaes, is president of the Entrepreneurs Friends and Goodwill Ambassador of UNESCO; he is one of 38 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 07 DDB WORLDWIDE Founded in New York in 1949 by Ned Doyle, Maxwell Dane and Bill Bernbach, DDB was integrated into the top IN the ranking of most Omnicom Group in 1986, when it joined the Needham awarded agencies in the world. Harper Steers to found DDB Worldwide. Considered the largest consolidated global network of marketing services and advertising according to Advertising Age, the most prestigious publication of the advertising industry, DDB Worldwide has more than 200 offices in over 90 countries, which together gave the group 684 Lions in the Cannes International Advertising Festival, placing it on top of the ranking of most awarded agencies in the world. 39 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 07 Administration, Operations and Finances Board 40 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Our Administration, Operations and Finances Board is comprised by seven permanent members, consisting of agency executives and professionals with Defining the strategic positioning of the agency Defining the short, medium, and long term planning. recognized expertise in Setting annual goals and objectives of the agency and its departments. domestic and international Approving the action plans set by the departments to achieve the proposed objectives. markets. Besides being Monitoring and evaluating the agency’s position in the market by the results obtained on a monthly basis. responsible for the connection Proposing course correction actions in case of inappropriate performance or significant changes in the macroeconomic scenario. of our operation with our Monitoring the agency’s innovation performance. Monitoring the quality of the service provided and CLIENT satisfaction through analysis of systematic researches. shareholders, they are also Monitoring and analyzing the position of DM9DDB market through the SWAT analysis. responsible for: Setting and monitoring the annual budget. Defining best practices in programs related to the TURMADM9, especially with respect to remuneration, recruitment, attraction, and retention of talent. Analyzing and monitoring the agency’s balance sheet. Monitoring compliance with the behavior and ethics practices set forth by the agency. Ensuring continuity of the agency’s organizational culture. Presenting results to shareholders at monthly meetings. 41 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Our Board: Sergio Valente President Alcir Gomes Leite COO Marco Versolato Creation VP Monica de Carvalho Media and Business VP Cynthia Horowicz Planning VP Maristela Pati Corrêa Institutional Matters VP Rodrigo Leoni CFO 42 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Code of Conduct The DM9 Code of Conduct establishes our way of working, governing the conduct of all our TURMA toward ethics and transparency of our operations. All DM9 employees are committed to the standards established therein, being aware that the offenses ARe punishable. Complaints can be made to the Administration Board, Corporate Communications Board or Human Resources Board. Through our shareholders, we also received training on specific behaviors, e.g. an anti-corruption training provided by DDB Worldwide for all employees of the network in the world. 43 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 07 At DM9, we excel for clarity and accuracy of the information posted about the agency and the credibility MANUAL FOR of the analysis performed by our executives in our market. Therefore, we concentrate the best practices in relationship with the press on a RELATIONSHIPS manual and the observance of any and all demands of the press on the Corporate Communications Board. WITH THE PRESS 44 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 07 MAnuAl oF As part of our Code of Conduct and Press Relations Manual, we have standards that behAVioR seek to regulate the behavior of our employees on social networks. By doing so, we wish to guarantee the upholding of in soCiAl ethics, of our company’s values and also the veracity of the information about DM9 also in the digital environment. netwoRks 45 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 RENOVA9 our sustainability project GRI EN1; EN2; EN3; EN7; EN14:EN16: EN17; EN18; EN21; EN22; EN26; EN27 GC 7; 8; 9 ISO26000 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 46 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 The concern with the environment has always been part of the agency’s routine. Ever since the company was first founded, we have shown a legitimate effort in the sustainability of our operation: we have always worked making a valiant effort to grow, to create jobs, to obtain profit and thus guarantee that our business shall continue. Slowly but surely, we also enhanced our style of people management, making sure that our “TURMA” would have benefits other than the legally guaranteed ones and even the benefit of a good salary: we have created programs for quality of life, training, well-being, development of our current and future talent with ever-closer relationships with Universities and students. RENOVA9 In 2011 we realized that, despite the range of already consolidated initiatives, there was still a need for the agency to group together its actions for environmental sustainability under one large umbrella, thereby turning our one of f actions into a long-term systematic project. Thus came about Renova9, which is DM9’s commitment to financial, social and environmental practices, already implemented, and also with future goals that shall allow us to make a contribution towards the construction of a better future. We know there is still a lot to be done, but, at the same time, we know we are on the right track. We are already signatories to Global Compact, we have come closer to the Ethos Institute of Companies and Social Responsibility and we have also star ted our annual cycle of sustainable repor ts with this document. The first steps have been taken. 47 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 To mark our commitment with environmental sustainability in a systematic way, on the anniversary of the agency we launched the Plastic Free project. Overnight, we Plastic removed all plastic cups from circulation and also replaced the water bottles by water purifiers. We also started a process of replacing plastic litter bags with bags made out of newspaper, all using paper folding techniques. Figures: 200 thousand plastic cups and 30 thousand bottles were eliminated. 48 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 To serve the six floors of DM9DDB, plus two garage basements, we have three internal elevators. These are useful and necessary, but in many cases, their use is not essential. To make our “TURMA” aware of the need to make rational use of the lifts, we have created an internal campaign that associates the use of the stairs with physical fitness, using light and humorous language to make people understand the need to use the stairs to go one floor up or come two floors down. As an additional incentive, all the staircases that are internal to the building and have lights activated by presence sensors have been turned into a gallery, constantly showing the best campaigns created by DM9DDB. 08 eleVAtoRs 49 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 As a service provider, we do not generate industrial waste. Similarly, without an installed kitchen, our production of organic waste is negligible. Most of our waste comes from paper, cardboard, and plastic. Our annual consumption is around 80 thousand sheets of virgin A3 and A4 sulfite paper, whether recycled or not, per year. We also have a significant amount 08 of newspapers and magazines that are received daily, weekly or monthly by many of our professionals. The prestige residue (plastic, newspapers, magazines, and cardboards), which is indeed the bulk of our residue, is donated and collected by Residue, Adere, is an NGO that works for the inclusion of 86 mentally challenged young people into society, through the production of creative articles. In the hands of this youth, our paper, cardboard, and plastic is turned into ReCyClinG products made of papier maché, notepads, and also office supplies which are sold back to DM9 as souvenirs or to the market, in order to generate income which, in turn, keeps the organization operating. An inclusive and responsible way to prolong the usable life of residue that would otherwise And inClusion end up in landfills. The residue that cannot be passed on to Adere is collected by a co-operative that makes the appropriate separation and also gives the correct destination to the material. Goal for 2012: Increase the participation of recycled paper to 84% and also increase TyPe oF ResiDue (kg/month) the residue recycling to 60% of our total production organic 8.800 non-recycled inorganic 17.000 recycled inorganic 25.000 Source: Internal study 50 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Paper and Printing The correct usage of noble residue does not mean that we do not have extra care when generating the residue. Indeed, 74% of the virgin paper now consumed by the agency is made up of recycled paper, 100% of our printers are programed to print on both sides and on all floors there are specific litter bins for the selective collection of residue. 51 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Dry and wet batteries It just can’t be denied: in an advertising agency there are always many technology enthusiasts. For this reason, we have a specific location in our agency for the disposal of dry and wet batteries that are then sent on to a co-operative which works with electronic residue. GOAL: TO Give the correct use to 30% of electronic waste within 2 years; 50% in 3 years and finally 100% after 5 years. 52 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Compensations Even with these actions to control our carbon footprint, we know that we still leave a trail on the planet. According to a survey by Iniciativa Verde, a company specialized in programs for Management of Greenhouse Effect Gas, in 2011 the agency emitted 596.29 tons of CO2. To compensate for this destructive trail that we have left on our planet, we have set a target of planting 3,767 trees, which shall be carried out to the end of 2012. DISTANCE (Km) MEAN OF TRANSPORT (avarage of employees per day) CAR 2.222 BUS 809 SUBWAY 432 WALKING 301 TRAIN 281 BICYCLE 167 TAXI 95 MOTORCYCLE 75 53 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 An environment without walls, without partitions, where people work together without hierarchy imposing any distance, any separation. Our way of working is a philosophy which goes beyond the need to save energy, but which helps in this regard. When choosing our head office to rent, in 2002, the location and the architecture of the building were important factors in our decision. The building number 5013 at Avenida Brigadeiro Luís Antônio, in São Paulo, was ideal. And this was not just because adding up the digits of the building we have 5+0+1+3=9, which would be 08 a good omen in itself considering that 9 is our brand, but also because the building is entirely in glass, and built with six completely open and spacious storeys. This architecture allows ENERGY us to make good use of daylight and also provides the view of the Ibirapuera Park from almost anywhere in the agency. To this day, the agency works almost without partitions and the few rooms where separations are necessary feature glass partitions so that natural lighting may permeate the agency. The artificial lights, when used necessary, are mostly cold light bulbs with low energy consumption. Adding together lights, electronic equipment, and electrical appliances, our consumption is around 86 thousand kWh per month. Our goal is have 100% low consumption lamps by the end of 2012. 54 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 To keep control of expenses and also to make our “TURMA” aware of the fact that energy is to be saved, we have created Eco9. This eCo9 campaign of awareness-building reminds our “TURMA” to turn off the lights in the bathroom, to switch off the computers every night, and to only print what is really necessary. 55 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Without industrial production, our consumption of water is essentially for cleaning and usage in the bathrooms. Our taps are intelligent, and we are now budgeting for the replacement of regular flushes by the dual-flush valves. All our consumption, which has remained stable at 300 thousand liters per month, comes from the municipal distribution network. With the replacement of the flushes, we believe that we shall have a reduction in expenditure up to the end of 2012. 08 wAteR 56 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 eMissions aS SeRviCe pRovideRS, ouR pRoduCtion pRoCeSS doeS not emit pollutantS oR toxiC gaS diReCtly into the atmoSpheRe. howeveR, we do leave a CaRbon footpRint CauSed by the tRanSpoRtation of the 333 people in ouR “tuRma” fRom theiR homeS to theiR woRkplaCe, by ouR woRk tRipS, ouR eneRgy ConSumption, papeR, ouR pRoduCtion of ReSidue, and Cleaning mateRialS. Some aCtionS have been taken So that ouR CaRbon footpRint iS aS little aS poSSible. theSe inClude: 57 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 The location of our office has been chosen to allow easy access. On deciding to rent the building at Avenida Brigadeiro 08 Luís Antônio, ten years ago, we preferred a centrally located area with good public transportation links, and also a region surrounded by essential services such as restaurants, Location banks, drug stores and snack bars. We, therefore, reduced the need for our collaborators to make use of motor vehicles at lunch time. In addition, with the office at the intersection of three neighborhoods (Vila Nova Conceição, Jardim Paulista, and Itaim Bibi) we increased the likelihood of our collaborators living near the agency, even though the hiring of our new talents is based on competence rather than where they live. 58 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 An alternative to reduce CO2 emissions when transporting our collaborators was the adoption, in 2011, of the concepts of Anywhere Office, flextime, and teleconferences. Nowadays, Anywhere Office, approximately 10% of the agency already participates in flextime or distance working programs. Presential meetings are also being flextime and replaced by teleconferences, a practice that shall be extremely useful to avoid the increase in flights taken by our executives in 2012, with teleconferences the start of operation of our branch agencies in Rio de Janeiro and in the south of the country. An example of the benefits of flextime is a DM9 collaborator, who used to take almost two hours travelling from her home in Cotia to the office in Jardim Paulista, in São Paulo, when she started work at 9 a.m. Now she takes only 40 minutes after changing her start time to 11 a.m. 59 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 For 2012, a project is being prepared to encourage the DM9 collaborators to car-pool. Through a closed group of DM9 collaborators on Facebook, we will encourage car-pooling between collaborators as CAR-poolinG a way to reduce carbon emissions and also increase the quality of life in the city, reducing the number of cars with only one person at peak times on the streets of São Paulo. GOAL FOR 2012: To get the participation of 10% of workers engaged in the Caronetas project. 60 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 08 As an initiative of our collaborators, dM9bike we are now structuring a project to encourage and make possible the use of bicycles as an alternative mean of transpor t for the employees . 61 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 O 08 9 This is an initiative THAT was worth it. On 5 July 2011, the World Environment Day, a group of collaborators proposed a project for the whole agency: one day without a car. A video statement was prepared and the result was impressive: out of our 333 collaborators, 190 cars were left at home. Forty-two people came walking; 60 used public transportation; 168 got lifts; 7 people came by bicycle and 3 came by skateboard. Altogether, more than 2,500 liters of petrol were saved and more than 380 tons of CO2 were not emitted. 62 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 09 ouR stAkeholdeRs gRi 4.14; 4.16; 4.17 gC 3 iSo26000 6.6.4 63 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 We are one of the largest and best known advertising agencies in Brazil. We are proud to be part of an industry with such strong bonds, as the brazilian communication industry. Together with this pride, we also know that we have challenges to face: respecting and presenting good results to the shareholders, respecting and promoting the growth of our “TURMA”, respecting and challenging our suppliers to do even better while keeping to ethical and transparent practices, respecting Our and supporting our clients in their development and improvement processes, respecting and Stakeholders preparing students for a solid future, respecting and finding ways to help our community. Adding value to each of these segments of the public is a commitment which guides our work. 64 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Shareholders and the “TURMADM9”: Apart from generating profit for the shareholders, DM9 also has the commitment of being a benchmark for best practices in people management. Our challenge for 2012 is to also become a REFERENCE in environmental issues. Our relationship with shareholders and with our “TURMA” is based on transparency with appraisals and also constant reports on results. 65 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Clients Our relationship surpasses commercial boundaries with each of our clients. Our aim is to keep a strategic and relevant partnership in which agency and clients seek the best practices, in a joint effort, making it possible to establish strong brands RESPONSIBLE FOR TURNING the economic wheel in sustainable fashion. Apart from our top executives, which are in almost daily contact with each of our clients, ACCOUNTS are also served by highly qualified directors which can swiftly meet their demands and also guide them as to the best strategy to follow. 66 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Consumers As a service provider, we should have a more distant action with the end consumer, who at the end of the process USES the brands we work for. However, in Brazil, there is a specific factor to consider: The advertising industry is very much admired and acknowledged, and the consumer has a relationship with the advertising agencies, whether of empathy, apathy or even antipathy. At DM9, the consumer is the reason of the work we do. With them we have an open and transparent relationship constructed through constant and consistent dialogues. The most important means we have to listen to the consumers and have a dialogue with them are our social networks and even guided tours through the agency. 67 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Suppliers We seek to uphold a long-lasting relationship marked by mutual respect and admiration with our suppliers. We encourage constant improvement and also share the best practices with them. Our suppliers are essential partners for the execution of our pro-bono campaigns for NGOs, foundations, and social movements. We have frequent contact with them through our top management team and social networks. 68 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Media vehicles Newspapers, magazines, television stations: these make up another essential link in our production chain. we have a relationship WHIT THEM based on ethics and mutual commitment to quality AS WELL AS respect for the consumer and the standards which govern the advertising business in Brazil. These are also essential partners who work towards the commonweal AND THEY need co-operated work so THAT THEY can become known by society in general. 69 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Society Our activity in society is on three separate fronts: as an actor, as an agent and as a social activator. As actors, we participate in social movements in Brazil and also use our power to REINFORCE place the need for improvements, as defended by these movements, on the country’s political agenda. Our executives make a direct contribution in the establishment of movements such as Saúde Criança São Paulo, Sou da Paz and Todos pela Educação. As an agent, we use our expertise in communication to make evident all the educational and cultural projects that are encouraged through pro-bono work for different NGOs and also institutions. As activators, we act directly as part of changes in society BY participating, through the Grupo ABC, in the adoption of a state school on the outskirts of São Paulo, making it an example of quality in teaching and community involvement. In addition, we contribute towards a strong economy through the creation of jobs, payment of taxes, construction of strong brands, and responsible consumption. This whole topic shall be taken up again in the chapter about society. 70 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Trade Unions and class institutions Our relationship here is based on transparency, respect and acknowledgement that Trade Unions and class institutions are essential players for the construction of a democratic society. 71 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Press This is a relationship built based on seriousness and transparency. Press institutions are essential in our path towards growth, and the construction of the relevance of DM9DDB and of the industry as a whole. To ensure the achievement of the demands generated by the Press and also to inform the market about our conquests and our work, the Press Advisory Department is internal and subordinated to the Corporate Communications Manager. 72 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Government We respect the legislation in force in the country. We also have a judicial consultancy service so that our work is always compliant with the standards that regulate the brazilian advertising market. 73 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 10 ouR tuRMA gRi la1; la2; la3; la5; la6; la8; la11; la12; la13; la14 eC7; hR3 iSo26000 6.4 74 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 As a company where the most important raw materials are ideas and their execution, population diversity is highly valued. The company is based in São Paulo, but here we have Bahians, people from São Paulo itself, cariocas (people from Rio de Janeiro), The sustainability and people from other states such as Pernambuco of our business and Rio Grande do Sul, not to mention collaborators depends on nurture, nourish and by hailing from the national capital Brasília, working for stimulating us. We are a tiny Brazil on Brigadeiro Luiz Antônio the development Avenue, a prime location in a metropolis like São of these talents. Paulo, which means that many of our collaborators can choose to live close to where they work. Our TURMA is our main asset. Only with the There are a total of 333 collaborators in all participation of a fighting and passionate team departments of the agency. The split between can we woo the world with our ideas. If we have men and women is almost even, with 52% and Genre already been considered the best agency of the 48% respectively, and here we must mention WOMEN 48,00% year in the world on four occasions, this is the number of women in executive positions: men 52,00% because we have a team with the best talents. out of our four vice-presidents, three are women. 100,00% For this reason, as our president Sergio Valente Our “TURMA” is also very young, with 77.33% says, the sustainability of our business depends aged under 35. The vast majority of our on us feeding and encouraging the development collaborators, 83.20%, have University degrees. Educational Level of such talent. We are an agency that demands We would also like to mention the presence of Basic Education 1,87% quality but which gives the tools to our TURMA, Young Apprentices on our team. At present, we High School 11,20% so it can work and develop. At the end, we have four young people who are still studying at University Graduate 83,20% acknowledge the talent and give prizes to these the Francisco Fusco School, a partner of the Master’s and Graduate Studies 3,73% people. In the words of Sergio Valente, “When Grupo ABC and DM9, and who dedicate half of the person hits the roof, we move the roof”, and their day to learning a future occupation with people Age Bracket at DM9 we all have the same chance of growing, who have been specially trained to give them the Up to 25 years old 25,87% hitting the roof and moving the roof, both support and the training they need. On the one hand Between 26 and 35 51,47% professionally and personally. However, this we have young people, but, on the other hand, we also Between 36 and 45 16,26% does not mean all-out competition. This is have some highly experienced professional people Between 46 and 55 4,80% sustainable competition. Grow with your who make a key contribution to the operation and Over 55 1,60% boss. This is our spirit: united, we are stronger. also encourage new talents, by acting as mentors. 75 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 To be part of this team you need skill and will power, not to mention talent. Commanded 10 by our Human Resources Department, our recruitment and selection system chooses our new talents considering the skills which are most appropriate for carrying out the posts as requested by the areas. The main aim of the program is enhancing and reducing risks of losses through poor performance or lack of adaptation to the DM9 System of culture. With the interview and also the dynamics that have been carried out, our HR professional people draw up a report with a comparison of the required skills (KSA – KNOWLEDGE, SKILL AND ATTITUDE), together with the considerations Admission presented at interview. After the presentation of the reports, we shall then schedule an interview for the requesting party who, in the end, chooses the best candidate. The Human Resources area at DM9 is also able to apply psychometric appraisals on the candidates, as it has some professional people duly registered on the Regional Centre of Psychologists (Centro Regional dos Psicólogos – CRP) who can apply any kind of test or group dynamics and then prepare the corresponding reports. 76 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 TALENT BANK AND SOCIAL NETWORKS Two practices established by DM9 during 2011 for the attraction of new talents have shown is the use of social networks to attract young people from throughout Brazil who wish to excellent results. One is a permanent Talent Bank: participate in the DM9DDB internship program. each agency leader has the target of collecting In a truly open and democratic fashion, we have names and also contacting promising talents on already opened four processes for selection of the market. This database is accessed by our interns through social networks, specifically Twitter Human Resources Department whenever there and Facebook. The result has been surprising is the demand for a strategic position. As this and in all the processes we have managed to database is updated regularly, there is always find people with an appropriate profile. Here it is the possibility of quick action with the correct worth mentioning that the candidates also went focus, whenever there is the need to attract a through a strict selection process, and three of new member to our “TURMA”. Another initiative them were taken on by the company. 77 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 When starting an internship at DM9, the student has the possibility of getting to know the whole process, the agency flow, RotARy and also has the opportunity to increase one’s network of relationships by spending a month in each department before choosing inteRnship or being chosen. The rotary internship increases the possibility that the student will, more securely, choose which area of the advertising business he/she shall specialize in. 78 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 10 peRFoRMAnCe AssessMent 79 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 The process of annual Performance Analysis is an important instrument for the professional growth of all the collaborators in the agency. Aligned with the HR projects of our shareholders, the Performance Management System seeks a r e A to add strength to the professional development of our “TURMA”, allowing the appraisal and measurement, in an objective and transparent o way, of how each one is carrying out his or her w N role. Performance appraisal is an essential part of the meritocracy projects of the agency. The skills that guide this process is the DM9 “TURMA” n – please see (DM9 values) g e l s A r’ s E G e u E a t n M t i n l E t c u N d t Y t T e 80 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 CLIMATE Every two years, we carry out a climate appraisal. The purpose of this research is to listen to the opinion of each member of the DM9 APPRAISAL “TURMA” about the work environment, the degree of satisfaction and motivation, as well as the culture and the values of the agency. After the results of the research, the following actions occur: Each manager recommends an average of four (4) people to think about the positive and negative aspects of the research; After the thINKING, the group suggests actions for improvement; The actions for improvement are presented and validated by the managers before they are presented to the other collaborators. Through analysis and actions, DM9 seeks to be one of the best advertising agencies to work for. 81 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 10 CAMpus 9 Starting in March 2010, the project consists of lectures about various issues, fields, and interests. Famous professional people from this market are invited to give speeches at DM9. The DM9ians themselves may also pass on to their colleagues some information about their speciality, whether a film (Cine9 Development), a book (Storyteller), a trip (I went, I knew, and I’ll tell you), a department of the agency (know your Neighbor). The issue must be as varied as possible to add more knowledge to all. Campus9 takes place every Tuesday and Thursday, between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m., which is the first time slot of the regular working day for most of our collaborators. Participation is free. 82 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 FALA 9 Collaborators can learn another language with the help of the agency, so that their knowledge of other culture is enhanced. It is up to the student to show interest, commitment and also development of learning so that the incentive is permanent. Studying something from a different country enriches the collaborator individually and is also a positive point for contact with clients and international prizes. The lessons are subsidized by the agency and the subsidy ranges from 20% to 90% depending on the time spent with the company. The decision not to provide full subsidies was a planned choice, to encourage the collaborator to also give greater value to the learning process. This program was implemented in 2006. 83 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 FININ 9 The aim of this project is to provide the collaborators with the possibility of increasing their knowledge through courses in Brazil and abroad, contributing to their professional training. After completion, the only requirement is that the collaborator shall present the knowledge acquired in a speech to his or her colleagues at the agency. Another way to expand knowledge is through the Finin 9 program in Cannes. This program financially provides the possibility of the collaborator to participate in one of the main advertising events of the world: the International Festival in Cannes, France. All departments of the advertising agency can take part, and shall have their visit to the greatest event of the industry subsidized. 84 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 10 Programs To retain and take care of our talents, we know that we must offer more than FOR QUALITY just training. There is a need to offer possibilities of personal development, quality of life and general well-being. OF LIFE 85 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 This program is especially for people wishing to lose Taking weight with quality or anyone wishing to improve their It Heavy physical fitness. The Pegando Pesado program was set up in 2006, in partnership with the Cia Athletica gym. In this (Pegando program, a group of DM9 employees meets twice a week to either jog or walk in Ibirapuera Park, under the coPesado) ordination of a teacher. This group also has access to the Cia. Athletica gym to train muscle building with a fully subsidized package. Those who prefer to go only to the gym have 50% of the monthly fees subsidized by the agency. 86 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 This is a program for people who prefer lighter Taking It physical activities. Twice a week, our Auditorium Lightly becomes a Zen environment for the practice of Dahn Hack, a type of yoga which is based on (Pegando an ancient Korean philosophy and works on conscious breathing, stretching exercises, Leve) massage, body awareness, and meditation. This is all provided by a duly skilled teacher. 87 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 AS AN INCENTIVE OF THE BRAzILIAN CULTURE TOGETHER capoeira WITH A BETTER qUALITY OF LIFE, WE HAVE STARTED TO IMPLEMENT, AS FROM FEBRUARY 2011, CAPOEIRA LESSONS FOR THE COLLABORATORS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN PURSUING THIS SPORT. THE PROGRAM INVOLVES 2 CLASSES PER WEEk, 1 HOUR EACH, SOMEWHERE INSIDE THE AGENCY ITSELF. THE LESSONS ARE PROVIDED BY A CAPOEIRA MASTER WITH SkILL AND ExCELLENT kNOWLEDGE OF THIS BRAzILIAN MARTIAL ART. 88 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 SPA DM9 Tuesdays and Thursdays are also massage days for the “TURMA”. During the whole day, a shiatsu therapist goes to the agency and serves our collaborators. This is a moment of relaxation that is available to everyone in the group, free of charge. 89 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 To make the general atmosphere of the agency more relaxed, HAPPY HOUR every week the collaborators are invited to a Happy Hour at our very own café, NovesFora, which is a garden within the AND DM9NIVER agency, built specially to allow the coexistence between the collaborators. Apart from being a chance for friends from all departments to get together and listen to good live music, our Happy Hour is also a stage on which our “TURMA” can show its artistic talents. We have already had presentations of pagode, rock, Brazilian Pop Music (MPB), Samba Rock, and Stand Comedy, provided by collaborators. In addition, the birthday people of the month commemorate the date as part of the Happy Hour. So that no-one forgets the commemorative dates for each collaborator, the Human Resources Department sends the list of birthdays every morning. 90 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 In 2011 we launched a pilot project which transforms our Art9 auditorium in an art gallery to show creative work which our collaborators carry out as a hobby. The launch was made with a photography exhibition by our CREATIVE DIRECTOR, Wilson Matteos. For this year, we have plans to host at least other 3 exhibitions. 91 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 10 RENOVe The RENOVE program was implemented in July 2011, consists of a program for renewal and reflex based on results achieved. This was the way DM9 found to show respect and acknowledgement for its collaborators. RENOVE consists of FOUR (4) important programs: Nines Flex9 Day Off DAY C 92 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 NINES This program is like a mini-internship lasting 15 days, in one of the agencies of Grupo ABC and DDB, somewhere in the world. DM9 believes that this interchange between collaborators leads to a great exchange of experiences, with different methodologies and work techniques. The exchange of knowledge, the learning of different areas, the possibility of international life experiences, greater approximation with another culture, a greater understanding of several different campaigns; these are all results that DM9 feels can be generated based on this project. In this program, there are also two cases of expatriation. We have two DM9 collaborators who are gaining long-term experience in the international market. 93 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 FLEX 9 Flextime , Home Office and Anywhere Office At DM9, collaborators may choose where and how they work. Through the Flextime or Anywhere Office programs, each collaborator together with his or her manager can program themselves to work at the time and place where they have most motivation. 94 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 DAY OFF One (1) day off to dedicate to Social Projects or a Specific Course The main aim of this program is to establish new paradigms in the contractual relationship with our collaborators, which go well beyond remuneration and prestige. 95 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 DIA C In addition to the health plan, we also have a prevention program. Each employee of TURMA is encouraged to take a day off and go see the doctor. 96 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Apart from the customized programs created by the agency for our “TURMA”, DM9 also strictly complies with laws governing employment and labor in the country. All interns and collaborators working according to the Brazilian Collective Labor Laws (CLT) at DM9 have the right to transport vouchers or, if they prefer, use of the All group agreements are made according company parking lot. If the DM9 worker needs to the Trade Union of the Publicity Business’ to travel by car to some professional appointment, guidelines , and are strictly followed. Benefits then the agency covers the fuel costs. The value is With regard to health and safety, the recalculated by the Financial Department which, collaborators have an Internal Accident every week, make available the reimbursement Prevention Commission (Comissão Interna de for the petrol used on company assignments. Prevenção de Acidentes CIPA), an instrument In the case of meals, all collaborators hired which is used to deal with prevention of according to the CLT regime and also interns work accidents, conditions of the work receive daily Meal Tickets, at a value of nineteen environment and also everything that All group agreements are Reais (R$ 19.00). Those collaborators earning involves the necessary conditions to work. made according to the more than five thousand Reais (R$ 5,000.00) The commission consists of a group of Trade Union of the Publicity do not receive this assistance, and those earning people elected by the collaborators. In the Business’ guidelines, and less than one thousand, five hundred Reais (R$ same area, in regards to requirements are strictly followed. 1,500.00) do not have any deductions taken off about accidents and health problems, DM9 the payroll at the end of the month. is in compliance with Regulatory Standard In the health area, the DM9 collaborator has the No. 7 of the Medical Control Program for right to receive health insurance provided by Occupational Health, linked to the Ministry Allianz Saúde and also a program of access to for Labor and Jobs. medication, associated to Allianz Saúde and Droga Raia, for discounted medication; a dental assistance plan with the company Biodent Assistência Odontológica Ltda, of the Care Plus Group; and life insurance. 97 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 11 Human Apart from the rights guaranteed by the Brazilian Rights Constitution, DM9 also carries out the rights ensured by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10th, 1948. The company is also be came a partner of UNICEF and Unesco, having carried out some work assignments for these organizations, in Brazil and in the world. In our work, we ensure compliance with regulations about advertising involving children, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages. We also do not accept clients or work orders that violate Brazilian Laws or the regulations established by our partners. GRI HR5; HR6; HR7 GC 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 ISO26000 6.3 98 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 12 ouR The whole sustainable process shall be long-lasting, to establish strong roots within the society and also so that the results can change people’s CoMMunity lives. At DM9 we have decided to make our contribution in three different roles: actor, agent, and activator. gRi eC8; eC9; So1 gC 1; 2; 5 iSo26000 6.6.6; 6.8 99 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 12 ACtoR Being a social actor means to use our power to gain a voice and also to transform the macroenvironment, whether founding, financing or participating in social movements in defense of causes that we believe in, and which we can help. As actors we participate in movements such as Todos pela Educação, Parceiros da Educação, Saúde Criança, and the Faça Parte Institute. 100 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 12 AGent As an agent, we use our expertise and our knowledge in communication to make the social projects we believe in evident, becoming their true partners. We do this by constructing big brands, mobilizing people, and transforming society. DM9, together with other companies of the Grupo ABC, has already obtained the equivalent of R$ 450 million in media exposure. Among the partners that we help through our work are the following: 101 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 gRuPo PelA ViDDA A directed communication project, thought sou DA PAZ insTiTuTe FunDAÇÃo esTuDAR through in each minor detail, going beyond unesco This is an organization of civil society that acts Twenty years ago Jorge Paulo Lemann conventional advertising, was the way which Unesco’s mission is to contribute to the so the Government policies for security in created the Fundação Estudar. It offers Brazil are indeed carried out. They also work DM9DDB found to become a partner in a building of peace, reducing poverty, promoting scholarships for graduation and post towards the prevention of violence based graduation courses at the best universities group that fights for life and also for basic sustainable development and intercultural on a democratic system, equalitarian justice, in Brazil and the world. Throughout these human rights such as freedom, justice, and dialogue through education, science, culture, as well as compliance with human rights. It years, there never was communication. equality. communication and information. Unesco has was DM9 that created this brand and held The talents were discovered through the in DM9DDB, through Grupo ABC, a strategic the launch campaign, besides the campaign university’s contacts and student mouthpartner in communication in Brazil. in commemoration of the ten years of this to-mouth advertising. DM9DDB created institution. the first campaign to inspire those that received new scholarships to enter the foundation’s selective process, calling them to be part of this winning team. AssociAÇÃo sAÚDe cRiAnÇA cRuZ VeRMelHA bRAsileiRA Apart from having executives and even the Present in Brazil for over 100 years, this AbTo institution acts on the bases of Red Cross President of DM9 in the group of councilors, The Brazilian Organ Transplant Association uniceF the agency is also responsible for the creation International: humanity, impartiality, neutrality, (Associação Brasileira de Transplante de A campaign for universal education, against of the brand and publicity material for this independence, volunteership, unity, and Órgãos – ABTO) has a partner in DM9, for child labor, was also created by DM9DDB universality. These values have always been the creation of campaigns with the main organization. We have also been partners in for the United Nations Children’s Fund present in the campaigns created by DM9DDB. aim at making the population aware of the the opening of the franchise of the Association (UNICEF), with the participation of the importance of organ donation. in the city of São Paulo. Brazilian Formula One driver, Felipe Massa. 102 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 To be an activator is to be the voice. Being an activator is acting in the focus of our social needs, interfering directly upon a micro reality to generate an impact on the macro environment. There are many possible ways to perform this role, but we, our shareholder Grupo ABC and DM9, chose to act in education. This was how we decided to adopt a public school through Parceiro da Educação and, after many studies, we chose Francisco Fusco School, in Jardim Umarizal, in the outskirts of São Paulo’s south area. This partnership started in 2005. In these seven years of work, we helped improving infrastructure by refurbishing the school’s facilities, collaborated with students’ and teachers’ digital inclusion by creating computer labs and installing digital boards with high speed internet. We also supported the improvement of 12 management by providing courses and lectures given by our executives, helped pedagogical development with the creation of partnerships that promoted the training of teachers, favored the integration community/ school by creating situations for the involvement of parents and volunteers ACtiVAtoR in the students’ day-to-day life. these actions have reversed in good results. among them: number of students enrolled increased from 1,210 in 2005 to 1,930 in 2009 truancy was reduced from 9.7% in 2005 to 1.5% in 2009 the turnover of teachers fell from 72% in 2005 to 7% in 2009 jump in the ranking of public schools from the state from the 753rd place in 2005 to 43rd in 2008 (source: SareSP – ensino médio) 57% of reduction in illiteracy (instituto Paidéia) records of violence and depredation reduced from 57 to only two events in 2007 increasing in school attendance from 60% to 91% youth-apprentice and internship program has employed seven students since 2008 investment of r$2.100 million in four years, in partnership with Grupo aBc The practical results of the investment and the possibility of establishing goals and monitoring the strong indicators have shown that this Social Project can, in fact, make a difference and affect the decisions made by polititians, media, parents, and educators. For the years of 2012 and 2013, our focus in the partnership with the school is the teacher. We aim to encourage them, prepare them, and recognize their work in order to guarantee a future filled with quality for the community, the country and the Planet. 103 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 13 ouR pRoduCt gRi pR1; pR5 iSo26000 6.7; 6.7.3 104 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 We are an agency that is passionate about advertising. As we see it, our ambition is to be the best and the most sought after multiplatform advertising agency in Brazil and one of the best in the world, having convergence as our focus, wanting to be one of the three biggest strategy, through to a commercial for and most acclaimed in the Brazilian market a magazine or newspaper, radio spots, and also a benchmark to the world. actions on the Internet, films for television Our Product and events for consumers. Regardless of Our search for excellence is not mere vanity, it the tool, the main aim here is to deliver is business. With excellence, we attract strong whatever is necessary so that the client and demanding clients, which shall ask us for can carry out the proposed target which more talent, in number and also in quality. could be sales, consolidation of image, This way, we grow, create more jobs, and then or making the community sensitive to a we shall have professional people that are cause. The only demand is that, regardless of Our search for excellence the tool used, the content and the method better prepared to work for the agency and is not mere vanity. of communication comply with Brazilian also for the market, generating more profit for the shareholder who will have a reason legislation and also follow the standards it is business. and codes as accepted by the industry. and the conditions to make more and more investments in our business. Therefore, we contribute to make the economic wheel turn in a healthy cycle. As constructors of the brand, we use any marketing and communication tools on any platform that is possible. Our delivery to the clients passes through products that range from a simple idea, positioning, concept or 105 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 Grupo Consultores Research 2010 – Results for DM9DDB 1st placeD agency in terms of compliance with time frames. 1st placeD agency in stimulated recognition (98% of the market recognize the name – increase in percentage level and also improved position compared with 2008). We are service providers, and our main 1st agency in media services, maintaining the lead conquered in 2008. asset is our talent; our main reward is the Recognition of their professional team: Apart from the main leaders, satisfaction of our clients. For this reason, the exposure of the professionals at top management level is evident we have constant surveys with our clients on the market and shows an agency that values its talent in different areas. DM9 is perceived by the market as an agency with a clearly to see how they appraise our work. Apart creative position and with work admired by the market. from internal research, every two years we hire the services of Grupo Consultores, the independent research institute with greatest know-how on the communication market, to raise the perception of our agency by the clients. The most recent such survey, in 2010, showed the following key points: 106 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 After the receipt and the analysis of the research, the Administration and Operation Committee meets and establishes action plans for the action and correction of weaknesses, while the strong points are monitored in order to maintain OUR excellence. We are the strategic partners of our clients. We act directly on the business of each brand we serve, and for this reason we have a firm commitment to privacy and secrecy of information. Similarly, w e do no t accep t co nf l i ct i ng o r competing clients, so that the integrity of the information is maintained, first and foremost. 107 Sustainability Report DM9DDB 2011 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 1.1 Declaration of the employee with the highest decision-making power in the organization on the relevance of sustainability to the organization and his strategy 6 1.2 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities 6 2.1 Name of the organization 8 2.2 Main brands and products 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 8 2.4 Organization's headquarters 8 2.5 Number of countries the organization works on and name of the countries where the main operations are located or are specially relevant to the sustainability matters covered by the report 8 2.6 Type and legal nature of the property 8 2.7 Markets served 8 2.8 Size of the organization 8 2.9 Main changes during the time covered by the report related to size, structure or share participation 8 2.10 Prizes received during the period covered by the report 31 3.1 Period covered by the report for the information presented 4 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report 4 3.3 Cycle of report emission 4 3.4 Contact information in case of questions related to the report or its contents 4 3.5 Process for the definition of report content 4 3.6 Report deadline 4 3.7 Declaration of any specific limitation regarding the scope or limit of the report 4 3.8 Base for creation of report 4 3.9 Technique for data measurement or calculus basis 4 3.10 Explanation of the consequences for any reformulation 4 3.11 Significant changes to previous years 4 3.12 Table indentifying the location of the information on the report 108 3.13 Current policies and practices related to the external verification for the report 4 4.1 Leadership structure of the organization 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.2 Indication in case the president of the highest leadership organ is an executive director Other than the president position, our president also participates on the creative process 4.3 Declaration of the number of independent members or non-executives of the highest leadership organ There is no independent or external organ on our high leadership positions 4.4 Mechanism so that shareholders and employees can recommend or orient the highest leadership organ 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.5 Rate between the compensation of members of the highest leadership organ, executive directors and other executives and the performance of the organization 4.6 Current processes in the highest leadership organ to avoid conflict of interests 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.7 Process to determine the qualifications and knowledge of the members of the highest leadership organ in order to define the organization strategies towards economic, environmental and social matters 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.8 Declaration of mission and values, codes of conduct and internal principles relevant to the economic, environmental and social performance, as well as the stage of implementation 15 6.4; 6.6.5 4.9 Procedures of the highest leadership organ to supervise the identification and management of the economic, environmental and social performance by the organization 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.10 Process of self-evaluation of the highest leadership organ, specially regarding the economic, environmental and social performance 78 4.11 Explanation of if and how the organization applies the precaution principle 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.12 Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally of economic, environmental and social character that the organization subscribes or supports 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 4.13 Participation in associations and/or national/international organisms of defense by the organization 4 4.14 Relation of the stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 63 3 6.6.4 4.15 Base for identification e selection of stakeholders to engage to 4.16 Approaches for stakeholders engagement, including engagement frequency by type and stakeholder groups 63 3 6.6.4 4.17 Main subjects and worries raised through stakeholder engagement and which measures the organization has been taking to treat them 35 e 63 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3; 6.6.4 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues operational costs, employees compensation donations and other community investments, accumulated profits and payment to capital suppliers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate changes Does not apply due to the nature of the business EC3 Obligation coverage of the pension plan offered by the organization EC4 Significant financial aid received by the government We do not collect any government financial aid EC5 Variation of the rate between the lowest wage compared to the minimum wage of the location of major operational units Our lowest wage is higher than minimum wage, aligned with the category's base wage EC6 Policies, practices and expenditure proportion with local suppliers in major operational units EC7 Procedures for local hiring and rate of members of high leadership recruited in the local community 74 6.4 EC8 Investment development and impact in the infrastructure and services provided, specially for public benefit, through commercial engagement, either in kind or pro bono activities 99 1; 2; 5 6.6.6; 6.8 EC9 Identification and description of significant, indirect economic impact, including impact extension 99 1; 2; 5 6.6.6; 6.8 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 EN1 Identification and description of significant, indirect economic impact, including impact extension 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN2 Percentage of material used that is obtained through recycling 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN3 Direct energy consumption, detailing the primary energy source 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN4 Indirect energy consumption, detailing the primary energy source EN5 Energy saved due to improvement in conservation and efficiency EN6 Initiatives to supply products and services with low energy consumption, or using energy generated by renewable resources, and reduction of the need for energy resulting from these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions obtained 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN8 Total of water used, by source 100% of the water used by the agency is provided by the city's public service (Sabesp) EN9 Hydric resources affected significantly by water removal There is no contamination of waters for we use the city's public service (Sabesp) EN10 Percentage and total volume of reused and recycled water EN11 Location and size of the area owned, rented or administered within protected areas, or surrounding them, and areas with high biodiversity index outside protected areas Our office is located on a urban area without a high biodiversity index EN12 Description of significant impacts on the biodiversity of activities, products and services in protected areas and areas with high biodiversity index outside protected areas We have no major impact on biodiversity for we are located on a urban area EN13 Protected or restores habitats EN14 Strategies, current measures and future plans for managing the impacts on biodiversity 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN15 Number of species on IUCN's Red List and on national conservation lists with habitat in areas affected by operation, detailed EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission, by weight 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emission, by weight 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the reductions obtained 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN19 Emission of substances harmful to the ozone layer, by weight EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions, by type and weight EN21 Total waste of water, by type and destination 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN22 Total waste weight, by type and disposition method 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN23 Number and total volume of significant spillage Because we are a service provider, we do not handle materials that can cause spillage EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or handled hazardous waste according to the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VII, and percentage of waste loads transported internationally Does not apply EN25 Identification, size, protection status and biodiversity index of water bodies and related habitats affected significantly by water disposal and drainage EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and the reduction extent of these impacts 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN27 Percentage of products and its packages recovered against products sold, by product category 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions resulting of the non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We have no fines related to environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts on the transportation of products and other assets and materials used on the organization's operations, as well as employee transport We do not use people or product transportation EN30 Total investment and expenditure in environmental protection, by type PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 LA1 List all labor force, by position, labor contract and region 74 6.4 LA2 Total employees and respective rotation rate, by age, gender and region 74 6.4 LA3 Benefits ensured to full time employees that are not granted to part time or temporary employees 74 6.4 LA4 Percentage of workers covered by collective hiring agreements 100% of our personnel is under the CLT (Consolidated Labor Laws) regimen LA5 Minimum deadlines for previous notification regarding operational changes, including if the procedure is mentioned in collective hiring agreements 74 6.4 LA6 Percentage of total work force represented in formal commissions of health and safety, that aid in the follow up and guidance on occupational health and safety programs 74 6.4 LA7 Number of injuries, occupational disease, lost work days, absence, occupational fatality, by region LA8 Current education, training, guidance, prevention and risk control workshops to ensure assistance to workers and their families, or even to community members affected by serious diseases 74 6.4 LA9 Subjects related of health and safety covered by formal agreements with unions Even though we do not have a contract with the union, all of our personnel have benefits LA10 Average training hours, by year, by employee, listed by job categories LA11 Continuous learning and ability management programs that provide future employability of employees and career management 74 6.4 LA12 Percentage of employees that receive regular performance evaluations and career development 74 6.4 LA13 Formation of social organs of the company and rate of employees by category, by gender, age, minorities and other diversity indicators 74 6.4 LA14 List of rate between base wage for men and women, by position 74 6.4 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 HR1 Percentage and total of significant investment contracts that include clauses related to human rights, or that have been submitted to audits related to human rights HR2 Percentage of hired companies and important suppliers submitted to audits related to human rights and measures taken HR3 Total employees training hours on policies and procedures related to human rights relevant to the operations, including the percentage of employees who received training 74 6.4 HR4 Number of discriminations and measures taken There are no reported cases of discrimination anywhere at the agency 108 Sustainability Report HR5 HR6 Identified operations in which the right of freedom of association and the collective negotiation may be in significant risk and the measures taken to support such right Operations identified as of significant risk of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the end of child labor 98 98 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 DM9DDB 6.3 6.3 2011 HR7 Operations identified as of significant risk of forced labor, or similar to enslaved work, and measures taken to contribute to the end of forced labor, or similar to enslaved work 98 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 6.3 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 SO1 Nature, scope and efficiency of any programs and practices to evaluate and manage the operation's impact on the community, including entry, operation and exit 99 1; 2; 5 6.6.6; 6.8 SO2 Percentage and number of units submitted to risk evaluations related to corruption risks 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 EC5 Variation of the rate between the lowest wage compared to the minimum wage of the location of major operational units Our lowest wage is higher than minimum wage, aligned with the category's base wage EC6 Policies, practices and expenditure proportion with local suppliers in major operational units EC7 Procedures for local hiring and rate of members of high leadership recruited in the local community 74 6.4 EC8 Investment development and impact in the infrastructure and services provided, specially for public benefit, through commercial engagement, either in kind or pro bono activities 99 1; 2; 5 6.6.6; 6.8 EC9 Identification and description of significant, indirect economic impact, including impact extension 99 1; 2; 5 6.6.6; 6.8 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 EN1 Identification and description of significant, indirect economic impact, including impact extension 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN2 Percentage of material used that is obtained through recycling 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN3 Direct energy consumption, detailing the primary energy source 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN4 Indirect energy consumption, detailing the primary energy source EN5 Energy saved due to improvement in conservation and efficiency EN6 Initiatives to supply products and services with low energy consumption, or using energy generated by renewable resources, and reduction of the need for energy resulting from these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions obtained 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN8 Total of water used, by source 100% of the water used by the agency is provided by the city's public service (Sabesp) EN9 Hydric resources affected significantly by water removal There is no contamination of waters for we use the city's public service (Sabesp) EN10 Percentage and total volume of reused and recycled water EN11 Location and size of the area owned, rented or administered within protected areas, or surrounding them, and areas with high biodiversity index outside protected areas Our office is located on a urban area without a high biodiversity index EN12 Description of significant impacts on the biodiversity of activities, products and services in protected areas and areas with high biodiversity index outside protected areas We have no major impact on biodiversity for we are located on a urban area EN13 Protected or restores habitats EN14 Strategies, current measures and future plans for managing the impacts on biodiversity 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN15 Number of species on IUCN's Red List and on national conservation lists with habitat in areas affected by operation, detailed EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emission, by weight 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emission, by weight 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the reductions obtained 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN19 Emission of substances harmful to the ozone layer, by weight EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions, by type and weight EN21 Total waste of water, by type and destination 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN22 Total waste weight, by type and disposition method 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN23 Number and total volume of significant spillage Because we are a service provider, we do not handle materials that can cause spillage EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or handled hazardous waste according to the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VII, and percentage of waste loads transported internationally Does not apply EN25 Identification, size, protection status and biodiversity index of water bodies and related habitats affected significantly by water disposal and drainage EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and the reduction extent of these impacts 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN27 Percentage of products and its packages recovered against products sold, by product category 46 7; 8; 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.6 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions resulting of the non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations We have no fines related to environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts on the transportation of products and other assets and materials used on the organization's operations, as well as employee transport We do not use people or product transportation EN30 Total investment and expenditure in environmental protection, by type PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 LA1 List all labor force, by position, labor contract and region 74 6.4 LA2 Total employees and respective rotation rate, by age, gender and region 74 6.4 LA3 Benefits ensured to full time employees that are not granted to part time or temporary employees 74 6.4 LA4 Percentage of workers covered by collective hiring agreements 100% of our personnel is under the CLT (Consolidated Labor Laws) regimen LA5 Minimum deadlines for previous notification regarding operational changes, including if the procedure is mentioned in collective hiring agreements 74 6.4 LA6 Percentage of total work force represented in formal commissions of health and safety, that aid in the follow up and guidance on occupational health and safety programs 74 6.4 LA7 Number of injuries, occupational disease, lost work days, absence, occupational fatality, by region LA8 Current education, training, guidance, prevention and risk control workshops to ensure assistance to workers and their families, or even to community members affected by serious diseases 74 6.4 LA9 Subjects related of health and safety covered by formal agreements with unions Even though we do not have a contract with the union, all of our personnel have benefits LA10 Average training hours, by year, by employee, listed by job categories LA11 Continuous learning and ability management programs that provide future employability of employees and career management 74 6.4 LA12 Percentage of employees that receive regular performance evaluations and career development 74 6.4 LA13 Formation of social organs of the company and rate of employees by category, by gender, age, minorities and other diversity indicators 74 6.4 LA14 List of rate between base wage for men and women, by position 74 6.4 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 HR1 Percentage and total of significant investment contracts that include clauses related to human rights, or that have been submitted to audits related to human rights HR2 Percentage of hired companies and important suppliers submitted to audits related to human rights and measures taken HR3 Total employees training hours on policies and procedures related to human rights relevant to the operations, including the percentage of employees who received training 74 6.4 HR4 Number of discriminations and measures taken There are no reported cases of discrimination anywhere at the agency HR5 Identified operations in which the right of freedom of association and the collective negotiation may be in significant risk and the measures taken to support such right 98 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 6.3 HR6 Operations identified as of significant risk of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the end of child labor 98 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 6.3 HR7 Operations identified as of significant risk of forced labor, or similar to enslaved work, and measures taken to contribute to the end of forced labor, or similar to enslaved work 98 1; 2; 4; 5; 6 6.3 PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 SO1 Nature, scope and efficiency of any programs and practices to evaluate and manage the operation's impact on the community, including entry, operation and exit 99 1; 2; 5 6.6.6; 6.8 SO2 Percentage and number of units submitted to risk evaluations related to corruption risks 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 SO3 Percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures of the organization 35 1; 2; 4; 5; 6; 10 6.3; 6.6.3 SO4 Measures taken in case of corruption There are no cases of corruption this particular year SO5 Position on public policies and participation on the creation of public policies and lobbies We follow the policies adopted by DDB Worldwide SO6 Total value of financial and in kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions, listed by country We do not contribute financially with any political parties or related institutions SO7 Total number of lawsuits related to unfair competition, trust and monopolistic practices and their results SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions resulting of the non-compliance with laws and regulations PROFILE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION PAGE AND/OR DEFINITION GLOBAL COMPACT ISO26000 PR1 Phases of the life cycle of products and services in which the health and safety impacts are evaluated in light of improvement, and the percentage of products and services subjected to these procedures 104 6.7; 6.7.3 PR2 Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to the impacts in health and safety caused by products and services during life cycle, listed by type of result PR3 Type of information on products and services demanded by labeling procedures, and the percentage of products and services subjected to such demands Does not apply PR4 Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to the products and services information and labeling, listed by type of result Does not apply PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of satisfaction measurement surveys 104 6.7; 6.7.3 PR6 Adherence to rule of law, standards and voluntary codes programs related to marketing communication, including publicity, promotion and sponsorship 4 PR7 Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing communication, including publicity, promotion and sponsorship, listed by type of result PR8 Number of verified complaints related to the violation of privacy and loss of client's data We praise our clients' confidential information PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for the non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the supply and use of products and services Publication Team: Graphic Project Texts Photos Layout Editorial Coordination Sérgio Magalhães Lana Pinheiro Instagram Teco Cipriano Lana Pinheiro Teco Cipriano Pedro Aguiar Chavedar All pictures used in this report 109 were kindly ceded by DM9 staff. DM9DDB 2011
