Sterlite Group Sustainable Development Report 2010-11 ONE PURPOSE, MANY WAYS... 1 CONTENT Our Profile ..................................................................................................................... 03 Sustainability & Us...................................................................................................... 19 Our Employees ............................................................................................................. 22 Community..................................................................................................................... 33 Health, Safety and Environment............................................................................. 46 Our Partners.................................................................................................................. 67 GRI Index.........................................................................................................................69 UNGC.................................................................................................................................82 Glossary...........................................................................................................................83 2 Our Profile The purpose is clear selfless commitment towards economic, social and environmental development. And the ways to achieve it are many, given that we have several companies focussing on various operations. But the question is, “Are we doing enough?” Being India's largest diversified non-ferrous metals and mining group, we have taken upon us the responsibility of contributing towards a happier and healthier planet. We strive to be successful in each of our endeavours extraction/production of zinc, copper and aluminium, and energy generation, so as to contribute towards the economic development of the nation. Our constant focus is to ensure that our initiatives, technologies and processes are environment-friendly. At the same time, we are committed to the well-being of our employees and community development. CEO's Message Dear Stakeholder, I take great pride in presenting the first online consolidated Sustainability Report of Sterlite Industries. As India's largest non-ferrous metals and mining group comprising of companies like Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZL), Copper Mines of Tasmania (CMT), Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. (BALCO), Sterlite Copper, Zinc International (Africa and Ireland) and Sterlite Energy Limited, we constantly strive towards one purpose – unfailing commitment towards economic, social and environmental development. The India growth story is reflected in the success of Sterlite Industries, which is widening its global presence and is -now considered to be amongst the leading metals and mining companies in the world. This success story, however, is not just about economic growth, but our commitment to sustainability. Sustainable development is the founding pillar of our vision and mission. Our priorities include good governance, environmental footprint reduction and creating value for all our stakeholders. The Growth Story With our key organic expansion projects, we foresee a significant growth in our production capacities, in the subsequent financial year. We expect a further growth in metal consumption with tight supply in specific markets, particularly for copper and zinc. Whilst higher commodity prices are driving up input costs in our industry, our structurally low-cost assets combined with our continuous improvement methodologies, are enabling us to mitigate the effects of this phenomenon. As a part of this growth strategy, we completed the acquisition of the zinc assets of Anglo-American in the second half of 2010-11, increasing our zinc-lead capacity to 1.5 million tonnes per annum. This acquisition makes us the largest integrated zinc-lead producer in the world and extends our zinc footprint in Africa and Ireland. Sustainable Development Sustainability is a bed rock of our philosophy of doing the business. To achieve goal of sustainability we have chosen International Finance Corporation (IFC) framework and performance standards at Vedanta Resource Plc (parent company) level. As an element of framework implementation, we have developed policies, technical and management standards to address key sustainability issues related to our nature of work and prepare a road map for our journey. We are progressing well in implementing the framework, whilst retaining our focus on improving our safety performance; contributing further to local communities; continuing to manage and minimize our impact on air, water and land; and maintaining a dialogue with stakeholders on an ongoing basis. We recognize that climate change is one of the key challenges affecting the world today, and therefore strive hard to mitigate environmental impact of our operations. Reiterating our commitment towards adopting renewable energy and energy efficient initiatives, we have commissioned Wind Power Plants and are rigorously moving forward in identifying CDM projects and their implementations. In 2011, Hindustan Zinc commissioned 48 MW of 150 MW expansions in wind power generation capacity during the fourth quarter, and the remaining 102 MW is expected to be commissioned in the year 2011-12. CSR is an integral part of our business which is accorded as much importance as any of our business project. We are committed to raise the quality of life and social well-being of communities where we operate and beyond 3 through our relentless CSR initiatives. We are passionately committed to improve the quality of life of the communities by providing accessibility to the basic facilities of health & nutrition, education, sustainable livelihood, water & sanitation, infrastructure etc. In addition to this, we have also developed specialized programmes for socio-economic empowerment of women and bio-investment. Through our CSR interventions, we are positively impacting lives of more than 1.4 million people across our areas of operation the country. We are providing supplementary nutrition & pre-school education to more than 65,000 children of 3-6 years of age through Vedanta Bal-shakti Anganwadi Centres in Rajasthan & Chattisgarh. In addition, nutritious food is being provided on daily basis to more than 2.2 lac children of through Mid-day Meal Programme Over a period of time, we have created community assets through our group companies such as Vedanta Cancer Hospital at Raipur and Hindustan ZincVedanta Cardiac Centre at Udaipur to provide affordable medical services to the respective local communities. At Korba (Chattisgarh), the Vedanta Rehabilitation Centre has also been established providing physio-speech and behavioural therapy to mentally & physically challenges children. Livelihood enhancement projects at Tuticorin have improved socio-economic strata by enhancing employability of coastal youth to 78% with monthly income of Rs. 3000-4000. Along with this, various need based community programmes are running for providing sustainable livelihood opportunities to rural people in both farm & non-farm sector Our success and journey towards sustainability wouldn’t be possible without the encouragement and participation of our stakeholders – our employees, community, our supplier partners and many more. I express our gratitude to our stakeholders and hope that they continue to encourage and support us in our sustainability journey. In this report, we have followed the Guidelines from GRI G3.1 framework and also adopted United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles to report all our activities and initiatives relevant to our stakeholders and our business. I urge our stakeholders to read this report and give an honest feedback as it will help us in understanding their perspectives and further improve upon. Yours Sincerely, M. S. Mehta CEO – Sterlite Industries About Us Sterlite Industries is the principal subsidiary of Vedanta Resources plc, a diversified and integrated FTSE 100 metals and mining company. Our primary operations for each of our main metals (aluminium, copper, zinc and lead) are located in India and Australia. During the year 2010-11 Sterlite, completed the acquisition of Zinc assets of Anglo-American Plc. (Anglo Zinc) comprising its Skorpion mines in Namibia, Lisheen mines in Ireland and 74% owned Black Mountain mines in South Africa which includes the Black Mountain mine and the Gamsberg project. With this acquisition, we have further consolidated our position as the world’s largest integrated zinc-lead producer with significant reserves and resources of 478 million tonnes. Having substantial global presence, Sterlite Industries is listed on BSE, NSE and NYSE. Our principal operating companies comprise: • Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL), India for its fully integrated zinc and lead operations • Sterlite Copper (SIIL) Tuticorin & Silvassa, India for its copper operations • Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited (CMT), Australia for its copper mining operations • Bharat Aluminium Company (BALCO), India for its aluminium and alumina operations • Sterlite Energy Limited (SEL), India for its commercial power generation business 4 Group Structure Management Structure 5 Our Vision To create a world class, diversified resources company with high quality assets, low cost production, providing superior returns to our shareholders Our Values Entrepreneurship We foster an entrepreneurial spirit throughout our businesses and value the ability to foresee business opportunities early in the cycle and act on them swiftly. Whether it be developing organic growth projects, making strategic acquisitions or creating entrepreneurs from within, we ensure an entrepreneurial spirit at the heart of our workplace. Growth We continue to deliver growth and generate significant value for our shareholders. Moreover, our organic growth pipeline is strong as we seek to continue to deliver significant growth for shareholders in the future. We have pursued growth across all our businesses and into new areas; always on the basis that value must be delivered. Excellence Achieving excellence in all that we do is our way of life. We strive to consistently deliver projects ahead of time at industry-leading costs of construction and within budget. We are constantly focused on achieving a top decile cost of production in each of our businesses. To achieve this, we follow a culture of best practice benchmarking. Trust The trust that our stakeholders place in us is key to our success. We recognise that we must responsibly deliver on the promises we make to earn that trust. We constantly strive to meet stakeholder expectations of us and deliver ahead of expectations. Sustainability We practise sustainability within the framework of well-defined governance structures and policies, and with the demonstrated commitment of our management and employees. We aim that our projects make a net positive impact on the environment, wherever we work. Products & Operations Sterlite is India's largest non-ferrous metals and mining company and is one of the fastest growing private sector companies. We aim to create a globally respected, world-class metals and mining company that generates consistently strong financial returns for its shareholders. A majority of our operations are certified to the International Standards like ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Sterlite Copper Sterlite Copper is one of the largest integrated copper rod producers in Asia. Our primary products are copper cathode & copper rods and its by-products (sulphuric and phosphoric acid). The business comprises of two units – Tuticorin in the Southern State of Tamil Nadu and Silvassa in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli located in Western region of India The Tuticorin operations include a copper smelter, a refinery, a phosphoric acid plant, a sulphuric acid plant and copper rod plant; whilst our Silvassa operations comprise a refinery and two copper rod plants. The Tuticorin Smelter has been operating for more than thirteen years in accordance with global standards. It employs the ISA Smelt process which is considered globally as an environmentally advanced technology. Sterlite Copper is a LME approved copper tester. Our copper products meet the requirement of Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS complied) and certified by Underwriters Laboratories Inc. Its Central lab at Silvassa is a GoI approved R&D laboratory. The Company has also won numerous awards for safety and environment. 6 Hindustan Zinc (HZL) Sterlite acquired 64.9% ownership interest in HZL in the year 2002 when the Government disinvested the stake down to 29.5% and institutional and public shareholders (5.6%). HZL is India's leading primary zinc producer with an 82.1% market share by sales volume in India in fiscal 2011, according to the Indian Lead Zinc Development Association (ILZDA). In 2011, Brook Hunt agency quoted HZL as the world's largest integrated producer of zinc based on production volumes & in the lowest cost quartile in terms of all zinc mining operations worldwide and HZL's Rampura Agucha mine as the largest zinc mine in the world on a production basis. Mined metal production of zinc and lead increased in the financial year 2010-11, up 9.0% to 840 KT. HZL's operations include four lead-zinc mines, four hydro-metallurgical zinc smelters, one lead smelter, one leadzinc smelter, five sulphuric acid plants, one silver refinery, five captive power plants in Northwest India, one hydrometallurgical zinc smelter and a sulphuric acid plant at its Vishakapatnam facility in Southeast India. HZL has entered into a consortium for developing the Madanpur South Coal Block in Chhattisgarh for securing its coal requirements for captive power generation. The establishment of additional wind power plants of 150 MW was announced by HZL, of which 48 MW have already been commissioned during the year taking the wind generation capacity to 171 MW as on 31 March 2011. The power generated from these wind power plants is proposed to be sold to state electricity boards in India. This project is anticipated to be funded through internal resources and would provide tax incentives under the Income Tax Act. During the year, the Company completed the acquisition of Anglo American Plc's zinc assets (Anglo Zinc) for a total cash consideration of $1,513 million. This acquisition comprised the 100 % owned Skorpion mine in Namibia, the 100% owned Lisheen mine in Ireland and the 74% owned Black Mountain Mines, which includes the Black Mountain mine and the Gamsberg project in South Africa. Anglo Zinc will create significant long term value for shareholders and with this acquisition, our global positioning is deemed as the world's largest integrated zinc – lead producer with significant reserves and resources of 478 million tonnes. Bharat Aluminium Company (BALCO) BALCO is one of the four primary producers of Aluminium in India. Government of India (GoI) divested 51% equity in the year 2001 in favour of Sterlite Industries. The Company is playing a crucial role in introducing aluminium as a potential alternative to other metals like Steel in construction, and Copper in power transmission industry. After disinvestment, a pre-baked smelter of capacity 245 KT per annum was established in the year 2004. The smelter plants are being supported by uninterrupted power supply through Captive Power Plants 270 MW at Jamnipali, Korba and 540 MW at the smelter site. According to Aluminium Association of India (AAI), BALCO presently has a 36% primary market share by production volume in India. BALCO's partially integrated operations include two bauxite mines, captive power plants and refining, smelting and fabrication facilities at our Korba facility in Central India. During the year, the production of saleable metal was 2,55,298 MT from the 2.45 lakh MT per annum pre-baked smelter as compared to 2,68,425 MT in the previous year including production from the VSS smelter which was completely phased out in June 2009. BALCO has commenced implementation of the MoU with the Government of Chhattisgarh for setting up of a new smelter with a 6.5 lakh MT per annum capacity. We have commenced the implementation process of the first phase of expansion for setting up 3.25 lakh MT per annum pre-bake aluminium smelter at an estimated project cost of Rs. 3,215 Crore for commissioning by Q2 of FY 2013. BALCO is in the process of setting up the 1200 MW power plant project at a cost of Rs. 4,912 Crore. The first two units are expected to be commissioned in FY 201112. Consequently the synchronisation of the third and fourth unit is expected in second quarter of 2012-13. Subject to statutory consents, the approval process for BALCO's 211 million tonnes coal block is progressing well and is expected to commence coal mining by Q4 FY 2011-12. 7 Sterlite Energy (SEL) Sterlite is currently developing a commercial power generation business in India that leverages its experience in setting up and operating captive power plants that support its primary businesses. Sterlite Energy has set up a 2,400 MW thermal coal-based power facility (comprising four units of 600 MW each) in Jharsuguda in the State of Orissa. The 2400 MW Independent Power Plant Jharsuguda, Orissa at a cost of Rs. 8,484 Crore is under progress and is expected to complete by end of FY 2012.Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), a 100% subsidiary of SEL, will be implementing the largest 1980 (3x660) MW Greenfield Power Project in Punjab, India, with all consents and approvals in place. Further, TSPL has decided to add one more unit of 660 MW under the Power Generation Policy 2010 of the State of Punjab to sell 85% of the power generated as Merchant Power. Thus the capacity of the project will be enhanced to 2640 (4x660) MW. TSPL is one of the first few Supercritical plants being constructed in the country. The Supercritical technologies are environment friendly and energy efficient technologies. Copper Mines of Tasmania (CMT) We own the Mt. Lyell copper mine at Tasmania in Australia, which provides around 8% of our copper concentrate requirements at Sterlite Copper. Mount Lyell Mine, located in Queenstown, Tasmania is a copper mine with more than 100 years of operation. First started in 1896, it was re-opened by Copper Mines of Tasmania in 1995. Acquired by Sterlite Industries in 1999, Copper Mines of Tasmania (CMT) is a part of the fast growing Vedanta group of companies. CMT mined and treated almost 2.12 million tonnes of ore to produce 23,777 tonnes of contained copper concentrate in 2009-10. The copper is mined using a sub-level caving mining method and work is carried out at 1000 meters below the original surface (600 meters below 0m Australian height datum 2000RI). Primary crushing takes place underground and ore is then automatically hoisted up a 600 metre shaft to be transported to the concentrator on a 1.2 kilometre overland conveyor belt. In the plant, the ore is crushed using three stage crushing, ground down to a fine slurry and the copper sulphide minerals are then concentrated. After filtration, the concentrate is transported to Burnie port from where it is exported to Sterlite's copper smelter in Tuticorin, India. Market Segmentation Sterlite Copper Copper Business Our major sales are in the domestic market, the demand for copper based products is owing to the growth in the cement, steel, crude oil, electricity, and coal and petroleum refinery sectors. The domestic market is fiercely competitive for cathode and copper rod products; we have managed to retain our customer base by offering them consistent quality products and enhancing our production capacity to support the rising demand. Copper cathodes which are converted into rods are supplied to both the domestic and export markets. Sectors catered to within our domestic market are; • For Cathode Alloying and Rod Manufactures • For CC Rods Power cables, Telecom cables/Data cables/House wires, Magnetic wires, Transformers We export copper cathodes to markets in China, Korea and other South-East Asian countries. We are a reputed global supplier for markets in Middle East and several parts of Asia. The graph below shows the amount of copper products (in Metric Tonnes) sold across South East Asia, China and Middle East Asia in past 6 years. China continues to be our main focus with respect to our exports. In 2010, China was the world's large consumer 8 of metals, accounting for approximately 40% of refined copper consumption alone. Acid Business Our Acid Business is driven from Tuticorin, the location of this division plays a huge role in helping us capitalise our scale of production. We are well-placed in the market in the vicinity of major fertiliser producers such as Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT), Coromandel International Limited (CIL), Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers (MCF) & Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) and cement companies like India Cements, Madura Cements, Dalmia Cements etc. The Sulphuric acid sales increased by 7.51% to 520813 MT in the reporting year from 484453 MT in the previous year. Sterlite Copper has a reputation of being the only domestic seller of Phosphoric acid in India and this works as an added advantage to our business as it rules out competition and gives us the dominant status in the domestic market. The presence of an integrated Phosphoric acid plant, which consumes almost 50% of our Sulphuric acid production, gives us a strategic advantage in the otherwise dynamic sulphur market. The management keeps a regular track of the fertiliser market and decides the sale mix (Sulphuric acid/Phosphoric acid) based on market inputs to maximise the overall margin from the business. Hindustan Zinc (HZL) Zinc Urbanisation and industrialisation, especially in the developing economies of China and India has contributed to increase in the world zinc consumption by 14% to 11.6 MT. At the same time, world smelter production increased by 13% to 12.8 MT, leaving the Zinc market with a surplus of over 1 MT of refined Zinc metal. During the year 2011, the average Zinc LME price per tonne increased to $ 2,185, compared to $ 1,936 in the previous year. Asia (excluding China), which is our key exports market, is poised to grow at around 7% in the next year. Indian demand for refined Zinc was around 501 kt in the year . The Indian Zinc demand is expected to grow in the coming years, based on a positive GDP forecast. The key components for growth are ongoing and upcoming infrastructure projects, telecom and power projects and automobile sector that are estimated at Rs. 70,000 Crores. In the long-term, we see a promising future for Zinc demand in India, given the low per capita Zinc consumption of 0.41 kg per capita in 2011, as compared to the world average of 1.7 kg per capita Zinc 9 consumption. HZL has 82% share in Indian Zinc market. Zinc is used widely in Zinc Galvanising, vulcanisation of rubber, die castings of hardware & automotive equipments, making alloys, zinc sheets. Galvanising accounts for around 48% of global Zinc usage. 17% of Zinc used in the world is through die castings. 10% of global Zinc usage is for vulcanisation of rubber, as well as in ceramics, paints, animal feed, pharmaceuticals, and several other products and processes. Alloy accounts for around 11% of global Zinc usage. Lead The demand for refined Lead increased by 9% to 9.18 MT in 2011, as compared to 8.43 MT in 2010. Replacement battery demand, mainstay of Lead consumption with the recovery in automobiles OEMs production, was able to push Lead on the path of recovery to a 9% growth. At the same time, the global Lead smelter production was 9.44 MT. This left the refined Lead market in surplus, barely by 260 kt for the year. During the year 2010-11, the average Lead LME price per tonne increased to $ 2,244, as compared to $ 1,990 in the previous year. Indian Lead market grew by 7% to 380,000 tonnes in 2011, as compared to the previous year. Asia has become the new growth centre of the world, with China and India leading the way. The Replacement market demand is growing year after year with an increased number of vehicles on the road. Power deficit in the country is resulting in an increased need of power backup and inverter battery. The demand of the Indian Battery industry is estimated to be around 90% of the Indian Lead demand. Our share in the domestic market is around 15% in the total Lead market (including alloys), and 25% in the pure Lead market (excluding alloys). The battery sector is the single largest consumer of Lead, accounting for around three-quarters of the demand. SLI (Starting-Lighting-Ignition) batteries, which currently account for around half of the total Lead demand are mainly used in cars and light vehicles, but are also found in other applications such as golf carts and boats. Industrial batteries, which currently consume around a quarter of the total Lead produced. Stationary batteries are principally used in back up power supply systems; traction batteries are used for motive power in equipment such as forklift trucks and motorised wheelchairs. The second largest current end use of Lead for non-battery applications, accounting for around 8% of Lead consumption, is the chemical industry, in the form of Lead-based pigments and other compounds. Principal markets are for cathode ray tubes used in television screens and computer monitors, and for Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) stabilisers. Silver In 2011, the demand for Silver remained buoyant at around 980 million ounces, a 10% growth as compared to the previous year. The demand by fabrication has seen a growth of 10% this year, as a recovery in industrial uses and a robust growth in coins, investment and a modest rise in jewellery; but a decline in Silverware was witnessed due to losses in India on account of the price. Mine production rose by 5% and supply side (supported by higher Scrap supply) by 10% this year. Due to the higher investment demand and modest industrial growth, the Silver demand is expected to further rise in the next year. Average annual price for Silver in 2011 was $ 23.84 per ounce, up by 60% year on year. The Indian demand for Silver was higher by 8% at around 3,120 tonnes in 2011, as compared to the previous year. Indian Silver demand is expected to grow on the back of prospective growth in electrical and other industrial segments, and Silver becoming a preferred investment asset along with Gold. Industrial applications of Silver are mainly for brazing alloys, electrical contacts, high capacity Silver-Zinc or Silver-Cadmium batteries, printed circuits and other electronic applications. Other applications are jewellery, Silver plating, Silverware, photography, Dental alloys and more. BALCO The global aluminium industry recorded a 12.8% growth in production and 16.7% growth in consumption during the year after a turbulent period. Globally the industry is facing the challenge of rise in costs and other input costs. This is also reflected in the increase in aluminium LME prices. Our major operations are located in Korba in the Indian state of Chattisgarh, where there are abundant bauxite and coal deposits. This underscores India's unique advantage of being rich in natural resources required to produce aluminium at a competitive cost. 10 The Indian aluminium market is dominated by growing demand from the power sector. Over time, the relative share of aluminium applications in other segments is expected to pick up with rapid urbanisation and construction sector growth. Our focus is on value added products like wire rods, rolled product and billets to capitalise on market growth and optimise returns. We cater to key markets around the globe including the domestic market of India. We serve key markets located in South East Asia, South Asia, Middle East, and Europe. Copper Mines of Tasmania (CMT) All the ore mined, is shipped to Sterlite Copper processes for preparation of its copper based products. Customer Satisfaction Surveys To gauge the overall satisfaction from our services offered to the customers, we periodically conduct customer satisfaction surveys. Customer satisfaction survey conducted at regular interval to understand customer feedback and corrective actions are made to address the requirements of customers. Surveys are also conducted by employing third party to remove bias in the feedback. This helps us in improving our delivery and standards in catering to our customer base. Sterlite Copper The export market customer satisfaction survey is conducted once every two years. The company is in the process to obtain feedback from our export market customer base by September 2011, which will be reported in the next sustainable development report. Acid business customer satisfaction survey was conducted in June 2011 and will be covered in the next year's report. In the reporting year, the survey was conducted in the domestic market amongst 142 customers as per their region. The overall Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) came to 77.7 % favouring our performance. The rating criteria based on the enlisted parameters for assessment yielded the following results based on the average taken from the views/customer ratings collected from 142 customers. Each of the eight assessed parameters was rated out on 10 points. HZL Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted at company level every 2 years at HZL. Senior executives make frequent visits to customers to get direct feedback on our products and services and other related issues. In terms of customer satisfaction, the marketing team maintains a forward looking approach in tandem with the global commodity pricing trends and customer demand assessment. Subsequently, the ISO 9000 guideline based Feedback schedule is followed for obtaining regular feedback in a periodic basis. This feedback is accumulated for sharing in management review based on which response is generated. Annual vendor and Customer Meet is organized for creating a platform for dialogue and grievance redressal which is mentored at the CEO level. The last two years information can be summarized in the form of 100% retention of customers. Awards HZL • International British safety council Award 2010, UK to Debari Zinc Smelter • Star Prax Global Benchmarking award 2010 for water management to Chanderia Smelting Complex • FIMI Gem Granites Environment Award to Zawar Mines • CII – National Energy Management Award (Energy Efficient unit) to Rampura Agucha Mine • CII – National Water Management Award 2010 (Excellent Water Efficient unit) to Zawar Mines • CII – National Water Management Award 2010 (Water Efficient unit) to Chanderiya Smelting Complex • HZL (CSC) received IMC-Rama Krishna Bajaj National Quality Excellence trophy 2010 • HZL (VZS) received Environmental Best Practices Award 2011 by CII. BALCO • International Green Apple – Silver Award 2010 for Environmental Best Practices on Emission Reduction Technology • BALCO received IMC-Rama Krishna Bajaj National Quality commendation 2010. 11 • Construction Industry Development Council (CIDC), Viswakarma Award for Social Responsibility, 2010, BALCO • Wockhardt Foundation, India Shining Initiative, 'Best CSR in Mining Sector' Award, 2010, Sterlite Industries (I) Ltd • Commendation Certificate received from Rajasthan Journalists Union for Excellent CSR Initiatives, 2010, Sterlite Copper • Ramakrishna Bajaj National Quality 2010 – Performance Excellence Trophy on 16th March • Sterlite was awarded level 7 out of 10 for Leadership and Strategic Planning during Best Practices Benchmarking Competition conducted by GBN Road show, Mumbai • Sterlite received two gold and two silver awards for competitions on best 5S, TQM and Kaizen Projects in the Chapter Convention of Quality Circles conducted by Quality Circle Forum of India during Sep'10 • Sterlite received two Par Excellence awards for 5S and one for TQM in National Convention of Quality Circles held at Vizag during December 2010 Corporate Governance The Sterlite Group believes in fair and transparent policy in all its business dealings and corporate affairs. The Group maintains highest ethical standards in its dealings with all its stakeholders which are key to ensure business success. In this endeavour, the Group constantly reviews its systems and procedures to achieve the highest level of corporate governance while fulfilling the role of a responsible corporate representative committed to sound corporate practices. Sterlite has adopted Corporate Governance related practices as mandated in Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and other established procedures and systems to strengthen the governance system. Elaborate information on corporate governance practices of Sterlite Group is available at http://sterlite-industries.com/investor_relations/PDFs/SIILAnnualReport2010-11.pdf Board of Directors The Company believes that sound corporate governance is essential in achieving the Group’s strategy to create a world class metals and mining organisation and generate strong financial returns. The Board is aware of the need for a strong corporate governance framework in the current climate and the need not only to reflect the changing nature of the Group’s businesses but the environment in which it operates.. The company’s Board of Directors (‘Board’) comprises of seven Directors, viz., Mr. Anil Agarwal, Chairman (NonExecutive),Mr. Navin Agarwal Executive Vice-Chairman are the two promoter Directors,Mr. Din Dayal Jalan is the Whole-time Director. In addition to the promoter directors, there are four Non-Executive Independent Directors, viz., Mr. Gautam Doshi, Mr. Berjis Desai Mr. Sandeep Junnarkar and Mr.A.R.Narayanaswamy. More than fifty percent of the directors are independent directors. All the Independent Directors meet the independence criteria as required under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. In 2010-11, the Board of the company met fourteen times. The Board reviews, approves the Company's strategic, operational and financial plans, guides corporate strategy, takes key strategic decisions, reviews the major plans of action, i.e. decisions concerning the capital of the company, including capital restructure, capital returns and security issue and buy backs etc., risk policy, review, approve annual budgets and business plans and monitor performance against corporate strategy. 12 Committees of the Board The Board Committees focus on specific area and make informed / appropriate decisions within the authority delegated to each Committee guided by its charter, which defines the composition, scope, responsibilities and powers of the Committee. The Committee also make specific recommendations to the Board on various matters from time to time. All observations, recommendations and decisions are placed before the Board for information and their approval / consent. Audit Committee The Audit Committee met six times during the course of the year. CEO, CFO and representatives of the Statutory Auditors and Internal Auditors are regularly invited by the Audit Committee to its meetings. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee. The functions of the Audit Committee of the company include the following: • Oversight of the company's financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible • Recommending to the Board, the appointment, re-appointment and, if required, the replacement or removal of the statutory auditor and the fixation of audit fees • Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory auditors • Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval • Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems. • Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal audit. • Discussion with internal auditors any significant findings and follow up thereon. • Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board. • Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern. • Reviewing the company's risk management policies and functioning of the Whistle Blower Mechanism. • To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of non payment of declared dividends) and creditors. • Reviewing any changes in the accounting policies or practices as compared to the last completed financial year and commenting on any deviation from the Accounting Standards. • Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the Audit Committee. • The Audit Committee is empowered, pursuant to its terms of reference to investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information it requires from any employee. • The Company has systems and procedures in place to ensure that the Audit Committee mandatorily reviews management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. • The Audit Committee of the Company reviews the financial statements of the subsidiary companies, during the year, the Audit Committee also reviewed the investments made by the subsidiary companies, minutes of the Board meeting of the subsidiary companies and statement of all significant transactions and arrangements entered into by the subsidiary companies. No Indian subsidiary of the Company falls under the term 'material non-listed Indian subsidiary as defined under Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement. Shareholders'/Investors' Grievances Redressal Committee The Shareholders' Grievance Redressal Committee of the Company reviews matters related Grievances of shareholders and investors. The Committee primarily focuses on review of investor complaints and its redressal, queries received from investors i.e. transfer of shares, issue of share certificates, non-receipt of Annual Report, non-receipt of declared dividends etc and reviews the Report presented by Share Transfer Agent of the 13 Company. The company has appointed, M/s. Karvy Computershare Private Limited, as its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent, who are fully equipped to carry out share transfer activities and redress investor complaints. Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer for redressal of all shareholders' grievances. Nominations Governance and Remuneration Committee The Company's Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending the fixation and periodic revision of remunerations (including commissions and/or incentives, etc) of Whole-Time Directors/Executive Directors. This is done after reviewing their performance based on pre-determined evaluation parameters and the Company policy of rewarding achievements and performance. Payment of remuneration to the Executive Vice-Chairman, Managing Director and Whole-time Director is governed by the respective agreements executed between them and the Company and are governed by Board and shareholders' resolutions. The remuneration structure comprises of Salary, commission linked to profits, perquisites and allowances and retirement benefits (pension, superannuation and gratuity). Share / Debenture Transfer Committee The Board of Directors have delegated the power to approve share/debenture transfers, transmission and consider split / consolidation requests to the Share / Debenture Transfer Committee. The Share / Debenture Transfer Committee were reconstituted in the reporting year with new members' viz. Mr. Ramesh Nair, (COOSterlite Copper), Mr. C. Prabhakaran, Associate Vice President – Finance and Mr. Rajiv Choubey, Company Secretary & Head Legal. The Share/Debenture Transfer Committee met 16 times during the year. Finance Standing Committee The Finance Standing Committee (erstwhile Banking & Authorisation Committee) consisted of Directors & Officials of the Company, namely Mr.Navin Agarwal, Mr.Din Dayal Jalan, Mr.Tarun Jain, Mr.R. Kishore Kumar, Mr.Ramesh Nair and Mr.C.Prabhakaran. The Charter of the Committee authorises on behalf of the Company, any changes in authorised signatories for banking operations, delegation of powers for day to day excise and sales tax matters, authorisation to specific employees for certain contractual obligations and such other delegation as may required. The Committee meet twice during the year. Mr.M.S.Mehta who was appointed as the CEO of the Company on March 31, 2011 has been included as an Executive Member of the Finance Standing Committee in place of Mr. R. Kishore Kumar. Disclosures by Management to the Board All disclosures relating to financial and commercial transactions where Directors may have a potential interest are provided to the Board, and the interested Directors do not participate in the discussion nor do they vote on such matters. Disclosure of Accounting Treatment in Preparation of Financial Statements Sterlite has followed the guidelines of accounting standards referred to in Section 211(3C) of the Companies Act, 1956 including Accounting Standard (AS)-30 on 'Financial Instruments : Recognition and Measurement' and Limited revision arising out of it in other Accounting Standards, issued by 'The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India'. Code of Prevention of Insider Trading Practices In compliance with the SEBI regulation on prevention of insider trading, Sterlite has instituted a comprehensive 14 code of conduct for its Directors, management and officers. The code lays down guidelines, which advises them on procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made, while dealing with shares of the Group, and cautioning them of the consequences of violations. The code clearly specifies, among other matters, that Directors and specified employees of Sterlite can trade in the shares of the Group only during 'Trading Window Open Period'. The trading window is closed during the time of declaration of results, dividend and material events, etc. as per the Code. A yearly disclosure is taken from all the Directors and Designated employees of the Group. The Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer. Investor Complaints The investor complaints are monitored on quarterly basis by Investor Grievance Committee. The Complaints are handled by Karvy Computer Share (P) Ltd. • Number of complaints received during the year from the investors comprising of Non receipt of Dividend/Interest Warrants, Non receipt of securities, Non receipt of Annual Report, shares sent for transfer and transmission, complaints received from SEBI etc.1599 • Number of complaints resolved 1599 • Complaints Pending as at 31st March 2011 0 • Number of cases of share Transfers pending for approval as at 31st March 2011 0 Disclosure on material financial and commercial transactions with Senior Management Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions i.e., transactions of the Group of material nature, with its Promoters, the Directors or the management, their relatives, or subsidiaries, etc. that may have potential conflict with the interests of the Company at large. None of the transactions with any of the related parties were in conflict with the interest of the Company. Transfer of unclaimed dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) As per the provisions of Sec. 205A(5) of the Companies Act, 1956 all unpaid / unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of transfer to 'unpaid Dividend Account' of the Company is credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund. Statutory Compliance, Penalties and Strictures The Company has complied with the requirements of the Stock Exchanges/SEBI and Statutory Authority on all matters related to capital markets during the last three years. No penalties or strictures have been imposed on the Company by these authorities in the last three years. Whistle-blower Policy As part of Code of Conduct, the Company has a Whistle Blower Policy, where any instance of non-adherence to the Policy or any observed unethical behaviour is to be brought to the attention of the Head of Management Assurance Services. During the year, the concerns reported under this mechanism have been scrutinised and appropriate actions taken. It is also confirmed that no personnel has been denied access to the Audit Committee. 15 Compliance The company is fully compliant with the applicable mandatory requirements of Clause 49. Code of Business Ethics & Conduct The Company has a well defined and approved 'Code of Business Ethics & Conduct' applicable to all Board members, Senior Management and employees of the company. The code of business ethics and conduct is available on the website of the company (www.sterlite-industries.com). All Board members and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with the code of business ethics and conduct. Communication to Shareholders Sterlite puts forth key information about the company and its performance, including quarterly results, official news releases, and presentations to analysts, on its website www.sterlite-industries.com regularly for the benefit / information of the public at large. During the year, the quarterly results of the Company's performance have been published in leading newspapers such as 'The Economic Times' in English and in the vernacular/regional languages as well. Hence, they are not separately sent to individual shareholders. Sterlite, however, furnishes the quarterly and half-yearly results on receipt of a request from any shareholder. Economic Performance The influence of Sterlite's economic development can be directly assessed through the employee wages, environmental investments, funds allocated for community development and the tax payment made to the Government. The total payment made in the reporting period to the government in the form of Income tax, Excise duty, custom duty, dividend tax, sales and service tax amounts to Rs. 1,812 crores. During the reporting period, the company did not receive any significant financial assistance received from government. During the reporting period, the company did not support any political party, politician and related institution in the country financially or in kind. Particular 2010-11 (Rs. in Cr) Direct Economic value generated (A) Total Income (sales+ other income) Rs. 32, 901 Economic value distributed (B) Employee cost Rs. 1,132 Operating cost Rs. 21, 247 Taxes Rs. 1,812 Economic value retained A-B Rs. 8,710 Workforce The human resources department is continuously engaging with the employees' right from recruitment, through their induction, their overall training and grooming, gauging employee satisfaction and assessing them on their KRAs. Sterlite believes in grooming its talents through various training and competitive engagements which are 16 elaborated further on in the report. The breakup of employee remuneration and company's contribution to their PF, Gratuity & Annuity, Welfare expenses and training programmes are tabulated below. Defined benefit plan Contribution by Sterlite Group (Rs in Cr) Provident Fund 43.58 Superannuation Fund 4.62 Community Sterlite has taken a proactive role in uplifting the community in and around its operations and thereby earned the status of a respectable citizen of the corporate world. We dedicate a certain portion of our profits to engage with the community in the areas of our unit operations. We invest in the overall development of the community by focussing on core CSR areas of action which are women empowerment, health, education, infrastructure development and livelihood & income generation. CSR Expenditure Company Sterlite Copper HZL BALCO SEL Expenses/Budget Rs. 3.02 Cr Rs. 148.52 Cr. 451.12 lakhs 11.15 lakhs* *Note: Figure mentioned under SEL is only TSPL’s(Talwandi) CSR Budget. The other unit of SEL is in Jharsuguda which has a combined CSR budget with Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. Shareholders/Investors The Company believes in creating value for the shareholders and at the same time also distributes the profits in the form of dividend. The Company has been a regular dividend paying company. We communicate with our shareholders through Annual Reports, quarterly communication by email and annual shareholder meets. We also have a dedicated Shareholder Grievances Redressal Committee which is mainly constituted to addresses investor complaints. The Company’s website has a separate section for Investors / Shareholders wherein all relevant information for the shareholders is provided. The Company also issues Press Releases / communication to the shareholders from time to time. The Board has recommended a dividend of Rs.1.10 per share on the increased share capital following the 1:1 Bonus issue of Re.1/each fully paid up i.e. 110% for the year ended 31st March 2011. Particular 2010-11 Dividends (Rs in Cr) 369.73 Production data Company Production volumes (‘000 tonnes) 2010-11 Sterlite Copper Mined metal content 23 Cathodes 304 Rods 188 Sulphuric acid 969 17 Phosphoric acid 154 HZL Mined metal content 782 Refined Metal 762 Mined metal content 102 Saleable Metal 57 BALCO Aluminium 255 Energy business (SEL) Power sales (MU) 2,035 Revenue generated Rs. 728 Cr 18 Sustainability & Us Sustainability development is on the top of our minds at every single moment. It’s a journey we have embarked upon not because a group of our size must, but because we truly want to. While our operations serve as the means to reach the destination, our mission guides us on the way. This report is a testimony to our achievements during the reporting period. While engaging with our dynamic base of stakeholders, we follow the principle of responsible investment which is a part of our financial decision making process. Our strategy for sustainability is based on the pillars that are the crux of Vedanta’s sustainable development: • Environmental Stewardship • Empowering Communities • Nurturing People • Health and Safety Approach to reporting Sterlite's first consolidated Sustainable Development Report 2010-11 covers the environmental, social and economic performance based on the guidelines of GRI-G3.1 Reporting Framework and aligned with the United Nations Global Compact principles. Henceforth, we will be publishing our Sustainability Report comprising of all our holding companies and subsidiaries, annually. The group has implemented ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 17025 to ensure management systems are working to their optimum levels. We believe in the precautionary approach and we follow it as a principle towards all our activities and initiatives. Our safety and environmental systems are a testimony to our approach towards a safe, clean and productive business. Approach to Management Economic Responsibility All our audited financials are reported annually through our annual reports and annual general meeting (AGM). We also publish relevant information on our finances to our stakeholders through media channels like print and broadcast besides updating our own website. As an enterprise, we have a commitment to benefit our investors and shareholders by expanding our operational capacities and setting performance targets catering to the domestic and export requirements. Environmental Responsibility We have a well formalised integrated management system that continuously improves our environmental, quality and OH&S performance, in line with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 laid standards. The HSE policies of all the group companies are in lieu of the corporate policy of Vedanta. The Sustainability Committee formed at the corporate level in Vedanta monitors the HSE performance of the group's businesses, providing advice and guidance to the board and management in enforcing amendments and achieving the goals of the corporate HSE policy. Labour Practices and Human Rights To secure and safeguard the interests of our employees – our key assets, each of our member companies have a structured employee code of conduct wherein all aspects of human rights are covered. During the reporting 19 year there have been no incidents of violation of human rights reported. SIIL conducted an awareness workshop on UK Bribery Act for its employees to assure adherence to international norms during operations as the company has its operations abroad as well. Product Responsibility We comply with all the required standards and protocols for the logistics of products. SIIL has carried out a Life Cycle Assessment study of copper products right from transportation of copper concentrate from port to production of the refined copper products. Social Responsibility At Sterlite we do not see CSR as charity or as a responsibility; but as an opportunity to change, and all our CSR activities are determined by the concept of ‘Changing Lives’: where we constantly endeavor to improve the quality of life of the communities where we operate. We pay our maximum attention to uplift the quality of life of women, children and youth in our focus areas. Reporting Boundary Our first consolidated Sustainable Development Report of 2010-11 communicates the initiatives undertaken during the period April 2010 to March 2011 across the following: • Hindustan Zinc Ltd, India • Sterlite Copper (SIIL), India • Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO), India • The Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Ltd (CMT), Australia • Sterlite Energy, India Stakeholder Identification At Sterlite, each of our business operations identify and prioritise the stakeholder groups based on the proximity to the operations, influence and impact on our businesses. All our business decisions and development plans weighs upon the entire stakeholder base which in return control our bottom-line. Sterlite is committed to providing a safe and healthy atmosphere for all its employees at work by adopting the best applicable technology, conducting training and creating awareness where required. We engage with our employees, through various orientation and exposure programmes so as to groom and develop the best talents on board. Environment protection is a major area of concern, not because it is the need of the hour but mainly as it influences every aspect of our operations and business. We have turned most of our processes into being water and energy efficient so as to minimise our dependence on natural resources like water and fossil fuels. Sterlite also plays a crucial role in engaging with the local communities around our units by providing them infrastructure, livelihood, health and education. Our continuous engagement with our stakeholders have helped us prioritise our responsibilities , and thus deliver 20 better results accordingly. We constantly engage through various platforms with our stakeholders, some of them have been listed in the table below. Stakeholders Engagement Mechanism Few Initiatives by the Company Communities & NGOs • Written Communication/ Need • Giving educational support by organising a based discussions /meeting with study centre and giving scholastic community representatives excellence awards and scholarships • Open dialogue • Arranging monthly rural health camps and • Survey & PRA's rural health unit • Women Entrepreneurship: Sterlite income generation projects with SHG • Developing rural infrastructure: Total sanitation, renovation works for schools, model village development • Employment generation through coastal livelihood project • HIV AIDS awareness • Horticultural trials with local farmers • Model Village • Sterlite Old-Age Widow Support Programme Government & • Monthly reports • Regular compliance with rules, regulations Regulators • Monthly inspections & stipulations • Submission of monthly reports • Immediate response by the way of corrective action on issues raised by the Government authorities Employees • Intranet facilities • Employee suggestion scheme • Newsletters • Spot recognition scheme • Monthly and quarterly Training • Employee retention bonus programmes • Event management team • Employment suggestion scheme • CEO kitty • Communication meeting • Team of the month • Mentor-Mentee • ideas@sterlite • Employee of the month & year • Family get-together Customers • Discussions/ personal interactions • Customer satisfaction survey on a daily basis • Online access through E-Salesmate • Plant Visit • Faster response for customer complaints • Arranging for plant visit Suppliers/ Transporters • Discussions/ personal interactions • Vendor meets on a daily basis • Drivers’ training program for safety • Plant Visit • Vendor Satisfaction Survey • Evaluation of Vendor Sites 21 Contract Labourers • Induction programme • Rewards & Recognition • Training programme • Welfare facilities for Contractors as a part of HR initiatives • Contractor Safety Management Cell • myideas@sterlite • Safety Performance Bonus Educational Institutions • Management Development • Employees are guest faculties at leading programmes institutions • Academic interactions • Employees are sent for Management Development programmes • Alumnus interaction with students during recruitment Investors/Shareholders • Redressal of investor grievances • Annual reports • Quarterly/half-yearly results • Annual Shareholders’ meet Website, Newspaper ads Materiality Sterlite engages with key stakeholders Employees, Suppliers & Transporters, Customers, Communities, Media, Environment and Regulatory Authorities, to identity material issues relevant to the company and the stakeholders. Sterlite follows a 3 step process to identify key material issues. The process consists of :Identification of Issues A cross-function team was formed to identify issues specific to Stakeholders based on parameters like relevance to direct short-term financial impact, societal norms, etc. Identification of Material Issues Using a materiality matrix, the issues identified in the first step, were put through objective assessments, and scores were assigned, depending on how they impact specific factors. A threshold score was established to classify points into material and non-material issues. Identification of Material GRI Indicators Through the materiality exercise, the issues identified are mapped to the GRI (G3.1) indicators and the corresponding Global Compact principles. These issues are addressed under various stakeholder categories as dedicated sections, such as Economic, Our Employees, Community, Health & Safety and Environment (HSE), and Our Partners. 22 Our Employees Our Approach Sterlite Industries has charted out an aggressive course of action to achieve ambitious targets. Having talented, dedicated and satisfied employees is the key to our success. And the fact that the group and our employees share common values ensures that we successfully bring about change with our sustainability development initiatives. Our employees follow a culture of ‘Speed, Smart and Humble’. We incorporate best practices and present our employees with a conducive work environment that enables them to perform well. We sustain our workforce with continued learning and development thorough skill enhancement training programmes, employee engagement activities and employee benefits as well. The result is obvious better performances. We are undoubtedly amongst the most-preferred employers in the regions in which we operate. At Sterlite Industries, ‘Get, Nurture and Grow’ is the mantra for Human Resources. The following steps help us sustain our talent resource: • Attract and Retain • Motivate and Develop • Connect and Enable • Deploy and Manage • Automate & Optimise • Nurture and Grow Leaders HR Policies We are an Equal Opportunity Employer and believe in diversity of workforce. Our remuneration policy does not differentiate on the basis of gender, caste, religion, race or political opinion. Majority of Sterlite's operations thrive on contract labourers who are paid as per the Minimum Wages Act so that there are no grounds for 23 discrimination whatsoever. Our philosophy of shared ownership is clearly demonstrated through the 'The Long Term Incentive Plan' (LTIP), under which, meritorious employees are granted options of our parent Company Vedanta Resources Plc. shares. None of our operations engage in child labour or forced / bonded labour practices. All employees and contract labourers are hired after a thorough examination of their credentials including their age proof. There has been no incidence of discrimination whatsoever during the reporting period. The ratio of basic salary of men to women in all staff categories across all locations is 1:1. With operations spanning different continents, Sterlite has happily embraced the local population into its major operations. We regularly hold Awareness Programmes regarding our policies and Code of Conduct. We have several engagement processes to record employees' grievances. Inputs given on business code of conduct/ethics are carried regularly in communication meets, which include information on malpractices such as prevention, bribery and corruption. Employee Breakup by Gender, Age, Employment type and Region Age-Wise Distribution of employees 2010-2011 3000 2500 2330 2000 1858 Age-wise <30 1500 Age-wise 30-50 1000 Age-wise >50 500 791 1606 1897 165 21 14 30 356 828 2515 58 27 4 0 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL Regionwise Distribution of employees 2010-2011 5000 4000 3000 Region-wise Within the State 2000 Region-wise Outside the 1000 3004 2364 State 821 64 347 1288 4378 0 0 132 0 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL 24 Employee Distribution according to Employment Type (2010-2011) 9000 Permanent Employees (Male) 6000 10000 6339 Permanent Employees 7591 168 (Female) 3000 4001 Contract Employees (Male 1035 22 403 89 291 133 and Female) 1969 11 229 5334 0 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL Employee Welfare and benefits Our concern for our employees goes beyond their professional contribution. In our endeavour of creating happiness, we also ensure that our programmes and policies cover their welfare. Employees have a help desk to assist them with a plethora of activities including bill payments and ticket bookings. Our standard benefits include gratuity, superannuation, provident fund, employee counselling and an employee help desk. We also provide employees maternity and paternity leave. Employees can always join back to the same post and profile post maternity/paternity or a prolonged sick leave. CMT adheres to Australian law, which states that anybody availing such leave can join back at the same post. HZL offers employees housing, transportation, electricity and meals at subsidised rates. Employees also get insurance and medical benefits. There is a free hospital facility at every location and employees with medical issues can claim treatment at specialised hospitals. Company Employees availing Paternity leave Employees availing Maternity leave Sterlite Copper 35 7 HZL NA 3 CMT 0 0 BALCO NA 20 SEL 5 4 All employees availing parental leave returned to work. Performance reviews Performance review is offered to each and every employee at the Sterlite Group. The review is essentially based on the process which entails setting a goal at the beginning of the year, KPO for all confirmed/probation 25 employees, online process through SAP HCM, exercise through ESS/MSS followed by appraisal for all employees. The process is Half Yearly/Yearly for trainees; midyear and annually for confirmed employees. At SEL, performance reviews are carried out three times a year formally as per HR policy. Except trainees, all eligible employees are covered under the appraisal process. At BALCO, all employees are covered in a quarterly performance appraisal process. For Stars, Career Development Reviews are conducted twice a year. At Sterlite Copper a total of 80% (937 out of 1168) employees were appraised . At CMT, all senior management and executive employees were appraised. In this process, 90% of female and 50% of male non-executive employees had a formal appraisal process at CMT. Recruitment Process Our Chairman, Mr. Anil Agarwal strongly believes in women empowerment. Based on the vision for the Group, the Company has set a target of 20% women employment across all its group companies. Specific emphasis is laid on this in our recruitment procedure besides the 5% targeted search of Ex. Service Men. We follow the Vedanta Group in having a centralised HR recruitment process through which candidates are selected through campus recruitments. Vedanta Resources Plc has empanelled few universities and colleges which are identified based on the overall performance of the academic institute and also our group's job profile requirements. The focus is mainly on internal recruitment drive for filling the senior positions. Lateral hiring, although a very rare practice, takes place only when the candidate is from one of the Best Practices Companies. We offer competitive salary packages and perks in order to attract the best people and retain them. To attract the best talent pool from prospective colleges and institutes, we have implemented few brand building initiatives. These include visits by the Group HR Head to management training colleges for creating awareness on the opportunities within the group, sponsoring college festivals. Senior management from Sterlite actively participate , as well as participating in college job fairs. They also help in engaging the educational institutions by being guest lecturers in their respective alma maters. Break down of New Joinees (2010-2011) Age-Wise Distribution of New Joinees (2010-2011) 600 500 400 <30 300 494 30-50 200 >50 100 149 6 2 46 14 1 21 6 3 6 2 49 1 0 0 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL 26 Region-Wise Distribution of New Joinees (2010-2011) 600 500 214 400 300 Outside the State 200 Within the State 50 307 81 76 100 3 0 0 11 47 0 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL Induction and Orientation Structured induction and orientation programs help mould fresh recruits into efficient employees. Induction, as an HR initiative, provides an overview of the organization to a new entrant to facilitate the transition from institute to industry and gives exposure to the company's practices and policies. Our induction program welcomes new entrants to the organization and accelerates the employee integration by building the learning attitude and increasing the knowledge of an individual about the processes of the organization. Sterlite Copper's Induction & Orientation Module equips new employees with an Induction Manual, an HR Mentor for induction period, Dupont E Learning Module and Chairman's video and Company overview. At HZL, a 6 day induction program encompassing senior management interaction, presentations from Head of Departments and functional heads and visits to mines and smelters introduces the business to the entrants. The GET program helps fresh graduates to transition into the zinc metallurgy industry. The program includes In-Plant orientations and training modules at prestigious institutes. Apart from technical training, both Sterlite Copper and HZL have mentorship programs. The GET program is part of the BALCO induction process as well. Senior or lateral recruits have a customised induction process to get up to speed with their job profile. CMT has a computerized induction program which is common across all Tasmanian mine sites and contains CMT specific modules for each work area, OH&S requirements and Environment requirements. No person is allowed onsite until they have competently completed the modules appropriate to their site access requirements. At SEL, all new hires go through a formal Induction program. Employees joining at the entry level go through a standard Vedanta Group level Induction of six days . Lateral hires at M6 and above grade go through a company specific induction program of three days which would involve 'In Person' meetings with key functional Heads along with their teams. Employee Engagement & Retention We offer an environment that is conducive to grooming deserving candidates and providing them opportunities for growth. The challenging work and frequent training programmes are the chosen means to engage with employees. We believe one of the best ways to retain and encourage talent in the organisation is to award those who have the best interest of the company in mind. Our mentoring initiatives help new employees find their footing within the organisation. We are constantly trying to improve our infrastructure and enhance the quality of life of our employees. We also ensure that our employees receive global exposure through international visits 27 and training. Bright Engineers are offered the opportunity to enhance their role or rotate into another job. At SEL, there are three main reasons for attrition as noted from exit interviews and internal surveys. For M7-M6 level employees the reasons are higher education and Government Jobs. In case of M5 & above employees it is the affinity towards metros. To address these to some extent, SEL offers cash rewards, job enrichment and higher positions, and opportunities for higher education (MBA, CA etc.) in distance mode. A township with several facilities is also under construction. Sterlite Copper and BALCO have a wide variety of employee retention programmes including awards for long service, specific contributions, team based performance, etc. HZL offers retention bonuses and has programs that encourage interaction between Youngsters & Senior Management as well as knowledge sharing. CMT offers personal development programs, Community Volunteer group participation, Industrial Organisation representation, Professional Institute Participation, Participation in Industry visits as well as support for further education. Break-up of Employee turnover by Age and Region Age-Wise Distribution of Employee Turnover (2010-2011) 500 425 400 300 <30 200 30-50 100 >50 204 263 256 32 37 3 54 27 0 3 8 1 9 0 0 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL Region-Wise Distribution of Employee Turnover (2010-2011) 800 700 600 379 500 400 Outside the State 300 Within the State 200 83 363 207 0 30 100 161 76 0 0 11 SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL 28 Employee Engagement Activities We value our employees and consider them to be the lifeblood of our operations. Therefore employee engagement remains one of our key focus areas. Consistent employee engagement also helps us identify opportunities and room for improvement. We believe in celebrating our employees and what better way to do that than to celebrate festivals together. Our get-togethers are not limited to festivals, we also conduct cultural events, competitions, sports activities, and family picnics. Sterlite Copper conducts ESAT surveys once a year to gauge the satisfaction level of employees across grades. Copper Tones is an in-house bi-monthly magazine, it's an effective tool to connect with employees. We use our Communication Meet as a platform for employee recognition and two way communications. We also have a 15 member cross functional Event Management Team that organizes activities such as Summer Camp, Rendezvous 2010, etc. BALCO follows an Event calendar through which every month different types of quality of life functions are held for employees as well as for their family members. The company also has two clubs where different types of recreational activities with respect to work/life balance with their personal and /or family are held. HZL uses HR Reach for open communication and also has an open house initiative called Sanwad. Employees and their families are involved in CSR initiatives. HZL also conducts initiatives for women like Ladies Club Meet, Sangini and Women's Day celebrations. SEL Jharsuguda celebrates the birthday of employees and also organises various communication meetings like skip level meeting, feedback sessions etc. Contract employee engagement Contract employees form an important part of our operations. As such, we try to do as much as possible to make them feel like an integral part of our company. They are included in festivities and competitions. They are evaluated and rewarded based on their performance. And their buy-in is sought before major shut downs. They also receive mandatory safety training. At Sterlite Copper, contractors are part of our annual employee satisfaction survey – ESAT. Security personnel are outsourced from a third party, most of these personnel are trained and sent to our locations of operation from their organisation itself. We offered our entire security personnel training on 'How to deal with employees and visitors'. 11 security personnel were offered training in communication skills, team dynamics and Ignite programmes. For Contract Labours Safety at BALCO, in every shift a five minutes Safety Talk is conducted in various departments of all the SBUs to maintain Safety Standards. A Program on First Aid was conducted for outsourced employees. Security personnel are outsourced from a third party, most of these personnel are trained and sent to our locations of operation from their organisation itself. BALCO offers its entire security personnel training on 'How to deal with employees and visitors. At HZL, 400 contract executives were offered training for attitudinal change through program Navjagran. 1300 contract labourers were provided Surakha Jyoti 2 days training on behavioural safety. The We Appreciate scheme is a token to reward contract labourers. CMT conducts monthly OHS&E Meeting with all site Contractors . SEL offers a scorecard for all operation Contractors based on which the best performing contractor is selected every month. A cash incentive of Rs. 1000 given to all Contract Employees for Safe Annual Shutdown. 29 Contractor Compliance & Management Sterlite Copper has taken a pro-active step of ensuring hundred percent compliance of labour / industrial laws related to health, safety and welfare of contract employees and have engaged a specialised agency – M/s Aparajitha Corporate Services (P) Ltd. to ensure compliance. At CMT, Contractor OHS management and compliance requirements are provided to our contractors through the CMT-SOP-010 Contractor Management Procedure. This document identifies their legislative obligations and CMT requirements whilst employed at the CMT site. An OHS committee is conducted every 6 weeks to provide a forum for CMT and our contract workforce to communicate and consult with all personnel at the CMT site on occupational health, safety and environmental matters. Contractors are encouraged to conduct OHS audits of CMT to ensure a safe workplace is provided for their staff – This approach ensures ownership of the SMS program remains frontline. SEL's HR department looks after the compliance requirements under the Acts of Labour law. BALCO adheres to Statutory and non-statutory compliances of Contract Management System for outsourced contract employees which includes approximately 10,000 Contract workers working in the expansion projects. Training and Leadership Learning and Development is an integral part of employee grooming and long term progress of the company. We assess training needs based on OHS, HRD Audit, Other Surveys, Performance Appraisal, 360 Degree Feedback, Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey, Exit Analysis, Succession & Career Planning, Business Training Need, Talent Management and Skill Gap. Training and awareness programs were also conducted for employees on road safety and health-related issues such HIV / AIDS, Hypertension, etc. Regular safety training programs like Suraksha Jyoti are conducted for all employees including contractors. At our companies, training needs are determined by the need to fill the competency gaps. At the entry and middle management level, the focus is on the functional training and process related training. At the middle management level, there is thrust and focus on leadership, soft skills and business related training. The emphasis is on both technology-related and soft skill based programs. The senior management focuses on strategy and business related training. In BALCO, the training menu card is finalized based on inputs from Business and Functional Heads. As part of the annual appraisal process, this menu card helps the HOD to finalise the employee's TNI (Training Needs Identification). Leadership development programs include modules at XLRI, Jamshedpur and IIM, Bangalore. Every year a mandatory session on Business Ethics and Code of Conduct for all the Executives is conducted at the Balco Learning Centre. At Sterlite Copper, one of our skills development programmes which involved visits to best practices companies to study their processes, resulted in improved process efficiency and monetary benefits ranging from Rs.30-92 lakhs. HZL has programs like Navjagaran, 5S Workplace management, among others. Similar programs are also conducted in CMT including training and awareness programs specific to individual technical areas. Training hours for Employees 2010-11 Company Total training man-hours (thousand) Average man-hours per employee CMT 20 HZL 180 26.7 30 SIIL 58.5 53.23 BALCO 76.54 18.72 SEL 1656 13.1 Talent Management The Group strongly believes that our people are the most valuable asset. As such, we take great care in ensuring that their potential within the company is fulfilled. We have a variety of programmes within the company to develop our best talent. For new joinees our companies have incorporated a structured mentoring process. At Sterlite Copper, BALCO, HZL, and SEL, Our Global Leadership Program identifies STARs and has shown great results, helping us to fill leadership positions internally and retain our top performers. We also have a structured Employee Succession Identification process. CMT provides opportunities for personal development and role related studies. Development of a Star To retain the best talent in the company, Sterlite has a structured process to identify and nurture fast track performers called “Stars of Business”, through which top performers from middle to first level senior management are identified based on annual appraisals and their age. The assessment of the employee is done through Group Work, Appreciation Interview, and Psychometric Tests. The final selection is based on competency & psychometric scores and also by the qualitative inputs by functional heads. The employee can benefit with a 10 % increase in their CTC, an enhanced role within the company and also avail specialized training. The development of the business star is chartered out by focused inputs such as development sheet for all STARs, structured Job rotation (Hi-potential Stars to move across functions / companies), and Global Leadership Program (GLP) and entrepreneur projects. The net result is that 60% of critical positions in the company are manned by STARs and 8% of them are female employees. Human Rights As India’s largest non-ferrous metals and mining company, we believe in respecting and upholding the rights of all our stakeholders – employees, local communities, business partners, suppliers and vendors, etc. At the unit level, we have always strived to manage our businesses in a fair and equitable manner meeting all our social responsibilities as a direct and indirect employer and respect the human rights of all our stakeholders. No incident on grievance related to Human Rights has been reported during the reporting period. We train our employees on human rights through our Code of Conduct. Following the recommendations of the Scott Wilson Report, our parent company is developing a Human Rights policy and will develop the training programme on the subject this year, which would then be subsequently followed by all our operations. The Company believes in deep respect for human rights and does not discriminate between people on any basis, whether is caste, creed, religion, region, nationality. To the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the period are fraudulent, illegal or violate the Company’s Code of Conduct. Our Code of Conduct also commits us to operating in compliance with all laws and regulations including the protection of all employees’ rights. We believe in a zero tolerance policy regarding any violation of labour and human rights. Our parent company is also currently introducing our Code of Conduct to suppliers on a phased basis. Our contract terms and conditions insist on compliance with respect to payment of minimum wages, the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, the Workmen’s Compensation Act and other relevant acts in India. For CMT workforce and human rights is in compliance to all relevant Australian laws and signed 31 international treaties. Violations are discussed in the board meeting and appropriate actions taken against the guilty. During the reporting year, no cases of sexual harassment of female employees or any type of human rights violations were reported. Some of the major Laws adhered to by all our operations: • Child Labour (Prohibition And Regulation) Act,1986 • Contract Labour (Abolition& Regulation) Act,1970 • Employees Compensation Act, 1923 & Rules • Employees Provident Funds And Miscellaneous Provision Act,1952 • Employment Exchange (Compulsory Notification of Vacancies ) Act,1959 • Equal Remuneration Act,1976 • Factories Act,1948 (Welfare Provisions) • Industrial Dispute Act,1947 • Industrial Employment (Standing orders) Act,1946 • Inter-State Migrant workmen (Regulation of employment And Condition of Services) Act, 1979 and Orissa Rules, 1980 • Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 & Orissa Maternity Benefit Rules, 1965 • Minimum Wages Act,1948 Orissa Industrial Establishments (National and Festival) Holidays Act, 1969 & Rules, 1972 • Payment of Gratuity Act,1972 and Orissa Rules, 1974 • Payment of Wages Act,1936 • Supreme Court Guidelines on Prevention of Sexual Harassment (Vishakha case) • Constitution of India Anti-Corruption Policies Following the Scott Wilson Report, our parent company has rolled out a revised Business Ethics and Code of Conduct across all operations. This includes a dedicated section on bribery and corruption, on which employees undergo formal training. CMT adheres to all annual government Audits as required for compliance with legislation. The mining/ minerals industry by its nature has complicated regulations and high levels of government control and is exposed to bribery risks. At SIIL, a two hour anti-corruption training based on the UK Bribery Act was conducted to prevent bribery and avoid penalty in case of violations. During the reporting period, no incidence of corruption against the Company has occurred or has been reported. As part of Code of Conduct, the Company has a Whistle Blower Policy, where any instance of non-adherence to the Policy or any observed unethical behaviour is to be brought to the attention of the Head of Management Assurance Services. During the year, the concerns reported under this mechanism have been scrutinised and appropriate actions taken. It is also confirmed that no personnel has been denied access to the Audit Committee. During the reporting period, no incidence of corruption has occurred or has been reported. Company SIIL BALCO HZL CMT SEL Total number of WB complaints received 2 6 12 0 0 No. Of complaints found correct 2 2 3 0 0 Employee Representation We actively communicate and enter into dialogue with our workforce and believe in maintaining a positive atmosphere by being proactive with respect to resolution of labour issues. BALCO and HZL have recognised 32 unions, systems and processes for employee development, appraisal and grievances. Sterlite Copper does not have any formal union as trade union. Sterlite continues to maintain good relations with both its contractual and permanent workforce with adequate engagement and encouragement programmes. Sterlite is governed by the standing order as set by Government of India with respect to any kind of operational changes. S/no Units (%) of Employees covered under collective bargain 1 HZL 59.39 2 BALCO 66 3 CMT 47 There have been no incidents of strikes and lock-outs in Sterlite Copper, CMT, BALCO, SEL and HZL during the reporting period. Minimum notice periods vary across the different operations based on skill sets and national norms. For SEL, it is 2 months. Case Studies Mentor-Mentee Programme This programme was designed essentially to provide smooth transition to the new joinees from college to corporate world. The programme is meant to establish an informal supportive relationship between the younger employee and the organization. This would aid them in aligning with the organizational culture and systems. It will also facilitate in development of their career plan and actions to realize career aspirations. Under this programme, one mentor is appointed for every trainee. The mentor is from a different function or department as compared to the trainee. The Company provides Rendezvous allowances every month for the mentor to take the mentee out. “My mentor guided me through my induction period and proactively took interest in my work and we had periodic discussions also. He helped me understand the organisation culture which in turn reflected in my soft skills and approach to work”Shrikant, GET, SIIL, Silvassa Training and Leadership – A star is made Ms. Meenakshi Sabharwal joined the group in 1994 as a Process Trainee in the quality control laboratory in Sterlite Technologies, JFTC, Aurangabad. She is a qualified Chemist and also a certified Lead Auditor of ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001. She is also the member of Bureau of Indian Standards, MTD8 Committee related to Copper and Copper Alloys. Apart from having a rich experience of 13 years in Quality department, she also has the experience of handling production department for 3.5 years. She has achieved Stars of the Business status in the year 2004 apart from getting the honour of becoming Employee of the Month twice in her career. Currently, she is driving the Business Excellence initiatives of 5S, TPM, TQM, Ideas@ Sterlite, ACE and SPIDER for Silvassa unit of SIIL. Her commendable transition is from the typical theory oriented lab personnel to handling a challenging profile in production and technical services. She found support and motivation from her seniors and peers through her transition as she interacted with the customers directly and found the marketing representative job as a part of her personal grooming and learning process. Some of the challenges that she encountered and dealt with while handling multifarious responsibilities are; • Process change in CCR to address customer complaints of porosity • Improvement in Leaching that improved vessel availability by 98.7% • De-Tellurization operation that resulted in overall equipment effectiveness by 86% “I have received complete support and motivation for my work and progress as well. There is no reason to quit the group as the company offers healthy competitive environment with no gender bias”Ms. Meenakshi Sabharwal, Head –Technical Services, Silvassa, SIIL 33 Community Development The Approach When you see smiling faces all around, you know you are on the right path. Sterlite Industries believes that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives are much more than ways to pay back societal debts and obligations. When we improve lives of those around us, it motivates us to contribute all the more. Our dedicated CSR teams work with the local communities around our areas of operations. We gauge their needs and devise projects accordingly. We pay maximum attention to uplift the quality of life of women, children and youth in our operational villages. We undertake educational, health, livelihood and infrastructure development initiatives, and encourage involvement of the communities as well as employee volunteerism. Our Approach Through our CSR interventions, we are positively impacting lives of more than 1.4 million people across our areas of operation the country. Our operations are located within industrial belts and hence there have been no direct negative impact on the lives of the locals. Barring operations for BALCO, there are no indigenous population surrounding the locations of other operations. Operations of BALCO take place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and though we do not have formal agreement with the Indigenous Peoples’ communities, there has been no case registered against us either under Tribal Act or any Human Right Act on indigenous community. There have also been no incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people. Our business and operations have generated local employment opportunities to many like the contractors, the community members who have benefitted from our income generation and livelihood programmes. Education Sterlite Industries strives to develop educational infrastructure in its areas of operations. Our focus is not only limited to ensuring 100% enrolment in schools, but we also constantly work towards reducing the school dropout rate in both rural and coastal communities. To help final year school students make the most of their education, we offer them career guidance. We have taken several steps to address the need for education. These include everything from starting up evening study centres and helping parentless children to offering Scholastic Excellence Awards and educational scholarships to deserving students. We also organise district-level environmental awareness competitions to students so that the future generation gets involved in environment conservation at a younger age. Sterlite Copper (SIIL) • Scholastic Excellence Awards38 District toppers in SSLC and HSC are presented this cash award each year to recognize educational excellence in Tuticorin district and to motivate students for a better performance. • Evening Study Centers21 evening study centers were started in the economically backward zones of Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu and nearby rural areas to serve 1600 students on a daily basis. • Shala Pravesh Mahotsav Programme95 students from Chinchpada, Nimalpada and Kokanpada Primary Schools have been covered under Shala Pravesh Mahotsav programme, wherein students entering schools are provided with school bags, books, compass box, etc. followed by a celebration which provides encouragement to study further and also inspire parents to enrol their children in schools. 34 • Basic Fire Fighting SkillsThe skills were imparted to 11 students of Fire and Technology College, Ahmedabad, by our trained staff at Silvassa unit. This training has given the participating students hands-on experience in tackling such situations in manufacturing plants. • Educational ScholarshipsSo far, seven students with excellent academic records from poor socio-economic background have been identified and have been enrolled in engineering colleges; their education will be sponsored for the complete four years of study. Sterlite Energy (SEL) • Project Prayas in partnership with for 525children in class 1 to class 5 in 6 schools for elementary school children. • Project Vedanta Vidyarthi Vikas Yojana for 830secondary school children in 10 centres. • DAV scholarship for 166 children • Provision of 05 additional teachers support in 05 peripheral schools. • 38 children enrolled in Child care centre at R & R colony. Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO) • Rehabilitation CentreBALCO has joined hands with Innerwheel Education Society of Korba and established a rehabilitation centre to educate disabled children. The centre has state-of-the-art equipments and provides Speech, Behaviour and Physiotherapy to disabled children of the region • Infrastructure ImprovementBALCO has improved infrastructure of 25 tribal schools of Kawardha and Mainpat by providing them with stage, furniture and other items as per their requirements. • Mid Day Meal KitchenLocated at Korba, the kitchen provides nutritious and hygienic food to 40,000 children in 279 schools every day. Hindustan Zinc (HZL) • Scholarship164 talented students received scholarship for higher education through SUMEDHA & District Education Department. • SponsorshipHZL sponsored 11 girls of Zawar and Rampura Agucha for higher education at Vedanta PG Girls College (Ringus). • Siksha Sambal ProjectThe project benefitted 3,510 students in 26 schools at Rampura Agucha, Rajpura Dariba and Zawar. • Remedial ClassesSuch classes were organised for poor performers, benefitting 1,200 students from grades VIII to XII. • Adult Education CampsHelped 388 adults. • Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi ProjectThis helped more than 50,000 children in the age group of 3-6 years, through 1,500 centres ensuring healthcare and imparting non-formal education in play-way method to improve the attendance in record time at each centre. • Distributing furniture, books, etc.Distributed 150 sets of table-chairs in Senior Secondary School (Narela) benefiting 250 students at Chanderiya; distributed notebooks, bags and stationery items for the school children at Vizag benefiting 960 students; and distributed uniforms to BPL students in 185 schools benefitting 1,350 students at Rampura Agucha in collaboration with Bharat Vikas Parishad. • MukhydharaAs part of this project, HZL provided financial support of Rs.2.85 Lacs for conducting remedial classes for poor students in joint collaboration with SVSN. 35 Health & Nutrition While everybody knows that being healthy is of utmost importance, seldom people, especially those in rural communities, get to take care of their health. At Sterlite Industries, we do our best to offer healthcare facilities to rural communities. We dedicatedly contribute towards mother and child care. In the current reporting period, we have offered counselling to expecting and lactating mothers, organised awareness programmes and even created a childfriendly village. In addition, we have organised several health camps, supported Government healthcare initiatives, brought about behavioural changes in rural communities and spread HIV/AIDS awareness. Sterlite Copper (SIIL) Through our health initiatives we wish to create awareness on Mother-Child care, provide holistic health services to communities through need based health camps and supporting government initiatives. • Sterlite donated hospital bed materials worth Rs.2 lakhs to the Government Hospital in Tuticorin on 19th Feb. 2011 in the presence of Ms. Geetha Jeevan, Hon’ble Minister for Social Welfare. • Sterlite is operating six rural health clinics in the neighbourhood providing health access to two Panchayats on a weekly basis covering a population of 6270, benefitting 1250 -1500. These centers offer patients with free health screening, medicines and referral services as follow up. • A full-fledged medical team also organizes health camps every month in the outskirts of Tuticorin and in coastal areas. These camps offer patients with general screening, treatment with free medicines. So far there have 384 health camps benefitting 22,043 people • Sterlite observed World AIDS day on 1st December 2011 and all employees wore red ribbon and spread awareness on the deadly disease. Public rally was held in Tuticorin town in partnership with Suryan FM and around 600 people participated in the event. • Sterlite Industries Red Ribbon Club in association with Government blood bank organized a blood donation Camp. The camp aims at creation of awareness on the importance of Blood donation in the present Scenario. Totally 48 employees donated blood in the camp held at Government hospital campus, Tuticorin. • Periodic Veterinary Camps in coordination with Tamil Nadu Animal Husbandry Department to support farmers in cattle management to eradicate “Blue Tongue Disease” in Tutitcorin. During the reporting year six camps have been conducted in six villages covering 1284 cattle. Sterlite Energy (SEL) • Mobile health Unit services for providing door step health care support across 14 villages. • Project Janani for providing Reproductive health care to 70,000 rural population. Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO) • BALCO established Vedanta Rural Health Post at Chuiya which is catering medical services and laboratory facilities to the community. Recently a mobile unit has also been attached with the post which is providing door step facility in remote villages. This year the facility has served 4,272 people. • Anganvadi initiative Project ‘Mamta’, covered 18,019 people by continous engagements with the community. Under the initiative, 1,342 expecting and 1,030 lactating mothers were covered counselling supplementing services at Anganvadi Centres. The initiative also imparted training to health workers and traditional birth attendants. Besides this, uniforms, utensils, learning toys were provided for 15,647 children in 300 centres. 36 • BALCO organises eye camps in association with District Blindness agency. This year the camps were organised at Korba, Kawardha, Ambikapur and Dharamjai Garh benefiting 1,664 people suffering from cataract. • BALCO organised Jaipur Foot Camp in partnership with District Welfare Department at Korba and Ambikapur. The camps provided customised Aluminium made Jaipur Foot to 91 people. • The mobile cancer detection units attached with the upcoming hospital at Raipur organised 26 camps in which 2,059 people were registered. Out of them 90 were found suspected of suffering from Cancer. Hindustan Zinc (HZL) • Organised rural medical camps in collaboration with HelpAge India, ACE and District Health Department benefiting around 1 Lac patients; and medical check-up camps at all Child Welfare Centers (CWC) benefiting 544 children in 18 centres. • Organised several need based camps like Homeopathic, Ayurvedic, Dental, BMD, Anemia Detection, Hepatitis B&C, Blood Sugar, Blood Pressure, blood donation and other health awareness camps etc., benefitting around 57,349 people. • Organised 7 days Mega Surgical Camps in collaboration with ‘Chitranjan Mobile Surgical unit (R.N.T. Medical College-Udaipur)’ at CLZS benefiting 944 patients. • Organised Mega Health Camp at ‘Gudli’ benefiting 604 patients at ZSD in joint collaboration with the Indian Red Cross Society. • Organised Family Planning Camps benefiting 3,984 eligible couples, of which 441 males and 3,543 females underwent tubectomy/vasectomy operation. • Organised physical disable help camp’s benefiting 150 disabled persons at RDM in joint venture with ‘Mahveer Viklang Sahayta Samiti’ and District Administration. • Eye care campaigns were conducted in collaboration with Sankar Foundation benefiting around 1,814 students at Vizag. • Free medical treatment to 86,878 rural people through Company-run hospitals; and providing free medicines to 1,413 widows through ‘Swami Vivekanand Seva Nyas’. • Installed 8 R.O. plants to provide safe drinking water and reduce water borne diseases in 8 IPDP villages Organised 84 cultural awareness programmes on various social issues like HIV/AIDS, Swine Flu and Family Planning, benefiting more than 40,000 villagers; and ‘Nukkad Nataks’ in 10 villages to create awareness on issues including child marriage, education, alcoholism and sanitation. • To effectively address malnutrition, HZL is providing supplementary nutrition to the children in the ‘Anganwadi Centres’. Backed by HZL’s determined initiatives, the village has witnessed 95% immunisation of mother and the child, with no malnourished children in the village. Community Assets Creation Each of our group companies constantly undertakes initiatives for improvement of rural infrastructure. These initiatives are focussed towards offering the communities in our areas of operations convenience. At the same time, we encourage active involvement of communities for village sufficiency. The objectives for the current reporting year included improving basic amenities like roads, water provision and sanitation. Additionally, we supported several Government rural infrastructure development initiatives. Sterlite Copper • Under Namaku Name Thittam initiative, drinking water sump in Vadakusilukanpatty & Milavittan village and initiated integrated drinking water project Veerapandiapuram Panchayat. The company has contributed nearly 50% to implement these projects. 37 • Sterlite has constructed over 14 borewells in the Chinchpada village to support the villagers for their daily drinking water needs. Sterlite Energy (SEL) • Construction of the village road from R&R Colony to Brundamal has started in partnership with the local contractor. It will help the villagers avail better commutation • Construction of the Rohidaspada crematorium has been completed which is now available for funeral rituals • Renovation/Up gradation of 44 individual household toilets.. Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO) • Installed 7 drinking water units and 2 irrigation facilities, constructed 4 passenger shelters and 3 community buildings and 3 operational locations as per the need of the community Hindustan Zinc (HZL) • Installed 2 tube wells (one each) at theMaton and Rajpura Dariba Mine, which benefited around 3,500 villagers • The Kanpur Drinking Water Project has been successfully completed and handed over to the Panchayat. • Constructed, repaired and renovated, Community centres, school buildings, boundary walls, drainage systems, CC roads, pipelines, and more, benefiting more than 20,000 villagers • Laid down a 700 metre pipe-line for the water supply at Kamlod village (Maton) • Provided 200 brick tree guards in 4 schools at Rampura Agucha • Laying of the foundation stone of the Vedanta Stadium at RDM by the Honourable Rajasthan Chief Minister in the presence of the Minister of MoRD • Constructed the ‘Thokar Choraha’ at Udaipur • Provided safe drinking water in 32 affected villages and benefiting 28,000 people • HZL, along with ACE (Action for Community Empowerment), has done extensive social mobilisation with an aim to inculcate a sense of sanitation. Today, of the total 60 households, 24 have toilets constructed with the help of ACE Women Empowerment We believe that women should be socially and economically empowered. To achieve this, we train women so that they can upgrade their skills and earn their livelihood. This helps them in becoming independent and selfsufficient. We assist in generating supplementary income for Women Self Help Groups (SHGs). We act as catalyst in linking resources from Government, NGOs, Banks and corporates for the success of SHGs. Sterlite Copper • The Sterlite Women Empowerment Project (SWEP) was initiated for empowering rural and coastal women. The project has achieved formation of 1074 Self-Help Groups (SHG) covering 15,324 rural women from marginalized sections of society. More than 252 groups have taken up profitable Income Generation Activities. 38 The income generation activities vary from Prawn pickle processing to dry flower making, Household provision supply, candle making, milk vending, rabbit rearing, vessels rental and petty shops. The income generation programs have enabled the women to increase their family income and in an average they earn INR 3000 3500 per month as additional source of income. During the reporting period the groups have availed loan ranging from INR 50, 000 to INR 200, 000. • Sterlite celebrated International Women’s day by organising a grand public function for SHG women members under SWEP on March 8th of every year, since 2006. The most interesting part of this function was the parade and Drill performed by over 7000 SHGs, which is the first and largest of its kind in this part of the state. Awards for excellence in Income Generation Projects, for the 32 Best SHGs, 20 Entrepreneurs, and also for 6 respective NGOs were also distributed on the occasion. • To offer vocational training for livelihood for women, six tailoring centers have been functioning very successfully. Currently 69 women are undergoing training at these centres. Sterlite Energy (SEL) SEL has been providing financial support to four self-help groups (SHG). Women SHG members have been provided financial assistance to start micro enterprises. • Project Vedanta Integrated Jana Jivika Yojana for 09 villages covering rural women, building capacity and promoting rural enterprise. A women’s cooperative has been formed to promote rural entrepreneurship. • Exposure visit of 30 farmers on Vegetable Cultivation. • Production and Selling of 50 Bowl Aquariums through Subhalaxmi Cooperative. • 3000 lts of Phenyle sold at the through the cooperative. • Initiation of Marigold Cultivation with 15 farmers of R&R Colony. • Training cum exposure visit on Banjara poultry breed Farming to 20 new farmers. • Training on financial literacy to 83 cooperative members. • Training on homemade snacks and pickles to 50 cooperative members. • Initiation of paddy straw mushroom at Shivrampur • Training on Banaraja poultry farming, paddy straw mushroom, floriculture, ornamental pisciculture, goat rearing with vaccination camp • 1329 women covered under Project VIJJY with 1094 enrolled in Cooperative. • Project Vedanta Asha with 200 SHGs for promoting empowerment and building capacities of rural women. • 10 women of SHG have initiated a leaf plate unit at Tumadihi, Kirimira Block. • Training on Dairy enterprise to 40 women at Rengalbeda village. • Goatry Training to 80SHG women in 2 training sessions at Tangarbeda, &Patrapalli. • Vegetable cultivation training to 30SHG members at Dumerdihi, Liakera Block. • 16th ASHA Mahial Maha Adhiveshan presided over by District Collector in the presence of 300 SHG Members. • Vermicompost Training to 25 SHG women at Kuanmal. Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO) • BALCO has provided quality seeds of Potato to 11 SHG members to generate additional income from their homestead land. During the winter season the groups have earned Rs.50,000/-. Hindustan Zinc (HZL) • 350 village women availed training in tailoring,handloom training was imparted to 50 SHG members and Meenakari training to 30 women at Rampura Agucha 39 • HZL distributed 15 sewing machines to trained women at Vizag • SHG women of Chanderiya participated in ‘Mewar Udyog Utsav 2010’ for 6 days, wherein sold various domestic products & accounted a profit of Rs. 32,000. 20 SHG members put their handmade product exhibition at ‘Shrawan Mela’ at Gramin Haat (Chittorgarh) and 38 women participated in the ‘Literacy Programme’ at CLZS Sustainable Livelihood Good partnerships can change lives beyond all expectations especially when the partnerships are formed for the benefit of those in need. At Sterlite Industries, we constantly strive to help many realise their dreams. A big leap towards this is our association with NGOs, government departments, academic institutions, nationalised banks and hospitals, to create a model that addresses community issues in a consistent manner. Together, we improve the employability rate by training and helping community members hone their skills. We are certain that our efforts to create self-sustaining villages will show remarkable results in the future. Sterlite Copper • Sterlite Copper launched ‘Coastal Livelihood Project’ to promote the technical skills among coastal youth in Tuticorin. Rs 11 lakh was spent on the project offering vocational education to more than 225 people. Sterlite Industries has identified various areas of skills development need to be offered to fishing community members such as Computer training, Beautician, Nursing assistant, Embroidery, Tailoring, Shipping management, JCB and Crane operator. During the reporting year we have achieved employability rate of 78%, on an average they earn INR 3000 to 4000 per month. Sterlite Energy (SEL) • The company has been conducting training sessions on housekeeping (ORETUS) and soft skills development. These training sessions focus on monitoring and counselling the students and facilitate faculty discussions, which emphasize improved student learning. • Project Annadatta with 387farmers for promotion of Systems of Rice Intensification in 309 acres of agricultural land. • Training on candle, Agarbatimaking and Masala Packing for 60 women at Indra Devi Sultania Memorial Institute. Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO) • Watershed Development Project at Korba completed interim phase by treating 200 hectares of land. The main phase of treatment of remaining 1,299 hectares of land been initiated in March 2011.This is benefitting 450 farmers in the immediate vicinity of BALCO • BALCO in association with Infrastructure and Leasing Services (IL&FS) has established Vedanta IL&FS Skill school at Korba. The State level residential skill school is imparting market linked skill training to BPL youth of the region including girls. The school has planned to skill youth in 4 trades out of which 2 trades (Industrial Stitching and welding) have already been initiated in November 2010. In the financial year 2010-11, four batches comprising 259 youth have been placed successfully earning about Rs. 6,000 per month. 40 Hindustan Zinc (HZL) • HZL distributed tool kits to 63 rural artisans (including carpenters, cobblers, drummers, pipe fitters, blacksmith and cycle repairing) at Chanderiya for enhancing the family income levels by promoting traditional vocations in villages • Vocational training provided to 763 unemployed rural youth to generate employability among unemployed rural youth through market driven vocational training ensuring 75% placements of the trained youths with monthly income of Rs. 4,000 /to Rs. 8,000 /• Distributed hi-yield seeds and fertilizer kits to 897 farmers. • Wadi project started for 42 farmers at Chanderiya & Rampura Agucha. • Wadi structure developed consisting of Guava and lemon plants. • Constructed Green House structure at RAM, RDM & CLZS. • Constructed of 04 Roof water harvesting 2 each at RAM & CLZS. • Support in development of canal for bringing of water from Grazing land to pond. Benefited more than 10000 population in Kothiya village • Support was provided to an orphan animal centre at Peoples for Animal, benefiting approx.500 orphan animals at RAM. 100% vaccination of three Gao Shala in Gulabpura and Agucha benefited 750 orphan cows. • Celebrated 'Kissan Kharif Mahotsav 2010' at Chanderiya in collaboration with Veterinary Department (Chittorgarh), benefiting 2,603 animals and 328 farmers of 8 Panchayats. Other Initiatives Sterlite Copper • The horticulture Department, Ottapidaram block, in association with Sterlite Copper has undertaken projects in the 14 villages, for the benefit of farmers. We aim to transfer of latest production technologies to increase productivity, lay out demonstration for the impact area under horticulture, support of input supply in appropriate time and Information / Education / Communication & capacity building inculcation. So far, demonstration trials have been initiated in 110 farmer’s field with good progress. The company has distributed Tissue culture banana saplings free of cost to 80 farmers and hybrid vegetable seeds to 30 farmers. Sterlite Energy (SEL) • Planting of 45,000 saplings in 65 acres of land. • Organized Orissa State women chess championship at Jharsuguda. • Partnered with District Athlete association for organizing different tournaments. • Organized District level Football tournament. • Supported State level Women's Football Tournament at Jharsuguda. • Facilitated organizing state level school sports meet at GhanshyamHemlata School Jharsuguda, collaborating District Administration. Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd (BALCO) • In the year 2010-11, BALCO forged collaborations and partnerships with external agencies to impact the quality of life of the people living in and around its operations. Some of the prominent partners are Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS), Naandi Foundation, NABARD, Inner wheel Education Society, Government agencies. The year also witnessed initiation of entry level programmes in Coal block area of Dharamjay Garh. 41 Copper Mines Tasmania (CMT) • CMT’s activities in Queenstown, provides employment to 300 people directly and nearly 600 people indirectly. CMT provides significant contributions and supports local sporting, educational, environmental, arts, volunteer and community organizations. At the mine site, various ongoing environmental improvements and initiatives are currently underway. Hindustan Zinc (HZL) • More than 121,195 cattle benefited through various cattle camps ensuring 100% cattle vaccination. • 193 farmers were trained in joint collaboration with the government agriculture department • Distributed hi-yield seeds and fertiliser kits to 897 farmers. • HZL support in the development of a canal for bringing water from the grazing land to the pond benefitting over 10,000 of the population in the Kothiya village • Distributed tricycles to 48 youth at Chittorgarh • Organised the ‘Gramin Swarozgar Mela’ in joint collaboration with Vishvas Sansthan at Udaipur benefiting more than 500 SHG women. • Provided financial support of Rs. 1.5 Lacs to ‘Viklang Kalyan Samiti’ for mentally challenged children • Provided financial support of Rs.2.5 Lacs for organising the ‘Convention of Ram Krishna Vivekanand Bhav Prachar Parishad’ in a joint collaboration with SVSN. • Distributed solar lamps to 45 Below Poverty Line families at ZM • Sponsored one day Buyers-Sellers meet, Rozgar Mela, Udhyog Mela benefiting 6,200 villagers at Rajsamand and Chittorgarh. • Provided financial support in organising the ‘National Youth Festival 2011’ at Udaipur. • Planted 1.25 Lac plants through District Forest Department in Udaipur district under ‘Harit Rajasthan’ Drive. Case Studies Education Sharper Pencils, Sharper Minds The eldest in the family of six children from the remote village in Tamil Nadu, 13 year old Karthika's biggest battle in life has been to continue her education. With girls in her impoverished community dropping out from formal education and meager family earnings, she had to overcome many obstacles in her quest for learning. A few visits to the evening study center conducted by Sterlite at Tuticorin changed her life. The Evening Study Centers support children with their regular education. The children are given intensive coaching, individual tutoring where need be and vocational guidance. The older ones are paired with the younger ones to ensure continuity of support beyond school and the center. These 24 centers at Sterlite reaching out to 1,761 students are proving ideal as bridge schools and remedial centers in the region. 'It was so interesting', she said. 'I knew then I had to continue my education'. Her first hurdle was convincing her parents. But Karthika understood that if they were ever to improve their situation, she had to study. Despite the odds she now attends regular school. Women Empowerment 42 Journey from being a Salt pan worker to an Inspiration for man S. Dhanalakshmi was born in Tuticorin in a poor family and owing to this situation her parents couldn’t support her education beyond 9th grade. Like many others in her village, Dhanalaxmi also started working in the salt pans to meet her daily needs. She was married at early age and found it difficult to support the family expenses with her husband’s meagre income. But, her situation changed for good in 2003 when she joined the Self Help Group in her village. Here she obtained a formal training in Mushroom cultivation through Sterlite‘s Income generation Training program. She pursued to start her mushroom cultivation with enthusiasm and found the market demand where 1 kg of mushroom is sold for Rs. 100, every day her team can earn Rs.1, 500 to Rs.2000 as they produce 15kgs to 20kgs per day. Eventually, Dhanalaxmi started training other women members of the SHG in mushroom cultivation. Dhanalaxmi’s main objective behind starting a SHG is to empower women by providing them better working conditions as many of them perform a lot of hard labour despite continued exposure to blazing sunlight for a paltry sum. She took a loan of Rs. 2, 50,000 from Mahalir Thittam [Women Development Corporation] to increase the mushroom cultivation produce by engaging 20 women. Monthly they sold 600 kg of mushroom and earned a net profit of Rs. 40,000/-. The Training offered by Chevaliar Roche Society (CRS) the mother NGO for Sterlite Women Empowerment Projects along with the 5 NGO project Partners working for Sterlite Women Empowerment Project guided Dhanalskhmi in launching this project successfully. Besides these, Dhanalxmi achievements are worth being lauded as she helped start 6 mushroom cultivation units that generate revenue of Rs. 5000 per day. She is a government trainer for Mushroom cultivation for helping other SHGs. She has developed her own mother seed producing unit for regular supply of seeds so as to avoid the stoppage of production, due to the unavailability of seeds. She also started to breed seeds on her own. She has also helped the daily wages members to avail a loan in the Government by serving as a facilitator which helped the women in helping their family to lend loans for education, marriage, hospital expenses at a low rate of interest. She voluntarily took part in the up gradation of the community needs like, provision of street Lights and repairing the roads with request and petitions to the Government t/ Panchayat sector. All of this has brought her great recognition in her community so much so that in the year 2008 she went on to win CII – Woman Exemplar Award for her contribution to the community and being an inspiration to many women in Tuticorin. Community Assets Creation Towards prosperity Khatiheda Village Khatiheda, a small village with a population of approximately 500 people, is afflicted by extreme poverty. “We decided in collaboration with HZL and the District Administration to approach the development of our village holistically under HZL’s IVDP programme,” says Meera Baksha “As our first step, we jointly constructed Roof Water Harvesting (RWH) structures based on a partnership approach, with HZL contributing INR 2.75 lacs. INR 1.55 lacs were provided by the government and the villagers’ contributed with sweat equity. The RWH structures were constructed on every house to store and then divert rain water to our farms for irrigation. With all overflows diverted into a neighbouring well, this permanently addressed our water woes.” The second effort was for 38 women to form two self help groups in the village. After six months of consistent savings of `INR 100 per month both the groups, received a joint loan of `INR 10 lacs from the local bank to start an enterprise in vegetable cultivation and fruit orchards. Water was still a major hindrance for the enterprise, so the groups decided to dig two borewells in the river running alongside the village. They then laid pipelines to bring the water to farmland to support their new enterprise. The company organised various training and capacitybuilding programmes for the farmers on subjects including organic farming, mixed cropping and more, and provided market opportunities for these crops. Along with the agricultural project, the company also carried out livestock development activities like artificial insemination, cattle immunisation and fodder cultivation, as well as health and hygiene and educational programmes in the village to complete the circle of holistic development. Vedanta, with Action for Community Empowerment, conducted extensive engagement with the community to inculcate sanitation habits including the use of toilets instead of the outdoor defecation that had caused major health problems in the village. The company also provided supplementary nutrition to the children in Anganwadi Centres. Through this, the village has now achieved 95% immunisation of mothers and children, and there are no malnourished children in the village. A health camp is held every two months to focus on immunisation along with 43 preventive and curative health treatments. It took two years to bring about these changes the groups have already paid off their loan, the average annual family income of a farmer with one hectare of land is up from INR 0.1 million to 0.4 million and the trees have started to bear fruit. “On any normal day, Khatikeda now starts to buzz as early as 5.00 am with people picking vegetables. By 7.00 am, these have been brought together for cleaning and packing in crates. By 8.00 am they are loaded in small trucks and motorcycles making their way to the wholesale market, and by 10.00 am, the villagers are back home with their money for the day, and ready to kick off another day of hard work in their fields. A picture of prosperity,” concludes Meera. Total Sanitation Campaign Swachha Gaon Swastha Gao Remote location, poverty, poor hygiene, open defecation and high incidence of water borne diseases are common in the remote villages of India. Majority of the people in these villages live in unhealthy and unclean surroundings due to lack of access to sanitation facilities. Poor sanitation facilities may have serious repercussions. Open defecation is the primary factor that contributes to the spread of diseases and infections through the bacteriological contamination of water sources and the transmission of bacteria through the fecal-oral route. The practice of open defecation by the majority of people in this region is one of the most serious environmental threats to public health. Vedanta group Companies HZL, BALCO and SIIL, acknowledging the severity of the problem, initiated total sanitation programme and constructed 2387 toilets in the operational villages. Total sanitation campaign was mainly started to bring about an improvement in the general quality of life in rural areas by providing them access to the sanitary means of excreta disposal, and thus combating the water borne diseases from which major rural population suffers. The impact of this programme can be seen not only in terms of health improvement but in other indirect benefits also. The impact of this project has been dramatic. The incidence of outbreak of diseases has reduced significantly in these villages, providing relief from worm infestations, diarrhoea, cholera and typhoid infections. This project has major impact on women. Earlier women-folk were compelled to practice open defecation in the absence of proper toilet facilities; they suffered from lack of hygiene, privacy and dignity and had to walk long distances to find a suitable place for defecation. Even men folk suffered from vulnerability of unseen problems like attack from wild animals. However post the project implementation these six villages have reported improved health & hygiene, a sense of security, privacy, comfort and dignity. It has also ensured comfort and safety especially for the pregnant women and adolescent girls. Promoting smokeless kitchens Mrs Girja Bai, from Dondro Village, says: “I used to have to walk a long distance in the forest for fuel wood which took up much of my time. But then BALCO and CREDA (the Chhattisgarh State Renewable Energy Development Authority) not only told us about the benefits of bio gas but also supported us with financial aid to construct bio gas equipment. Now I don’t have to go outside to fetch wood for fuel and I am able to give more attention and time to my children. No smoke is emitted, which used to burn my eyes. I now cook in a smokeless kitchen, something I had never imagined.” The bio gas project, under the Integrated Village Development Programme, has changed the way that 269 households cook. The BALCO-CREDA partnership evolved with the sole objective of providing an alternative source of energy to families, which would be used for lighting as well as for cooking. The commissioning of one bio gas structure costs INR 15,500. CREDA contributes INR 8,000, BALCO INR 6,000 and the balance of INR 1,500 and maintenance is the responsibility of each individual home-owners. Each household gets farm manure worth INR 14,000 per annum from the bio gas plant, and they report a reduction in health problems related to eye and breathing difficulties. Applying manure generated from slurry at the bio gas plant has also reduced the salinity/alkanity of the soil. It has increased the porosity and water-holding capacity of the land while providing 44 alternative sources of lighting in non-electrified villages. Project Neerdhara In an equal cost sharing partnership with NABARD, BALCO had set up a Watershed Development project in Parsakhola; wherein BALCO had teamed with SROUT (an NGO partner) to set up a Water User Committee (WUC) with 20 members from the villages. Pond bunding was the initiation of the watershed project. Over 100 hectares of arid land have been brought under this project and around 2,360 fruit species have been planted. The next phase will cover 900 hectares of land bringing the total coverage to a thousand hectares! All this has been achieved by creating and involving Self Help groups (SHGs) in the construction of watershed structures. The village of Parsakhola now has a water body of its own! Additionally, the wages of the workers in the SHGs were deposited directly in the bank accounts that helped them save money, earn pride and dignity and has shown them the value of enterprise. An additional 25 hectares of land has been brought under cultivation. The GoI-sponsored NREGS scheme has also been brought in for water management and conservation. The project has a strong focus on animal husbandry through breed improvement; setting up 216 bio-gas plants to generate clean fuel; and coupling bio waste with vermi compost to produce organic fertilizers. Healthcare Mamtaimproving mother & child health at BALCO The Anganwadi Centers were divided into 10 clusters supervised by coordinators of BALCO in Korba. The role of a cluster coordinator was to monitor each and every expectant and nursing mother. The Anaganwadi workers ensured steady supply of food supplements, the auxiliary nurse mid wives ensured routine immunization, and the mid wives took care of institutional delivery. In a village set up, opinion makers like Sarpanch, elders and school teachers also play pivotal role in mobilizing the community towards education and addressing the issues of the village. This is done through “Gram Sabhas” (Village Meetings) where the issues ailing the community are discussed and debated. Our team utilized this forum to accord the requisite seriousness of mortality rate and malnutrition among women and children. 45 Health, Safety & Environment The Approach We care about every single person who works with us. Creating safer workplaces devoid of occupational illnesses and managing maximum conservation of natural resources have always been our strategic priorities. We follow sound Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) practices to ensure that both our people and the environment are taken care of. ‘Zero harm’ to people, our host communities and the environment is our key focus areas. Sterlite Industries lays a special emphasis on conducting training and awareness programmes for employees and contract labour. From taking every possible preventive measure and providing protective equipments to conducting campaigns and disaster management drills, we leave no stone unturned when it comes to the health and safety of our people. At the same time, we undertake several steps towards environment conservation . Our green initiatives range from using energy efficient methods to minimising fuel and water consumption. At the same time, we undertake several steps towards environment conservation. Our green initiatives range from using energy efficient methods to minimising fuel and water consumption. Management Approach At Sterlite, we believe that Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) are topmost priorities in conducting business responsibly. And this very philosophy is the backbone of all our routine operations and practices. We are committed towards creating and maintaining sustainable growth for our stakeholders and we strive to maintain balance between social, environment and economic aspects of our business. Sterlite’s HSE efforts are centred on the following pillars: • Safety: Provide a safe workplace • Environment: Minimise impact on environment by conserving natural resources through efficient use • Health: Eliminate occupational illness The thrust of the HSE activities remains the same across the group companies. Each company/unit has devoted HSE teams including water and energy & CDM managers. To measure our efficiency and to improvise our standards, we seek third-party consultation from reputed agencies such as KPMG, Chillworth Global, National Safety Council and Synergic Safety Engineers. Most of our operations have formal HSE management systems aligned to the international standards like OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 in place. Health & Safety Management Maintaining exceptional health and safety performance is given prime importance at Sterlite Industries. Both the permanent employees and contract staff receive safety training before they are entrusted with any responsibility within the company premises. We are committed to create a safer workplace so that there are no accidents in our premises. The safety committees of each company regularly advise us on occupational health and safety improvements, and hygiene. To ensure such ongoing improvement, many initiatives were undertaken during the year throughout the group. We firmly believe we can be a business without injuries and consider that every safety incident is preventable 46 which eventually helps us gauge our sustainability goals with respect to safety at work. Unfortunately despite the measures in place, an irreplaceable life of a driver of a Sulphuric acid tanker at Sterlite Copper was lost. We follow the ‘Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR)’ index system for evaluating the safety performance. Unit 2010-11 LTIFR HZL 2.52 BALCO 0.62 Sterlite copper 0.86 CMT 2.38 During the year, we had organised various aining programmes with an objective to achieve a minimum of 2 mandays of training for every employee. 982 out of 1,198 employees at Sterlite Copper were covered under minimum of 2 man-days of training. Similar training is provided in Zinc, Aluminium, Power and all other businesses. All contractor employees at Sterlite received online safety training designed by Dupont. HZL and BALCO began near-miss reporting for contract employees. Sterlite Copper reported 193 near misses for the reporting year. This is in line with the identification of the safety of contract workers as one of our key material issues. Eliminating fatal accidents is a key material concern for the Group. Safety Cardinal Rules followed at Sterlite: • Don’t violate PPE norms • Don’t work without safety work permit signed off • Don’t violate the speed limit beyond 20 Kmph with in plant premises • Don’t park the vehicles in “No Parking” zones, especially inside plant areas • Don’t smoke within the plant premises • Don’t sleep while on duty • Don’t drink alcohol, consume tobacco and come for duty • Don’t refrain from reporting any unsafe act/incidents & near-misses as seen • Don’t drive without crash helmet/seat belt (both at front and rear seats) and speak in mobile while driving & walking • Don’t drive without valid driving license Safety Systems & Training Sterlite imparts safety training to all its employees both permanent and contract staff. They also have refresher courses periodically on safety. We have also engaged external experts to strengthen our HSE management system in our operations and projects. Emergency preparedness plans are well in place and mock drills are conducted regularly in day shift as well night shifts. Units Total training man-hours Avg man hours per employee HZL 364984 16.00 BALCO 105056 2.25 SIIL 27213 1.15 47 Intensive structured training We are focusing on intensive structured training through in-house resources as well as by engaging expert agencies. All units are having safety committee, having representation from management and unionized workers which covers entire workforce working at site. Committee meets on regular basis to advice on occupational health and safety improvement. Occupational Safety All visitors at each company premises are required to wear PPEs such as boots, helmets and safety guideline handout before they enter the plant premises after the security check at the entrance gate. All the companies in the Group follow a four step system to ensure safety at the plant; 1.Preventive System We issue work permits class I & II which is depending on the nature of work. We conduct periodic inspections; walk through survey and HAZOP studies before we initiate any project. Safety Steward, Safety Protocol for critical jobs, critical task observation are few such preventive systems in place to streamline our activities and to anticipate any possible risk or hazard associated with any process. a. HSE Steward System at Sterlite Copper At Sterlite Copper, the plant is divided into 33 zones of equal area and each area’s ownership has been given to the identified people designated as “HSE STEWARDS”. Seven representatives nominated from HSE department are designated as “HSE ZONE REPS”. For identification, they have been provided with RED COLOR HELMET. The HSE Steward has to perform monthly audits, night patrolling and enforcement by issuing Yellow, Orange and Green Slips as a part of his regular activities. Riding on the success story of HSE stewards system at SIIL operation in Tuticorin, the same system has now been adopted at BALCO and HZL units. 2. Educational System This system deals with identification of training needs and development of safety modules accordingly to conduct formal and informal & job specific safety training for employees. A 3 day safety training program for all M7,M8 ,M9 & Trainees was conducted through M/S Bureau Veritas. Web enabled interactive safety training for our M6 & Above employees through M/s. Coastal Dupont. Besides the written matter on safety, framing safety rules, Transport Emergency (TREM) card, Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS), Display Boards (Hoardings & Safety Slogans), Display of Mandatory Signs, Display of Caution Boards and Safety Information for Visitors are all a part of the educational system of implementing safety at Sterlite. 3. Evaluation & Implementation System Conducting Safety Audits, Risk Assessment by External Agency, Group Risk Assessment (Risk Register), Physical Condition Tour, forming a Unit Safety Committee, Departmental Safety Committee is a part of the implementation of safety mechanisms. Organisation level review, safety steward meetings and accident investigation help in assuring the performance of the evaluations taken place under this system for improving safe work conditions. 4. Motivational System We provide a Green slip – for extra-ordinary contribution towards safety, Spot prize for excellence in Safety to encourage proactive participation from the entire workforce. PEP talk, House Keeping Contest among 48 departments, Conducting various competitions (Safety Quiz, Poster, Cross-word, Debate, Elocution, Essay & Slogan), Sit & Draw competition for children, Safety Quiz competition for House wives are few other activities through which we motivate our stakeholders in taking safety and precaution seriously while at work. Emergency and Disaster Management Preparedness The Chanderia plant of HZL got recognized as one of the best off-site exercise by the National Disaster Management Authority. A drill was conducted in the full view of media, external observers and state regulatory bodies, each scenario was enacted sequentially and the disaster control machinery was put to test in order to control them. The mock drill also included ferrying injured ones to the nearest hospital. Off-site emergency was declared by the State Authorities and all road and railway traffic to and from Chittorgarh was stopped. The Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan (EPRP) are in place to tackle on site and off site emergencies. Identification coloured scarves are worn by members of fire fighting, rescue, medical and communication teams for liaising the process. Some of the following facilities are available for emergency control: • A full-fledged safety department functions effectively in the unit. • A fire station is also attached to the safety department • Four full time medical officers are available in the unit. One fully equipped hi-tech ambulance with drivers is available round the clock in the occupational health center. With the aim of achieving an accident-free workplace, the Single Point Accountability project was initiated at Sterlite Copper units from January 2010. The vision of this project is to make both the sites world-class in HSE Management Systems by implementing necessary improvements, resulting in 100% compliance of the requirements. Occupational Health The health of our entire workforce is important to us. As a result, apart from Sterlite employees, all contract staff also undergo a medical check-up. Permission to enter the plant for work is given only after the doctor certifies the fitness of the contractor labour. Adherence to each company’s procedural health checkups and proof of age are two major criteria in selecting an employee and or a contract labour for a job. Most of the operational units of Sterlite Industries have medical facilities and medical examinations including blood lead, audiometric and spirometry tests, ECGs and Building chest X-rays were conducted for all employees and contractors, in 2010-11. No cases of occupational disease occurred at any of our units during the year. We are improving our reporting in this area following the ICMM guidelines, and we plan to measure the incidence of occupational disease from 2011. We believe that regular health monitoring of this sort has a direct business benefit, with reduced absenteeism and increased productivity levels. Sterlite Copper’s safety team launched a Hand injury prevention campaign to reduce the incidents of injury caused to limbs while at work. 106 employees were given class room training on the precautions and safety mechanism to be followed and observed while handling jobs at the unit. To create awareness about the campaign within the company premises, banners were put up at different locations, hand notes were given out to 1000 employees and information regarding hand injury prevention and pictures were disseminated to all desktops as wallpaper. During the year, BALCO undertook an in-depth review of its safety systems that resulted in significant strengthening of practices aimed at protecting its workforce. The Company also introduced a new ‘real-time’ online safety portal, for the self-reporting of hazards, near misses and accidents. An external focus We are also keen to help the local communities where we operate to improve their health and well-being. We do this by encouraging participation in tailored healthcare programmes that address the main health issues affecting each area, including epidemics such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. We implement these programmes in close partnership with local health authorities and NGOs. 49 Contractor Safety Management We give equal importance to contract workmen safety, as in case of our own employees. Contractors are included in our safety data and must comply in full with our safety standards and procedures. During the year, we have reviewed safety performance of major contractors and communications were made to the senior management of the agency deteriorating on safety aspects. Our contractors also participate actively in Safety Committee meetings to facilitate further strengthening of safety systems. Wherever appropriate, we have minimised the number of contractor companies used, in order to improve accountability and enable us to ensure consistent safety standards. We monitor high risk activities closely, provide regular feedback on performance and promptly act on any failures by contractors in complying with our safety procedures. Environment Strelite Industries constantly works towards building a greener planet. We have always focussed our efforts in ensuring environmental protection while conducting all our operations. We do so by improving the designs or resorting to alternative and sustainable means. Our group aims to avoid the losses or degradation of natural habitats, biodiversity and landscape. As a result, biodiversity management is a fundamental element of our initial site-level environmental impact assessments (EIAs). It is also an important factor within the ISO14001 management systems, to which most operational sites are certified. Raw Materials Consumption Major raw materials are primarily consumed in Bauxite, Copper Ore / Concentrate, Zinc & Lead Ore along with few associated mineral inputs, semi-manufactured and packaging material. We do not use recycled materials as inputs for any of our processes. As we make bulk products, any packaging is minimal, but we are in a process to develop a Product Stewardship Policy that would apply to all our business units in the group. 50 Energy Conservation As a responsible group, we have constantly maintained our focus on optimisation and efficient use of energy. We consider energy as one of the most critical resources as it fuels our day to day activities at all our operations. Energy optimisation helps in reducing the operating costs as well as greenhouse gas emissions. To secure cost effective and continuous energy supply to all our operations; we have been successful in reducing the specific 51 energy consumption of our mines and smelters consciously through captive power generation efforts over the years. CMT Energy Consumption (GJ) 600000 540431 500000 394411 400000 360236 300000 direct 200000 indirect 110714 120000 100000 124690 0 FY 2008 09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 SIIL Energy Consumption (GJ) 5000000 4701758.45 4500000 4000000 3470000 3500000 3267517 3000000 2500000 direct 1929067.04 2000000 indirect 1500000 1091859.206 1000000 778343.36 500000 0 FY 2008 09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 HZL Energy Consumption (GJ) 45000000 40000000 38129824 35000000 30011545 30000000 25000000 22211142 direct 20000000 15000000 12404427 indirect 9317651 10000000 5000000 744064 0 FY 2008 09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 52 BALCO Energy Consumption (GJ) 12000000 111638347 102176954 10000000 78482820 80000000 60000000 direct 40000000 indirect 21940032.93 14976390.52 16175136.11 20000000 0 FY 2008 09 FY 2009-10 FY 2010-11 Energy Savings In our endeavour to improve the energy efficiency of our processes, we have implemented few projects such as Installation of Variable Frequency Drives at most sites, optimising lighting efficiency by replacing traditional fittings with metal halide lights, process redesign by automation and retrofitting of equipments at most of sites. These have collectively helped in accruing huge energy and operational cost savings to the company. Green initiatives such as energy efficient technology at BALCO’s aluminium operation and the installation of a new energy-efficient hydrometallurgical plant at our Zinc business; and HZL's investment in renewable energy with six wind farms are a testimony to our dedication. To reduce our indirect energy consumption we are depending on utilizing IT and telephone services in our business to decrease business travels. We have setup video conferencing and telepresence facility at the units of each company, which has reduced employee commutation drastically. Conference call facility is available at all our locations, which is helpful for having smaller 53 business meetings. We also have bus facilities for mass employee commuting to mines and smelters at all our locations. Energy savings accrued (in GJ) 2010-11 Sterlite Copper 30,868 SEL 76,910 HZL 11,663 At BALCO reduction in specific energy consumption from 60.52 GJ/MT of Al to 57.25 GJ/MT of Al was achieved owing to initiatives such as; • Operation of FTP with 3 ID fans 12 MWH/day • Rectifier conversion efficiency from 97.96 to 98.19 saving 18 MWH/day In the reporting year, HZL has taken various initiatives such as Installation of a new energy-efficient hydrometallurgical plant to reduce energy consumption per ton of product, this result in reduction of specific energy consumption. At smelters the sp. energy consumption has reduced from 24.62 in 2005-06 to 16.29 in 2010-11 translating in reduction of 34% over last five years and at our mines it has reduced from 2.19 in 2005-06 to 2.00 in 2010-11 translating in reduction of 9% over last five years. Water Consumption Water over the years has become a scarce commodity. Nationally and internationally, there are many laws protecting water resources. We also believe in playing an important role whole heartedly in this endeavour to conserve water resources that are being used and also those which surround our operations. Water Withdrawal 60 54 50 40.35 40 33 2008-09 ( million m3) 30 24.8 23 2009-10 ( million m3) 20 2010-11 ( million m3) 10 4 3.7 4 2.998 3 0.038 0 0 CMT BALCO HZL SIIL 3 At Sterlite Copper, through two rain water catchment ponds, about 81000 m of rain water was collected in the reservoir and used for Green belt and other process related activities. SEL withdraws water from a surface water 3 resource of an estimated volume/size of around 7780 million m . SEL's operations consume less than 1% of the 54 water resource annually. BALCO's water withdrawal is around 33145676 m3 which is around 1 % of the total size of the Reservoir. The source of water withdrawal is Hasdeo Barrage of Hasdeo River. HZL withdraws water from Gosunda Captive Dam, Matrikundia Dam, Tidi Captive Dam and Udaisagar for its operations at its various units. Besides HZL, companies such as Bhushan, Hindalco, ITPS (OPGC), ACC, TRL etc. also withdraw water from the same source. CMT withdraws water from streams located around its mines namely, East Queen River and West Queen River. The source of water for the operations at HZL, CMT and SEL are in no way threatened by any of our activities. Water recycled/resued in 2008-09 (in m3) 45,000,000 38,560,223 40,000,000 35,000,000 30,000,000 25,000,000 20,000,000 15,000,000 11,957,592 10,000,000 5,000,000 712,436 432,087 0 CMT BALCO HZL SIIL Water Recycled/Reused in 2009-10 (in m3) 80,000 70,128 70,000 60,000 50,000 40,000 28,265 30,000 20,000 10,000 739 580 0 CMT BALCO HZL SIIL 55 Water Recycled & Reused in 2010-11 (in m3) 12,000,000 10,730,000 10,000,000 8,000,000 6,928,795 6,000,000 4,000,000 2,000,000 819,365 412,898 0 CMT BALCO HZL SIIL Biodiversity We believe that it is imperative for our business to look into the impact of our operations on our immediate environment and its long term effects on the biodiversity. We have mapped our operations across the Group against key biodiversity areas and national parks. We are also reviewing land management practices in line with the Scott Wilson recommendations for Vedanta Group, to develop Group-level Land Management and Biodiversity Policies. None of our individual companies own any land in protected areas or in areas of high biodiversity value. There are no significant impacts of activities, products and services of any of our operations on Biodiversity rich areas. In 2009-10, Sterlite Copper approached the Forest Research Institute, Dehradun to study a 10 km radius of the company. As per the FRI report, there are no IUCN red list species in the study area which may be affected by the company’s operations. The study also showed that there were no significant impact on the flora and fauna from the activities of Sterlite Copper in the study area. The Tuticorin unit of Sterlite Copper is located at a distance of 20 kms from Gulf of Mannar, which has a protected area status. This year Sterlite Copper initiated a bio diversity conservation project in nearby five villages (Melavittan, South Veerapandiyapuram, Pandarampatti, Saminatham, Vadakusilikanpatti) to conserve the endangered/rich medicinal plants. M/s Arumbugal Trust has been appointed to carry out the same. The company is creating awareness about these medicinal herbs among the village farmers and village people through various demography study and cultural programmes. At HZL, inactive waste benches are being stabilised and converted into habitats under green cover.There are no national parks, sanctuary or biodiversity rich area within 10 km radius of our operations except at Haridwar Zinc Plant (HZP). Near HZP, there is a Rajaji National park at a distance of 1 km from plant boundary. The operation at HZP involves physical transformation of zinc cathode sheet into zinc ingot without chemical process having negligible impact on environment. All mitigative measures have been taken for effective control of pollution to avoid adverse impact on Rajaji National Park. CMT targets attaining equivalent biodiversity to adjacent, non-disturbed analogue sites. Flora and fauna surveys, together with biodiversity health measures are developed on site which also helps to assess progress of rehabilitation. Surveys revealed 16 IUCN Red Lists terrestrial species of which 6 of them are endangered, 9 are vulnerable and one is near threatened according to the level of extinction risk. Macquarie Harbour is a world heritage site located close to CMT’s operations that 56 occupy 23.45 sq km of area. Regular weed control programs are in place to conserve the water resource. A major project by the State Government is underway to treat legacy acid drainage, including drainage management and removal of copper from polluted drainage. Regular macro invertebrate sampling of downstream water bodies is conducted to assess impact of operations (tailings storage) hygiene requirements for equipment entering site. BALCO in association with the State Forest Department has prepared wildlife management plan in the vicinity of its Kawardha (Mining Lease Area: 626.117 Hectares) and Mainpat (Mining Lease Area: 639.169 Hectares) mines. This plan is under implementation through concerned Forest Divisions with the provisions of funds (Rs.300.73 Lakhs) from BALCO over a period of three year. We continue to develop green-belt in and around our operations with expert botanists and horticulturists engaged across our units. We are committed to conducting Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) in the locality around all Greenfield projects in line with international standards. Environmental and social aspects are inter-linked, and environmental consequences may be linked to community resettlement arising from the opening of mining operations, or arising from mine closure. Responsible closure of mines is embedded into the mine planning stages. Climate Change Climate Change is a phenomenon affecting every creature and creation on this planet. Sterlite is therefore committed to reduce its carbon emissions as released by our various operations to minimise the impact which cumulatively contribute to global warming. Becoming energy efficient, conserving water resources by recycling & reusing are some of our sustained efforts in this direction. Managing greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) is one of the Group’s top-20 material issues. We use the WBCSDWRI methodology for calculating CO2 emissions. We are developing an integrated carbon strategy, which is already showing results. For example, we have to date registered four Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects, which between them have the potential under the Kyoto Protocol to deliver some 405,000 Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) each year. We are updating the risk management framework for identifying risks and opportunities related to climate change, and are deploying processes to manage them. The GHG inventorisation is done based on GHG protocol; emissions for this year are recorded in the table below. GHG Emissions (tonnes of CO2 eq. per annum) CMT 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 DIRECT 10,312 8231 8903 INDIRECT 5,482 83054 4780 BALCO 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 DIRECT 9,000,000 10365600 81,90,469 INDIRECT 0 817 589 HZL 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 DIRECT 3070652 3104390 37,23,069 INDIRECT 759946 2308868 4,22,750 SIIL 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 57 DIRECT 310994 3,71,999.23 320,511 INDIRECT 148283 1,77,700.43 278585.4 We have identified a number of investment opportunities across our businesses, including: • Current Group investments in new wind-farms which will have a total generation capacity of 150MW, in addition to our wind-farms with existing capacity of 123.2MW • A total of 57MW from waste heat recovery power plants based at HZL and the copper smelter at Tuticorin (Sterlite Copper Unit). • At BALCO: a. Phasing out of VSS technology to PFPBHost country approval has been obtained, UNFCC approval in process. This has lead to an estimated CO2 equivalent of 7,05,261 b. PFC reduction by advanced technology (Fuse technology, online cut off, Slotted anodes, AE detection, intelligent breakers)Host country approval in process. This has lead to an estimated CO2 equivalent of 1,10,000 • At HZL: The focus in on energy reduction and installation of Wind Power plants. This year 47.7 MW of wind power plant has been installed taking overall HZL wind power capacity to 170.9 MW. Presently our three CDM projects are registered with UNFCC and three other are under pipeline. During this year, we have sold 1, 34,138 CERs of our CDM projects generating revenues of INR 9.76 crores. Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) Sterlite Industries is committed to support the legally binding protocol of Montreal to which India is a party. The air conditioners in the office areas at Sterlite Copper release approximately 0.85 tonnes of ODS which comprise of Freon M-22 and Freon R-122. All other equipments used in the company have phased out ODS containing or emitting substances, except the air conditioning systems. We are in a process to slowly replace them with alternative cooling solutions. Total ODS comprising primarily of R-22, R-134, R-407C, released by HZL operations amounts to 0.0477 MT R-11 equivalents. SEL and CMT have phased out ODS containing or emitting substances and hence recorded zero emissions. Emissions & Effluents All manufacturing units across the globe face a challenge of controlling their airborne emissions. But with latest technologies, it is relatively easier to measure and control these emissions. With constant monitoring, we have been able to maintain the air emissions within the standard limits set by regulatory bodies. Emissions of SPM, SOx, NOx, VOC CMT Tons/Yr 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 SPM 170 163 163 SOx 12 13 13 58 NOx 0 124 124 VOC 0 9 9 BALCO Tons/Yr 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 SPM 2478 2302 2144 SOx 55506 51933 54220 F 0 0 3 HZL Tons/Yr 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 SPM 714 993 1130 SOx 1555 1647 9070 NOx 0 89 1334 LEAD 0 0 25 SIIL Tons/Yr 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 SPM 147 156 0 SOx 594 733 1140 Flouride (KG/T of Phosphoric 0.040 0.037 0.038 Acid) NOx 617 653 565 BALCO reduced its emission levels in power plants from 8602 tonne of FY 2009-10 to 7526 tonne in FY 2010-11 due to following initiatives: • Installation of Hybrid bag filter Unit #2 of CPP 540 MW • ESP modification in Unit #1 of CPP 270 MW Effluents All our major units are zero discharge plants where all treated wastewater is reused or recycled. Wastewater is properly treated before discharge. Treated waste water quality is within statutory prescribed norms. Sterlite Copper recycles and reuses 15.224% of the total water consumed in operations. Waste water is treated and recycled back to slag granulation, lime preparation and gas cleaning plant. The remaining blow down and wash water is recycled to the process without any treatment. Hence, there is no discharge of water. SEL does not have any effluent discharge. 59 3 At HZL, only Vizag Zinc smelter (VZS) discharges annually 112554 m of treated effluent outside its premises into the sea through Mehadrigedda Surplus Canal. Rest all plants are Zero Discharge units. 3 BALCO discharged 9624288 m of treated effluent into a drainage (Danganiyakhar Nallah), a nearby surface water source. This nallah utlimately gets merged into the Hasdeo River and thus the volume of discharge is not a significant value. All the treated effluents released from HZL and BALCO follow the national effluent discharge standards as applicable. CMT discharged 27546 ML of treated effluents into Queen River, Haulage and Princess Creek in the reporting period. TOTAL WATER DISCHARGED (in m3) COMPANY 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 CMT 23120390 26,562,640 27500000 BALCO 1790880 1415 9624288 HZL* (from VZS) 0 63540 112554 SIIL 0 0 0 *All other sites are maintaining zero discharge Waste Management Sterlite Industries is committed to seeking opportunities to prevent or minimise waste generation and constantly to improve waste reuse and recycling. Our operations generate both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, including mine overburden, tailings, slag, red mud, jarosite, fly ash, gypsum and process residues from smelters. Wastes generated from our processes is categorised into hazardous or non-hazardous wastes depending upon their characteristics. BALCO’s 5012 MT Spent Pot Lining (Hazardous Waste) was sold to a registered Cement Company for co-processing, which otherwise would have been disposed off in the Secured Landfill. Most of the generated overburden is used in secondary construction work like raising tailing dam heights, and the remainder is disposed of in a systematic manner. Some tailings are used for mine back filling and the remainder disposed of in tailing dams constructed especially for the purpose. In our business, the waste produced at smelter plants, including slag and red mud, is also used in road construction and cement manufacturing, while fly ash generated is used in cement production, brick manufacturing and other secondary construction. To this end, during 2010-11 around 1.86 million tonnes of fly ash and 0.994 million tonnes of slag were used in cement manufacturing and road construction. In the reporting period, waste deemed hazardous under the Basel Convention has neither been imported nor exported internationally. All the hazardous wastes are disposed off in secured landfill designed based on Central Pollution Control Board guidelines. The non-hazardous wastes namely, copper slag, gypsum and lime grit have found commercial value and are selling them for monetary gains. We are reviewing our environmental incident reporting process and will report in greater detail in 2012. Types of Waste Hazardous Waste (MT) Non Hazardous Solid Waste (MT) CMT SOLID LIQUID SOLID LIQUID 2008-09 2362733 179784 121 0 2009-10 115 99387 0 0 60 2010-11 2070387 132732 171 0 Types of Waste Hazardous Waste (MT) Non Hazardous Solid Waste (MT) BALCO SOLID LIQUID SOLID LIQUID 2008-09 3850 132 2565074 0 2009-10 6665 44 2167508 0 2010-11 4926 62 2405641 0 Types of Waste Hazardous Waste (MT) Non Hazardous Solid Waste (MT) HZL SOLID LIQUID SOLID LIQUID 2008-09 409968 345 513489 0 2009-10 392621 473 394620 0 2010-11 534379 759 82949270 0 Types of Waste Hazardous Waste (MT) Non Hazardous Solid Waste (MT) SIIL SOLID LIQUID SOLID LIQUID 2008-09 75383 1081 1425264 0 2009-10 85997 641 1612753 0 2010-11 51487 0 1486841 0 Product Responsibility As India’s largest non-ferrous metals and mining company, we use negligible packaging material due to nature of our product. Hence, impact due to packaging is negligible. 29 of 33 major operations are certified to OHSAS 18001. Remaining units of HZL, BALCO & CMT have planned to get certification in FY 2012. We are cataloguing specific initiatives and will report in more detail in the future. However, there are certain by-products such as sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid and hydrofluorosilicic acid which are also produced and sold for outside applications. Spillage 61 COMPANY DESCRIPTION CMT BALCO HZL SIIL NO. OF SPILLS 1 0 1 1 2008-09 3 3 VOLUME OF SPILLS 55 m 0 6m 30 Tons NO. OF SPILLS 22 0 0 0 2009-10 3 VOLUME OF SPILLS 738 m 0 0 0 NO. OF SPILLS 8 0 0 0 2010-11 3 VOLUME OF SPILLS 1517 m 0 0 0 During production, storage and transportation all standard operating procedures are being followed. At Sterlite Copper, emergency scenarios such as any leaks/spillages are either controlled by following the Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan (EPRP), made available at site. Also during the transportation of such acids, care is taken to educate the drivers/transporters on the emergency instructions to be followed in line with the Transport Emergency (TREM) card issued to all of them. We also have a thorough system of checks of tankers through competent persons to avoid any spillages/leakage during transportation. This helped us to prevent any spillages or leakages in the reporting period. CMT & SEL operations do not require any packaging materials. BALCO uses packaging materials like steel strip, HDPE bags, and wooden frames. Packaging materials used by BALCO have no significant impact as they are properly collected & sold. During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of spillages reported at SEL, HZL & BALCO. CMT reported 8 spills of 1517 m3 volume. The cleaning work at CMT for the spills was completed. We are improving our incident reporting across the group and will report more significantly for 2012. All our operations ensure that all the customer related interaction, data and sensitive information is secured. During the reporting period, there have been no incidents reported on loss or breach of customer data and its privacy. Sterlite Copper carried out a LCA study to estimate environmental impacts of their process. In this study, the focus was on copper manufacturing within the scope of study starting from transportation of copper concentrate from port to production of cathode rods. The Test Certificates given to the customers comprises information on physical dimensions and chemical compositions of the products being sold to them. Entire manufacturing cycle at the operations is assessed for its health and safety aspects and various improvements are done in systematic manner to achieve excellence in health and safety performance. Similar life cycle assessment studies will be carried out at HZL, BALCO and CMT. Our product movements to consumers take place through sea, rail and roadways. Standard process is followed for all activities ensuring complete protection to product and environment. We are studying the total fuel used under project ‘scope-3’ CO2 equivalent. SEL and BALCO’s activities lead to Air Pollution due to generation of pollutants such as RSPM, CO & oxides of Nitrogen. CMT’s activities may cause some spillages during transport, loading & unloading, most of which has been elaborated above. However, the impact is insignificant owing to emissions being released within the prescribed national norms. At HZL, Zinc and Lead ingot are transported in truck with tarpaulin cover. Zinc and lead in metal form do not posses any threat on environment and are non reactive with air and water. Sterlite Copper’s by-product sulphuric acid is transported in dedicated acid tanker. At Sterlite Copper, an in-house system is in place, to ensure the safe loading and transportation of acid from our premises. Regular meetings are done with transporters for continuous improvement in acid loading and transportation system. Safety protocols are followed and proper training is provided for handling, and material safety data sheets are issued to transporters and customers for safe usage. All products are diligently tested to ensure conformity with the relevant / grade product standards. Further, product labeling / identification practices and production log book records enable us to relate the customer feedback with our production process and help us in improvisation wherever required. Compliance To ensure regulatory compliance, we have a robust system in place, with monthly updates to the senior management team. During the reporting year, none of the companies under Sterlite Industries were subjected to any legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. During the reporting period 62 there were no monetary or non monetary fines/penalties on us from any statutory body. Since, our products do not require any advertising and marketing promotions, there have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling. Environmental Expenditure We have a dedicated budget for environment related expenditure primarily to fuel our requirements to maintain standards and to follow regulatory norms while being sustainable. We assess the expenditure based on environmental cost accounting (ECA) under the UNEP guidelines since the last two reporting years. Environmental Expenditure (in Rs) Company 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 BALCO 211,818,009 317,441,000 203,133,239 CMT 50,779,500 52,723,370 32,051,181 HZL 255,737,270 3,270,486,222 592,116,875 SIIL 823,420,974 1,033,446,000 18,978,910 CASE STUDIES Safety System and Training Safety system strengthening at BALCO In 2010-11, BALCO undertook an in-depth review of its safety systems that resulted in significant strengthening of practices aimed at protecting its workforce. Alongside a focused safety training communication programme and an emergency plan rehearsal, this included hi-tech solutions such as a new system to reduce the risks involved with maintenance through lock out and tag out failsafe electrical isolation of any equipment are being worked on. The Company also introduced a new ‘real-time’ online safety portal, for the self-reporting of hazards, near misses and accidents. This has proven highly effective in streamlining the health and safety event management process and improving the visibility of key data. Improved focus Not all the Company’s new solutions were technological; however, it also strengthened its work permit processes and revisited its safety scorecard to improve its focus on performance parameters. Under this initiative, the scorecard was separated into results-based and audit-based sections, which will both increase awareness of safety issues and inspire competition between departments to excel. In addition, BALCO has installed reflective signage across its plant, including the prominent display of the Company’s inviolable safety rules. This was audited by independent third party experts. Occupational Health Health initiatives taken for port employees On behalf of Sterlite Copper, the logistics department along with the HSE team successfully conducted the 'General Health Camp' at Tuticorin Port Trust on 9th March 2010. This Health camp was conducted as a part of the 'Safety Week Celebration' organized by the Port. The focus group of this camp was the truck drivers, cleaners 63 and Port employees. Totally 125 persons participated in the camp and benefitted by this Health camp. Energy Conservation LNG Storage and Regasification Facility at Silvassa Liquefied natural gas, or LNG, is natural gas that has been super cooled to minus 162 degrees Celsius. At that temperature, natural gas condenses into a liquid with an energy density of approx 51.5 MBTU per MT. Earlier the Silvassa unit was dependent on LPG as fuel although we were looking for a more economical but equally pure replacement fuel. This propelled our initiative for setting up of a LNG Storage and regasification facility at Silvassa. The project has been successfully commissioned and officially inaugurated in February 2011. LNG is being supplied by M/s IOCL, using special cryogenic tankers from source location Dahej, Gujarat and stored in our cryogenic storage vessel at Chinchpada, and when required, the liquid will be fed into ambient vaporiser to provide natural gas to the final line regulator and then to the point of use. This is the first of such facility in Vedanta and third in India. The fuel switch over from LPG to LNG has given an edge to Rod plant of Chinchpada to substantially reduce the cost of production by about Rs .800/MT. Water Consumption Mobile RO System for Better Monsoon Management Two Reverse Osmosis plants were already in operation in Sterlite Copper to manage the utility waste water and ETP treated water. To manage the rain water during heavy rain, Sterlite Copper decided to set up a mobile RO as per CPCB guidelines. A new RO plant was set up with a state of art technology from GE water solutions. The rain water collected in the rain water catchment pond were completely treated and reused in SAP cooling tower. This plant will help us to manage any heavy rain fall during monsoon season to maintain zero discharge. Initiatives to conserve water resources Several projects were initiated at our individual companies, during the year to reduce specific water consumption. 126 projects were completed during the year with an estimated potential saving of 19,167 cum/day. The major initiatives undertaken include: At Hindustan Zinc Limited: • Reduced evaporation losses by using evaporation retardant chemicals at open water storage ponds, Tidi dam and over tailing dam at all the mines and smelters. • Use of dust suppression chemical on haul roads at Rampura Agucha has reduced water consumption as well as improved working conditions due to reduction of dust load. The tailing generated at mines during beneficiation process is transported to the tailing dam in slurry form through pipe lines. The water which gets stored in tailing dam is then reclaimed and is recycled back in the processes. In 2010-11, the reuse of tailing dam reclaimed water was increased at all the mines. • Existing water pressing filters at Rampura Agucha have been replaced with air pressing filters. • To further improve process water recovery, a paste thickener (deep cone thickener) has been constructed at Rampura Agucha. 64 At Sterlite Copper: • To manage the rain water during heavy rain, Sterlite Copper set up a mobile reverse osmosis plant. The rain water collected in the rain water catchment pond were completely treated and reused in cooling tower. This plant will help to manage any heavy rain fall during monsoon season to maintain zero discharge. At BALCO: • In its sustained efforts to reduce water consumption during production & use, BALCO adopted few measure as listed below which resulted in reduction in Specific water consumption from 14.17 m3/MT of Al to 7.18 m3/MT of Al; i. Arresting of leakages ii. Regular maintenance and audit of Hydrant lines iii. Stoppage/closure of unnecessary taps Waste Management Innovative use of waste drives road construction breakthrough Jarosite is the waste generated from purification and refinement of Zinc. Jarosite is essentially a basic hydrous sulphate of potassium and iron. Jarosite mixed with lime and cement using proprietary technology from the Canadian Electrolyte Zinc Company, it forms a hard, compact and inert substance called ‘Jarofix’. Earlier HZL had disposed of jarosite in a special facility. The Company’s team at Chanderiya site partnered with the Central Road Research Institute at New Delhi to identify a positive and productive use for jarosite. Following meticulous research efforts resulted in the breakthrough discovery that Jarofix can be used in certain aspects of road construction. HZL sought and received approval to undertake a two-year pilot project from the Indian Road Congress and the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board. The Company constructed 200 metres of road near its Chanderiya smelter. The early indications of its practical and environmental performance are highly favourable, as it reduced consumption of natural resources, disposal space freed up for positive uses and eradication of an environmental liability. Sterlite Copper Copper Slag, a Business Opportunity Copper slag also known as Ferro sand is generated during pyro-metallurgical process involved in production of copper from copper concentrate. For every ton of metal production approximately 1.8-2.2 tons of slag is generated. This material is completely inert, non-toxic and non-leachable in nature. The same has been confirmed through various technical studies done by reputed CSIR labs in India. Studies and international practices reveals that material possess several properties which can enable its gainful utilization in various construction related activities. The material possesses properties very similar to river sand and therefore can be utilized as a replacement of sand in concrete application. This in turn will result in a sustainable model, as natural resources like sand are under tremendous pressure due to over exploitation, thereby resulting in environmental damages. Having an alternative material i.e. copper slag, which is an industrial by product and available in sufficient quantity can reflect wonderful example of industrial ecology (Waste of one industry acts a raw material of other industry). Year round availability and at a cheaper price makes it economically beneficial for construction industry. Several trial runs have been successfully carried out to demonstrate its utility in concrete applications. Sterlite Copper is hoping a big return from this material in years to come. The company obtained an accreditation for copper slag from Indian Roads Congress for the commercial 65 application and sale of the material following successful trails. The certificate of accreditation is can be seen alongside. Copper slag is being utilised for cement manufacturing, road construction, paver blocks manufacturing, abrasive and landfilling applications. A 0.4 KM road has been constructed in NH 45B by using copper slag in various layers of the road. A policy letter issued M/s NHAI on utilization of copper slag as road construction material holds testimony of slag utility in various applications. In addition, company has recently constructed entire walkway inside the plant using pavers covering an area 2464 Sq mts made from copper slag. Their abrasion resistance property, due to presence of iron as a key component, gives it an advantage over its peers in paver’s application. Company is in the process of tying with several paver manufacturers for promoting its pavers application. In nut shell, this material has all the potential of turning into an environmental and economic sustainable model for company in the future and company stands committed to make it a success. 66 Our Partners Sustainable Procurement Our Approach At Sterlite, we consider Vendors and Suppliers as business partners who play a crucial role in our journey of Sustainability. We believe that our growth depends on the strength of relationships built with business partners. Therefore, we make regular investments in forging long-term associations with our vendors. These partnerships are based on transparency, communication, trust and safety towards building sustainable growth. Transparent Procurement Policy We have a standard procurement policy which is fair and we give preference to vendors and suppliers who conform to our requirements and parameters as set within the group’s HSE & HR policies. Most of the supplies needed to operate the mines and smelters are secured through expression of interest (‘EOI’), a transparent procurement process giving ample opportunity to new participants and ensure that we are not materially dependent on any single vendor leading to increased risks. Contractor Health and Safety We have no higher priority than the safety of our employees as well as contractors. To ensure the same we have safety experts carry out internal and external audits at all locations to suggest how technology, processes and behavioural safety can all be achieved amongst employees and contract labour on our sites. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct also commits us to operating in compliance with all laws and regulations including the protection of all employees’ rights. Indeed, we practise zero tolerance of any violation of labour and human rights, and are in the process of developing a training programme on the subject. We are also currently introducing our Code of Conduct to suppliers on a phased basis. Our contract terms and conditions insist on compliance with respect to payment of minimum wages, the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, the Workmen’s Compensation Act and other relevant acts in India. We strictly prohibit the use of child labour among our operations or those of our contractors. There were no instances of child labour during the year that came to the Group’s attention. We check the identification papers of our contractor employees which give their date of birth. Case Studies Checks and balances Safe Bulk Material Movement at Sterlite Copper There are roughly 200 trucks carrying bulk materials from the port to SIIL premises and, transporting finished good and products. We have hired a third party, viz., M/s SGS (India) Pvt Ltd for surveying and certifying safe movement of bulk materials For safe movement and handling of , we use MS and SS tanks to cater to the domestic market. The acid tanks are monitored regularly by the surveyor viz., M/s SGS (India) Pvt Ltd, for checking the thickness of the tank, fitness of the valves and other vital parts of the acid transportation tanks, thickness mapping, tank denting etc. Depending on the age and physical condition of the tank, the periodicity of the checkups is being carried out. Hence, the year of manufacturing and frequent usage of the tank are considered as a basis for verification and survey intervals and repetitions. 67 Collaborative Partnership Vendor Meet at Sterlite Sterlite organised the Vendor Meet 2011 at Le Meridian Chennai in the month of February, which witnessed 228 business partners participating from across India. The event was a collaborative platform for the vendors and the company’s senior management. The occasion was graced by the presence of Mr. Ramesh Nair, COO SIIL and other members of the senior management team. The stage was set to launch the e-initiative SRM 7.0, developed by M/s. Accenture. Achievement awards were given to the best performers, fascinated the fervent vendors, who have contributed for SIIL‘s world class standing in the metal market. 68 GRI-INDEX G 3.1 G3.1 Content Index Application Level A STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Cross-reference/Direct Disclosure Description Reported answer Statement from the most senior 1.1 decision-maker of the organization. Fully 3 Description of key impacts, risks, and Pages 34-39 of Sterlite 1.2 opportunities. Fully Annual Report 2. Organizational Profile Profile Cross-reference/Direct Disclosure Description Reported answer 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 4 Primary brands, products, and/or 2.2 services. Fully 6 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 joint ventures. Fully 4 Location of organization's 2.4 headquarters. Fully 85 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the 2.5 report. Fully 6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 4 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 2.7 of customers/beneficiaries). Fully 8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 4 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 structure, or ownership. Fully 3 Awards received in the reporting 2.1 period. Fully 11 3. Report Parameters Profile Cross-reference/Direct Disclosure Description Reported answer Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 3.1 year) for information provided. Fully 19 Date of most recent previous report (if 3.2 any). Fully 20 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 19 Contact point for questions regarding 3.4 the report or its contents. Fully 86 69 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 19 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further 3.6 guidance. Fully 20 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation 3.7 of scope). Fully 20 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period 3.8 and/or between organizations. Fully 6 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI 3.9 Indicator Protocols. Fully 19 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of 3.1 business, measurement methods). Fully 20 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 applied in the report. Fully 20 Table identifying the location of the 3.12 Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully 68 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the 3.13 report. Not Not applicable 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Cross-reference/Direct Disclosure Description Reported answer Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational 4.1 oversight. Partially 13 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2 executive officer. Fully 12 70 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent 4.3 and/or non-executive members. Fully 12 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 highest governance body. Fully 12 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and 4.5 environmental performance). Fully 12 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 4.6 interest are avoided. Fully 12 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other 4.7 indicators of diversity. Fully 12 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.8 and the status of their implementation. Fully 4 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and 4.9 principles. Fully 12 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social 4.1 performance. Fully 12 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 addressed by the organization. Fully 19 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or 4.12 endorses. Fully 19 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.14 the organization. Fully 20 71 Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully 20 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 stakeholder group. Fully 20 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its 4.17 reporting. Fully 22 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Cross-reference/Direct G3 DMA Description Reported answer Disclosure on Management Approach DMA EC EC Fully 19 Economic performance Fully 16 Market presence Fully 8 Aspects Indirect economic impacts Fully 34 Disclosure on Management Approach DMA EN EN Fully 46 Materials Fully 50 Energy Fully 51 Water Fully 54 Biodiversity Fully 56 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 58 Products and services Fully 6 Compliance Fully 61 Transport Fully 61 Aspects Overall Fully 50 Disclosure on Management Approach DMA LA LA Fully 19 Employment Fully 23 Labor/management relations Fully 32 Occupational health and safety Fully 46 Training and education Fully 30 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 23 Equal remuneration for women and Aspects men Fully 23 Disclosure on Management Approach DMA HR HR Fully 19 Investment and procurement practices Fully 67 Non-discrimination Fully 23 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 32 Aspects Child labor Fully 31 72 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully 31 Security practices Fully 29 Indigenous rights Fully 34 Assessment Fully 31 Remediation Fully 31 Disclosure on Management Approach DMA SO SO Fully 34 Local communities Fully 34 Corruption Fully 32 Public policy Fully 16 Anti-competitive behavior Fully 61 Aspects Compliance Fully 61 Disclosure on Management Approach DMA PR PR Fully 61 Customer health and safety Fully 61 Product and service labelling Fully 61 Marketing communications Fully 61 Customer privacy Fully 61 Aspects Compliance Fully 61 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Cross-reference/Direct Indicator Description Reported answer Economic performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital EC1 providers and governments. Fully 16 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's EC2 activities due to climate change. Fully 57 Coverage of the organization's defined EC3 benefit plan obligations. Fully 16 Significant financial assistance EC4 received from government. Fully 16 Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations EC5 of operation. Fully 23 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6 significant locations of operation. Partially 67 73 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC7 locations of operation. Fully 26 Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro EC8 bono engagement. Fully 17 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 including the extent of impacts. Fully 34 Environmental Performance Cross-reference/Direct Indicator Description Reported answer Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully 50 Percentage of materials used that are EN2 recycled input materials. Fully 50 Energy Direct energy consumption by primary EN3 energy source. Fully 51 Indirect energy consumption by EN4 primary source. Fully 51 Energy saved due to conservation and EN5 efficiency improvements. Fully 53 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these EN6 initiatives. Fully 53 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 consumption and reductions achieved. Fully 53 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 54 Water sources significantly affected by EN9 withdrawal of water. Fully 54 Percentage and total volume of water EN10 recycled and reused. Fully 54 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected EN11 areas. Fully 56 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN12 protected areas. Fully 56 74 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or MM1 rehabilitated. partially 56 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 56 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 biodiversity. Fully 56 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) MM2 of those sites with plans in place. Fully 56 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 operations, by level of extinction risk. Fully 56 Emissions, effluents and waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse EN16 gas emissions by weight. Fully 57 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas EN17 emissions by weight. Not Not Applicable Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas EN18 emissions and reductions achieved. Fully 57 Emissions of ozone-depleting EN19 substances by weight. Fully 58 NOx, SOx, and other significant air EN20 emissions by type and weight. Fully 58 Total water discharge by quality and EN21 destination. Fully 59 Total weight of waste by type and EN22 disposal method. Fully 60 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their MM3 associated risks. Fully 60 Total number and volume of significant EN23 spills. Fully 61 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported EN24 waste shipped internationally. Fully 60 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's EN25 discharges of water and runoff. Fully 59 Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN26 extent of impact mitigation. Fully 6366 75 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed EN27 by category. Fully 50 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 environmental laws and regulations. Fully 62 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the EN29 workforce. Fully 61 Overall Total environmental protection EN30 expenditures and investments by type. Fully 63 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Cross-reference/Direct Indicator Description Reported answer Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, LA1 broken down by gender. Fully 24 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover LA2 by age group, gender, and region. Fully 28 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by LA3 major operations. Fully 25 Return to work and retention rates LA15 after parental leave, by gender. Fully 25 Labor/management relations Percentage of employees covered by LA4 collective bargaining agreements. Fully 32 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 collective agreements. Fully 32 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by MM4 country. Fully 32 Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and LA6 safety programs. Fully 48 76 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by LA7 region and by gender. Partially 46 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members LA8 regarding serious diseases. Fully 49 Health and safety topics covered in LA9 formal agreements with trade unions. Fully 48 Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee LA10 category. Partially 47 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career LA11 endings. Fully 30 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 development reviews, by gender. Fully 25 Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of LA13 diversity. Partially 24 Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of LA14 operation. Fully 23 Social: Human Rights Performance Cross-reference/Direct Indicator Description Reported answer Investment and procurement practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights HR1 screening. Partially 31 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human HR2 rights screening, and actions taken. Partially 31 77 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the HR3 percentage of employees trained. Partially 31 Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions HR4 taken. Fully 32 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to HR5 support these rights. Fully 31 Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective HR6 abolition of child labor. Fully 23 Forced and compulsory labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or HR7 compulsory labor. Partially 23 Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR8 operations. Partially 29 Indigenous rights Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples' territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements MM5 with Indigenous Peoples' communities. Fully 34 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people HR9 and actions taken. Fully 34 Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact HR10 assessments. Partially 31 Remediation 78 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance HR11 mechanisms. Partially 31 Social: Society Performance Cross-reference/Direct Indicator Description Reported answer Local communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 and development programs. Fully 34 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities MM6 and Indigenous Peoples. Fully 34 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the MM7 outcomes. Fully 34 Artisanal and small-scale mining Number (and percentage) or company operating sites where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken MM8 to manage and mitigate these risks. Not Not Applicable Resettlement Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were No resettlements for 2010MM9 affected in the process. Not 11 Closure planning Number and percentage of operations MM10 with closure plans. Partially 56 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 communities. Fully 34 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO10 impacts on local communities. Fully 34 Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks SO2 related to corruption. Partially 32 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies SO3 and procedures. Fully 32 Actions taken in response to incidents SO4 of corruption. Fully 32 79 Public policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 development and lobbying. Partially 16 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by SO6 country. Fully 16 Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 outcomes. Fully 61 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws SO8 and regulations. Fully 61 Social: Product Responsibility Performance Cross-reference/Direct Indicator Description Reported answer Materials Stewardship Programs and progress relating to MM11 materials stewardship. Fully 61 Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such PR1 procedures. Fully 61 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type PR2 of outcomes. Fully 61 Product and service labelling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such PR3 information requirements. Fully 61 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, PR4 by type of outcomes. Fully 61 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer PR5 satisfaction. Fully 11 Marketing communications 80 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR6 sponsorship. Fully 61 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of PR7 outcomes. Fully 61 Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 customer data. Not Not Applicable Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision PR9 and use of products and services. Fully 61 81 UN Global Compact Principles The Ten Principles United Nations Global Compact Principles Statement Link Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the 31 protection of internationally proclaimed human Principle 1 rights; and 34 31 Make sure that they are not complicit in human Principle 2 rights abuses. 34 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 3 right to collective bargaining; 31 the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 4 compulsory labour; 31 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 23 23 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Principle 6 employment and occupation. 31 Environment 19 46 61 Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 approach to environmental challenges; 6366 19 46 61 undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 environmental responsibility; and 6366 46 61 Encourage the development and diffusion of Principle 9 environmentally friendly technologies. 6366 Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all Principle 10 its forms, including extortion and bribery. 32 82 Glossary ACC Associated Cement Companies Ltd. ACE Achieve Cost Excellence AGM Annual General Meeting AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome Al Symbol for Aluminium in the periodic table BALCO Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd. BSE Bombay Stock Exchange CCR Continous Cathode Rod CDM Clean Development Mechanism CEO Chief Executive Officer CERs Certified Emission Reductions CFO Chief Financial Officer CII Confederation of Indian Industries CIL Coromandel International Limited CLZS Chanderia Lead Zinc Smeter CMT Copper Mines of Tasmania CO2 Carbon Dioxide CPCB Central Pollution Control Board CPP Captive Power Plant Chhattisgarh State Renewable Energy CREDA Development Authority CRS Chevaliar Roche Society CSI Customer Satisfaction Index CTC Cost to Company CWC Child Welfare Centre ECG Electrocardiogram Test EIA Environment Impact Assessment Emergency Preparedness and Response EPRP Plan ESAT Survey Employee Satisfaction Survey ESP Electrostatic Precipitator Employee Self Service/Management Self ESS/MSS Service ETP Effluent Treatment Plant Symbol for the element 'Fluorine' in the F periodic table FACT Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore FIMI Federation of Indian Mineral Industries FTP Foreign trade policy The index is maintained by the FTSE Group, an independent company joint owned by the Financial Times and the London Stock FTSE Exchange. GET Graduate Engineer Trainee GHG Green House Gas 83 GJ Giga Joules GLP Global Leadership Program GoI Government of India GRI Global Reporting Initiative HAZOP hazard and operability HDPE Bags High density polyethylene Bags HIV Human immunodeficiency virus HSC Higher secondary School Certificate HSE Health, Safety and Environment HZL Hindustan Zinc Ltd. HZP Haridwar Zinc Plant ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals IFFCO Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited IIM Indian Institute of Management ILZDA Indian Lead Zinc Development Association IMC Indian Merchants Chamber IMEA India Manufacturing Excellence Awards INR Indian National Rupee IOCL Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. ISO International ITPS IB Thermal Power Station (Orissa Power (OPGC) Generation Corporation) JFTC Jelly filled telephone cables KRA Key Result Area LCA LiFe Cycle Assessment LME London Metal Exchange LNG Liquified Natural Gas LPG Liquified Petroleum Gas LSE London Stock Exchange LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate M3 Cubic metre MALCO Madras Aluminum Company MBTU One million British Thermal Units MCF Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers ML Milli Litre MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet MT Metric Tonne MTD8 Metallurgical Engineering Department (copper Committee and copper alloys) as per BIS MW Mega Watt MWH kilowatt-hour National Bank for Agriculture and Rural NABARD Development NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NHAI National Highway Authority of India NOX Oxides of Nitrogen 84 NREGA National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme Scheme NSE National Stock Exchange NYSE New York Stock Exchange OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer OH & S Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Advisory OHSAS Services PLC public limited company PPEs Personal Protective Equipments PRA Participatory Rural Appraisal PVC Poly Vinyl Chloride R&D Research and Development R&R Resettlement and Rehabilitation RAM Rampura Agucha mines RBNQA Ramkrishna Bajaj National Quality Award RDM Rajpura Dariba mines RO Plant Reverse Osmosis plant RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances RSPM Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter Systems, Applications and Products in Data SAP HCM Processing-Human Capital Management SBU Strategic Business Unit SEBI Securities and Exchange Bureau of India SEL Sterlite Energy Ltd. SHG Self Help Group SIIL Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. SLI Starting-Lighting-Ignition SOX Oxides of Suplhur Standard Practices, Implementation, SPIDER Development, Evaluation and Rating SPM Suspended Particulate Matter SRM Supplier Relationship Management SSLC Secondary School Leaving Certificate SWEP Sterlite Women Empowerment Project TPM Total productive maintenance TQM Total Quality Management TREM Transport Emergency TRL Tata Refractories Ltd. TSPL Talwandi Sabo Power Limited UNGC United Nations Global Compact VAL Vedanta Aluminium VOC Volatile Organic Compounds VSS Smelter Vertical Stud Soderberg Smelter VZS Vizag Zinc Smelter 85 WBCSDWorld Business Council for Sustainable WRI DevelopmentWorld Resources Institute WUC Water User Committee Contact Us Location of the Organisation and Headquarter Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. SIPCOT Industrial Complex Madurai Bypass Road, T.V.Puram P.O., Tuticorin 628 002, Tamil Nadu www.sterlite-industries.com Vedanta Resources plc Vedanta Resources plc 16 Berkeley Street, London W1J 8DZ Phone : +44 (0) 20 7499 5900 Fax :+44 (0) 20 7491 8440 www.vedantaresources.com 86
