2011 Sustainability Report Innovation-Driven Sustainability Full 2011 Sustainability Report is available online. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 2 Table of Contents CEO Introduction 3 Company Profile 27 Innovation Drives Sustainability 4 Recognition & Awards 29 Strategy 5 Membership in (Trade) Organizations 30 Stakeholder Engagement 6 About This Report 32 Implementation 6 Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Governance & Remuneration 7 Global Compact Table 33 Achievements 2011 Targets, Data, and Progress 7 Contact & Report Information 40 Customers & Solutions 8 Introduction 8 Integrated Solutions 8 2012 8 Achievements 2011 Targets and Progress 9 Resource Management 12 Introduction 12 Wolters Kluwer’s Operation 12 Supply Chain 12 Customers 12 2012 12 Achievements 2011 Targets, Data, and Progress 12 Achievements 2011 Targets 12 Resource Management Data 13 Community Involvement 18 Introduction 18 Employee Driven 18 Customer Driven 18 2012 18 Achievements 2011 Targets, Data, and Progress 19 Achievements 2011 Targets 19 Community Involvement Data 19 Employee Engagement 22 Introduction 22 People-Driven Business 22 2012 23 Achievements 2011 Targets, Data, and Progress 23 Achievements 2011 Targets 23 Employee Engagement Data 23 This PDF version is provided for users of the online 2011 Sustainability Report (available through www.wolterskluwer.com) that prefer reading in print. The report is only provided as a download and not available in printed format from the company. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 3 CEO Introduction Sustainability is at the core of our business at Wolters Kluwer. In this document, we report on the results of these building Profitable growth means more than just improving financial blocks at work, and we show how our efforts are solving realresults for our shareholders; it means creating sustainable world problems in innovative ways. Examples of our focused, growth by providing high-quality solutions that improve sustainable solutions abound. A research report by Harvard the quality of work and the quality of life for our customers University showed how the use of our UpToDate clinical and communities. To reach these goals, we continue to information system leads to lower mortality and shorter invest 8-10% of our revenues in new and enhanced products hospital stays and is associated with saving 11,500 lives over each year. a three-year period. The Peterson Building Green Renovation resulted in major resource reductions in energy and water At Wolters Kluwer we want to ensure that our sustainability for our CCH operations and marks a significant achievement initiatives are relevant to our business and that they for the employee-led CCH Sustainability Committee. When contribute in a significant way to society. We use the a devastating earthquake and tsunami struck Japan in March well-known “Triple-P” concept, which aims to balance the of 2011, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, part of Wolters interests of people, the planet, and profit to create a business Kluwer Health, provided hospitals and healthcare institutions that is sustainable over time. For us, that means a strong with free online access to the Wolters Kluwer Health focus on financial results while minimizing our environmental Emergency Resources Portal, helping them carry out relief footprint and maximizing our social contribution to society. efforts more effectively. In line with the Triple-P concept, in 2011 we focused on four I am proud of what we have accomplished in 2011, and I am major building blocks to move our business forward: confident that we will continue to deliver innovative, productive solutions in 2012 for the benefit of society as 1 Customers & Solutions: Customers are the driving force a whole. behind the high-quality solutions we develop at Wolters Kluwer. We are in constant dialogue with our customers to develop innovative solutions that improve the way they operate while creating long-term value for society; 2 Resource Management: Our operations – as well as the Nancy McKinstry operations of our suppliers and customers – leave an CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board environmental footprint in terms of energy, water, paper and other resources. Minimizing that footprint underscores our efforts to transform our business so we can save resources and maximize our positive effects; 3 Community Involvement: Wherever we work and travel, Wolters Kluwer employees are part of the community. Promoting initiatives that improve those communities’ quality of life is an important part of our involvement in the world as a whole; 4 Employee Engagement: People are at the core of our business, and we count on our employees to develop new ideas and inspire others to use them. At Wolters Kluwer, we know it is of vital importance to create an environment that inspires innovation and encourages our workforce to continue developing tomorrow’s solutions. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 4 Innovation Drives Sustainability At Wolters Kluwer, sustainability is at the heart of how we Driving sustainability through innovation is reflected at operate. Our high-quality solutions significantly improve the Wolters Kluwer in two ways: quality of work and life for our customers and communities around the world. At the end of 2009 we announced our First, our products contribute to sustainability. Our solutions Maximizing Value for Customers strategy, which reflects improve the quality of work and life for customers and, this global ambition. consequently, for society. We develop integrated solutions across all of our divisions that facilitate the work of Innovation is the driving force behind our products, and for professionals, improving the quality of life for their clients us, innovation is about more than creating new ideas; it is around the world. For example, UpToDate helps doctors about transforming ideas into valuable solutions. Maintaining improve their patient care, which saves lives and leads to an ongoing dialogue with customers and tapping into the shorter hospital stays. And our Financial Services compliance talent and inspiration of a diverse group of employees products help financial institutions manage risk and continually drives new ideas and creates new solutions. reporting requirements. By staying in contact with customers, our employees collect first-hand observations about what happens in the field so Second, Wolters Kluwer promotes sustainability in the way they can see where improvements are needed. In addition, we conduct our business. As a global company we recognize at Wolters Kluwer we believe diversity sparks innovation. our responsibilities to the world and the need to integrate Therefore, we actively create an environment that helps sustainability into our operating process. Integration starts our employees look at things from new angles, encourages with our suppliers, who are expected to act in a responsible them to ask questions, and supports the ability of people way by adhering to laws and the application of labor and with different professional skills, different nationalities, human rights standards. We recognize that operating on and different backgrounds to develop new ideas together. a global scale means our products have an impact on the environment in many places around the world. We have To continue the stream of new and innovative ideas, increasingly transformed our paper-based portfolio to highwe offer rewards and recognition to employees to foster quality, electronic solutions that reduce the use of natural their innovative capabilities. With an ambitious talent resources. We are also aware that we are an important part development strategy that will be integrated within our of our local communities, and our employees promote annual business planning process, we actively involve our community involvement initiatives. These efforts do not employees in making Wolters Kluwer a better place to work go unnoticed, as have been shown by the two awards that while increasing our capacity for new ideas. We focus on Wolters Kluwer Spain received from the Alares Foundation. acquiring the right talent with the right capabilities, and on placing people in the right roles at the right time. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 5 Strategy We focus on four major building blocks: Wolters Kluwer wants to ensure that what we do in Customers & Solutions: Customers are the driving force sustainability is relevant to our business and contributes in a behind Wolters Kluwer. We are in constant dialogue with our significant way to our sustainability strategy. Our strategy is customers to develop high-quality, innovative solutions for built around the “Triple-P” concept. Triple-P aims to balance them and their clients as well as to create long-term value for the interests of people, the planet, and profit to create a society. We develop integrated solutions that facilitate the business that is both profitable and sustainable. That means work of professionals, improving the quality of work for their strong focus on financial results, while at the same time clients around the world. minimizing our environmental footprint and maximizing our social handprint, our contribution to society. Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer operates on a global scale and our products have a global impact. Starting 175-years ago as a paper-based company, we have increasingly transformed our portfolio to high-quality Max electronic and service solutions. Our solutions often provide nt tpri im iz environmental and social benefits to customers, and by o minimizing our environmental footprint in terms of energy, Minimize o handprint paper, water, and other resources, we save scarce resources on behalf of our own company and our customers. ur Innovationur eo fo Community Involvement: Wolters Kluwer is a company that Driven works within a local community reaching out to the broader Sustainability community. Our employees use their skills to develop initiatives that improve the quality of life in communities where we do business around the world. Fo cu ts ul so s l Re Employee Engagement: Our employees are at the core n Fin a n cia of our business. Our people develop new ideas and inspire others. It is vitally important that we create an environment conducive to employee engagement, giving everyone at Wolters Kluwer the working conditions they need to innovate tomorrow’s solutions. We set our strategic objectives and measure performance against these targets, at a global level. However, our different Our main stakeholders (see stakeholder section below) divisions and operating companies have to meet the specific support these four themes: needs of customers and stakeholders at a local level. Our global targets set the boundaries and direction while allowing freedom at a local level on how to meet those targets and s set additional, local-specific goals. We actively promote Su m er pplie st the exchange of knowledge, expertise, and resources. rs Cu o By establishing global divisions as part of our Maximizing s& Value for Customers strategy, we have taken an important M Re an so er ns ag ur om io st lut step forward in supporting knowledge sharing between em ce en Cu So the countries we operate in and providing a framework for t Innovationdelivering the right solutions at the right time, in the right Driven place. We have learned from each other how to accomplish Sustainability goals better and faster and to make informed trade-offs C on investments. ee t In om oy en pl em vo m Investors lv un em it Em gag en y En t s oy m ee Co Em mun pl ity 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 6 Stakeholder Engagement Investors Investors increasingly research the environmental, social, Our Wide Range of Stakeholders and governance (ESG) policies of the companies they invest We engage with a wide range of stakeholders, including in. We frequently participate in the efforts of specialized customers, our employees, suppliers, investors, the research groups that analyze the ESG policies of corporations. communities where we work and the professional In 2011 we were recognized for the 4th year in a row as communities we work for, non-governmental organizations, a Bronze Class Media Sustainability Leader by the Dow government institutions, media, education and research Jones Sustainability Index, which analyzes companies’ institutes, and the general public. Our stakeholder economic, environmental and social dimensions. engagement drives innovation through an understanding of different needs and priorities as we test ideas and new Communities solutions. We have developed specific sustainability policies We engage with the communities in which we do business as a result of engaging with stakeholders. and apply our employees’ skills in collaboration with a range of local non-profit organizations and non-governmental Customers organizations (NGOs), collaborating in initiatives that We measure customer satisfaction with our Net Promoter improve living conditions around the world. Score (NPS®), asking customers whether they would recommend Wolters Kluwer based on their experiences with our products. Customers are also involved in the Implementation development of new high-quality solutions. For example, in the Clinical Solutions Innovations Lab, hospitals The Executive Board is committed to sustainability and are used as a design setting for new product innovation sponsors activities that are integrated throughout the in medicine. business. Under the sponsorship of Nancy McKinstry, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board, Maarten Employees Thompson, Vice President, General Counsel and Company Over half of our business groups have conducted employee Secretary, is responsible for sustainability. The Corporate engagement surveys. Each business unit asks employees Human Resources and Corporate Communications for ideas, suggestions, and constructive criticism. Talent Departments are actively involved in sustainability-related programs provide incentives for our employees to further processes and communications. All of our departments develop their skills. In 2010, we launched the Organizational are engaged in building and implementing sustainability Health Index (OHI) to benchmark employee engagement and initiatives. This Sustainability Report is published on an performance culture. A number of global employee taskforces annual basis. A separate section of our website is dedicated are using the OHI outcomes to recommend practical actions. to sustainability. We established the Global Innovation Award initiative to recognize employees and teams who significantly contribute to innovation, resulting in the submission of 240 innovative solutions. Suppliers We engage with suppliers and require them to adhere to laws and applicable standards for labor and human rights. These principles apply to the entire business. We are committed to the United Nations Global Compact, a framework for businesses that aligns operations and strategies with universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 7 Governance & Remuneration revenue has been added as a measure to the Executive Board’s 2011 as well as the 2012 Short-Term Incentive Plan targets. Corporate governance is key to maintaining our credibility with our employees, customers, and stakeholders. We have Roll Out Compliance Training to Other Wolters Kluwer implemented strict governance rules that apply to all our Businesses businesses and all employees. This includes the Company At the end of 2010, two training programs Company Values and Business Principles; a whistleblower policy; Values and Business Principles, and in Competition Law a human rights policy including supplier principles; an and were rolled out to a selected number of employees environmental policy; an acceptable use policy; an insider in the Netherlands (Kluwer Netherlands and Corporate training code; IT security; and a global travel policy promoting Office). At the end of 2011, three training programs in alternatives to travel by using virtual meeting technology. Company Values and Business Principles, Competition Law On a local level, our operating companies have policies that in Europe and Anti-Corruption were rolled out to a selected enforce compliance with relevant laws and regulations. number of employees in the United Kingdom. An IT security training module has also been developed. In 2012, Wolters We realize that it is important that these business Kluwer plans the roll-out in the United States (Financial & principles offer more than simple guidelines on paper Compliance Services (F&CS) and Global Shared Services and are integrated into internal and external policies and (GSS)) and other European Countries (Germany, Hungary, monitored for compliance. They are workplace standards Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and Slovak Republic) of subject to common performance management systems the following four compliance training programs: used throughout Europe and North America. Our training • Company Values and Business Principles; programs ensure employees are aware of the principles. • Anti-Trust/Competition Law; • Anti-Corruption; We are rolling out training programs for Business Principles • Security Awareness. and Company Values, Competition Law, Anti-Corruption, and IT security to selected groups of employees. We use web-based Further, in the Netherlands (Kluwer, other business units, and training from Axentis (a part of Wolters Kluwer’s ARC Logics). the Corporate Office), both the Anti-Corruption and Security We made substantial progress in 2011 in delivery of antiAwareness training programs will be rolled out in 2012, and corruption and IT security training modules and translating the Security Awareness training will be introduced in the training modules into several languages. We first introduced United Kingdom. these training tools in the Netherlands and have started training the first groups of employees in other countries. Business Principles Guidance as a % of Workforce We added a target based on corporate sustainability to 25% 50% 75% 100% our Short-Term Incentive Plan for the Executive Board for 2011, which is in line with Best Practice Provision II.2.3 of Provided with copy of 74 the Dutch corporate governance code. The Supervisory business principles 70 Board resolved to use revenues from electronic products as a percentage of total revenues as the new sustainability related Signed an acknowledge33 target. Electronic products reduce paper consumption and ment statement that 48 they have read and increase productivity, while at the same time reducing our understood the principles environmental footprint as well as that of our customers. Systematically defined 92 responsibilities, Achievements 2011 accountabilities and reporting lines 93 Targets, Data, and Progress Faces disciplinary action 88 by their business unit Repeat Verification of Key Sustainability Metrics by in case of breach 93 an External Party Our auditor, KPMG, has verified the data for revenues from 2010 2011 electronic products over 2011 and will continue doing so. In 2011 sharing our business principles with our workforce declined. Continue Executive Board Remuneration on For 2012 we plan to improve this number again. Sustainability Criteria The Executive Board’s remuneration continues to be based partly on sustainability criteria. The percentage of electronic 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 8 Customers & Solutions Introduction Customers are the driving force behind Wolters Kluwer. Wolters Kluwer is expanding into the fast-growing markets of Our constant dialogue with customers drives innovation China and India, delivering expertise that positively impacts and delivers value to customers and society. We continue the lives of millions of people in those countries. Our joint to invest into new and enhanced innovative products that venture with the Chinese drug information provider Medicom benefit the professionals we serve. In doing so, we efficiently brings clinical decision support to physicians in China and improve the work of our customers and help them make provides a much needed drug information infrastructure. In better informed decisions that have a positive impact on India, Wolters Kluwer Financial Services offers compliance the clients they serve. and risk management solutions that are specifically designed for the financial services market. Our financial crime control solutions help India’s banks and financial organizations Integrated Solutions comply with local financial risk and regulatory reporting requirements, combating financial fraud and managing risk Our solutions integrate and simplify the work of professionals exposure across the entire enterprise. and give them the information they need when they need it. Our solutions ease professionals’ workload and increase Our Emissions Trading and New Energy Global Law their efficiency, benefitting society as a whole. We provide Guide makes new knowledge available to professionals and our customers with the latest and most reliable content, policymakers. Written by Baker & McKenzie and published integrated in innovative and cutting-edge technology. by Wolters Kluwer, the guide provides information on laws Knowing what our customers need – now and in the future – and regulations as well as trading mechanisms for clean and meeting their needs with up-to-date content combined energy schemes and emissions trading. with state of the art technologies, is the backbone of our organization. For example: As a part of Wolters Kluwer Law & Business, Kluwer Law International publishes Kluwer Arbitration, the world’s • OvidMD provides quick answers to clinical questions within leading online resource for international arbitration research. an easy-to-use interface based on the latest evidenceKluwerArbitration.com contains commentary from expert based research. Patients are assured that they will receive authors and an extensive collection of primary source state-of-the-art treatment. materials, including access to cases from the International • We launched 180 e-books in France in the health and legal Criminal Court. field for efficient access to vital information. • TyMetrix Legal Analytics helps legal professionals With the rise of advanced mobile devices Wolters Kluwer make better data-driven decisions and aggregates billions sees opportunities for vital and efficient solutions that in global legal spend and performance data in a reference can be accessed any time any place. Teleroute PLUS is database that saves paper by using mobile apps and a mobile access platform for owner-drivers. It supplies provides professionals access to an entire catalogue. freight exchange information to streamline the process • Pharmacy OneSource helps increase the speed with of matching freight needs with available trucks in over which patients can be treated, accelerates patient data 25 European countries. workflows, lowers the length of their hospital stay, reduces patient costs and antibiotic resistance, and improves patient safety. 2012 • LEDESense from our Legal & Regulatory division helps law firms with their billing processes, giving lawyers more time In 2012 we continue to invest in product development in our with clients and requiring fewer submitting billings. businesses as a backbone of our ongoing effort to develop • Infofit helps organize front offices of municipalities in and improve solutions for our customers. Customers trust The Netherlands, saving tax money. Wolters Kluwer as the go-to resource to guide them in • CCH’s Global Integrator eliminates manual processing their day-to-day activities and to help them achieve their of direct taxes globally and helps multinational long-term goals. That is also why we want to achieve or organizations ensure accuracy while they streamline and improve NPS® (Net Promoter Score) leadership positions automate core tax provision and compliance areas. in key markets indicating our customer’s preference for our company. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 9 Achievements 2011 Targets Global Brand Management Program Helps Customers and Progress Connect to Wolters Kluwer in a More Meaningful Way The ambition of the Global Brand Management program is driven by the evolution of Wolters Kluwer towards a globally Invest 8-10% of Annual Revenue in Innovation integrated, customer-facing organization. A strong brand and Innovation is not just about the creation of a new idea; a clear articulation of the value that Wolters Kluwer brings it is about transforming an idea into a useful product. To to customers, investors, employees, and society at large keep providing smarter online and software solutions for allows professionals to connect to Wolters Kluwer in a more our customers, Wolters Kluwer invests 8-10% of its annual meaningful way and to better understand our vision and revenue in innovation. Employees worldwide are encouraged customer promise. To strengthen the Wolters Kluwer brand to submit innovative ideas. Our employees spend time with and value proposition, Wolters Kluwer has set up a Global customers and understand their needs. They understand that Brand Management Program. The program aims to advance customers have to do more work with fewer resources. They our brand portfolio management and to deliver a clearer understand that customers need integrated solutions that brand value and architecture. save them time. These new solutions win even more time because they can be used at any place and at any time, and increasingly on any device. Our customers look to Wolters Kluwer for innovative solutions. We believe that an important way to encourage the continuing stream of new ideas is to offer rewards and recognition to those who come up with the best ideas. That is why we established a Global Innovation Award initiative in 2011, to recognize employees and teams who significantly contribute to innovation, resulting in the submission of 240 innovative activities from employees throughout the company. The Clinical Solutions Innovation Lab is an example of how the right conditions for innovation are fostered. The Lab works with hospitals in a design setting to develop new processes and products to address specific issues resulting in higher quality care. Achieve or Improve NPS® Leadership Positions in Key Markets Our customers are the ultimate decision-makers; they decide whether our products add value to their businesses. We have to make sure that we meet customer needs and keep our solutions up to date. In 2010 we implemented a customer satisfaction metric across our global customer segments called the Net Promoter Score (NPS®). NPS® measures customer satisfaction by asking how likely the customer would be to recommend Wolters Kluwer to a friend, relative, or colleague. Our 2011 NPS® results show a trend of strong and improving scores. Most of our customers are local, and our divisions are structured to serve a diverse group of market segments across the world. That is why we measure the NPS® at a product level within different market segments and across various geographies. The NPS® information helps us identify which elements of our solutions customers value and what we need to prioritize in terms of strengths to build on as well as weaknesses that need to be addressed. It is information that helps us improve our solutions to meet our customer needs. Based on the results, we take action for a specific local business, but we can also build and share solutions for customers internationally. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 10 Cases: Customers & Solutions Making Nursing Incredibly Easy UpToDate Helps Clinicians Save Lives Wolters Kluwer Health contributes to a healthier society UpToDate is a clinical information resource for web and by providing tools for medical professionals that make their mobile devices that makes medical information available work easier and more effective. Lippincott Williams & to clinicians around the world, providing them with fast Wilkins, part of Wolters Kluwer Health, developed the and accurate answers to assist them in making the right magazine Nursing Made Incredibly Easy! to help nurses choices for medical treatment, whenever and wherever understand difficult clinical concepts by presenting them they need to. Last year, a Harvard University study in an original and engaging format. Articles by experienced showed that UpToDate was associated with saving clinicians, accompanied by illustrations, provide high-quality 11,500 lives over a period of three years. According to the information in an accessible way. The magazine won the research, UpToDate not only shortens hospital stays but prestigious 2011 Magazine of the Year award from the also helps medical professionals make better decisions American Society of Healthcare Publication Editors. for their patients. In addition, a beta test by 339 surgeons showed that UpToDate is able to answer 94% of general and 87% of specific questions. With the introduction of Employee Assistance Program Improves Wellbeing of SME the iPhone App, UpToDate MobileComplete, in December Employees of 2011, trustworthy and practical clinical knowledge can now be accessed wirelessly, where there is no other Wide-ranging services for employees are usually found only network connection. in large companies, but Croner, a division of Wolters Kluwer, offers an Employee Assistance Program for SMEs to provide expert advice on workplace issues, including stress and Delivering Clinical Decision Support to Doctors in China personal issues. The Program offers solutions that reduce or avoid workplace stress, adverse health and safety events, Wolters Kluwer Health entered into a joint venture with accidents, industrial action/disagreements, and employment leading Chinese drug information provider Medicom to deliver litigation. It is a unique HR solution with services that clinical decision support to doctors as the country prepares include a 24/7, 365-day helpline giving immediate social for significant changes to its healthcare system. For health support, debt management services, and general advice professionals in China, increased accessibility of evidenceand information. The program also includes a day one based medical information will be a major advancement. intervention programmer to assist and support employees The cooperation between Medicom and Wolters Kluwer suffering from stress-related issues. The Employee Assistance Health’s Clinical Solutions makes a combined library of Program helps SMEs match the services of larger companies clinical content available. Lai Qi, CEO of Medicom, states and improve the wellbeing, motivation, and productivity that the partnership supports proposed Chinese Government levels of their employees. healthcare reform by improving productivity and quality of care. Speed Saves Lives Compliance and Risk Management Solutions Designed Wolters Kluwer Health business Pharmacy OneSource Specifically for India facilitates better, earlier, and more consistent medical care with its clinical surveillance, documentation, and The rapidly evolving regulatory framework of India’s reporting application Sentri7. This is a software-as-afinancial services market is an important factor for India’s service application that aggregates data to accelerate development; yet Indian financial services organizations workflows, which helps shorten lengths of stay, lower find it difficult to manage compliance and operational costs, improve patient safety, and reduce antibiotic risks. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services provides effective resistance. In short, speed saves lives. Sentri7 can play an and comprehensive programs with compliance and risk important part in keeping healthcare affordable and safe for management solutions designed specifically for India. These patients, while fulfilling professionals’ need for an efficient programs are provided in the areas of Regulatory Intelligence, processing system. Financial Risk Management, Financial Crime Control, and Enterprise Risk Management, and they contribute to the 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 11 development of India’s economy as it becomes more closely Contributing to Food Safety aligned with global financial and regulatory standards. The programs strengthen India’s position as a global trade partner Wolters Kluwer Italy has developed a customized and and will contribute to an increase in foreign investments. In web-based solution for the VBA Consortium, a network of addition, compliance and risk management solutions improve 600 veterinary professionals in Italy who perform consulting tax compliance in India. for and marketing of veterinary products and provide services to the agricultural and animal husbandry sectors. The Consortium wanted to introduce a central data system Dutch Municipalities Reorganize the Front Office that could connect to regional databases to track data through Infofit of individual veterinaries on a daily basis. Wolters Kluwer developed a web solution that increases the traceability of Slow and poor services by local and central government veterinary information and contributes to food safety. are frustrating for both citizens and businesses. In the Netherlands, municipalities seek to reorganize their front offices to better serve citizens while lowering the administrative costs. To make front offices more efficient, Kluwer (a Dutch subsidiary of Wolters Kluwer) developed Infofit, which combines online solutions with content and information for municipal officials, citizens, and businesses. Infofit helps municipalities quickly and efficiently answer questions from citizens and consists of four key front-office tools: 1 Quick Desk: A reference solution that makes key administrative procedures easier. For example, applying for special assistance through Quick Desk takes only ten minutes; 2 Answer Ready: An online collection of 5,000 questionanswer combinations with which civil servants can quickly give accurate answers to questions; 3 Product and Service Catalog: An overview of all products and services of a municipality; 4 Upright Sites: Six easily accessible sites with information on municipalities’ key responsibilities, including assistance, unemployment, minimum facilities, debt, and more. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 12 Resource Management Introduction Wolters Kluwer operates on a global scale and its solutions “FSC certification prioritizes the protection have a global impact. Starting out as a paper-based of particularly valuable forest ecosystems.” company, we have transformed our portfolio to primarily high-quality electronic products and services. These solutions are developed to help customers work more effectively, Customers saving them time, energy, and resources. For the part of the portfolio that remains paper-based, Wolters Kluwer requires Our solutions help customers do their work more efficiently paper to be recycled or certified. and make high-quality decisions. When we save them time, money, and resources, we help them create a more positive environmental footprint. In Belgium, Teleroute PRO is a Wolters Kluwer’s Operation software tool that matches freight to the available truck capacity. It saves transport companies time and resources Our ambition is to lower the environmental footprint of the while reducing the number of trucks on the roads, lowering company, which implies that we must take into account carbon emissions. the footprint of our own facilities. That is reflected in our Environmental Policy. We continue to deliver energy We are helping our customers migrate to non-paper solutions efficiencies through the @WorkAnywhere program, which and this positively influences climate change, in some cases includes the development of a Remote Work Policy. The quite literally: The Emissions Trading and New Energy environmental performance of our business units is measured Global Guide is the first online subscription service helping in terms of paper use, energy use, and water use. We also professionals comply with emissions trading and new energy measure the environmental impacts of business-related laws in key jurisdictions around the world. air travel. We are transforming from a paper-based product portfolio to electronic or paperless products. More than 70% of our turnover is now generated from electronic and 2012 service solutions. Many of these solutions, such as the CCH ProSystem fx series, have driven clients’ paperless offices In 2012 we want to increase the percentage of responsible for years. paper and we want to continue to grow online, software, and service revenues as a percentage of total revenues. These two targets add to reducing our environmental footprint and the Supply Chain footprint of our customers. Supplier behavior reflects upon Wolters Kluwer. In 2007, we created a Human Rights Policy to ensure compliance Achievements 2011 with human rights in business dealings. Supplier principles are a part of our Human Rights Policy, which is applicable Targets, Data, and Progress worldwide. The policy rests on the articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Achievements 2011 Targets the eight core labor standards of the International Labor Organization. Continuing Growth of Online, Software, and Service Revenues as a Percentage of Total Revenues In order to reduce the environmental footprint of our Since 2005, we have worked to convert more businesses supply chain, we require the use of responsible paper by our from paper-based products into online, software, and service suppliers. The paper has to be recycled or certified under products. This trend reduces both our own environmental the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), PEFC (Programme for footprint and the environmental footprint of our customers. the Endorsement of Forest Certification) or SFI (Sustainable In 2011, 71% of our revenue was generated by electronic and Forestry Initiative) programs. In 2011, Wolters Kluwer service solutions. Tax and Accounting required all its print suppliers to be certified under either the FSC or SFI programs. Responsible We plan to expand our electronic solutions to emerging paper contributes to the preservation of biodiversity, e.g. markets. For example, we increased our electronic offerings in India. A major shift is occurring from print to online in the 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 13 Indian professional market, and this offers valuable growth Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers opportunities for online software solutions. We have been The management of supplier performance is a critical stepping up our India operations in recent years and continue function for improving value chain performance. Poor to see great potential for our electronic products in the performance by suppliers can have a large impact on our healthcare, tax, and accounting markets. ability to deliver products and services to our customers. Our supply chain does not include many manufacturing suppliers. In China, we set up a joint venture with leading China drug Instead, we have a supply base that primarily consists of information provider Medicom to deliver clinical decision indirect suppliers who provide services to our company, support to doctors, allowing us to expand our market-leading such as printing, shipping, and IT consulting. Nevertheless, Clinical Decision Support (CDS) and drug information we expect all our suppliers to adhere to laws and applicable business into a rapidly growing market. In the Middle East, standards for labor and human rights. The supplier principles FRSGlobal, a part of Wolters Kluwer Financial Services, that are included in the Human Rights Policy apply to the introduced a reporting solution for banks operating in entire business. Bahrain, providing them with software that helps automate the generation of risk and regulatory reports and their submission to the national regulator. Resource Management Data Increase Percentage of Responsible Paper Used We measure the environmental performance of our business While we are converting our businesses to online, software, units in terms of paper use, waste, energy use, and water use. and services products, it is important that the remaining We also measure the carbon-emissions-related impact of paper-based portion should be as clean as possible. At the business-related air travel. request of stakeholders, we introduced more stringent paper measures in 2010. A distinction was added for production Revenue Data paper and office paper to ensure that our paper policy captures the full scope of our operations. Revenue by Media A detailed definition for chain-of-custody certified paper 25% 50% 75% 100% and recycled paper was established based on best practices in the industry, which means our responsible paper is either 54 chain-of-custody certified paper or post-consumer recycled Electronic 56 paper. The paper is produced from wood of forests that are managed in socially and environmentally responsible ways. 15 The paper should also be processed in an environmentallyServices 15 friendly manner, meaning that it is produced without the use of toxic chemicals, with aqueous-based coatings, and with Total Electronic 69 low-VOC (volatile organic compounds) soy or vegetable inks. and Services 71 The equipment used to process the paper should be efficient in terms of energy use, waste production, and spoilage. 31 When appropriate, papers containing post-consumer waste Print 29 are used. We now chart the volumes of externally certified chain-of2010 2011 custody paper and recycled paper across the business. In addition, we measure volumes of environmentally-friendly In 2011 the percentage of revenue generated by electronic paper used across all our business units. In 2011, we achieved products increased again. This is in line with our ambitions 35% responsible paper, of which almost 100% had a for our sustainability performance. More revenue from chain-of-custody certification based on the standards of electronic products means less paper and lowers our FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), PEFC (Programme for the environmental footprint. For both 2010 and 2011, the Endorsement of Forest Certification,) or SFI (Sustainable figure is based on calculations whereby discontinued Forestry Initiative). operations are excluded. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 14 Environmental Data Energy Consumption 2011 2010 Paper Usage 2011 2010 Total (GWh) 162 153 Total paper use Energy use (KWh per FTE) 9,432 8,932 (in metric tons) 26,993 32,116 CO2 emission from energy Paper consumption use (tons per FTE) 3.68 3.77 (in kg per FTE) 1,576 1,761 The figure of the total energy consumption is composed The decrease in paper usage is caused by two factors. Our of both gasand electricity consumption. Total energy revenue generated from electronic products is increasing, consumption increased slightly while CO2 emissions are this means our total paper use for our products is lower. Reason for this is a shift in the mix of gas decreasing. Secondly, our internal office paper usage versus electricity. decreased due to more efficient printing practices, due to higher environmental awareness across the organization. Business Air Travel 2011 2010 Total flights (million kilometers) 132 139 Responsible Paper Usage 2011 2010 Flight use (km per FTE) 7,719 8,138 CO2 emissions from flights Chain of custody certified (tons per FTE) 1.07 1.13 paper (FSC, PEFC or SFI) or 100% recycled 11,578 5,459 Restatement for the 2010 data: in last year’s sustainability at least 10% post-consumer report, the 2010 figure for business air travel was higher recycled material 382 2,794 than what is presented here. We have corrected the number % responsible paper 35% 22% after a reinterpretation of last year’s data. The percentage of responsible paper is increasing. Total CO2 Emissions 2011 2010 The strong decrease for the category ‘at least 10% In tons post-consumer recycled material’ can be explained by a shift towards certified paper or 100% recycled. Total 81,395 83,843 Per FTE 4.75 4.89 Restatement for the 2010 data: in last year’s sustainability report, the 2010 figure for responsible paper was higher The total CO2 emissions figure is composed of the CO2 than what is presented here. We have corrected the number emissions caused by energy use (gas and electricity) and after a reinterpretation of last year’s data in line with the business flights. Restatement for the 2010 data: in last definitions for responsible paper. year’s sustainability report, the 2010 figure for total CO2 emissions was higher than what is presented here. We have corrected the number after a reinterpretation of last year’s data for business air travel. Water Consumption 2011 2010 Total (cubic meters) 206,229 190,548 Water use (liters per working day per FTE) 52 48 The water use per working day is calculated on the basis of 230 working days. The increase was due to lower constraints on water usage in 2011 in Spain and differences in temperature during the summer season in the US. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 15 Supplier Data Procurement Policies as % of Business Units 2011 2010 Actively monitoring high-risk suppliers 75 76 Performing internal audits on high-risk suppliers 53 67 Performing external audits on high-risk suppliers 24 17 Setting up corrective action plans and tracking performance 69 71 Discontinue cooperation in case of continued breaches 88 84 The percentage of business units that is monitoring its high-risk suppliers remained stable. The percentage of business units performing internal audits on high-risk suppliers decreased. This decrease is mainly affected by a shift towards external audits. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 16 Cases: Resource Management Moving From Paper to Digital Products Reducing Emissions with Teleroute Minimizing the environmental impact of Wolters Kluwer’s Teleroute, part of Wolters Kluwer Transport Services, products and operations is of great concern to the company. has delivered innovative solutions to the transport and By shifting the product portfolio to digital products and logistics industry since 1985, operating in 25 European services, the use of traditional raw materials such as paper, countries. Teleroute PRO is a web-based freight and vehicle water, and energy is lowered, having a positive influence on exchange that helps match the offer of freight with the climate change and deforestation. CCH, a Wolters Kluwer availability of trucks. The time and resources saved with business, offers workflow solutions that help clients drive Teleroute PRO help companies improve their quality of paperless practices. ProSystem fx Suite is a “paperless operations and reduces the number of trucks on the road, office” technology that allows accounting firms to exchange which saves diesel fuel and reduces emissions. Teleroute client documents confidentially and securely through the PLUS, launched in 2010, offers a mobile access platform for cloud, increasing productivity and saving paper. ProSystem freight exchange, meeting the needs of owner-drivers who fx Suite handles the full range of documents that can be can use mobile phones while en route. found in an accounting practice, from tax returns to e-mail. ProSystem fx Suite is used by more than two-thirds of the top Certified Public Accountant firms in the U.S. Green Paper Initiatives in Tax & Accounting In 2011, Tax & Accounting’s Service Delivery Publishing A Global Law Guide for Emissions Trading and New Production and Design Services wholeheartedly embraced Energy green initiatives and sustainability requirements, producing 98% of its books and 100% of its journals in the United Written by Baker & McKenzie and published by Wolters States under the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the Kluwer, the Emissions Trading and New Energy – Global Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) chain-of-custody Law Guide is the first online subscription service that provides certifications. The affected publications amount to more than professionals with emissions trading and new energy law in two million printed units. Print vendors were notified that key jurisdictions across the world. they were required to be certified under the FSC and/or the SFI programs in order to continue to produce materials on Baker & McKenzie recognized the importance of global behalf of Tax & Accounting. efforts addressing climate change and the relevance of insights into the legal developments surrounding these efforts. Partnering with Wolters Kluwer resulted The Peterson Building Green Renovation in a comprehensive and easy-to-use information service that includes: CCH, a Wolters Kluwer business, is a leading global provider of integrated information, software, and services to address • Regional and national emissions trading mechanisms, the needs of tax, accounting, and audit professionals. In including rules of operation for regional, national and key 2011, work was completed on the LEED-renovation of the sub-national schemes; Peterson building, one of CCH’s major facilities in Chicago. • Implementation of the Clean Development Mechanism The comprehensive remodeling effort that started in early and Joint Implementation frameworks; 2010 focused on four major areas: the roof, the windows, the • Greenhouse gas reporting requirements and energy boilers, and the hardscapes. Project highlights include: efficiency (targets, reporting requirements, mandatory building standards); • Installation of a new roof made from 100% recycled • Renewable and clean energy schemes; materials; • Plain English commentary and links to key source material • A 30% gain in water efficiency through replacement of and documentation; plumbing fixtures; • Regular updates for each country; and • A 20% reduction in energy demand by maximizing • An online newsletter. daylight from windows and replacing exterior glazing with Solarban 60 Low-E efficient insulated glazing; 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 17 • Extension of the building’s lifecycle by maintaining 60% of Reducing the Environmental Impact of Office Printers the existing components. We reduce the carbon footprint of our internal printing The renovation’s completion marks a significant achievement activities by partnering with Toshiba on the “Close the Loop” of the CCH Sustainability Committee, the employee-led program, which recycles toner cartridges at all Wolters sustainability-related initiative formed in 2010. Kluwer locations. In the United States, 75% of the toner cartridges have been recycled and are being reused again. Our Toshiba printers are Energy Star rated to help reduce Groundwoods Lead the Way electricity consumption by up to 60%. Wolters Kluwer has also completed several studies on eliminating printers, saving CCH is leading the way for Wolters Kluwer in its use of operating costs and waste. The Print Optimization study at groundwood paper. In the groundwood process, wood fiber CCH showed that office was utilizing only 4% of available is mechanically converted to pulp. People usually associate printing capacity. As a result, the number of printers was groundwood paper with “cheap” newsprint or paperback reduced from a 1:3 employee-to-printer ratio to a 1:10 ratio, novels, but manufacturing enhancements now mean the bringing considerable cost savings and reducing the quality is very close to the whiteness of chemically processed environmental impact of these machines. “free sheet” paper. Groundwood pulp yields twice as much paper as free sheet and reduces greenhouse gas emissions by up to 62% as a result of avoiding the chemical pulping ADDISON Cloud Platform process. While we might not have enough groundwood-based products to meet our needs, we could potentially halve the The ADDISON Online Portal Solution provides a cloud number of trees we use if we utilize only 100% groundwood platform for integrated communication and collaboration based paper. This aside, it should be noted that already one for tax accountants and their clients. This platform allows third of the raw material used in the paper making process tax professionals and their clients to reduce paperwork and comes from wood chips, scrapes and sawdust. share data and applications through the cloud, saving paper and resources and reducing redundant data and activities. Clients now have direct access to reports provided by their Reducing Print Footprint at F&CS accountants, and accountants have access to and can work with scanned documents submitted by the client. This Wolters Kluwer’s Financial & Compliance Services is making increases the transparency of the accounting process. The efforts to reduce the impact of our printing activities. The cloud solution also makes data sharing faster, more efficient, Graphics department of our F&CS facilities uses inks and and safer. There is no longer any need for encrypted email solvents that are non-hazardous to the environment and exchange, and the cloud solution is provided via a data human health. A non-hazardous solvent is used to remove ink center with level 4 security, which ensures the privacy of from printing press tools and components. The used solvent sensitive documents. is then recycled for manufacturing shingles and other roofing supplies. We also recycle paper, plastic bottles and jugs, ink cartridges, aluminum and polyester offset plates, and corrugated cardboard. Seventeen members of the production department make up five teams focused on continuous improvement and operational excellence initiatives. These teams identify, measure, and reduce waste throughout the graphics department. As a result, they have reduced raw materials and supplies used to produce the printed products. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 18 Community Involvement Introduction Think globally, act locally. Although Wolters Kluwer is an in Madrid, the collection of toys and materials for ACOES international company, we are aware that employees at Honduras, and the development of training materials for different locations belong to local communities and work for FACE, providing information to people with gluten allergies. and with local professionals. Our employees’ skills and our services deliver solutions that aim to improve the quality of For many years, CCH Australia has sponsored the life of people in local communities. organization Youth Off The Streets (YOTS), which offers support to homeless and abused youth. A group of CCH At a corporate level, we support initiatives in need of our help employees volunteers a day at a YOTS site each year, helping in places outside our operations. In Ghana, we participate create a better environment for the youngsters through in a school lunch project, increasing school attendance activities such as painting a YOTS house. CCH also supports and nutrition of Ghanaian children. Wolters Kluwer also YOTS by providing subscriptions to services related to the supports the War Trauma Foundation by publishing the corporation’s law, tax, occupational health and safety, and International Journal of Mental Health, Psychosocial human resources, helping YOTS run its organization. Work and Counseling in Areas of Armed Conflict, helping to spread information of fieldworkers on psychosocial recovery of people in conflict areas. Customer Driven At a local level our employees act on their own initiative or Wolters Kluwer regularly partners with customers to create team up with customers to support community initiatives. an impact at the community level, improving the quality of Our combined expertise helps to create a lasting impact life for communities. on the quality of life in our communities. At the Wolters Kluwer Financial and Compliance Service facility in the U.S., Wolters Kluwer Health partners with Global Health employees have been coordinating for a local Meals on Delivery to offer complimentary one-year UpToDate Wheels program for more than ten years. Wolters Kluwer subscriptions to clinicians working in poor or underserved France published a unique and moving book, Cancer: communities, where funding for medical knowledge had a new look from the perspective of a patient and been unavailable. a psychiatrist. This book describes the upheaval caused by cancer diagnosis and contributes to a better understanding of After the earthquake and tsunami in Japan in 2011, Wolters the psychology of this disease. Kluwer Health supported disaster relief efforts. Ovid and Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, part of Wolters Kluwer Health, offered free online access to the Wolters Kluwer Employee Driven Health Emergency Resources Portal, making emergency, disaster, trauma, and radiation contamination resources Employees are encouraged to develop ideas that support available to Japanese hospitals and healthcare institutions. their local communities. Offering their expertise, products, These types of partnerships show how Wolters Kluwer is able judgment, and time, they significantly contribute to making to effectively partner with customers to create a positive their communities more successful. impact on local communities. In 2011, Wolters Kluwer Spain received two awards from the Alares Foundation for the efforts they undertook 2012 to improve the living conditions of the local community. The initiatives included the collection of household and Our new corporate community giving framework will be workplace materials for recycling, as well as planting trees. rolled out in 2012 to ensure our community efforts are more Other activities included developing a charity market, holding effective and aligned with our expertise. a prize drawing, hosting roller skating lessons, starting a 7-on-7 football league, creating a book of tree drawings, and providing a live rock concert. All proceedings went to charity. Moreover, Wolters Kluwer Spain is involved in several more social projects, including the collection of food and household materials for the Los Molinos nursing home 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 19 Achievements 2011 We review the experience gained from sponsoring Targets, Data, and Progress community initiatives and develop best practices which are shared across Wolters Kluwer. In 2011 our corporate office sponsored Human Rights Watch by participating in at Achievements 2011 Targets their annual dinner in Amsterdam. The activities of Human Rights Watch have a clear link to the legal business and legal Set Up a Community Giving Framework with Senior customers of Wolters Kluwer, and our customers who were Management and Share Best Practice Activities across invited for the event appreciated our involvement. Wolters Kluwer In 2011 we announced the development of a community giving framework. The global operations of Wolters Community Involvement Data Kluwer are apparent in our many local activities in different communities all over the world. As a responsible company, we commit to improving the quality of life in the Donations 2011 2010 communities in which we are active. One way we do so is by sponsoring community initiatives, aligning our sponsoring Donations € 568,868 € 583,276 contributions with our corporate identity and our business objectives. Wolters Kluwer has set up a community giving Restatement for the 2010 data: in last year’s sustainability framework that serves as the basis for assessing whether a report, the 2010 figure for donations was higher than what proposal can make a real difference. The community giving is presented here. We have corrected the number after a framework comprises several elements: reinterpretation of last year’s data. • The sponsor initiatives should align with our company values; • The sponsoring effort should relate to our specific expertise, combining superior information with the latest innovative technologies to meet the needs of professionals; • The effort needs to take into account Wolters Kluwer’s strategy to reduce complexity and drive efficiency for professionals; • The initiative should be innovative, create value for the community, and involve other stakeholders in the community; • The initiatives should incorporate accountability and integrity; • Lastly, the community initiatives we sponsor should leverage our business groups: Legal & Regulatory, Tax & Accounting, Health, and Financial & Compliance Services. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 20 Cases: Community Involvement Wolters Kluwer Health Supports Disaster Relief Efforts Wolters Kluwer Employees Develop Their Own in Japan Community Initiatives When a devastating earthquake and tsunami struck Japan Innovation at Wolters Kluwer is not only created through its in March 2011, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, part of high quality solutions. Through many individual initiatives Wolters Kluwer Health, provided hospitals and healthcare our employees use their talents to improve the quality of institutions with free online access to the Wolters Kluwer life in their own communities. Thanks to the efforts of our Health Emergency Resources Portal. This portal contains employees at Wolters Kluwer Spain over € 36.000 was resources vital to disaster relief, such as important medical collected to support the activities of the Catalonia Group, an literature and radiation contamination studies. By making NGO that helps 700 people who are mentally handicapped these resources freely available to Japanese healthcare in Barcelona. The project was part of the initiative ‘Vivero de workers during the earthquake and tsunami crisis, relief Ideas Solidarias’, in which 500 employees of the Barcelona efforts could be carried out more efficiently and effectively. office participate in twenty different projects. Our employees in Barcelona organised several workshops and sport events together with mentally handicapped people to raise the Supporting Local Community money. Our community initiatives not only help raise money for a good cause but also make our employees as a CCH Australia, a Wolters Kluwer business, is a strong team more cohesive and motivated in the pursuit of making believer in giving back to the community and puts this belief community life better. into practice in a number of ways. Staff members volunteer in sponsored runs and instigate fundraisers for a variety of charities and good causes in and around Australia. In 2011, A Unique Book on Cancer funds were raised for the Queensland Flood Relief, Save the Children projects in Victoria, and Youth Off The Streets In November of 2011, Wolters Kluwer France published a (YOTS), an organization that provides services to homeless unique and moving book, Cancer: a new look from the and abused youth in New South Wales. In addition to raising perspective of a patient and a psychiatrist. This funds, CCH staff members volunteer at a YOTS site each year book is a combination of a patient’s diary and a psychiatrist’s to help create a better environment for the young people in notes, describing the psychic upheaval caused by cancer YOTS’ care. diagnosis. The book describes the collision between professionalism and personal and emotional engagement and is a valuable contribution to a better understanding of this Wolters Kluwer Spain: Know Your Law disease. Wolters Kluwer Spain aims to improve the living conditions of the most socially vulnerable. The “Conoce tus leyes” (Know Bringing Meals to Homebound People Your Law) program – in collaboration with law schools, legal offices, and the community in Madrid – provides training to At the Wolters Kluwer Financial and Compliance Service recent immigrants in Spanish law and everyday rules to help facility in the U.S., employees have been coordinating them live, work, and thrive in Spain. Over 4,000 immigrants employee volunteerism for a local Meals on Wheels program have participated in the program, which has been recognized for more than ten years. In the Meals on Wheels program, for “Distinction of European Excellence” by Madrid our employees deliver meals to people who are homebound. authorities. These people are not able to purchase or prepare their own meals, most of them being elderly, and are in dire need of volunteers that prevent them from getting malnourished. Over more than ten years, our employees show their continuous dedication to the local community by delivering approximately 25,000 meals to homebound people. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 21 Running for Charity Helping Victims of War and Conflict Employees of CCH Australia, part of Wolters Kluwer Tax Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, a Wolters Kluwer and Accounting, have organized themselves in a Community business, is responsible for the publication and distribution Investment Program to support their local community. of Intervention, an international journal of mental health, Through a Community Investment Fund Committee, CCH psychosocial work and counseling in areas of armed conflict, employees support and organize charitable and community and thereby supports the War Trauma Foundation (WTF). projects with much dedication and a generous budget This foundation, based in The Netherlands, supports throughout the year. In 2011, 40 CCH staff members took psychosocial recovery of people and communities who part in the Blackmores Body & Soul Bridge Run. The race is have been hit by war and violence. Together with local part of the Sydney Running Festival in which runners race for organizations in conflict areas, WTF offers programs that 9 kilometers from the Harbour Bridge to the Opera House. should regain confidence, hope and peace in life. Current CCH’s CEO sponsored a large number of branded runners projects are taking place in Burundi, the DR of Congo, Kosovo, and each employee was encouraged to draw individual Chechnya and the Palestinian Authority. Intervention is an sponsorship funding for the race. By participating in the essential tool that helps to spread the latest information race, the 40 employees raised money for the team’s chosen gained from the experience of fieldworkers in conflict areas. charity, Cancer Council NSW, a cancer charity that is Summaries of the articles are translated in Spanish, Pashto, dedicated to the defeat of cancer in New South Wales. Arabic, French, Russian, Sinhale and Tamil to increase information dissemination. Their latest findings help to inspire, support and improve the work of others carrying out School Lunch in Ghana similar interventions. Wolters Kluwer works together with the Plan Netherlands to tackle malnutrition and improve school performance in Ghana. Plan Netherlands is part of Plan International, aiming to improve living conditions of children and their family in less-developed countries. It particularly focuses on improving the position of girls, because girls are still structurally subordinated in the world. Wolters Kluwer takes part in a school lunches project of which the goal is to serve Ghanaian school children a healthy and nutritious lunch every day. All too often, many children sit hungry behind their school desks, which is not good for their development and lowers school performance. Plan Netherlands also makes parents and children understand the importance of good nutrition. It helps schools to build their own gardens, to collect rain water and to stoke in an environmental-friendly way. In the end, this will lower school absence and increases school attendance. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 22 Employee Engagement Introduction Wolters Kluwer’s success depends on people. The talent and criteria, assessment and development on a global scale. In inspiration of our employees drive the development of the 2007, the program was expanded with the Wolters Kluwer solutions our customers rely on. Fostering the talent and Leadership Forum. Over 160 emerging company leaders motivation of our workforce creates the conditions that lead from around the world gathered to establish networks to innovation. We are committed to hiring, developing, and across divisions and geographies and share experiences on motivating the best people with the highest skills. Creating leadership and growth strategies. In 2011 we developed our diversity in the workforce, rewarding good performance, and 4-step Talent Development approach: with Talent Demand, recognizing outstanding achievements all serve as drivers Talent Supply, Talent Plan, and Develop and Deploy. By for creativity and innovation. In recent years, we have more investing in our employees we are ready for the future and actively encouraged employees to engage in the creation remain an attractive, first-rate employer for global talent. of initiatives that aim to foster innovation. These initiatives make us better at what we do for our customers and Improving the quality of life of customers can be for society. accomplished in many different ways. Wolters Kluwer provides content, services, and technology to help its customers make better informed decisions and be more People-Driven Business productive. However, we also engage employees and customers in decreasing the environmental impact of our To foster employee engagement, we introduced the products and operations, contributing to more sustainable Global Innovation Award for employees and teams who operations around the planet. contribute to innovation. An Innovation Board was set up to keep track of best practices and to select the award At Wolters Kluwer Asia Pacific, employees formed a winners. Out of hundreds of submissions, four projects Green Team committed to minimizing the company’s were selected as award winners in 2011, including the environmental impact. In monthly meetings, representatives Clinical Solutions Innovation Lab. The Innovation Lab from Australia, New Zealand, and Malaysia meet to discuss establishes a forum to test Wolters Kluwer’s vision for the reducing Wolters Kluwer’s carbon footprint. Some initiatives future before committing resources to the development of have already been implemented, including the use of new products. It sparks creative ideas and entrepreneurial energy efficient bulbs, recycling water tanks, and recycling behavior among employees and customers in the health bins. Other measures include the upgrading of new PCs in sector. It brings together diverse teams of motivated Australia with Energy Smart features, leading to significant employees in a laboratory setting which creates a transparent reductions in carbon emissions. Additionally, employees environment that fosters learning and testing. Innovation are encouraged to use double-sided printing and to turn off Lab projects have already produced new products, leading computer screens, equipment, and lights when not in use, to improvements in UpToDate and ProVation Order Sets. and Australian customers are encouraged to move from our Another award winner was Kleos, a cloud-based solution for print to our online products. the legal market to support all the relevant activities in a law firm. It is innovative because Kleos is scalable from small to Operating on a global scale means that there is great enterprise size law firms and it works on mobile platforms. diversity in Wolters Kluwer’s workforce. With around 18,000 employees in more than 40 different countries, we believe Wolters Kluwer is a company operating on a global that our diversity serves as a catalyst for innovative and scale and needs a continuous stream of talent to remain creative capabilities. Maintaining a diverse workforce is successful in the global environment. We want to be the therefore key to our future success. Wolters Kluwer aims professional’s first choice in order to attract, retain and to continue to hire the most qualified candidates for its develop a talented workforce. For us, being a first-rate positions, while at the same time achieve a balance in employer means that we maintain a good work-life balance expert male and female employees in line with overall and that we compensate our people well. It also means that representation in the workforce. Currently, 8 out of 10 we support the talent development of our employees and employees are covered by gender diversity programs or that we actively encourage our employees to contribute policies and 1 out of 3 members of the Executive Board is to society in professional organizations and conferences. female. Of the 30% of our businesses that is allowed to track Since 2005, we prepare a next generation of leaders with ethnic background, minorities form 12% of the workforce. our Talent Management Program in which we set leadership 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 23 2012 Repeat, Develop and Roll Out Organizational Health Index Initiatives For 2012: We believe our employees know better than any other • We will roll out our global talent development strategy group how Wolters Kluwer can improve as an organization. and a 3-year roadmap. In 2010 we launched the Organizational Health Index • Launch the Wolters Kluwer global leader success profile. (OHI) to benchmark our engagement and performance • Design best in class leadership development curriculum. culture. Leadership was one of the strongest-rated aspects of the organization with a response rate of 62%: leaders at Wolters Kluwer set high expectations and help the company Achievements 2011 achieve success. Targets, Data, and Progress In order to use the results of the OHI in a meaningful way, we have launched a number of global employee taskforces Achievements 2011 Targets to recommend practical actions centered on stimulating innovation, growing leaders, rapidly delivering results, and Talent Development achieving the right level of local empowerment to act quickly As our products and technology evolve, we are in constant on external opportunities and ideas. In 2011, new taskforces need of ambitious and talented professionals who can were formed to help identify specific actions raised through help Wolters Kluwer remain successful and competitive analysis of the first OHI survey results from 2010. As the in the future. For that reason we are moving from recommendations of the task forces were presented in the conventional human resource models to Transparent Talent third quarter, there has been insufficient time to assess Mobility. We have established a comprehensive talent changes from the baseline, so the survey was not re-run development strategy to get the right people with the right in 2011. capabilities, in the right roles at the right time. We have a four-step approach: In addition to the OHI, our individual businesses conduct employee engagement surveys that concentrate on • Talent Demand: An assessment of our talent requirements issues specific to their business. In 2011, our individual to meet our business needs. A Talent Governance Board businesses completed their engagement surveys and we are provides leadership, direction, and sponsorship. re-evaluating how to measure employee engagement for • Talent Supply: An inventory and assessment of our current 2012. In addition to the surveys, each business unit asks its talent. Our Global Talent Review process aligns with our employees for ideas, suggestions, and constructive criticism business strategy, is simple and pragmatic, and drives that can help improve Wolters Kluwer’s working environment. transparency and accountability. A SWOT analysis of current Wolters Kluwer leaders is underway. • Talent Plan: An organized approach to meet our talent Employee Engagement Data requirements. The Wolters Kluwer Top Talent Review helps identify an enterprise pool of talented individuals who have the potential to move into leadership roles. Wolters Kluwer’s Workforce in 2011 2010 • Develop and Deploy: A structure to create the talent 2011 in FTEs per Division development methods we need to build and deploy talent. Legal & Regulatory 7,704 7,714 We train our best people to be successful. The Global Tax & Accounting 5,675 5,481 Leadership Development framework involves “leaders Health 2,425 2,053 developing leaders”, which means that leaders and managers Financial & Compliance Services 2,077 2,018 serve as role models and are held accountable for the Corporate 98 97 development of talent. This approach helps to make talented Total continuing operations 17,979 17,363 people more visible within the organization and makes them Discontinued operations 471 874 known to our leaders, which helps people move up the career Total 18,450 18,237 ladder. Our talent support network lets leaders share their experience with others. The amount of FTEs working for Wolters Kluwer remained stable. Our talent development strategy is a key factor in keeping an engaged, motivated, and retained workforce because we have a culture of learning and development opportunities. Wolters Kluwer should be known as a builder of global top talent. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 24 Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees Employees that Have Taken Part in Skill Assessments in % and Capability Development in % 15% (14) (14) 8 8 100% 100 100 83 78 79 80 10% 75% 50% 6 6 5% 25% 2010 2011 Voluntary Executives Managers Employees Involuntary 2010 2011 Gender Diversity as a % of Total Employees 2011 2010 % of female executives 33% 30% % of female managers 38% 37% % of female employees 55% 56% Learning Tools: % of Businesses with … 2011 2010 Formal learning networks including regular meetings and staff support 78% 70% Intranet-based knowledge repositories/databases 78% 78% Intranet-based interactive knowledge platforms integrated into daily work processes 54% 48% Euro & Training Days Spent on Learning per FTE 2011 2010 Amount spent on learning per FTE € 458 € 453 Training days per FTE 5 3 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 25 Cases: Employee Engagement Talent Development Improving Employees’ Quality of Life Our portfolio is shifting from print to electronic services. With employees operating in over 40 countries around the We need ambitious and talented professionals that can world, paying attention to our employees’ quality of life is help Wolters Kluwer remain successful and competitive important to Wolters Kluwer. Several health and wellness in the future. For this reason we need to move from more programs aim to improve our employees’ health by helping conventional working practices to Transparent Talent them lose weight or quit tobacco. A healthy work-life balance Mobility. Wolters Kluwer has established a comprehensive is supported by programs such as telecommuting, flextime talent development strategy in order to attract the right policies, and job-sharing. In 2010, we launched a global talent with the right capabilities, in the right roles and at Organizational Health Index (OHI) survey to assess employee the right time. We have a 4-step approach: engagement and the performance culture. Furthermore, each business unit regularly asks employees for ideas, • Talent Demand, in which we evaluate our requirements improvements, and constructive criticism to help improve to meet the global business strategy and integrate the work environment at Wolters Kluwer. our processes into the annual business cycle. A Talent Governance Board provides leadership, direction and sponsorship ensuring its success; Asia Pacific’s Green Team • Talent Supply, which provides an inventory and assessment of our current talent. This Global Talent Review At Wolters Kluwer Asia Pacific, a group of staff members process aligns to our business strategy, is simple and formed the Green Team, which is committed to minimizing pragmatic, and drives transparency and accountability. the company’s environmental impact. In monthly meetings, A SWOT analysis of current Wolters Kluwer leaders is representatives from Australia, New Zealand, and Malaysia part of this step; meet via video conference or on the phone to discuss • Talent Plan, in which we develop a plan to deliver the reducing Wolters Kluwer’s carbon footprint. Here are some talent requirements. The Wolters Kluwer Top Talent Review examples of initiatives that have been carried out so far: helps to identify an enterprise pool of top talents who have the potential to move into key strategic roles; • Lighting: Using energy-efficient bulbs and automatic timer • Develop and Deploy: create talent development methods switches; to build and deploy needed talent. This is a Global • Water: Installing a recycling tank in bathrooms; Leadership Development framework through “Leaders • Recycling: Installing separate bins for glass, plastic, developing leaders” and it means that leaders and aluminum, and paper; managers serve as role models and are held accountable • ICT: Upgrading new PCs with the Energy Smart feature, for the development of our talents. It also helps to make significantly reducing carbon emissions ; our talents more visible within the organization and to • Usage: Encouraging staff members to use double-sided make them known to our leaders, which helps our talents printing and to turn off computer screens and equipment to move up the career ladder. Our talent support network at night; is established to share experiences of leaders and to • Paper: Encouraging customers to choose online instead of continuously improve our talent development strategy. print products. We have a targeted development and best-in-class curriculum rooted in our business strategy and aligned to Wolters Kluwer global leader success profile, which enables us also to deploy talent across the organization. In the end, our talent development strategy is critical to keeping an engaged, motivated and retained workforce within a culture of learning and development opportunities. Wolters Kluwer aims to be known as a builder of global top talent. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 26 Innovation with Employees CCH’s Sustainability Committee In 2011, Wolters Kluwer introduced the Global Innovation CCH is part of Wolters Kluwer Tax & Accounting Division. In Award to acknowledge employees and teams who make the U.S., CCH has incorporated environmental policies into significant contributions to innovation. One of the winning the core of its business plans and management strategy. projects was the Clinical Solutions Innovation Lab, The CCH Sustainability Committee is an employee-led which provides a forum that involves customers in the committee that discusses the social and environmental development and testing of new, creative solutions. impact of CCH. A major achievement of the Sustainability Committee was the implementation of the Green Renovation By involving customers early in the development stage, of The Peterson Building. the Clinical Solutions Innovation Lab offers a method for articulating our vision for the future and then testing that vision with customers before using significant resources Establishing a Global Social Media Policy to build new products. Thus, the Lab not only serves as an incubation space for the creative ideas and entrepreneurial Social media has become increasingly popular for employees spirit that are at the core of the Clinical Solutions culture, in their work and personal lives, and the lines between work but also provides an environment to bring these ideas to life and private life are becoming increasingly blurred. As more in a more sustainable way. employees use social media to communicate about their work at Wolters Kluwer, guidance and governance in this area is important. Many business units have already established Intelligent Solutions Blog local social media policies for their employees, and in 2011 we established a global policy for employee’s social Wolters Kluwer invites its employees to contribute to media use. This policy provides guidelines for employees The Intelligent Solutions Blog, an interactive public around issues of security, appropriate social media use, website that focuses on new developments and technologies appropriate company spokesperson roles, and possible in the information industry. Contributing employees are repercussions in case of violations, among other areas. Far experts from within Wolters Kluwer who follow the latest from discouraging employee engagement with social media, developments in their line of business. The blog is part of the global policy seeks to empower employees to be positive Wolters Kluwer Intelligent Solutions, which provides insights brand ambassadors. into developments for global business. The blog serves as a platform through which employees can communicate and share their viewpoints. The @WorkAnywhere Program At Wolters Kluwer we have developed an alternative workplace strategy, internally branded as @WorkAnywhere and comprising two aspects. The Remote Work program provides employees with an enhanced home/work-life balance by allowing them to work from home. We also support remote workers who spend less than 50% of their work time in the office through the Shared Environments Program, which caters to a variety of work styles in a collaborative and creative atmosphere. The @WorkAnywhere program gives employees flexibility in their personal time management and reduces carbon emissions by reducing the number of people who need to commute to work. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 27 Company Profile Who We Are & What We Do ... supporting professionals in the legal, business, tax, accounting, finance, audit, ...bringing our customers risk, compliance, and information, software, and healthcare markets services that deliver vital insights, intelligent tools, ...with 19,000 employees and the guidance of Founded in 1836 in serving customers in over subject-matter experts. the Netherlands... 150 countries ...today a market-leading, global information services company Our purpose What we provide Markets Wolters Kluwer enables legal, tax, finance and Legal, Business, Tax, Accounting, Finance, healthcare professionals to be more effective Audit, Risk, Compliance, Healthcare and efficient. Research Education Leading brands and product lines What we do The global Wolters Kluwer brand endorses We provide information, software and services our portfolio of strong customer-facing that deliver vital insights, intelligent tools, brands and product lines. and the guidance of subject-matter experts. Transactional Risk Management Support & Compliance We create value by combining information, Management deep expertise, and technology to provide Practice Executive Board: customers with solutions that improve their Management Nancy McKinstry, CEO and Chairman; quality and effectiveness. Boudewijn Beerkens, CFO; Jack Lynch Global Values we share Supervisory Board: Scale/Local Customer Focus, Innovation, Accountability, Presence Adri Baan, Chairman; Peter Wakkie, Deputy Integrity, Value Creation, Teamwork Chairman; Bruno Angelici; Barbara Dalibard; Insights Len Forman; Stuart James; Henk Scheffers Customers SubjectRich Matter Information Lawyers, Compliance professionals, Expertise Assets Senior Management: S o ft Cu Accountants, Government agencies, es sto m e Kathy Baker, Senior Vice President, Human r vic wa re er S Healthcare professionals and organizations, Resources; Sander van Dam, Senior Vice Students, Financial services organizations, Robust President, Accounting & Control; Transport professionals Technology Andres Sadler, Senior Vice President, Platforms Corporate Strategy; Elizabeth Satin, Senior Vice President, Mergers & Acquisitions North America 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 28 Our strategy Our evolution Maximizing Value for Customers Moving up the value chain Data 1 Online, Analytics • High growth Deliver Value software & potential Value for Customers services • Internal & at the • High-growth, external value Point-of-Use Print core business Publishing • Tremendous upside potential • Legacy business Wolters Kluwer • Transitioning to online 2010 – 2012 Val ue 2 Strategy 3 ing C ustomer Expand Solutions Raise Innovation Increas across Processes, and Effectiveness Customers, and Networks through Global Capabilities Time 10% 19 % Revenues Employees Total revenues 2011: €3,354 million, 17,979 employees, with operations in over grew 1% compared to prior year 35 countries 28% Strong revenue diversification Organization 43% Revenues by division Corporate Executive Board Office 10% Legal & Regulatory 6% 50% 19 Tax & Accounting % Health Financial & Compliance Services Legal & Tax & Health Financial & 28% Regulatory Accounting Compliance Services 43% Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting 44% Health Financial & Compliance Revenues by geography Services Global Platform Organization 6% Europe 50% North America Asia Pacific / Global Shared Services Rest of the World More information The company is headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, 44% www.wolterskluwer.com, solutions.wolterskluwer.com/ the Netherlands. Its shares are quoted on Euronext Europe blog, www.twitter.com/wolters_kluwer, www.facebook. Amsterdam (WKL) and are included in the AEX and North America Asia Pacific / com/wolterskluwer, www.linkedin.com/company/woltersEuronext 100 indices. Wolters Kluwer is registered under Rest of the World kluwer, www.youtube.com/wolterskluwercomms Dutch law with a two-tier board structure. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 29 Recognition & Awards In 2011 Wolters Kluwer continued to be at the forefront of • CCH TaxPlan was honored as Top New Tax Planning corporate sustainability and enjoyed continued external Product by Accounting Today. recognition. We are included as part of the Dow Jones • Three CCH Professionals were recognized as Up and Sustainability Index and are named as a member of Coming Leaders. the United Nations Global Compact. Health Several of our business units worldwide received awards for • Lippincott Williams & Wilkins won the American customer service and solutions, as well as business practices. Society of Healthcare Publication Editors This section provides some examples of the recognition, Prestigious Magazine of the Year Award for Nursing awards and prizes. Made Incredibly Easy! • Lippincott Williams & Wilkins won 11 Apex Awards • Wolters Kluwer’s 2010 Annual Report was awarded for for Excellence in Publishing. “Most effective use of innovative online technology • Lexicomp was named a Top Workplace in Northeast Ohio to support investor relations communications” and by The Plain Dealer. internationally for “Most effective overall Annual Report, • Lippincott Williams & Wilkins won three Magnum printed and online” by the U.K.-based IR Society. Opus Awards recognizing editorial excellence for • Wolters Kluwer’s commitment to Sustainable The American Journal of Nursing. Entrepreneurship was recognized in 2011 by Dow Jones • Lexicomp was honored with Crain’s Leading EDGE Sustainability World and Europe Indexes for the fifth Award for its role in creating economic value in year in a row. Northeast Ohio. • Wolters Kluwer was included in the 2011 Sustainability Yearbook, issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Financial & Compliance Services Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Group. • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services won a Compliance Register Platinum Award in the category of Legal & Regulatory “Comprehensive Regulatory News Service.” • Wolters Kluwer Germany Legal Tribune Online was • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services’ OneFile won awarded Trade Medium of the Year 2011. a CODiE award. • MediRegs ComplyTrack Suite was recognized in the • ARC Logics for Financial Services won Operational Risk “Top 20 Best in KLAS Awards” Report in 2011. & Regulation’s Product of the Year award. • Wolters Kluwer was recognized Among The Best Workplaces In Spain for many consecutive years. • Hyperion Research Report Ranks TyMetrix Top e-Billing and Matter Management Solutions Provider. • Wolters Kluwer Social Responsibility Policies was recognized by Alares Foundation. Tax & Accounting • CCH ProSystem fx Knowledge Coach won the 2011 Tax and Accounting Technology Innovation Award. • A3 Software received the award for innovation from Fujitsu for its innovative a3scan solution. • CCH Global Integrator was named 2011 Top New International Tax Product by Accounting Today. • CCH SFS was recognized as a Top Technology Employer. • CCH KnowledgeConnect was named as a finalist for Best Collaboration/Social Networking Solution in the 26th annual Software & Information Industry Association (SIIA) CODiE Awards in 2011. • CCH Leaders were recognized as Top Industry Influencers. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 30 Membership in (Trade) Organizations American Bankers Association Employers and Manufacturers’ Association (New Zealand) American Bar Association EURALEX (Hungary) American Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands Federación de Gremios de Editores de España (Spain) American Marketing Association Fédération Nationale de la Presse d’information Spécialisée American Marketing Organization (France) American Medical Publishers Association Federation of Belgian graphic industry (FEBELGRA) American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Flanders Interuniversity Institute for Biotechnology American Society for Training & Development (VIB, Belgium) America’s SAP Users Group Föreningen för svenska läromedel (Sweden) Amsterdam Partners (Netherlands) Groupement Français de l’Industrie de l’Information (France) Arbeitsgemeinschaft der rechtsund staatswissenschaftlichen Healthcare Marketers Council (United States) Verlage eV (Germany) HINARI Initiative ARMA International Human Resources Community (Italy) ASSINFORM – Associazione Italiana per l’Information Human Resources Institute of New Zealand Technology (Italy) Human Resources Professional Association of Ontario, Association of American Publishers Alberta & British Columbia (Canada) Association Chartered Accountants (ACA) Hungarian Logistics Association (MLE) Association Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) Hungarian Publishers’ and Booksellers’ Association (MKKE) Association of Customer Services (United Kingdom) Independent Community Bankers of America Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers Indian Pharmacological Society (IPS) Association of Information and Dissemination Centers Institute of Chartered Accountants (Australia) (United States) Institute of Management Accountants (United States) Associazione Italiana Editori (Italy) Institute Payroll & pensions Management (IPPM) Assosoftware (Italy) International Academy of Cardiovascular Sciences (IACS) Auckland Chamber of Commerce (New Zealand) International Association of Scientific, Technical & Australasian Society of Clinical & Experimental Medical Publishers (STM) Pharmacologists and Toxicologists (ASCEPT) International Health Economics Association Australian Human Resources Institute International Institute of Risk & Safety Management (IIRSM) Australian Institute of Management International Society for Medical Publication Professionals Australian Society of CPAs International Society Pharmaeconomics & Outcomes AWVN (Netherlands) Research (ISPOR) Better Business Bureau John Adams Institute (Netherlands) Biotech Industry Association (BIO) La Asociación para el Progreso de la Dirección (Spain) Bonus presskopia (Sweden) La Confederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales Börsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels (Germany) (Spain) British Educational Suppliers Association Law Society of New South Wales (Australia) Canadian Tax Foundation Law Society of Upper Canada Central Minnesota Society of HR Management L’Association des Editeurs Belges (Belgium) (United States) Life Sciences (Editorial Board, United States) Certified General Accountants (Canada) Local Paralegal Associations (United States) CFO Community (Italy) L’Union Wallonne des Entreprises (Belgium) Chartered Accountants (Canada) Management Professional Association (Spain) Chartered Institute Management Accountants (CIMA) Management Systems Society (United States) Chartered Institute Marketing (CIM) Marknadsföreningen (Sweden) Chartered Institute of Personnel & Development MASZRE (Hungary) Chartered Secretaries of New Zealand MATESZ (Hungary) Consumer Bankers Association (United States) MATISZ (Hungary) Coopérative de la presse périodique (France) Medical Library Association (United States) CrossRef Medie och Informationsarbetsgivarna (Sweden) Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung eV (Germany) Michigan Association of Certified Public Accountants Editors Association of Canada (MACPA, United States) 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 31 Microsoft Connect Unie van Zelfstandige Ondernemers (Belgium) Microsoft Developers Network New Zealand Verbond van Belgische Ondernemingen (Belgium) Mortgage Bankers Association (United States) Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling Mortgage Industry Standards Maintenance Organization (Netherlands) (United States) Vereniging VNO-NCW (Netherlands) MSDN Connection Vlaams Economisch Verbond (Belgium) National Association of Credit Union Service Organizations Vlaams Instituut voor Logistiek (Belgium) (NACUSO, United States) Vlaamse Uitgevers Vereniging (Belgium) National Council of Prescription Drug Programs Vlaamse Vereniging voor Zakelijke Communicatie (Belgium) (United States) National Foundation of Abstracting I & Indexing Services (United States) Nederlands Uitgeversbond (Netherlands) New Zealand Law Society New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants New Zealand Microbiological Society New Zealand Network Operators Group New Zealand Organisation for Quality New Zealand Software Architects Council OJD (France) Ontario Bar Association (Canada) Országos Humánpolitikai Egyesület (Hungary) Pharmaceutical Management Science Association (United States) Pharmaceutical Marketing Research Group (United States) Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand Polish Book Association Professional & Scholarly Publishers (United States) Project Management Institute (United States) Public Relation Society of America Royal Australasian College of Medical Administrators Royal Pharmaceutical Society Great Britain RUIT (Belgium) Save the Children (Italy) Skattebetalerforeningen (Norway) Society for Corporate Secretaries & Governance Professionals (United States) Society for Human Resources Management (United States) Special Libraries Association (United States) SQL Server Administrators Association (United States) State Bar Associations (United States) State Specific Bankers Associations (United States) Syndicat National de la Presse Professionelle (France) Syndicat National de l’édition (France) Syndicat de la Presse économique et juridique (France) Syndicat de la Presse médicale (France) Tankönyves Vállalkozók Országos Testülete (Hungary) Taxation Institute of Australia The Marketing Association of New Zealand The Marisa Bellisario Foundation (Italy) The Publishers Association (United Kingdom) 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 32 About This Report This sustainability report contains both qualitative and quantitative information on the sustainability efforts that Wolters Kluwer undertook in 2011. Quantitative data is collected from almost all business units across the globe via a special sustainability questionnaire consisting of 45 indicators on social and environmental aspects. At the corporate center, the data is consolidated and where relevant extrapolated in order to provide sustainability numbers for Wolters Kluwer as a whole, facilitating a fair comparison to the 2010 numbers. All calculations which are expressed as ‘per FTE’ (paper consumption; energy use; aspects related to CO2; water; business air travel; amount spent on learning) are based on ultimo FTE numbers which include the FTEs from operations which were discontinued during the past year. Where relevant, currencies are converted using the financial year’s average exchange rate. We report following the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 (GRI) and Global Compact. Both can be seen as internationally recognized standards. For GRI we declare level B. In 2011 we continued to improve the way we manage and interpret our sustainability data. As a result, we restated the data for 2010 with respect to responsible paper usage, business air travel (and therefore related CO2 emissions) and donations. Improved reporting processes will remain one of the focal points for our efforts at corporate level. 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 33 Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table Global Reporting Initiative Strategy and analyses 1.1 CEO statement CEO Introduction 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Innovation Drives Sustainability: Strategy Organizational profile 2.1 Name organization Front Cover 2.2 Products and services Company Profile 2.3 Operational structure Company Profile 2.4 Location headquarters Contact & Report Information 2.5 Countries located Annual Report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report 2.7 Markets Annual Report 2.8 Size of operations Annual Report 2.9 Organizational changes Annual Report 2.10 Awards Recognition & Awards Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period About this Report 3.2 Previous report About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report 3.4 Contact person(s) Contact & Report Information 3.5 Process report content About this Report 3.6 Scope About this Report 3.7 Scope limitations About this Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures About this Report 3.9 Data measurement techniques About this Report 3.10 Re-statements About this Report 3.11 Reporting changes About this Report 3.12 Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table 3.13 Policy external assurance Innovation Drives Sustainability: Achievements 2011 Targets, Data and Progress Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure Annual Report 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report 4.3 Independent members Annual Report 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Annual Report 4.5 Remuneration highest governance body Annual Report 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Innovation Drives Sustainability: Achievements 2011 Targets, data and Progress 4.7 Expertise highest governance body Annual Report 4.8 Internally developed statements Innovation Drives Sustainability: Governance & Remuneration 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Innovation Drives Sustainability: Governance & Remuneration 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 34 4.10 Performance highest governance body Annual Report 4.11 Precautionary approach Annual Report 4.12 Externally developed principles Innovation Drives Sustainability 4.13 Memberships in associations Membership in (Trade) Organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Innovation drives sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Innovation drives sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Innovation drives sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement 4.17 Key topics through stakeholder engagement Innovation drives sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement Economic performance indicators Management approach to Economic performance Innovation drives sustainability: Customers & Solutions Community Involvement EC 1 Direct economic value Community Involvement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress EC 2 Financial implications due to climate change Innovation drives sustainability: Customers & Solutions EC 3 Coverage benefit plan obligations Annual Report EC 4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable EC 6 Locally-based suppliers Resource Management: Supply Chain EC 7 Local hiring Resource Management: Supply Chain EC 8 Infrastructure investments Community Involvement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress Environmental performance indicators Management approach to Environmental performance Customers & Solutions: Integrated Solutions Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s Operation Supply Chain Customers Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Resource Management Data EN 1 Weight of materials used Resource Management: Resource Management Data EN 2 Recycled input materials Resource Management: Resource Management Data EN 3 Direct energy consumption Resource Management: Resource Management Data EN 4 Indirect energy consumption Resource Management: Resource Management Data 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 35 EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Customers & Solutions: energy-based products and services Integrated Solutions Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s Operation Supply Chain Customers Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Resource Management Data EN 8 Total water use Resource Management: Resource Management Data EN 11 Location land in protected areas Not applicable EN 12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Resource Management: Supply Chain EN 16 Total direct and indirect green-house gas emissions Resource Management: by weight Resource Management Data EN 17 Other relevant indirect green-house gas emissions Resource Management: by weight Resource Management Data EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not applicable EN 20 NOx, SOx air emissions Not applicable EN 21 Total water discharge Not applicable EN 22 Total weight of waste Resource Management: Resource Management Data (partly included) EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Customers & Solutions: Integrated Solutions Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s Operation Supply Chain Customers Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Resource Management Data Social Indicators Labor Rights and Decent Work Management approach to Labor Rights and Decent Work Innovation Drives Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Employee Engagement LA 1 Breakdown of total workforce Employee Engagement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress LA 2 Employee turnover Employee Engagement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress LA 10 Training per employee category Employee Engagement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress LA 11 Programs for skill management Employee Engagement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress LA 13 Gender breakdown of governance bodies Employee Engagement: 2011 Targets, Data and Progress 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 36 Human Rights Management approach to Human Rights Innovation Drives Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Community Involvement HR 1 Significant investment agreements that include human Resource Management: rights clauses Supply Chain HR 2 Screening of suppliers on human rights Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers HR 4 Incidents of discrimination Innovation Drives Sustainability: Governance & Remuneration HR 6 Child labor Innovation Drives Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers HR 7 Forced or compulsory labor Innovation Drives Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Society Management approach to social responsibility Community Involvement SO 1 Impact on communities Community Involvement SO 3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Innovation Drives Sustainability: policies and procedures Governance & Remuneration SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Innovation Drives Sustainability: Governance & Remuneration 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 37 Product Responsibility Management approach to Product Responsibility Innovation Drives Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers PR 1 Improving health and safety impacts across the life cycle Resource Management: Supply Chain PR 3 Product information and labeling Resource Management: Supply Chain Resource Management Data PR 5 Customer satisfaction Innovation Drives Sustainability: Stakeholder Engagement PR 6 Marketing communications Community Involvement: Achievements 2011 Targets, Data, and Progress 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 38 Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of Innovation Drives Sustainability: internationally proclaimed human rights. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Innovation Drives Sustainability: human rights abuses. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Innovation Drives Sustainability: the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Innovation Drives Sustainability: forced and compulsory labor. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Innovation Drives Sustainability: child labor. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Innovation Drives Sustainability: respect of employment and occupation. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 39 Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Customers & Solutions: environmental challenges. Integrated Solutions Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s Operation Supply Chain Customers Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Resource Management Data Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Customers & Solutions: environmental responsibility. Integrated Solutions Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s Operation Supply Chain Customers Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Resource Management Data Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Customers & Solutions: of environmentally friendly technologies. Integrated Solutions Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s Operation Supply Chain Customers Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Innovation Drives Sustainability: including extortion and bribery. Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Supply Chain Identifying, Managing, and Auditing High-Risk Suppliers 2011 Sustainability Report Wolters Kluwer 40 Contact & Report Information Contact Stakeholder inquiries: Wolters Kluwer nv Maarten Thompson Zuidpoolsingel 2 Vice President, General Counsel/Corporate Secretary P.O. Box 1030 Tel: +31 (0)172 641 450 2400 BA Alphen aan den Rijn sustainability@wolterskluwer.com The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 Investor inquiries: Fax: +31 (0)172 474 889 Jon Teppo Vice President, Investor Relations www.wolterskluwer.com Tel: +31 (0)172 641 407 Chamber of Commerce ir@wolterskluwer.com Trade Registry No. 33.202.517 Press inquiries: Caroline Wouters Vice President, Corporate Communications Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 press@wolterskluwer.com Report This Sustainability Report is available online and as an iPad app. Concept Wolters Kluwer Corporate Legal Department Production Wolters Kluwer Corporate Communications Content Roland Waardenburg and David Klingen Graphic Design Lesley Moore DTP Strak (Haiko Oosterbaan)
