Norske Skog Communication on Progress (COP) Norske Skog signed the Global Compact in 2003. The Global Compact embraces a worldwide network of enterprises, governments, unions, civil organisations and the UN, which is dedicated to dialogue and coordinated action to promote a sustainable and inclusive global economy. Even in demanding times for our company, we keep a strong focus on our commitments to a sustainable performance within our corporate social responsibilities. We are a large consumer of recovered paper, we source timber and woodchips from sustainably managed forests, we have a goal to reduce the environmental footprint from our activities to a minimum and to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases by 25 per cent by 2020, compared with 2006. We are committed to the ten principles of UN Global Compact, states President and CEO Sven Ombudstvedt. Norske Skog`s core values of openness, honesty and cooperation as well as our policies and guidelines build on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. • We are a member of the Global Compact Nordic Network (GCNN), Where participants from Denmark Finland, Norway and Sweden discuss the implementation of the 10 principles and common challenges. • We made environmental investments of NOK 60 million in 2011, and all business units are ISO 14001 certified. • We were accordingly the first international pulp and paper company to sign a global agreement on employee rights with the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, Mine and General Workers’ Unions (ICEM). • We have a close and good collaboration with our unions through Sven Ombudstvedt several channels worldwide. President & CEO • We accept our social responsibility to the local communities in which our operations are pursued. Business units and employees involve themselves in a number of areas in these communities, supporting activities, which help to improve the quality of life, health and knowledge. • Education is defined as our contribution to the UN’s millennium development goal, and has been visualised through our commitment to improving the reading skills of young people using newspapers in education. A particular effort is being made in new democracies where the free press has achieved better conditions.We and the World Association of Newspapers (WAN) have established a close relationship in developing young reader programmes in both developing and mature markets. Originally a five-year programme, this work has been expanded for another five years from 2008 to 2013 and supports additionally the WAN initiative “Shaping the future of the newspaper”. The initiative works on a number of projects of future newspaper products.
