CELEBRATING THE INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF FORESTS HIGHLIGHTS CONTENT Message from Our Chairman Best Named Best Private Company by Ethical Corporation. and CEO Vision and Strategy 3 4 Quality Fred-Henri Firmenich presented with Governance Medal External Veriﬁcation 5 by the International Academy of Quality. 2011 Global Commitment 6 Haiti Recognized by the Clinton Global Initiative for helping Everyone, Everywhere, Every Day 8 vetiver farmers in Haiti. -37% Reduced our Total Recordable Case (TRC) rate Innovative Partnerships 18 for employee safety by 37%. Thought Leadership 28 Certiﬁcation Worked with the Rainforest Alliance toward Validations 36 recommendation for certiﬁcation of vanilla in Madagascar. GRI Index 39 Council International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF) and the Our Fundamentals 40 Naandi Foundation join Sustainability Council. 12 New third party management systems certiﬁcations. Solar Energy Major installation in Newark, N.J. 3 | Firmenich Through our natural sourcing projects, reforestation, and the installation of solar panels at a number of our manufacturing facilities, we are responding to climate change and are working to protect the planet’s biodiversity. Last year, we marked ﬁve years of continuous improvement in all of our environmental performance indicators. FY11 presented a challenge whereby we saw two new manufacturing sites become operational (our ﬂavors plant in Newark, N.J., and an ingredients and perfumery plant in Gujarat, India). These two sites have negatively impacted most of our environmental performance indicators as the offsetting reductions associated with the manufacturing transfer will not be realized until after FY12. Message from To reinforce our sustainability governance we have welcomed two new members to our Sustainability Council: the Naandi Our Chairman and CEO Foundation, one of the largest nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in India, and the International Business Leaders Welcome to our sixth annual sustainability report. This year, Forum (IBLF), a leading sustainability think tank. we have enhanced our reporting by publishing the report under the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Finally, we are proud to have received public recognition for our commitment to sustainability. In September 2010, Creating sustainable connections between nature and chemFirmenich was recognized by the Clinton Global Initiative istry is at the heart of what we do, and this report celebrates for our work helping vetiver farmers in Haiti. Our long-term the United Nations’ (UN) International Year of Forests as thought leadership in sustainability was further recognized well as the United Nations Educational, Scientiﬁc and Cultural when Ethical Corporation named Firmenich the “Best Organization’s (UNESCO) International Year of Chemistry. Private Company” in May 2011. When you achieve integration between business and susFY12 will be another exciting and challenging year for us tainability, you innovate, create change, and transform the as we continue to evolve and enhance our long-term business status quo. We have made great progress over the sustainability strategy. We strive to make it easier for clients, past year against our sustainability targets, and sustainability suppliers, and all of our stakeholders to work with us on is now integrated throughout our business. sustainability issues that matter to them. Every day, we engage our employees, our clients and our We warmly thank our employees, who understand that partners worldwide to develop sustainable solutions in sustainability is the responsibility of everyone, everywhere, order to make a difference in our individual communities every day. Our sense of individual and collective responsiand in the world community. bility ensures our long-term success. As a company dedicated to world-class standards of susThe Firmenich Fundamentals guide our every action, enatainability management, Firmenich has made a clear combling us to remain true to ourselves and make a difference mitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global in an ever-changing world. Compact, which we signed in 2007, and to the goals and principles of the UN’s CEO Water Mandate for the responsible use of water one of the world’s most precious resources. We try to faithfully execute these principles in all of our Vernon Sankey Patrick Firmenich business activities. Chairman CEO For the sixth consecutive year, we have improved our safety performance. In FY11, we improved our employee safety rate by 37% over the prior year. Firmenich | 4 VISION AND STRATEGY About Firmenich 2015 — Strategic Sustainability Founded and headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, Goals (from 2010 Baseline) since 1895, Firmenich is the largest privately owned com50% pany in the Flavor and Fragrance industry, in our 5th generation of family owned leadership. We create unique sensorial experiences in ﬂ avors and fragrances for the world’s most desirable brands, inspiring emotions and fulFurther improve our industry-leading safety performance ﬁlling desires through the products people enjoy every day. Embracing Sustainability -15% Reduce CO2 emissions in absolute terms Our vision is to remain an industry leader in sustainability, creating and capturing value with our clients and their consumers worldwide. We are committed to remaining a leader in solving global challenges, such as climate change, -15% Reduce water usage rate inequality in access to health and education services and 90% inclusive economic growth. We will continue to: Partially power 90% of our manufacturing Create products that make facilities with renewable energy a difference Contribute to our clients’ sustainability strategies 400 Key Create a “Sustainability Index” for 400 key ingredients Understand consumer needs in emerging economies Anticipate global 8 Countries Complete Sustainable Natural Ingredient Sourcing Projects in eight countries environmental trends 1 Million Impact the lives of one million children through improved nutrition and hygiene 5 | Firmenich EXTERNAL VERIFICATION SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA rate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of Firmenich sustainability activities in ﬁnancial year ending 2011. report on sustainability activities in the The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used Firmenich Sustainability Report for 2011 by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. We believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance Nature and Scope for this stage in their reporting. of the Assurance / Veriﬁcation Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011) SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was commissioned by Conclusions, Findings and Recommendations Firmenich to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2011. The scope of the assurance, based on the In our opinion, the Firmenich Sustainability Report 2011 meets the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included all content and quality requirements for GRI G3.1 Application Level C+. text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. Principles – In our opinion the content and quality of the report The information in the Sustainability Report 2011 of Firmenich adheres to the ten GRI Principles. In future reports we would expect and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and that areas where basic information has been included will be the management of Firmenich. SGS Société Générale de Surdeveloped in line with these principles. Opportunities were identiﬁed veillance SA has not been involved in the preparation of any of for consideration in future reporting cycles to ensure continual the material included in the Sustainability Report 2010. improvement, including: • more detailed information regarding stakeholder mapping enOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, gagement and feedback graphs and statements within the scope of veriﬁcation set out • reporting on performance and engagement with internal below with the intention to inform all Firmenich’s stakeholders. stakeholders This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny • improvement in the balance of reporting on challenges and risks using our protocols for: Standard Disclosures – All the standard disclosures required for • evaluation of content veracity; reporting at an application level C+ were included or referenced • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative in the report. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3 2006/G3.3 2011) Indicators – The required minimum number of core indicators are The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, included in the report. We expect that Firmenich will increase interviews with relevant employees at the Headquarters in Geneva; and expand on the required indicators in future reporting to increase documentation and record review. Data has been assured at cortransparency. porate level; base data utilized in the calculation of the consolidated ﬁgures have not been assured. Strengths Financial data drawn directly from independently audited ﬁnancial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of the The report demonstrates a deep understanding of sustainable develassurance process. opment and the organisation’s measures of performance and links the sustainability topics to long term organisational strategy well. Firmenich has been publishing a Sustainability Report since Statement of Independence and Competence FY06 and the FY11 report marks an important step forward in The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, reporting against to a global reporting standard. testing and veriﬁcation, operating in more than 140 countries and Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA providing services including management systems and service Geneva, September 15, 2011 certiﬁcation; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA conﬁrms our independence from Firmenich, being free from bias and conﬂ icts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualiﬁcations for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with AA1000SA Certiﬁed Practitioner, Lead Quality, Environmental and SA8000 Auditor and experience in the ﬂ avours and fragrance industry. Veriﬁcation / Assurance Opinion On the basis of the methodology described and the veriﬁcation work performed, we are satisﬁed that the information and data contained within Firmenich Sustainability Report 2011 is accuFirmenich | 6 2011 GLOBAL COMMITMENT International Year of Forests International Year of Chemistry The United Nations General Assembly declared 2011 the The UN General Assembly declared 2011 the International International Year of Forests to raise awareness of the Year of Chemistry to celebrate the achievements of chemneed to sustainably manage, develop and conserve forests. istry and its contribution to the well-being of humankind. Firmenich celebrates and supports the International Year 2011 marks the 100th anniversary of the founding of the of Forests in a number of ways. International Association of Chemical Societies, as well as the year Madame Marie Curie won the Nobel Prize. As a Sourcing past recipient of the Noble Prize for Chemistry, Firmenich Our sustainable sourcing program includes agriculture is proud to support the objectives of the International Year projects in Brazil, Haiti, Madagascar and Uganda that seek of Chemistry to: to ensure the supply of essential natural ingredients. These projects integrate reforestation components or di• Increase the public appreciation and understanding rectly engage with forest populations and target small of chemistry in meeting world needs; farmers to have a positive effect on forest environments. • Encourage the interest of young people in chemistry; By strengthening these forest communities, it is likely that they will have less need to cut trees to survive. We believe that • Generate enthusiasm for the creative future of by reinforcing farming communities through our sustainable chemistry; and sourcing programs, we are contributing to the protection • Celebrate the role of women in chemistry or major of forests. Farming around the world is becoming an historical events in chemistry. increasingly under-valued profession but when sustainable practices are observed farmers can be advocates for forest Creating sustainable connections between nature and protection, and we will continue working with them, both chemistry is at the heart of what we do, and this report during the International Year of Forests and into the future. celebrates the United Nations’ (UN) International Year of Forests as well as the United Nations Educational, ScienAdvocacy, Art and Creation tiﬁc and Cultural Organization’s (UNESCO) International Last year’s sustainability report featured the work of Yann Year of Chemistry. Arthus-Bertrand. Mr. Arthus-Bertrand was nominated as a United Nations Environment Programme Goodwill Ambassador and was asked by the UN to produce a ﬁlm for the International Year of Forests. Firmenich provided support to his foundation for the creation of the website “Of Forests and Men” www.desforetsetdeshommes.org/en. Also, this year we invited Christoph Niemann to expand his art work on autumn leaves, work that is featured throughout this report. 7 | Firmenich Guest Artist: st: Christoph ph Niemann I am excited to partner with Firmenich to expand my work with autumn n leaves for their 2011 sustainability report. Inspired by my blog post “bio-diversity,” I created this work to present a familiar miliar aspect of nature in an extraordinary way, resonating with Firmenich’s interpretation of nature through their ﬂ avorss and fragrances. I hope my autumn leaves provide a visual sual insight into their sustainability vision. As an artist that illustrates articles for business magazines and newspapers, pers, my work often accompanies global issues and emerging ng perspectives on our world. Certain topics ©Alexander Blumhoff stand out, alerting erting me to fundamental changes on the horizon. A few years ago, I read my ﬁrst piece about sustainability. It of course talked alked about sustainability in an environmental context, but it also talked about motivation, inspiration Christoph Niemann (born 1970 in Waiblingen, Germany) and the idea a of a lifelong, fulﬁlled existence. Until then, is an illustrator, graphic designer and co-author. His work the discussionon had always been about production and has appeared on the covers of The New Yorker, Atlantic conservation n as opposing forces, but this fresh apMonthly, The New York Times Magazine and American proach allowed wed a new way of thinking that enabled Illustration, and has won awards from AIGA, (American both concepts ts to invigorate each other. Institute of Graphic Arts) the Art Directors Club and American Illustration. He is a member of the Alliance For me, sustainability tainability has been a personal effort, Graphique Internationale. In 2010, he was inducted into to refocus how I engage and contribute to the the Art Directors Club Hall of Fame. world aroundd me. I hope that individual change can contribute te to community and organizational journeys; when hen these journeys gather momentum perhaps theyy can have global impacts. There are still till many ways ffor me to t perfect f t my personall sustainability efforts. But by now I am convinced, that the best way I can contribute as an artist is by being considerate to all the elements of my life. In school, they teach you that you can’t have your cake and eat it too. Sustainability is the art of being mindful and considerate of the cake, helping it to regrow and ultimately allowing you and everybody else to enjoy it indeﬁnitely. Christoph Niemann Illustrator Firmenich | 8 SUSTAINABILITY IS INTEGRATED THROUGHOUT OUR BUSINESS. OUR SENSE OF INDIVIDUAL AND COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITY ENSURES OUR LONG-TERM SUCCESS. EVERYONE, EVERYWHERE, EVERY DAY Last year, our Chairman and CEO jointly stated that “sustainability is the responsibility of everyone, everywhere, every day.” At Firmenich, our goal is to engage everyone in our business in making sustainability a reality. Sustainability is integrated throughout our global locations and everywhere in our business cycle, from research, creation and product development, to supply chains, sales and marketing. Every day we work to reduce our environmental footprint. Everyone: This year, our Sustainability Dialogues, which take place once a month at various locations in our network, included Embracing the Game Change sessions with Rob Cameron, CEO of Fair Trade, Marinah Embiricos, President and Founder of the Borneo Rainforest Engaging, energizing and empowering our people is essenFoundation, Dr. Robert Glasser, Secretary General of CARE tial to driving change and integrating sustainability into our International, Manoj Kumar, CEO of the Naandi Foundation business. This year we have made signiﬁcant progress. and Gib Bullock, Executive Director of Accenture DevelopAlmost 100 “sustainability chamment Partners. pions” have emerged throughInnovating out our business as a critical mass of “change Sha ting rin ea agents,” self selected g Cr through their actions Our Fundamentals and enthusiasm, to C o nt g drive change through ur their teams and lead ri b cin ut ng i So those around them. We O p e ra ti n g are focused on building competencies and creating incentives to promote sustainability. In FY2011, we trained almost 10% of our workforce on sustainability. Our “everyone” strategy includes: Members of our Paris Green Team • Building our sustainability community: Using knowledge • Integrating into business processes: This year, 2 of our management tools to enhance and facilitate information ﬂ agship creative programs, Trenz® and the Sensorium®, sharing and best practices throughout our community. integrated sustainability into their methodologies, highlighting our efforts to mainstream sustainability into our Our Global Community Day brings together employees, afﬁliorganizational culture. ates and partners to create meaningful actions that inspire, empower and engage the communities around us. This year, Trenz® is a proprietary, prospective marketing tool unique to activities included 38 afﬁ liate organizations and 1,617 Firmenich with a reputation within the Flavor and Fragrance volunteers contributing to 99 projects worldwide. industry for identifying, analyzing and applying new trends Our Green Team Initiative engages employees around the in a meaningful way. The Trenz® team’s foresight and world in the efforts to reduce the environmental impacts analysis will positively inﬂuence our understanding of of our operations. New Green Teams were established in emerging sustainability issues. Paris, Singapore, China and in New Jersey and California in the U.S. • Sustainability Dialogues: We engage sustainability Protecting Everyone: Health, Safety thought leaders to inspire clients and employees; enand Environment (HS&E) hancing understanding, identifying trends and building partnerships. Ensuring that our employees are healthy and safe is of the utmost importance at Firmenich. Our Embrace 2015 target is a further 50% improvement in safety performance. 11 | Firmenich -81% improvement in LTC over the last 5-year period Rates per 200,000 exposure hours Rates per 200,000 exposure hours 1.49 ability was CHF 17.7 million* in FY11. Over the last 5 years 2.68 (FY06 – FY11), annual capital spending on HS&E and sustainability has more than doubled. Some of the major HS&E and Sustainability capital projects during FY11 included: 0.75 • Solar panel installation in New Jersey U.S. 0.28 FY06 FY11 FY06 FY11 • Heat recovery/Natural gas usage reduction in Switzerland TRC Rate LTC Rate • Wastewater treatment in Belgium * TRC Rate = Total Recordable Cases per * LTC Rate = Lost Time Cases per 200,000 ex200,000 exposure hours. (This is the sum of posure hours. (A ”Case” is a recordable work • Equipment safety enhancements in Switzerland, Lost Time Cases + Restricted Work Cases + Medical Treatments, which are either work related injury or occupational illness that Belgium, and the U.S. results in time away from work of greater related injuries or illnesses). Data is for full than one day or one shift following the day time permanent and temporary employees of the incident). Data is for full time perma• Plant ventilation improvements in Norway and Switzerland (supervised contractors). nent and temporary employees (supervised contractors). • Process modiﬁcations to reduce odors and VOC in the U.S. For the 6th consecutive year, we improved our safety per• Fire protection for warehouse in the U.S. formance with a Total Recordable Case (TRC) rate of 0.75, which represents a 37% improvement from the prior year *This includes projects speciﬁcally related to HS&E, and Sustainability plus (FY10 TRC = 1.19) and an overall 72% improvement over 5 an allocated percentage of all other project investments according to our internal asset investment rules. years from FY06 (full-time ﬁxed and temporary employees). The Lost Time Case (LTC) rate for FY11 (at 0.28) shows an 81% improvement over the same ﬁ ve-year period. Partnership 7 of our 25 manufacturing sites achieved zero total recordto Implement a Behavioral able cases, with 13 achieving zero Lost Time Cases during FY11. 9 sites achieved 2 or more years without an LTC, with Safety-Based Program 2 of these sites exceeding 5 years. During FY11, we continued to implement behavioralbased safety training at our major sites. 3 sites have As part of our ongoing commitment to have all of our mannow fully implemented the Behavioral Accident ufacturing operations third-party certiﬁed to both the Prevention Process®, or BAPP®, technology with OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety management help from BST, our safety consultants. These sites systems standard) as well as ISO 14001 (environmental — in Geneva, Switzerland; Princeton, N.J., U.S.; and management systems standard) by the end of FY14, we São Paulo, Brazil — are now beneﬁting from this achieved an additional 10 certiﬁcations during this ﬁscal year. process. The BAPP® system involves engaging employees at all levels in the continuous improvement of safety by focusing on the working interface, that Our HS&E Investments for FY11 is, the interaction of all the factors that can cause an injury: conditions, management systems and the We continued to invest capital in HS&E and sustainability things people do. We will continue our partnership improvements at our manufacturing plants. Capital spending into FY12 with programs at 2 other key locations. on projects and equipment related to HS&E and SustainFirmenich | 12 -6.5% reduction of our CO2 emissions in the last 5 years Our current reporting period, ﬁscal year 2011, is a transition Every Day: year. It is the ﬁrst year of our new strategy, Embrace 2015, Respecting Our Environment and also a year when we saw 2 new manufacturing sites become operational: our ﬂavor plant in Port Newark, N.J., U.S., and the ingredients and perfumery plant in Dahej, Our Performance Gujarat, India. These 2 sites have impacted performance data negatively on the majority of our indicators. The offLast year, we closed out 5 years of reporting against our setting reductions associated with manufacturing re-alloInspire 2010 strategic environmental goals. We also took cation and efﬁciencies are expected to be realized during the opportunity to launch our new Embrace 2015 strategic the current strategic reporting period. sustainability goals, which include a commitment to reduce our CO 2 emissions in absolute terms by 15%, reduce our water use rate by 15% and power 90% of our manufacturing Energy Use and Carbon Dioxide (CO2) facilities partially with renewable energy. Emissions Going forward to 2015, we will report our key environmental Our commitment to manage and reduce our CO 2 emissions sustainability indicators normalized as a rate per tonne of continues. We were signatories to the Copenhagen Comproduction on a rolling 5-year baseline (previously reported muniqué on Climate Change, thereby making our commitand stated as normalized per tonne of product sales). This ment public. We have also reported fully for the third time report will therefore cover the period of ﬁscal year 2006 our carbon emissions via the Carbon Disclosure Project. to 2011 as well as performance against prior years. This change in reporting unit will enable us to better align speIn FY08, we started to report our CO 2 emissions for both ciﬁc improvement goals within our divisional operations. Scope 1 (direct energy) and Scope 2 (indirect energy from purchased electricity), having revised our data-collection and reporting methodology to allow for such tracking. We FY10 FY11 Annual FY06 vs. Change % FY11 also participated in an industry-level initiative to standardize Change % the way Flavor and Fragrance companies report their Total Energy Use (GJ/t)+ 10.2 11.0 +7.8 -13.4 emissions. Additionally, during FY11, we started a project to screen our signiﬁcant Scope 3 emissions (broad scope Scope 1 and 2 731 808 +10.5 -6.5 of upstream and downstream emissions). CO2 emissions (kg/t)+ VOC (kg/t)+ 1.4 1.4 0 -26.3 During FY11, our CO 2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) in kg per tonne of production increased 10.5% from the prior year. Total Water Use (m3/t)+ 26.3 27.3 +3.8 -38.9 In absolute terms, this represents a one-year CO 2 emisProcess Water Use (m3/t)+ 8.3 8.7 +4.8 -10.3 sions increase of 18,467 tonnes, which is wholly attributable to our two new production sites in the U.S. and India. Hazardous Waste (kg/t)+ 80 82 +2.5 -31.1 However, during the rolling ﬁ ve-year period (FY06-FY11), 13,396 13,501 +0.8 +15.5 we achieved an overall 6.5% decrease in these emissions Recycled Waste (tonnes) per tonne of production. Waste to Energy (%)• 8.4 18.2 +116.6 NA Waste to Landﬁll (%)• 8.3 10.6 +27.7 +49.3 * Each year, we revalidate our data making any necessary corrections retrospectively and reporting these corrections. + Data normalized and stated as per tonne of production • Data stated as a % of total waste generated 13 | Firmenich -38.9% water reduction per tonne of production 864 808 12.7 11 1.9 GJ/t of production natural gas kg/t of production kg/t of production electricity 1.4 oil coal lpg purchased CO Scope1 2 steam CO Scope2 2 FY06 FY11 FY06 FY11 FY06 FY11 Energy Use CO2 Emissions VOC Emissions * In FY09, our coal conversion factor was changed after actual analysis of coal thermal efﬁciency and the factor applied to retrospective years. VOC Water Use Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are an As signatories to the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water inevitable by-product of our processes. Our goal is to reduce Mandate, we are committed to addressing the ways in which VOCs at the source. We try to ﬁrst ﬁnd and implement benign we use water. Given the nature of our business and products alternative processes or use alternative materials. Where and the strict requirements for hygiene and cleanliness this is not possible, we use abatement technologies, or we standards, water use is a key factor to be managed. capture the emissions before they can escape. We also monitor and calculate other air emissions, including NOx In FY11, we saw a 3.8% increase in our total water use per and SOx, and analyze this data to better understand where tonne of production (process, sanitary and cooling). Over we can make signiﬁcant improvements. the rolling 5-year period (FY06-FY11), we achieved a 38.9% reduction per tonne of production as well as a 9.1% absoIn FY11, VOC emissions in kg per tonne of production were lute reduction. ﬂ at compared with the prior year of 1.4 kg per tonne. We are aware of the nexus between water and energy use, The rolling 5-year reduction in VOC emissions (FY06-FY11) and we are continually looking for improvement opportuis 26.3%. The measures taken to achieve this large reduction nities that combine efﬁciencies in these two elements (See have previously been reported and focused on our solventpage 16 for activities in Meyrin, Switzerland). intensive operations. The results achieved validate the VOC abatement measures we have implemented. Firmenich | 14 18.2% of waste used for energy generation Managing Waste period (FY06-FY11) with a small 0.8% increase over the prior year. All of our sites are encouraged to identify Hazardous Waste opportunities to recycle, and the growing number of afﬁliate We are making signiﬁcant progress in our efforts to reduce green teams continues to help facilitate these efforts. the volume of hazardous waste we generate. Over the rolling 5-year period (FY06-FY11), we have achieved a 31.1% Waste to Energy reduction per tonne of production. The performance over We have introduced a new metric for this current strategy the prior year shows a 2.5% increase, which is wholly period, which is the percentage of our total waste volume attributable to the new ingredients facility in Dahej, (tonnes) that is used to generate off-site energy (e.g., Gujarat, India. waste burned in co-generation plant and waste solvent to fuel cement kilns). During the current year, 18.2% of our total Initiatives to reduce our hazardous waste burden include waste volume (tonnes) was used for off-site energy generaa project at our ingredients plant in Port Newark, N.J., U.S., tion, which is more than double the FY10 ﬁgure of 8.4%. where the site decreased its overall hazardous waste generation by approximately 40% since 2008. This is mainly due to Waste to Landﬁll the isolation of a methanol co-product from the Hedione® We will also now measure, manage and report the percentage process and the sale of isopropyl alcohol from our Durarof our total waste volume (tonnes) that goes to landﬁll. We ome® process. Both materials were once generated and have seen a 49.3% increase over the rolling 5-year period disposed of as hazardous wastes. Markets were found, and (FY06-FY11), which represents 7.1% of total waste volume supplier agreements were put in place for the sale of these in FY06, increasing to 10.6% for the current period, FY11. materials. Recycling Waste We continue to increase efforts to identify our waste-recycling opportunities for both operational and nonoperational sites, which will proceed as we move forward into our Embrace 2015 strategy. The actual tonnage that we now recycle has increased 15.5% during the rolling 5-year 13501 11689 44.7 119 27.3 M3/t of production kg/t of production 82 cooling Tonnes process sanitary FY06 FY11 FY06 FY11 FY06 FY11 Total Water Use Hazardous Waste Recycled Waste 15 | Firmenich 75% of Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and services Understanding Our Scope 3 Greenhouse Our total Scope 3 emissions for the period FY10 were calculated at 520,000 tonnes of CO 2, which is four times Gas Emissions (GHGs) greater than our Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined (for the same period). Upstream emissions from purchased goods Scope 3 GHG emissions are much broader than Scope 1 and services accounted for approximately 75% of total and 2 and can include anything from employee travel to Scope 3 emissions. This clearly identiﬁes a need to work “upstream” emissions, embodied in the products we closely with our suppliers to reduce overall GHG emispurchase and process, and “downstream” emissions, sions. Since other sources are not negligible and potentially which are associated with transporting and disposing of offer efﬁcient reduction opportunities, we will also explore the products we sell. the relevant actions in each category. A summary of the main Scope 3 emissions is shown below: Since FY08, we have reported both Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. During FY11, we entered into a partnership with 6% Quantis, leading experts in the ﬁeld of environmental life Employee 2% cycle assessment, to help us understand and screen our 5% Business Commuting Waste Scope 3 GHG emissions. This assessment will better align Generated Travel our reporting with the GHG Protocol as well as with growing in Operations client expectations, via the Carbon Disclosure Project. The 12% data will help us to establish better insights into where we Transportation can best focus efforts to achieve our Embrace 2015 CO 2 and 75% Distribution Purchased Goods emissions targets. and Services To understand our critical Scope 3 emissions, we calculated annual emissions (from July 1, 2009, to June 30, 2010) from a range of upstream Scope 3 activities, including: • Purchased goods and services • Transportation and distribution (upstream and downstream) • Business travel • Waste generated within our operations • Employee commuting The downstream Scope 3 activities, such as processing of sold products, leased assets and franchises, were excluded from the study (for reasons of practicality and resources) but may be included in future evaluations. The results, which are consistent with data published by other benchmark companies, help establish a ﬁrst vision of our Scope 3 GHG emissions and set the stage for the establishment of a baseline of Scope 3 accounting within Firmenich. Firmenich | 16 Everywehere: Around the World and Inside Our Business Cycle Highlights of Our Global Sustainability Efforts Europe Solar Energy 20 square meters of photovoltaic panels for domestic hot water production were installed at our natural ingredients site in Grasse, France. It is estimated that the solar panels will fulﬁll about 70% of the sanitary and quality control hot water needs of the site and reduce electricity use by 11 MWh per year. Energy Efﬁciency A clean water heat-recovery unit was installed in our perfumery plant in Meyrin, Switzerland, and 64% of energy returned through wastewater is now being used to preheat incoming cold water. Following this success, we will replicate the technology at our facilities around the world saving 483 tonnes of CO2 per year. Our natural ingredients site in Grasse, France, received a new heat exchanger for exhaust gases produced by the boilers, reducing the site’s natural gas consumption by 5%. This is expected to lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions of in excess of 30 tonnes per year. U.S. Solar Projects Last year, a 1.0 Megawatt solar project was installed at our Princeton, NJ site. This year, solar projects were completed at 4 of our U.S. facilities. In Newark, N. J., construction was completed on a 435.6 kilowatt (kW) system. Three smaller solar arrays were installed at our facilities in New Ulm, Minnesota, Lakeland Florida and St. Louis, Missouri. EDF Climate Corps We welcomed a fellow from the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) Climate Corps program to assist in our efforts to reduce energy use and increase efﬁciency. Haiti Sustainable Vetiver In 2010 we made a Clinton Global Initiative commitment to work with farmers in Haiti to secure the supply of vetiver and increase incomes through crop diversiﬁcation. Brazil Governance: Compliance Sustainability. Green: Environmental Sustainability. Sustainable Copahu Oil An innovative project to help Growth: Inclusive Sustainability. traditional communities in the Brazilian Amazon organize themselves to produce and generate income from traditionally sourced copahu oil. See page 23 for more information. 17 | Firmenich China Emergency Preparedness Training Employees in Solar Energy Reduces CO2 Emissions Engineers at our Kunming, China, ran a series of drills to test the site’s Kunming ingredients facility have installed a new 400emergency preparedness. Various scenarios were tube solar-powered heating system to heat process water. simulated to give staff hands-on emergency training, It is estimated that the new system will save 21 tonnes of including how to respond in the event of a chemical coal each year and reduce CO2 emissions by 51.5 tonnes leak or spill and how to use protective clothing. and SO2 emissions by 260 kg each year. High-Pressure Cleaning Reduces Water Consumption Enriched Oxygen Improves Boiler Efﬁciency Enriched A recent pilot project in our ﬂ avor-compounding prooxygen is a by-product of the nitrogen production procduction unit in Shanghai has shown that installing ess traditionally discharged directly into the air. high-pressure vessel-cleaning systems reduces water Engineers installed a combustion system to increase consumption by more than 80% (when compared to the efﬁciency by 6.5% and reduce coal consumption by existing low-pressure cleaning systems). 13.02%, CO2 emissions by 1,391 tonnes and SO2 emissions by 7.03 tonnes. India Health and Safety Training Employees at our new ingredients site in Dahej, India, organized a week of health and safety-themed events aimed to raise awareness both in and out of the workplace. Employees took a safety oath and distributed awards. Understanding Nutrition Challenges We worked with the Naandi Foundation to complete the HUNGaMA (Hunger and Malnutrition) Survey. The study captured Africa – Madagascar, Nigeria mothers’ voices in an attempt to understand their chiland Uganda. dren’s nutrition. Sustainable Vanilla As part of our sustainable sourcing program we work with vanilla farmers in Uganda and Madagascar to ensure the supply of quality, certiﬁed vanilla. See pages 22/23 for more information. Local Cluster Development A partnership with the Yaba College of Technology in Lagos, Nigeria will result in a laboratory to develop ﬂ avor application capabilities in Nigeria. See page 27 for more information. Firmenich | 18 WE PARTNER WITH PASSIONATE PEOPLE ACROSS SECTORS TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES. WE CONVENE, ENGAGE AND INNOVATE. WE CAN ACHIEVE MORE TOGETHER THAN ALONE. INNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIPS Partnerships are a key feature of our sustainability program. Building partnerships for sustainability is a prerequisite for our initiatives and add direct value to our clients. We have created a strong network of world-class partners, including clients, development agencies, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and academic institutions. Our partners contribute speciﬁc skills and expertise and help us learn. We believe that by engaging with partners we increase the credibility and transparency of our sustainability work. Our Sustainability Partners Public Commitments Development Partners Knowledge and Learning Partners External Validation and Reporting Environment Partners Partners 21 | Firmenich Sustainability Partners Directory Biotrade Initiative of Clinton Global Initiative champion effective solutions Philias UNCTAD Objective: Help us leverage to end women and children Objective: Support Objective: Learn about bioour Haiti commitment. malnutrition, in New York Community Day. diversity opportunities and FY11 Activities: ParticiCity in September 2010. FY11 Activities: challenges in our industry. pated in the CGI global event Redesigned approach to FY11 Activities: Participated and Haiti Action Network Good Planet align with Embrace 2015 in the network meetings in meetings. Supported CGI Objective: Use art to advogoals. Milan, Paris and Geneva. in Geneva. cate for a clean planet. Contributed to papers. FY11 Activities: Sponsored Rainforest Alliance DANIDA the website for the InternaObjective: Present the ﬁrst Carbon Disclosure Project Objective: Scale up sustaintional Year of Forests. CreRainforest Alliance certiﬁed Objective: We voluntarily able vanilla sourcing in ated video for staff. vanilla to our clients. disclose our carbon emission Uganda. FY11 Activities: Baseline data to the CDP to provide FY11 Activities: Redesign IBLF study completed; Pre-audit transparency to our of the Uganda program and Objective: Promote the mission completed. customers. new proposal completed. human capital aspect of FY11 Activities: We continue sustainability. SEDEX to fulﬁll all requirements in Forum for the Future FY11 Activities: Participated Objective: Have a single accordance with our comObjective: Play a sounding in the Sustainability Council. point of contact for ethical mitment and have moved board role for our environPreliminary joint project information sharing into the top quartile. mental ambitions. design in Asia. between Firmenich and FY11 Activities: Critically its customers. CARE reviewed our index project IMD FY11 Activities: We audited Objective: Empower and provided feedback on Objective: Reinforce our 80% of sites in 2011; we will women farmers. the methodology and presustainability knowledge. meet our aim of 100% of FY11 Activities: Uganda liminary results. FY11 Activities: Our staff sites in FY2012. vanilla activities; advocacy attended 2 roundtables, at our Paris event. FSG HR and Sustainability and UN Global Compact Objective: Provide strategic Communication and Objective: Promote the 10 CEO Water Mandate support. Sustainability. principles of the GC. Objective: A public-private FY11 Activities: Delivered FY11 Activities: Filed our initiative assisting companies a workshop for employees Naandi report; became a board with sustainable water on Shared Value in Geneva. Objective: Understand member of the Swiss policies and practices. the needs of consumers at Global Compact. FY11 Activities: GAIN the base of the pyramid Participated in a taskforce Objective: Make fortiﬁed in India. to create a water disclosure food taste good. FY11 Activities: First standard similar to GRI (Global FY11 Activities: We partichome visits completed; Reporting Initiative) or CDP ipated in the First Ladies methodology design (Carbon Disclosure Project). of Africa Roundtable, to completed. Firmenich | 22 T.R.A.C.E. our approach to sustainable sourcing Sustainable Sourcing Partnerships Uganda: Taking a Model Sustainability Project to Scale By engaging, building capacity and supporting our suppliers Given volatility in the price of vanilla over the last 10 years, of natural raw material around the world, Firmenich manmany Ugandan farmers abandoned their vanilla gardens ages supply chain risks, secures a long-term focus on key or replaced them with other crops. This niche market and agricultural products and works to ensure fair pricing for income-generating capacity could easily have disappeared suppliers. We work in partnership with our suppliers, if not for the signiﬁcant outreach and promotional efforts farmers, governments, cooperatives, NGOs, international of our Ugandan partner, along with the ﬁnancial and agencies and universities to develop programs that meet technical investments and minimum-price guarantee of our sourcing needs in a way that enables the economic Firmenich, and the ﬁnancial support and guidance of development of the communities with which we engage. DANIDA in Uganda. T.R.A.C.E. describes the guiding principles of Firmenich’s global sustainable natural-sourcing initiatives: Transparency: providing traceability and certiﬁcation Results: making measurable social, economic and environmental impacts Availability: securing availability of quality natural raw materials Collaboration: gaining access to new resources through © Dr. Stuart Gregory strategic partnerships Empowerment: ensuring the reinforcement of livelihood systems through health, education and income generation Our work with communities is deeply rooted in the needs and Informed by the realities of life in farming communities, aspirations expressed by the communities themselves. Firmenich offered advice on crop management and diverOnly by fully understanding the local conditions and envisiﬁcation, helped design a very successful village savings ronment, is it possible to devise appropriate, sustainable and loan association plan, conducted workshops on solutions. In 2011, we conducted baseline assessments of HIV/AIDS and malaria, and disseminated antimalarial the vanilla communities of central and western Uganda, as bed nets. well as in northern Madagascar and with vetiver farmers in Les Cayes, Haiti. We remain committed to partnerships The project has been hailed as a success by several of and to engaging with local specialists, nonproﬁt organizaour Ugandan development partners, and Firmenich is tions and local institutions in all our projects. committed to expanding the program over the 2011-13 period. We continue to strive to develop our suppliers in low-income countries, develop innovative and fairly priced products, provide access to basic services and collaborate with development partners and agencies to enhance our programs. 23 | Firmenich 1,300 vanilla farmers from Savanille Cooperative recommended for Rainforest Alliance certiﬁcation Madagascar: Working with Suppliers and Farmers to Address Their Self-Identiﬁed Needs Despite its biological and cultural richness, Madagascar remains one of the poorest countries in the world. The trade of its Bourbon vanilla—the ﬁnest quality of vanilla in the world—is critical to the country’s farmers and its economy. Over the past 5 years, Firmenich has developed strong commercial relationships with the Savanille Cooperative, an organization of 1,300 vanilla farmers. The farmers are located in the hard-to-reach vanilla-growing zones of Antindra, Belambo and Antsirabe-Nord in the Sava region of northeastern Madagascar. In 2011, we © Michelly Rall helped the cooperative prepare for Rainforest Alliance certiﬁcation — see “A Dispatch from Madagascar” on page 24 for an account by Noah Jackson (Independent Forestry Consultant). The project aids the movement of copahu oil through the Haiti: supply chain and increases revenues for the communities. Making Commitments Beyond the Capital Local communities in 3 locations currently earn income Rebuilding Haiti has proven far more complex than anticifrom our multiyear guaranteed purchase price. Mutual pated. The provision of food, shelter and subsidies in understanding and the engagement of local NGOs — notably Port-au-Prince, combined with the lack of opportunities World Wildlife Fund, Imaﬂora and Instituto Socio Ambiental and support in rural areas, has led to urban migration, (ISA) — to provide training and assist in getting the oil to compounding existing challenges. market have been important factors in the project’s success. For decades, Firmenich has been a principal buyer of vetiver oil produced in the region of Les Cayes. The cultivation of vetiver clearly represents an economic opportunity for farmers in rural communities. However, the lack of other income-generating activities, health facilities, Michelly Rall: schools, access to ﬁnance, etc., often outweigh the beneﬁts Capturing Madagascar of growing this important crop. Firmenich, working with local partners, remain committed to creating incentives The photos of Madagascar on pages 23, 24 and 25 for these farming communities. We are expanding farming were taken by South African born, international opportunities beyond vetiver by helping farmers to diversify photographer, Michelly Rall. Michelly’s work has crops to include ylang ylang, lime and bitter orange. been featured in a number of media outlets including Vogue, Time, Fortune and CNN. He has worked with Brazilian Amazon: various celebrities and newsmakers who are leading Conserving Traditional Practices of Extracting Copahu Oil patrons of conservation. He is passionate about Firmenich recently launched a project to help traditional sustainability and has embarked on solo explorations communities in the Brazilian Amazon organize themselves in endangered habitats including Amazonian outposts to produce and generate income from traditionally sourced and the remote rural fringes in India. copahu oil, an important ingredient for our global business. Firmenich | 24 “We have been hiking for hours along a narrow footpath that crosses rivers and mountains and climbs through M Madagascar Mad adag small fertile valleys filled with vegetable gardens, manioc and sugarcane. A hard rain pours on us. And, while we sip local coffee, villagers separate rice grains from husks using well-worn hardwood poles. This is the Walking and Working the Vanilla Trail: vanilla trail. A Dispatch from Madagascar This is my second trip to Madagascar and, as an auditor for the Rainforest Alliance, it is my job to visit the small vanilla farms that are scattered across the landscape. The vanilla farms are very different from typical rainforest food plots; these are true agroforestry gardens. Although there might be 2,000 vanilla vines per hectare, it is sometimes hard to tell what is growing where. Alongside the vanilla, and sometimes right in the tangled web of vines, the farmers grow coffee, cocoa, pepper, cloves and trees for timber and fruit. Madagascar is a biodiversity and priority conservation hotspot; 160 million years of evolutionary isolation hardly © Michelly Rall occurs anywhere else in the world. And between the vanilla farms and especially on the ridges high above the villages, isolated islands of forest are the last refuge of lemurs, wild dogs and endangered birds. This is one place where expanding into new forest can impact extremely rare species of wildlife and plants. We hike up to these ridges and eye suitable places for protecting and enhancing these fragile forest habitats. We talk about land disputes and tree planting, and I comment on the loose steep soils and the potential for erosion. I might have a point; but a farmer speaks up. He tells me that these lands need to be dedicated for rice production. We talk openly and honestly. Sometimes families just run out of rice before the next harvest, and with ﬂuctuating rice prices, the majority of farmers’ time © Michelly Rall is spent struggling with food security. Here, you need to spend as much time building relationships as you do on environmental management, and there is a lot to talk out. I stand and listen. In July 2011, the Rainforest Alliance sent Noah Jackson, forestry consultant and auditor, to Of course, we’ve got to protect the lemurs and wild dogs and eliminate farm expansion into high-value forests, northern Madagascar to certify the vanilla farmers but we have to ﬁnd culturally appropriate solutions that who supply Firmenich. Accompanying Noah was work for the farmers. We cannot demand too much but Dr. Stuart Gregory, Sustainability Expert, and also cannot afford to fail. internationally renowned photographer Michelly By purchasing from farmers and putting efforts into Rall to record the audit and capture the lives building local solutions to these complex problems, of the farmers and the forests in which they live. Firmenich has begun its own sustainable journey along What follows is an excerpt from Noah’s diary. the vanilla trail.” 25 | Firmenich 110,000 mothers and children’s voices heard from 112 districts in India Delivering Nutrition Through Flavor Partnerships Innovative Partnerships Working with external partners, we created a new business unit within our Flavor division called NATAMO, which We believe improving health means working on solutions represents a key step in Firmenich’s commitment to develop that make healthy products enjoyable for consumers. innovative, sustainable ﬂavor solutions. Behavior change is difﬁcult. However, if products with nutritional beneﬁts taste good, we can more easily consume An objective of the unit is to discover and commercialize them. This rule also applies to hygiene and prevention solutions. Unlike traditional sweeteners, our Sucrose products, which will be used more regularly if they smell Enhancer allows for up to a 60% reduction in the sugar good. Central to this effort is the notion that with better content of a food or beverage without altering its natural understanding of the health needs and sensorial preferences sweetness proﬁle. The potential impacts of this product of consumers comes better solutions. are huge, with expected beneﬁts on multiple dimensions, including the environment, health and the economy. Health and Wellness Firmenich has developed partnerships with external groups to learn more about sweetness enhancement, The Sucrose Enhancer enables consumers to enjoy their bitterness suppression and salt reduction with the aim favorite foods with reduced sugar and calories, while of improving the health and well-being of consumers. In lowering the risk of developing serious pathologies, such as collaboration with our partners, we have made major obesity and type 2 diabetes. progress in understanding the perception of sweetness and its modulation. In particular, we have made important Understanding Nutritional Challenges in India advances in the modulation of the perception of sucrose with the Naandi Foundation and have increased our efforts in the area of natural Contributing to the reduction of childhood malnutrition is sweetness enhancers. central to our sustainability strategy. By creating desirable ﬂ avors for children’s nutritional products, we can ensure they are inspired by taste. As such, we supported, as one of the sponsors, the Naandi Foundation to undertake the Hunger and Malnutrition (HUNGaMA) Survey. This survey was a nongovernmental effort to collect nutritional data on children by capturing mothers’ voices to understand their perception of nutrition and for the ﬁrst time district level data will be made available. The survey included 110,000 mothers and children from 112 districts. It was conducted in partnership with Valid Nutrition, U.K., and Westat, U.S., with the support of the National Institute of Nutrition and UNICEF India. The survey will provide much-needed real-time data on malnutrition and the ﬁndings will be a powerful advocacy tool for mobilizing actions and resources to reduce the high levels of childhood malnutrition in India. © Michelly Rall Firmenich | 26 shared value “Shared value is not social responsibility, philanthropy or even sustainability, but a new way to achieve economic success.” Michael E. Porter and Mark R. Kramer, “Creating Shared Value: How to Reinvent Capitalism — and Unleash a New Wave of Innovation and Growth,” Harvard Business Review, January-February 2011 Working at the Base of the Economic Pyramid in India Firmenich also took the opportunity to work with Naandi Foundation on a new strategic initiative in India called “Shared Senses and Sensibility.” The project was launched in June 2011 in Mumbai. Naandi is facilitating the work of a Firmenich cross-disciplinary and cross-regional team to gain a deep and critical understanding of low-income consumers at the base of the economic pyramid. The team includes staff from Geneva and India, from the Flavor and Perfumery divisions and from the sustainability group. This collaboration will help Firmenich develop business models that are sustainable and beneﬁt low-income communities. Understanding and working with the base of the pyramid is a fundamental part of our sustainability strategy. Shared Value Partnerships Creating Shared Value Creating shared value is the core of our sustainability ©Naandi Foundation work. Shared value is achieved by adopting policies and practices that simultaneously enhance our competitiveness and the economic and social conditions in the communities in which we operate. In recent work, Michael Porter (Harvard Business School) and Mark Kramer (Fellow Harvard Kennedy School and Founder FSG) suggest that Shared value is a long-term objective that requires a shared value is created in a number of ways: collective effort to constantly review, amend and challenge the way we understand our business, our customers and • Through accessing new and underserved markets by our community. Through engagement, partnerships and redeﬁning business models to meet demand for products innovation we can launch new products and reach new and services that create societal beneﬁts markets — creating shared value for both our company • By redeﬁning productivity in the value chain; reducing and the communities with which we engage. costs, better managing risks and working with suppliers to improve performance • By enabling local clusters and participating in the emergence of new businesses that together can create the conditions for economic growth and vibrant societies 27 | Firmenich Collaborating with Food Technologists in Nigeria This collaboration is an excellent example of enabling a Firmenich has signed a partnership agreement with the “local cluster” (Porter and Kramer, 2011). Leveraging local Institute of Food Technology at the Yaba College of Techacademic competencies reinforces connections with local nology in Lagos, Nigeria. The aim of the partnership is to customers and leads to a positive impact on the economy. allow us to develop a laboratory inside the school for ﬂavor The partnership helps us ﬁnd technical solutions for our application capabilities in Nigeria. Once established, the local customers through the expertise of our Food Techlab will enable food preparation, beverage samples and nology partners. Firmenich contributes by training students concepts in the ﬁeld of sweet goods and beverages. in cutting-edge food technologies, and Yaba College beneﬁts Firmenich South Africa has provided lab training for eight by increasing its exposure and visibility in the West African researchers. Food and Beverage industry. Improving Childhood Nutrition in China In March 2011, Firmenich and the International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF) launched a new partnership. The collaboration will focus on identifying hygiene and nutrition solutions, with a special focus on children in China, and contributes to Firmenich’s 2015 sustainability objective of impacting the lives of one million children at the base of the economic pyramid. IBLF has been a thought leader in the areas of responsible business, cross-sector partnerships and sustainability since 1990, engaging with the UN system and many other international bodies. IBLF is the newest Firmenich partner and a member of our Sustainability Council. In welcoming the company, Clare Melford, IBLF Chief Executive, said “I am delighted that Firmenich has decided to partner with IBLF at this exciting stage of development in the company’s sustainability strategy. We have a long and respected record in working with a diverse range of partners, both on nutrition and in China and achieving real impact on the ground. We look forward to helping Firmenich achieve its ambitious goals and become a valued member of IBLF’s network of global corporate partners.” © Dr. Stuart Gregory Firmenich | 28 SUSTAINABILITY IS A JOURNEY. WE PUSH BOUNDARIES YEAR AFTER YEAR AND HAVE BEEN RECOGNIZED FOR OUR SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP. WE SHARE WHAT WE LEARN TO INSPIRE OTHERS. THOUGHT LEADERSHIP In 2010, Firmenich took the ﬁrst step in our new 5-year strategic plan, Embrace 2015, by fully integrating sustainability into our strategy process. To implement our strategy, we created a new model that conceptualizes our approach: “3G” (for Governance, Green and Growth). 3G helps us visualize the breadth and the depth of our sustainability actions and illustrates the important connection between the model’s three pillars. These 3 pillars reﬂect the thought leadership at all levels of our business, from labs and ofﬁces, to factories and boardrooms. Governance Growth Green Governance: Compliance Sustainability Includes health and safety, certiﬁcations, regulatory matters as well as stakeholder-management activities, such as partnership management, our Sustainability Council and our community and philanthropic work. Green: Environmental Sustainability Includes all “green” subjects from products to manufacturing to facilities: green chemistry, biodegradability, biotech, biodiversity, life-cycle analysis, renewable energies, water and waste management, energy efﬁciencies, supply chain efﬁciencies, purchasing decisions and mobility. Growth: Inclusive Sustainability Includes projects that have a high potential for business growth, while creating shared value and growth opportunities for less-privileged populations, such as actions with consumers at the base of the economic pyramid, health projects that support improved nutrition and hygiene, sourcing projects that lead to inclusive supply chains and innovation projects that exhibit sustainability by design. 31 | Firmenich number 1 voted best private company by Ethical Corporation among 200 companies from 30 countries Recognition of Our Efforts Engaging and Empowering Leaders We were delighted to receive the Ethical Corporation award for Best Private Company at their 2011 Responsible Business Awards ceremony. The awards were the showpiece The Firmenich Sustainability Council of the Ethical Corporation’s 10th Annual Responsible The Sustainability Council was formed in 2007. This leadBusiness Summit, the largest global gathering of leaders ership group of external sustainability experts acts as our in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability. sustainability sounding board. A total of 9 companies were recognized for excellence in the areas of ethics, CSR and sustainability. Our entry was Two new members joined the Council this year: Olive selected from among 200 companies from 30 countries. Boles, Director, Strategic Relations and Advisor, Health, The judging panel was impressed by “the breadth and the International Business Leaders Forum; and Manoj depth of Firmenich’s approach and by its transparency.” Kumar, Founder and CEO, Naandi Foundation. These 2 This award marks another tangible milestone in our effort new members bring a strong public health background to to be recognized as a thought leader in sustainability. the Council. Moreover, the representation of India through the Naandi Foundation is crucial as many sustainability projects are being developed in the region. Engaging Leading Stakeholders Engaging with the Swiss Network of the UN Global Compact Firmenich joined the UN Global Compact in 2007 and has been reporting progress ever since. We are also a supporter of the CEO Water Mandate. In 2010, we began to engage more actively with the Swiss Network of the UN Global Compact, and in 2011 Dr. Bérangère Magarinos-Ruchat 20 Years of Sustainability: became a member of the board. The national networks of the UN Global Compact help promote the principles and Fred-Henri Firmenich initiatives of the Global Compact at the regional level and provide an important platform for companies to share Fred-Henri Firmenich signed the International their experiences in sustainable development. Chamber of Commerce Declaration on Sustainable Development in 1991 and since then has inspired our sustainability work. In June 2011, he was Clinton Global Initiative 2010 awarded the Marcos E. J. Bertin Quality in At the Annual meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative in Governance Medal by the International Academy September 2010, Firmenich was recognized for launching a of Quality at their World Conference in recognition project to help vetiver farmers in Haiti and now participates “of his exceptional professional contributions to in the CGI Haiti Action Network. Vetiver is a key natural raw the practice and development of sound principles material for perfume and Haiti produces the world’s best of good corporate governance.” During the cerequality vetiver. Our project contributes to the rehabilitation mony, Mr. Firmenich was acknowledged by the of the agricultural sector in Haiti and focuses on creating Academy as a pioneer among executives of private value for Haitian farmers and developing long-term companies. sustainable business opportunities through value-added essential oils for the global fragrance and ﬂ avor market. Firmenich | 32 partner “Quantis is delighted to work with Firmenich’s dynamic team and is looking forward to continue contributing to these exciting challenges.” Yves Loerincik, CEO, Quantis. Creating a Synthetic Ingredients Index ﬁrst results Sustainability Index on 5 synthetic ingredients To complement the already existing Naturals Sourcing Sustainability index score Sustainability Index and to achieve the Embrace 2015 sustainability goal of “Creating a Sustainability Index for PRELIMINARY RESULTS Index score (pers-yr/tonne) 400 Ingredients,” we started work on a Synthetic Ingredients 1.84 Sustainability Index. The index will provide a pragmatic and easily understood way to compare the sustainability impacts of our top synthetic ingredients. It is intended to help our internal teams make key sustainability decisions 0.87 0.81 1.0 0.72 surrounding product development, sourcing raw materials and process improvements, and in turn it will beneﬁt our 0.28 customers. 1* 2 3 4 5 Impact of one average European The index is being developed by a joint team of internal Ingredient over 1 year specialists and members of our external partner Quantis. During FY11, the team deﬁned the framework and meth* Over 1 year, an average European generates as much impact on human health and ecosystem as the production of 3.6 tonnes of this ingredient odology of the index, which is science-based and focuses on key environmental impacts identiﬁed by Firmenich, such as greenhouse gas emissions, process water, proAs one of our sustainability partners, we asked Forum for duction waste and product biodegradability. Quantis’ exthe Future, a global non-proﬁt working with business and pertise was used to provide a range of existing and new life government, to create a sustainable future, to critically cycle impact assessment models to measure how these review the index project and provide feedback on the factors inﬂuence human health and ecosystems. The model methodology and preliminary results. Their input will be transforms these impact measures to give a sustainability used to further reﬁne the index during the next phase of score that is expressed in terms of the environmental impact the project in FY12. of an average European person over the course of 1 year. A preliminary pilot study was undertaken with 5 key synthetic products. The results showed that the model works but also highlighted the need for additional data collection and impact modeling. The preliminary results indicate that greenhouse gas emissions are the most important contributor to the overall sustainability index score. 33 | Firmenich scope 3 measuring GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions in our value chain Partnering with Quantis Quantis is a leading life-cycle assessment (LCA) consulting ﬁrm specializing in helping companies measure, analyze and address the environmental impacts of their products, services and operations. “Quantis supported Firmenich in 2 important projects last year, both addressing challenging environmental aspects: the study of Firmenich’s Scope 3 GHG emissions, the ﬁrst step in obtaining a complete view of Firmenich’s GHG emissions based on the latest Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard; and the sustainability index, which aims to develop a framework to express the environmental impacts of Firmenich’s top synthetic ingredients. By adding these innovative approaches to its sustainability strategy, Firmenich is showing its strong commitment to better understanding the impacts of its products and activities over its entire value chain and leads the way for the Flavor and Fragrance industry to account for its environmental impacts with a life cycle perspective. Quantis is delighted to work with Firmenich’s dynamic team and is looking forward to continue contributing to these exciting challenges.” Yves Loerincik, CEO, Quantis EDF Climate Corps Fellow evaluates our facilities Firmenich | 34 -58% reduction in waste for one of our long-standing ingredients Leadership in Research White Biotechnology White biotechnology uses enzymatic or fermentation procNew science and technology initiatives are at the heart of esses to make ingredients, as an alternative to chemical our research activities. We strive to create ingredients for synthesis. This process allows us to make ingredients our industry that minimize impacts on the environment. from renewable natural materials, such as CO 2, glucose We continually evaluate our processing methods to ensure or fat, rather than petroleum. energy efﬁ ciency and minimal waste. Our sustainable research activities include 5 key pillars: biodegradation, In May 2011, Firmenich organized an International Biotechgreen chemistry, white biotechnology, green biotechnology nology Symposium and invited distinguished speakers and health and wellness. from around the world as well as internal experts. The overall theme of the conference was sustainable ingredients Product Biodegradation for the future of the ﬂ avor and fragrance industry. Key Our research into biodegradation is changing the way we thought leaders participated: design new ingredients for the future. We continue to invest in understanding the biological mechanisms underlying • Prof. Jay Keasling, University of California, Berkeley, biodegradation processes. These investments include an explained the challenges of how to turn microorganisms increase in partnerships with expert groups in this ﬁeld. into cell factories for biochemicals. Results from these studies are being integrated into the • Dr. William D. Provine, DuPont Central Research and design criteria of new ingredients. Development, offered insights into how a major global company is handling the transition from a fossil fuel to a Green Chemistry renewable energy economy. Where our raw materials are derived from synthetic processes, the use of green chemistry principles is an essen• Prof. Manfred T. Reetz, Max-Planck-Institut für Kohlential part of our process-development activities. We continue forschung, and Prof. Bernhard Hauer, Institute of Techto invest in areas such as catalytic chemistry, both nical Biochemistry, Stuttgart, gave an overview of the organoand metalo-, in order to devise cleaner processes. use of enzymes as catalysts in industrial processes. To better manage our overall environmental impacts, we are developing a new metrics system to help our synthetic chemists make further improvements. A tangible beneﬁt this year was the development of a new process that will allow us to reduce waste by 58% for one of our longstanding ingredients. 35 | Firmenich biotechnology Firmenich Biotechnology Symposium: exploring new methods to improve processes Green Biotechnology Green biotechnology is the application of biotechnology to enhance the efﬁciency of agricultural processes. Some of the agriculturally sourced raw materials that our industry uses today are still made using traditional agricultural methods and “artisanal” modes of extraction. Our botanists and plant biologists are studying how to improve the agronomical practices for key botanicals at our research center in Shanghai. We expect the expansion of such activities when our new research center is commissioned. In order to chart the future of our activities in green biotechnology, the Firmenich Biotechnology Symposium, held earlier this year, included a session on plant biology. Among the speakers, Prof. Nan-Hai Chua, Rockefeller University, New York, kept the audience spellbound with an account of the latest gene-silencing methods used in plant genomics. Prof. Lothar Willmitzer, Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Pﬂanzenphysiologie gave an account of how metabolomics can be used to improve plant performance. A Chemistry Legacy: Dr. Roger and Dr. Georges Firmenich In 1979, Firmenich endowed a chair at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in honor of Dr. Roger and Dr. Georges Firmenich on the occasion of their retirement from Firmenich. For more than 30 years, this professorship has provided vital faculty support in the Department of Chemistry at MIT reﬂecting our long-term commitment to teaching and research for future generations of chemists. The Firmenich Professorship Fund has grown signiﬁcantly over the years and now provides a senior professorship and a senior faculty member. Firmenich | 36 VALIDATIONS ZONE SITE SAFETY ENVIRONMENT QUALITY FOOD SAFETY HALAL KOSHER SEDEX OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 STANDARDS REGISTRATION inc. ISO 22000 BRC GMA-SAFE EUROPE Castets, France Alesund, Norway Geneva (Meyrin), Switz. Geneva (La Plaine), Switz. North Yorkshire, UK Louvain, Belgium Grasse, France NORTH Anaheim, California AMERICA Newark, New Jersey Safety Harbor, Florida Princeton, New Jersey New Ulm, Minnesota Saint Louis, Missouri Lakeland, Florida LATIN São Paulo, Brazil AMERICA Bogota, Colombia Buenos Aires, Argentina Toluca, Mexico ASIA Shanghai, China PACIFIC Dahej, India Daman, India Jakarta, Indonesia Kunming, China Ibaraki, Japan Singapore Details for the above mentioned certiﬁcations can be found online at www.ﬁrmenich.com/sustainability 37 | Firmenich ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Boundaries and covers ethical points such as Conﬂicts of Interests, Antitrust, Harassment, Conﬁdentiality, Governance and This is our sixth annual sustainability report. The report Political and Community Activities. Within the document is follows our 2010 report and contains a full year of data a clear statement that Firmenich will in no way support based on ﬁscal year 2011 from July 1st 2010 to June 30th political candidates or parties either ﬁnancially or with 2011 (FY11). The report covers global operations across in-kind donations. Our employees’ adherence to our Code the Firmenich Group including afﬁliates in 29 countries; it of Conduct has ensured that Firmenich has had no legal covers our manufacturing sites and non-manufacturing actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or molocations. We focus on key activities and achievements that nopoly practices in this reporting period and no monetary we believe are of interest and value to our major stakeholder ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance in groups, which include our clients, our employees, our supplithese areas. ers and the communities which we serve and interact with. The workplace and environmental data, unless otherwise indicated, covers all operations owned or controlled (proScope of This Report duction sites, sales ofﬁces, administrative ofﬁces and combination of such facilities). In FY11, we have amended We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) a number of the metrics used to report our environmental principle of materiality to this report, which states: “Inforperformance (these changes are described on page 12) and mation in this report should cover issues and indicators that therefore some data reported may differ from previous would substantively inﬂuence the decisions of the stakepublications. holders using this report.” We used the GRI indicators as a guide to develop this report and we strive to improve the The Firmenich Board of Directors is comprised of four scope and precision of our reporting each year. This is the internal members and ﬁve external members. The Board ﬁrst year that we are reporting our sustainability work includes representatives of the Family Shareholders which according to the GRI guidelines (version 3.1). Firmenich is ensures that the Shareholders have a direct link to the reporting at a self declared level C+ as deﬁned by GRI, and highest governance body of the company. The link between our report includes Strategy, Proﬁle, Sustainability Govthe Board and the employees is ensured through the ernance and 10 performance indicators. Firmenich “Code of Conduct”, where the process for employees to connect with the highest governance body is This report is independently veriﬁed by SGS (see page 5) facilitated through the Group Vice President of Corporate and the management systems that generate our safety Compliance, the Group Vice President General Counsel and environmental data are validated by independent and the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources. experts. The report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact The Sustainability Team is headed by the Group Vice Pres(UNGC) and for the CEO Water Mandate as our COP-Water. ident of Corporate Compliance, who reports directly to our CEO. The Sustainability Team is a crucial link between our Firmenich Group stakeholders (Clients, Suppliers, Sustainability Council www.ﬁrmenich.com and Sustainability Partners), the Board of Directors and Contact: global.sustainability@ﬁrmenich.com Executive Management. The Firmenich “Code of Conduct” is a document designed to help our employees make ethical decisions in their day to day work within the company, it is based on our Fundamentals Firmenich | 38 Our Performance in Numbers PERFORMANCE KPI FY10 FY11 ENERGY (GJ) Direct Energy (own source) 1,240,535.90 1,385,137.20 Indirect Energy: purchased (inc electricity, steam, etc.) 680,771.80 737,716.20 Total Energy 1,921,307.70 2,122,853.40 CO 2 EMISSIONS Scope 1: Direct Energy Source 76,828.20 86,995.40 (TONNES) Scope 2: Indirect Source 60,220.90 68,520.60 Total CO 2 emissions 137,049.10 155,516.00 WASTE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL (TONNES) HAZARDOUS Incinerated (without heat recovery) 11,116.20 7,347.32 WASTE Incinerated (with heat recovery) 3,191.80 7,613.73 Land-ﬁlled 85.95 84.18 Other 667.91 784.06 Total Haz waste 15,061.86 15,829.29 NONIncinerated (without heat recovery) 2,535.38 2,357.89 HAZARDOUS Incinerated (with heat recovery) 369.38 459.30 Land-ﬁlled 2,690.02 3,892.28 Other 2,573.22 1,487.78 Total non-Haz waste 8,168.01 8,197.26 EFFLUENT TREATMENT WASTE Incinerated 874.22 711.31 Land-ﬁlled 725.20 747.36 Other 4,106.30 5,473.98 Total Efﬂuent Treatment Waste 5,705.72 6,932.65 TOTAL WASTE Total Waste 28,935.59 30,959.19 (HZ & NHZ) Total Incinerated and Landﬁlled 21,588.16 23,213.37 TOTAL RECYCLED WASTE 13,395.79 13,500.58 EFFLUENT Direct Discharge with Treatment (to surface or ground water) 136,101.60 109,382.18 DISCHARGE (M3) COD Direct Discharge with Treatment (tonnes) 321.45 14.74 Without Direct Discharge (to municipal waste water) 1,201,158.12 1,322,502.93 COD Without Direct Discharge (tonnes) 5,592.81 4,567.50 TOTAL EFFLUENT DISCHARGE 1,337,259.72 1,431,885.11 TOTAL COD CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND 5,914.25 4,582.24 (TONNES) WATER Municipal 1,324,395.35 1,476,455.26 (QTY USED IN M3) Ground 148,453.00 139,685.00 Municipal and Ground 1,472,848.35 1,616,140.26 Surface 3,513,205.00 3,686,343.00 Total Water 4,986,053.35 5,302,483.26 OTHER DATA NOx tonnes 126.53 137.73 SOx tonnes 68.42 162.68 VOC tonnes 271.68 275.50 EMPLOYEE DATA PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL Employees Covered by Performance Review 100% PROGRAM (%) Performance Reviews Completed 77.5% COLLECTIVE Employees Under Collective Bargaining 31% BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (%) Employees Not Under Collective Bargaining 69% INCIDENTS* Lost Time Injury LTI 32 20 Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 79 54 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.48 0.28 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 1.19 0.75 Worked Hours 13,238,893 14,420,466 PRODUCTION QTY (TONNES) 187,588.50 192,422.79 * Incidents for Employees and Supervised Contractors 39 | Firmenich GRI Index GRI REPORTED LOCATION GRI REPORTED LOCATION INDICATOR INDICATOR 1.1 Fully 3 4.2 Fully http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ 2.1 Fully cover page and 4 about-us/proﬁle/management/ 2.2 Fully 4 4.3 Fully http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ about-us/proﬁle/management/ 2.3 Fully http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ about-us/proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ 4.4 Fully 37 2.4 Fully 4 4.14 Partial 6, 20, 21, 22, 31, 33 and 37 2.5 Fully http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ 4.15 Partial 37 about-us/proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EC1 Partial Firnews 2011 2.6 Fully 4 EN3 Fully 38 2.7 Fully http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ EN4 Fully 38 about-us/proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EN8 Fully 38 2.8 Fully http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ EN16 Partial 38 about-us/proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EN17 Partial 38 2.9 Fully Firnews 2011 EN20 Partial 38 2.10 Fully 2 EN21 Fully 38 3.1 Fully 37 EN22 Fully 38 3.2 Fully 37 LA4 Fully 38 3.3 Fully 37 LA7 Partial 38 3.4 Fully 37 LA10 Partial 37 3.5 Fully 37 LA12 Fully 38 3.6 Fully 37 LA13 Partial http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ 3.7 Fully 37 about-us/proﬁle/management/ 3.8 Fully 37 SO1 Partial 22 3.10 Fully 12, 37 SO6 Fully 37 3.11 Fully 12, 37 SO7 Fully 37 3.12 Fully 38 SO8 Fully 37 4.1 Fully 37 and http: //w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ about-us/proﬁle/management/ REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL C C+ B B+ A A+ REPORT ON: REPORT ON ALL CRITERIA SAME AS REQUIREMENT 1.1 LISTED FOR LEVEL C PLUS: FOR LEVEL B 2.1 2.10 1.2 OUTPUT STANDARD DISCLOSURES G3 PROFILE 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 DISCLOSURES 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED NOT REQUIRED MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES FOR EACH DISCLOSURES FOR EACH INDICATOR CATEGORY. INDICATOR CATEGORY. OUTPUT G3 MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES REPORT ON A MINIMUM REPORT ON A MINIMUM REPORT ON EACH CORE G3 OF 10 PERFORMANCE OF 20 PERFORMANCE AND SECTOR SUPPLEMENT* G3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, INCLUDING AT INDICATORS, AT LEAST ONE INDICATOR WITH DUE REOUTPUT INDICATORS & LEAST ONE FROM EACH OF: FROM EACH OF: ECONOMIC, GARD TO THE MATERIALITY SECTOR SUPPLEMENT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, HUMAN PRINCIPLE BY EITHER: PERFORMANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL. RIGHTS, LABOR, SOCIETY, A) REPORTING ON THE INDICATORS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY. INDICATOR OR B) EXPLAINING THE REASON FOR ITS OMISSION. *Sector supplement in ﬁnal version Firmenich | 40 STRONG LEADERSHIP IN OUR FUNDAMENTALS Sustainability Team PAUL SCOTT JOHAN FIRMENICH Dr. BÉRANGÈRE DAVID SHIPMAN NEIL MCFARLANE Associate Director Project Manager MAGARINOS-RUCHAT Group Vice President Vice President Sustainability Sustainability Director Sustainability Global Corporate Global Health, Safety Partnerships Compliance & Environmental Sustainability “Our Fundamentals guide our every action, enabling us to CLIENTS PEOPLE remain true to ourselves and make a difference in an We fragrance and People are the heart ever-changing world.” ﬂavor our clients’ proof our Company. They ducts for our mutual are recognized for success. their passion, talent Patrick Firmenich · We listen to our clients and transand integrity. CEO form their ambitions into reality. · We create an environment in which · We anticipate consumer desires, each employee is valued, empowered continually reinventing the world and encouraged to grow. of smell and taste. · We value the diversity and commit· We deliver the winning combination ment of our people, enabling us to of products, service and value shape our future with conﬁdence for money, placing authority and and imagination. accountability close to our clients. · We unite the ﬁnest talents and encourage an entrepreneurial team spirit to attain our strategic goals. 41 | Firmenich Firmenich Sustainability Council Ms. OLIVE BOLES (member since March 2011) Mr. MANOJ KUMAR (member since March 2011) Director of Strategic Relations, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Our Sustainability Council consists of external experts who International Business Leaders Naandi Foundation support our work all year long and who provide us with many Forum Mr. MARC PFITZER, learning opportunities. They are our sustainability sounding Ms. STEPHANIE DRAPER, (member since June 2008) board. (member since June 2008) Managing Director, Director, Change Strategies, FSG Social Impact Consultants Forum for the Future Mr. GUILLAUME TAYLOR, Dr. AILEEN IONESCU-SOMMERS, (member since December 2009) (member since December 2009) Founder and Director, Deputy Director, Quadia SA Impact Finance IMD Forum for Corporate Sustainability Management CREATIVITY SUSTAINABILITY INDEPENDENCE Creativity is our Our sense of individual Our independence essence. and collective respongives us the freedom · We create fragrances and ﬂavors sibility ensures our to control our destiny. that inspire our clients and consulong-term success. · We are a family-owned company, mers worldwide. committed to our independence. · We strictly maintain the highest · We lead our industry in research level of personal integrity and · We take a long-term view of our & innovation, capturing breakethical values. business. through ideas around the world. · We practice a sustainable business · We pursue a policy of ﬁnancial · We constantly strive to discover model for the well-being of strength, proﬁtable growth and new ways to improve all that we do. present and future generations. return on assets. · We adopt the strictest international standards on quality, safety and the environment. Firmenich | 42 2011 ©Firmenich Design by www.theoreme.ch A SUSTAINABLE CHOICE OF PAPER This report is printed on FSC-labeled 100% recycled paper by Courvoisier, certiﬁed to use vegetal inks and to produce prints carrying the FSC label since 2002.
