Drawing a Sustainable Future Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2011 This report was printed by soybean oil ink at a company which obtained FSC chain of Custody certificate(certificate number: C109060) using FSC™ certified paper. Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2011 Compassionate Finance 120, 2Ga Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul, 100-102, Korea www.shinhangroup.com The History of Shinhan Financial Group's Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 2010 2011 Compassionate Finance Shinhan's Promise for Social Responsibility Since its foundation, Shinhan Financial Group has continuously carried out the corporate responsibilities and roles that customers, shareholders, and local communities demanded of us. We will create success stories together with our customers based on compassionate finance in the years to come as well. 'Disabled Youth Dream Team-Challenge against 6 Continents' with Shinhan Financial Group 04 Introduction 05 2011 Snapshot Contents Financial performance Introduction 02 Introduction Shinhan's Promise 2 2011 Snapshot 4 Total assets Net profits* Business profits Credit ratings Unit: 100 million won Unit: 100 million won Unit: 100 million won CEO Message 6 Introduction to Shinhan Financial Group 8 2,881,175 31,000 41,348 S&P Moody's Fitch 2,685,574 26,846 Shinhan 2,550,180 34,145 A A1 A Social Responsibility Bank in the Group 12 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan BBB+ ACompassionate Finance 12 Card 20,980 Social Contribution 18 13,053 Green Management 26 Responsibility, Trust 32 Social Responsibility 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 in Affiliates 38 Social Responsibility in Affiliates 69 Sustainable Governance ※ Dominated by business owners equity Shinhan Financial Group 38 Shinhan Bank 40 Shinhan Card 46 Environmental & Social performance Shinhan Investment Corp Shinhan Life Insurance 52 56 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management 60 Greenhouse gas Number of employees particiEducation & training Cooperating companies' emissions pating in social contribution investment expenses purchasing expenses Shinhan Capital Jeju Bank 62 66 77 Sustainable Key Figure 83 Stakeholder Information Unit: tCO2eq Unit: persons Unit: 100 million won Unit: 100 million won 38,559 56,798 308 6,522 37,776 307 52,135 36,764 Sustainable 246 Governance 4,409 ShinhanWAY 69 3,515 Stakeholder Communication 70 25,651 Governance Structure 72 Ethical Management 74 Risk Management 75 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Sustainable Key Figure Economic Performance 77 Environment Performance 78 Social Performance 79 DJSI Korea for 3 years in a row UN Global compact Signatory of CDP Stakeholder Information CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT UNGC 83 Independent Assurance Statement 84 GRI Statement 86 SFG was designated as the most sustainable performer SFG showed its will to comply with the 10 princiAs a signatory of CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project), among Korean financial institutions by the Dow Jones ples of human rights, labor, environment, and anShinhan Financial Group is encouraging listed GRI 3.1 Index 87 Sustainability Korea Index(DJSI Korea) for 3 years in a row ticorruption that UNGC presented. companies in Korea to participate in the Carbon About This Report 91 from 2009 to 2011, as well as becoming the first Korean Disclosure Project. Contact Points 92 financial institution to be included in the DJSI Asia Pacific for 3 years in a row. 06 Introduction 07 CEO Message Respected customers, shareholders, and citizens of the local We will pursue social values and economic values in an integrated manner. communities, how do you do? Corporations that only pursue the creation of economic values Thanks to your interest in and affection for our group, we have can no longer gain confidence from clients and the market. We published our third social responsibility report. will carry out our social responsibilities as a financial company by considering customers first in the process of conducting financial Due to the global financial crises since 2008 which is leading to business, considering social effects caused by corporate activities, the recent European financial crises, market confidence in financial and lead green growth of the society through green finance etc. companies has fallen, and there were many changes in the management environment as well. We will revitalize social contribution which reflects the characteristics of the businesses. Shinhan Financial Group has been emphasizing social responsibilities and roles through 'compassionate finance' in order to restore We will promote differentiated activities in three major areas: the trust we had once lost and to create sustainable growth. coexistence(welfare), sympathy(culture), symbiosis(environment) based on the merits of financial businesses. We will constantly seek The recent crises have become an opportunity of reminding measures in which we could grow together with the members of us once again that any growth that is not based on trust from the society from a long-term perspective by looking back on the customers and the society can fall like a sandcastle. effects that we had on the local communities and the environment Shinhan Financial Group was established in 2001, as the first from the viewpoint of a responsible corporate citizen. financial holding group in Korea to be launched by an investment We will develop world class sustainable management capabilities. of 100% private capital. In 2008, we joined the UN Global Compact, and promised to Since then, we grew steadily and stably despite various difficulties support the 10 major principles of human rights, labor, environcaused by foreign exchange crises, among others. In 2011, our net ment, and anticorruption and to proactively reflect those principles profit recorded 3100 billion won, achieving the highest business in our management. Later for three years in a row from 2009 to performance in the industry for 4 years in a row since 2008, and our 2011, we were selected as the best corporation in the domestic income contribution form the non-banking sector reached 38%. banking sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index(DJSI Korea), We became a representative financial brand of Korea, also gaining and at the same time, we became the first Korean financial world recognition based on our balanced growth in business areas. organization to be included in the DJSI Asia Pacific Index. Shinhan Furthermore, in order to carry out our roles in our clients’ success Financial Group will make every effort to expand our world class and social development as well through finance, we declared our sustainable management capabilities based on compliance with intention to promote 'compassionate finance' in September 2011. such global standards and responsibilities and reliance with interWe are providing group-wide support by establishing a 'Compasested parties, and take on the role of leading the financial industry. sionate Finance Promotion Committee' in the holding company, All the members of Shinhan Financial Group will consolidate the and 'Compassionate Finance Promotion Groups’ in all group past merits of successful methods, while strengthening the funccompanies. To this end, since our major subsidiaries in the banking, tions which are in the interest of corporations and clients through card, finance investment, and life insurance sectors declared their drastic and prompt changes. We will also do our best to provide the intention to promote 'compassionate finance' last September, we benefits of financial services and products in a reasonable and fair designated and promoted 33 priority promotion tasks. manner to the low-income, underprivileged classes, and small and Shinhan Bank is running the 'CSP: Corporate Success Program’, a medium sized companies as well. Executives and staff members of program for supporting some of the long-term client companies Shinhan Financial Group, clients, stakeholders, and fellow citizens of facing temporary difficulties, and Shinhan Card is issuing donation local communities, we ask for your continued love and attention for cards and strengthening services for the socially weak such as the Shinhan Financial Group, which is opening the future of sustainable blind, elderly, and patients. Shinhan Life also established measures management through 'compassionate finance'. to expand support for clients in unforeseen difficulties in accordance with the nature of its business. Thank you. Thus, in order to achieve a sustainable growth based on the realizations of 'compassionate finance', we would like to promise you the following three tasks. Chairman & CEO of Shinhan Financial Group Dong Woo Han 08 Introduction 09 Introduction to Shinhan Financial Group We are with you in the name of 'Shinhan' Founded in September 1, 2001, Shinhan Financial Group(SFG) is a financial holding company which consists of a total of 11 group companies including Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment, Shinhan Life, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management, Shinhan Capital, and Jeju Bank. It is the first private capital financial group in Korea, and is listed in both the Korea Exchange KRX and New York Stock Exchange(NYSE). It is meeting the diverse needs of customers by providing various financial products and services such U.K: London Branch as retail finance, corporate finance, credit card, private banking(PB), investGerman: Europe Shinhan Bank Canada: Canada Shinhan Bank ment banking(IB), asset management, securities, and insurance service, etc. U.K: Europe Shinhan Investment through each subsidiary. Based on approximately 20,000 employees and 1,400 Kazakhstan: Shinhan Kazakhstan Bank U.S: America Shinhan Bank domestic networks, we will make organic synergy effects among our group Uzbekistan: Uzbekistan Main Office China: Shinhan Bank U.S: New York Branch companies, while creating new values of finance through convergence with Japan: SBJ Bank U.S: America Shinhan Investment Corp green finance, communication, and distribution areas, thereby becoming the Japan: Tokyo Office finance leader in Korea which continuously leads and changes the financial India: New Delhi Branch Vietnam: China: Shanghai Office Shinhan industry. Vietnam Bank Hong Kong: Hong King Branch(Shinhan Bank) India: Mumbai Branch Shinhan Aju Financial Corporation(Shinhan Bank) Mexico: Mexico Main Office Vietnam: Shinhan Investment Corp Hong Kong IB Center Global Shinhan Financial Group Ho Chi Minh City Office Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management India: Vellore Branch Cambodia: Shinhan Khmer Branch Shinhan Financial Group(SFG) has emerged as the representative financial Singapore: Singapore Branch group which provides various financial services to approximately 29 million domestic clients based on 1,400 networks. Furthermore, rather than remaining complacent about the success in the domestic market, SFG is making continuous efforts to expand its business areas overseas and grow into a global financial group. SFG has 66 overseas networks in a total of 14 countries such as Japan, China, Vietnam, USA, India, Great Britain, Germany, Hong Kong, and Singapore. SFG established 6 more local subsidiaries in China, Japan, Vietnam and Cambodia in 2011. In particular, Shinhan Bank now has 59 overseas operations in 14 countries, as of the end of 2011. Furthermore, SFG is continuing its efforts for the entering overseas market by non-banking financial industries such as financial investment, asset management, card, and life, etc. As of the end of 2011, Shinhan Investment has established local subsidiaries in 3 countries namely the USA, Great Britain, and Hong Kong, and opened 3 overseas offices in Tokyo, Shanghai, and Ho Chi Main Office of Shinhan Bank Branch of Shinhan Bank Local Subsidiary of Shinhan Investment Corp Minh City. In addition, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management established Local Subsidiary of Shinhan Bank Main Office of Shinhan Investment Corp Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management the Hong Kong local subsidiary in 2011, while Shinhan Card is supporting the business launching operations of bank cards in Vietnam. Overview of major group companies and their Overview of shareholders (Unit: %) Overview of assets of overseas networks (Unit: %) Domestic & Overseas network (Unit: cases) investment shares Japan China Asia(excluding Japan and China) America Europe India Shinhan Shinhan Shinhan Card ■KOREA NATIONAL PENSION SERVICE 7.34 InvestLife Jeju Shinhan Company Shinhan Shinhan ment InsurBank/ Shinhan ■BNP PARIBAS 6.35 Invest3 name Bank Card Corp ance others Sum Bank 100% ment ■CITIBANK.N.A(ADR DEPT) 3.72 9 100% 100% ■SFG EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP 3 3.58 Number of Shinhan Savings Bank ASSOCIATION 10 15 15tr 42 domestic 970 41 104 199 85 1,399 Shinhan Shinhan Data System Other Financial Shinhan ■SAUDI ARABIAN MONETARY AGENCY 3.52 2 14tr 40 575.3 branches Shinhan Credit Information Affiliates 100% 100% Life 12 Shinhan PE Group ■THE LAZARD FUNDS INC 2.05 12tr 36 15 129.1 billion ■THE GOVERNMENT OF SINGAPORE 1.74 17 234 billion won Number of 68.9% 65% billion won 19 overseas 59 6 1 66 Shinhan ■MIZUHO 1.26 won 20 branches Jeju 100% BNPP ■ABU DHABI Investment Authority Lendi 1.19 22 11 12 12 Bank AM ■SAMSUNG LIFE INSURANCE 1.19 Total number Shinhan 1,029 41 110 199 86 1,465 Capital ■OTHER SHAREHOLDERS 68.06 of brnaches 2009 2010 2011 Social Responsibility in the Group 01 Compassionate Finance 02 Social Contribution Shinhan Financial Group moves in the direction of people's hearts. We help out with the difficulties of our society with 'compassionate finance', and we help people's lives to become more beautiful through various social contribution activities. We open a bright future based on our responsibility and reliance that we grow together with the members of our society and with SFG's unique green management. 03 Green Management 04 Responsibility, Trust 13 01 Compassionate Finance We will enhance the values of customers and the society through compassionate finance Shinhan Financial Group is proactively promoting 'compassionate finance,' which realizes corporate profit and social values at the same time by utilizing the expertise of financial business. We will continue to fulfill our social responsibilities and grow by realizing our principle, doing good for others is ultimately good for oneself . Announcement of 'Compassionate finance' Shinhan's Promise, Compassionate finance 101.3 Corporate success program(CSP) 'Compassionate finance' is a new management paradigm of Shinhan Financial Group which intends to continue to grow Shinhan Bank is operating the 'Corporate Success Program together with the society. We intend to seek measures to contribute to the society through finance, and through this, we (CSP),' which provides support to corporations having intend to discover a new innovation, competitive advantage, and key to business success. So far, Shinhan Financial Group temporary difficulties among long-term customers, and took has been promoting innovative activities and sound growth. From now on, through 'compassionate finance', we will grow out a total of 101.3 billion won of new loans through 114 cases billion won to become a corporation that is loved by our stakeholders. of programs in 2011. The essence of 'compassionate finance' lies in making the world a better place through the main businesses of finance. 14.9 We intend to make every effort in creating customer values and protecting our customers, based on the consideration Support for the recovery of long-term customers that each of our customers is our partner. In addition, 'compassionate finance' has the meaning of being considerate to This is a program for supporting interest rates and limits to the socially weak and fulfilling social responsibilities in accordance with the demands of our time. It doesn't indicate merely customers having temporary difficulties among our long-term event activities for the streams of time, but our will to create customer values and protect customers in our daily business customers such as weak financial status. We provided interest processes. Shinhan Financial Group not only reorganizes the business processes but also pursues changing the mindsets deduction benefits amounting to a total of 1,734 cases, 14.9 and behaviors of all our employees and executives in order to carry out authentic and 'compassionate finance' activities. billion won billion won in 2011 only. 216.2 New hope spore loan 'The new hope spore loan' is a type of social responsibility joint banking product for expanding benefits to low-income and low-credit customers. We took out a total of 216.2 billion won Compassionate Finance Change of the corporate manageworth of loans through 24,613 cases of loan consulting in 2011 ment paradigm Making the world a better place through billion won only. the main businesses of finance Only corporations that fulfill social 17,981 responsibilities can make sustainable Social reLow-income class prime commission rates growth Creating and Considerate sponsibilities protecting This is a social contribution financial product for helping to the socially which meet customer financially underprivileged classes such as the basic weak the demands Succeeding and developing the values living expense beneficiaries and work encouraging grant of our time foundation spirit beneficiaries. We provided 17,981 cases of low-income cases class prime commission rates in 2011, supporting financial transactions by low-income classes. 14 Social Responsibility in the Group 01 Compassionate finance 15 Why Compassionate Finance Ways to Practice Compassionate Finance The paradigm of corporate management is changing Shinhan Financial Group clearly understands these changes of awareCompassionate finance is embodied in our daily operations Furthermore, we are carrying out social responsibilities that are ness in our customers. We must try to resolve social problems through responsive to the demands of our time. We will do our best in carrying As social & economic polarization deepens in our society, there is a The most important thing in realizing 'compassionate finance' is finance so that our customers could think of Shinhan Financial Group as out corporate social responsibilities through environmental protection, growing awareness that sustainable growth is impossible without putting the meaning of 'making the world a better place through the their reliable partner. We will serve faithfully in social responsibilities and job creation, and scholarship programs, etc. consideration for the weak. Furthermore, the values that our society main businesses of finance' into action. contribution through finance based on the belief that only corporations demands of corporations are also changing, in a world where the Shinhan Financial Group will create a healthy and perpetual relationship that fulfill social responsibilities can achieve sustainable growth. That is because sustainable growth is possible while obtaining trust polarization of large corporate against SMEs is worsening, youth where the growth through the practicing of ‘compassionate finance’ from our customers only when we change our daily operations into unemployment is increasing, and the middle class is collapsing. could be shared with our society and that sharing could lead to growth activities of making our customers and society better, rather than just We start the changes to make the world a better place of Shinhan Financial Group. Not only that, the paradigm is changing from one that used to pursue spending time and money in social contribution activities besides our maximizing shareholders' profits into one which can expect a corporaThe motto of Shinhan Bank when it was first established was 'new, main business in order to resolve the difficulties of our society. tion to grow when it resolves the problems of the members of the fruitful, and compassionate'. Since its establishment, Shinhan Bank CASE STUDY proceeded with sustainable growth while maintaining its management Shinhan Financial Group does not promote 'compassionate finance' society together and proactively reflects the demands of stakeholders. strategy of pursuing profitability and efficiency. This management separately from the existing business methods or organization operaBased on this awareness, Shinhan Financial Group intended to create strategy became the driving force that enabled Shinhan Bank to tion methods. We will change our institutions, systems and thoughts a compassionate connectedness with customers and the society of the employees so that even their attitudes and working methods Business processing from the perspective of customers survive based on its excellent asset soundness amidst foreign exchange through finance, our main business, and pursue changes in the reflect the philosophy of 'compassionate finance'. We once received a thank-you letter from a customer to whom we procrises and financial crises. However, Shinhan Financial Group was vided counseling on a fund resale when the economy was in a depression management paradigm that we need to come up with as a basis for also criticized as being 'cold-hearted' when it made assurances in risk due to the foreign exchange crises. The customer had suffered a great loss from a fund, and unfortunately, her husband's business had also been hit sustainable growth. management and put importance on preemptively responding. We do our best for our customers hard, leaving the family in financial difficulties. The customer had decided to resell her fund because she was concerned that her funds might be afShinhan Financial group is planning to carry on its spirit of the early Another principle of practicing 'compassionate finance' is to make fected due to the property attachment. However, the market was recovOnly corporations that fulfill their social responsibilities days while continuing to grow. It intends to change into a Shinhan every effort in customer value creation and customer protection based ering at a rapid pace. can achieve sustainable growth So our legal team informed her that since the fund was under her name Financial Group which pursues growing together with the nation and on the thought that customers are our partners. We don't think creating and the source of the fund had not come from her husband, there was no Another change, that Shinhan Financial Group is recognizing the possibility that the fund might be seized, and advised her to keep the fund. society, and which sincerely hopes for customers to succeed. Through customer values is something very grandiose. We think customer value The customer thanked me for taking care of her case from the customimportance of, is the changes in customers. Customers expect a corpothis, we will make a financial group which delivers compassion to every creation starts from thinking about what products our customers need, er's perspective. I also reorganized her asset portfolio hoping her situaration to lead social and cultural development rather than just pursuing corner of the society while maintaining efficiency and profitability. whether they are fit for our customers, and whether they are profitable tion would get better. I realized that my work could protect customers. profits. They started to look carefully about how hard corporations try to our customers, in the process of designing and selling the products. 「From 'ShinhanIn' Shinhan Investment Corp Employee Cases」 to resolve social problems and what values they are creating through Furthermore, our work does not stop once a product is sold, but giving corporate activities. guidance and protecting the customers when they are in trouble is the starting point of customer protection. If we make efforts based on these thoughts, we will be able to earn limitless trust and love from our customers, and it will become a driving force for Shinhan's sustainable growth. CASE STUDY In other words, creating customer values and creating customers is neither about giving up profits or growth nor paying less attention Supporting the normalization of corporations in temporary difficulties to risk management, which is the essence of financial business. We H corporation which is a car body manufacturer located in must place priority on customer values and customer protection, and Gunsan, Jeollabuk-do suffered a lack of management funds under that principle, seek methods to pursue profits and manage and repayment funds for facility loans due to a liquidity crisis caused by sales that lagged more than expected since its esrisk efficiently. Through this, we will secure Shinhan Financial Group's tablishment in 2009. competitive advantage. Shinhan Bank conducted an objective inspection on the situation of H corporation, and determined that it is a corporation of 'great potential' based on its excellent technological power, if the liquidity crisis could be resolved. We consider the socially weak and put social responsiThus, Shinhan bank not only provided a grace period for rebilities into action demption by installment for the facility loans but also provided new funds for revitalizing its business activities. As a The 'Compassionate finance' that Shinhan Financial Group practices result, H corporation overcame its temporary liquidity crisis is about promoting management activities of sharing the profits that and concentrated on its business. It became registered as the OEM company of TaTa Daewoo Ssangyong Automobile, and we obtained through sound growth with stakeholders, and growing gained a foothold for recovering by improving its business entogether with them. This includes laying the foundation for the socially vironment. weak to grow into big clients, by providing reasonable financial benefits(Smile Microcredit Bank, Hope Spore Loans, etc.). 16 Social Responsibility in the Group 01 Compassionate finance 17 Starting Changes for Compassionate Finance Resolution for Compassionate Finance All Shinhan people are with you always Shinhan Card examined the top 8 cards in terms of actual sales volume We will put in authenticity and specialized products. Shinhan Card is also planning to establish a In September 2011, since pronouncing 'compassionate finance', 'Compassionate finance' is the promise Shinhan Financial Group makes 'customer-oriented benefit provision history management system' by Shinhan Financial Group designated and promoted 33 priority tasks. to our customers and society. It is not a temporary measure to go along the second half of 2012 in order to comprehensively manage information and benefits which are also currently being provided for each with the atmosphere but our authentic management philosophy. Shinhan Bank is operating the 'Corporate Success Program(CSP)' which provides support to companies facing temporary difficulties, Shinhan customer through the homepage, product guidance letter, and card We will change all our actions and mindsets so that we could sincerely Card issued donation cards, and strengthened services for the socially bills. Shinhan Card is promoting 9 improvement tasks such as miniperceive the fact that ‘success of customers is success of the society, weak such as the blind, elderly, and patients. Furthermore, Shinhan mizing areas which customers couldn't use due to misunderstanding and that is the success of Shinhan’ and that our customers could feel Investment Corp decided to expand various alternative investment or areas which customers weren't aware of even though they already that as well. and financial advisory services to vitalize green finance, and Shinhan received benefits, and improving designs in order to make the contents Life Insurance supported low-income family children and supporters of product guidance letters more noticeable. to subscribe to 'Shinhan Hope Love Insurance' which guarantees actual We learn diligently to strengthen our competitiveness Shinhan Life Insurance is planning to make a process which reminds loss medical expenses and calamities and death accidents. In order to practice 'compassionate finance', we need to know what customers of services of existing products after a certain period has In 2012, we created a 'compassionate finance promotion group' in passed from the date of contract, and which informs whether or not our customers want and what is really helpful for our customers, and each of the group companies in order to make an example of 'compasthe receivable insurance premium has occurred. Shinhan BNP Asset develop our professional capabilities. That is because Shinhan Financial sionate finance' and to promote it in earnest, and the headquaters Management is also planning to examine a total of 322 types of public Group needs to be smarter to develop values of our customers. carried out an extensive inspection on whether or not the existing offering and private funds to improve the contents of investment Furthermore, we need to be the best expert in finance to protect our products, services and sales processes meet customers' values and proposals sold to individuals based on public offering funds. customers from danger. We will become a financial group which always profits. learns to make the world a better place. The purpose of this was to look back on whether or not the products We nurture the fruits of compassionate finance and services provided and sold to customers were suitable to the Shinhan Financial Group has established a 'compassionate finance' We will steadily make efforts from a long-term perspective purpose and directions of 'compassionate finance', and to derive corner in the intranet(Waf ) site within the group for education and We don't think 'compassionate finance' is easy to carry out. specific improvement measures. mutual communication to employees, and is collecting case studies There may be times when Shinhan's effort for 'compassionate finance' Shinhan Bank derived a total of 21 improvement tasks after examining and proposals by employees. Furthermore, in March 2012, the 'compasdoes not fully live up to our customers' expectations and demands. 248 types of products(investment products, saving/credit products etc.), sionate finance' promotion group' of the holding company visited sales However, Shinhan's employees will not be frustrated or give up just services and related systems, sales processes, and after-service managebranches and made efforts for communicating with sales staff such as because the outcome does not come out in the short-term. By carrying ment systems. Regarding investment products, we are planning to checking how much employees understand 'compassionate finance' out 'compassionate finance' from a long-term perspective, Shinhan's strengthen notification on risks in investment proposals, and to expand and hearing about obstacles and errors in the field. employees will proceed with systematic and cultural changes at the the investor protecting system for gold seniors of 65 or older and smile Furthermore, we Shinhan Financial Group incorporated ‘compassionate group level. call system which used to be applied to funds or banasurance etc. finance’ to the CEO strategy tasks of subsidiaries in order to emphasize In addition, we are changing the contents in loan application forms to the importance of ‘compassionate finance’ to employees who are used avoid collecting unnecessary information that does not affect calcuto the performance-based system. lating credit ratings, and are changing the terms in various product introduction papers and clauses into easy terms for customers. Priority tasks for compassionate finance Implementation system of compassionate finance Examines whether or not all circumstances provided to our customers such as the products and selling processes Group management meeting HQ etc. are against customers' values and profits in our customers' perspective Examining products and services sold The holding company and each group company created its own 'compassales office Examines whether or not the sold products are against our customers' values and adjusts those cases. sionate finance promotion group' We apply a process of collecting opinions of the customer evaluation group consisting of customers having high relevance to to select and implement promotion Compassionate finance promotion committee Adoption of customer evaluation group products and services to when adopting new products and services tasks suitable for each company's situation, and the 'compassionate finance Adoption of risk review system in the Manages items including review items regarding risks in the customers' perspective(risk elements etc.) besides the existing risk promotion committee' consisting of customers' perspective elements such as market/credit/operational risks etc. when adopting new products and services executives of the holding company Examines evaluation system of sales offices/ Comes up with improvement measures such as evaluation elements and campaign methods that may undermine customers' and group companies has a system Holding Compassionate finance promotion group Compassionate finance promotion group business groups values, and realigns the evaluation system Group which periodically inspects and evalcompany companies uates activities. In addition, major ac·Internal diagnosis on how much the employees and executives understand 'compassionate finance' and their implementation Adoption of 'compassionate finance' tivities include reporting and having efforts(once every half year) Strategy planning team Supervisory department practice diagnosis system(supervised by the discussions on major issues at 'group ·Evaluates customers' satisfaction level of 'compassionate finance' when evaluating brand values on Shinhan Financial Group and holding company) management meetings' every month. major group companies(once a year) 19 02 Social Contribution Makes the world a better place with the strength of finance In order to be more faithful to our mission of 'making the world a better place with the strength of finance', Shinhan Financial Group is searching for things that finance could do, such as providing support for the financially marginalized class and creating SME jobs etc., and is having various proactive activities. We are taking the initiative in creative thoughts and practices in order to create a healthy society such as investment in future generations and public interest product development etc. We continue to try to become a respectable financial leader that grows together with the society. Removing weed at Changgyeong Palace Basic philosophy of Shinhan Financial Group's social contribution 30.5 Supporting the underprivileged to become Shinhan Financial Group designated 3 major promotion areas for social responsibility management: coexistence(welfare), economically independent sympathy(culture), and symbiosis(environment), in order to secure sustainable growth and to fulfill its social responsibilities The accumulated support amount of smile microcredit as a corporate citizen, and is practicing differentiated social contribution activities. finance in Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank from 2009 to 2011, established for the economic independence of the financially billion won marginalized class, was approximately 30.5 billion won in 1,685 Basic philosophy of social contribution support cases. 1 Coexistence: fulfilling corporate responsibilities through support for the socially weak and marginalized class 5,000 2 Sympathy: making social communication through the preservation of traditional values and cultures Creating SME jobs 3 Symbiosis: fulfilling the obligations of humanity through the awakening of the importance of the environment Created a total of 5,000 jobs by investing in hope saving funds for those newly employed in SMEs, and providing employment encouragement funds to SMEs. System of social contribution activities jobs In order to promote social contribution efficiently at the group level, we are operating a social contribution committee which is connected to the group executive meeting in which the CEOs of SFG's major companies participate in, and newly established a social contribution division inside the 'Shinhan Management Forum' which is our group's management 4,000 strategy meeting, to create synergy among our companies and secure strong implementation power. Cultural asset love relay Since 2008, 4,000 employees and executives participated in the 'Cultural Asset Love Relay', an event made for protecting Basic philosophy of social contribution System of social contribution activities our traditional cultures and demonstrating love for our cultural 1 Welfare Social contribution committee assets. Support for the socially weak and underprivileged class employees Create jobs(supporting social corporations) Structure: All CEOs of SFG Role: S etting basic directions and goals of SFG's social contribution, discussing new projects and major issues etc. 53,000 Coexistence Attaching tree labels in national parks Shinhan management forum social contribution division Provided a total of 1.4 billion won(until 2011) of environment 2 Cuture 3 Environment Structure: Executives of SFG and each companies of SFG in charge of protection funds by manufacturing tree labels, donating labels, sympathy coexistence social contribution and providing nature protection activities in major national Restoration and preservation of traditional cultures Nurturing intangible values and cultural talents Expanded support for environmentally friendly energies Expansion of environmentally friendly welfare Role: R eviewing the situations of SFG's social contribution activities and sharing parks. Attached about 53,000 tree labels. cases information on project plans 20 Social Responsibility in the Group 02 Social contribution 21 Welfare(Coexistence) We deliver hope through smile Microcredit Bank Support performance (Unit: million won) (as of the end of 2011, accumulated amount) In 2009, Shinhan Financial Group established Shinhan Smile Microcredit Classification Loan types Cases Amount Bank for the first time in the financial sector, in order to help the finanFranchise 18 832 cially marginalized class to become economically independent. Smile Lease for startups 205 3,951.5 Microcredit Finance is a project for giving hope to the working class Operations 305 2,397 Common without any collateral. Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank was established Facilities 82 725 Non registered businessmen 148 716 jointly by all subsidiaries of Shinhan including Shinhan Card, Shinhan Sum 758 8,621.5 Investment, and Shinhan Life, under the leadership of Shinhan Bank Freight operators 565 17,240.2 which is the operator of the foundation. There are 9 branches(Incheon, Multi-children 21 147 Busan, Anyang, Mangwu, Cheongju, Changwon, Yeongcheon, Delivery vans 122 1,508.3 Gwangju, and Yangcheon(branch office)) nationwide, and the support Traditional market merchants 131 1,000 Self-support type 41 1,523.4 amount since 2009 to the end of 2011 reached approximately 30.5 Specialized Hairdressers 30 286.5 billion won(1,685 cases) Laundering 2 15.5 Men of national merits 11 68 Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank has been providing programs, such as One parent families 4 44 'Visiting Smile Microcredit Finance Explanatory Sessions' and 'Moving Sum 927 21,832.9 Counseling Booths' for potential applicants who are too busy to visit Sum 1,685 30,454.4 the foundation. Through these programs, we visited the potential applicants to provide information and recommend specific ways to use '2011 Shinhan Hope Employment Expo' the service. In 2011, we held more than 50 explanatory sessions and moving booth services, and was well-received by our customers. Not only that, we continued to expand the scope of benefit. We introduced new products including the 'FLY Multi-Child Family Support' and Shinhan takes the initiative in job creation Along with financial support for people newly employed in SMEs and the 'Shinhan Freight Business Support', as well as expanding the scope those SMEs, we held the 'Shinhan Hope Employment Expo', an SME It is true that there are numerous job seekers still hesitating to work for of benefit to hairdressers, laundrymen, traditional market merchants, employment exhibition, jointly with the Korea Federation of Small and SMEs even though the youth unemployment rate is extremely high. and people who hoped to buy vehicles for self-support, contributing to Medium Business. The first expo was held in SETEC in November 2010, According to an employment portal site survey, the biggest reason removing the dead zone of finance. and the second expo was held in KINTEX, Ilsan, on the 26th and 27th of that job seekers avoid SMEs is because of the 'gap of treatment(salaries Shinhan Financial Group invested 50 billion won into Smile Microcredit May, 2011. The '2011 Shinhan Hope Employment Expo' was the biggest and welfare policies etc.) between large companies and SMEs'. Shinhan Finance, and is planning to increase the amount of investment to 70 employment expo in Korea, with 200 corporations and 10 thousand Visiting the smile microcredit loan explanatory session Financial Group thought that the most important thing in achieving billion won by 2013. job seekers participating in the event. The employment expo has been mutual growth with SMEs is to resolve the income gap and help SMEs successful in having contributed to providing practical support for (Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank website: http://www.shinhanmiso.or.kr/) in their public relations. Thus, Shinhan Financial Group carried out the SMEs securing customized talents and for job seekers to find jobs, and 'Shinhan JOB S.O.S II project', an innovative job creation supporting having contributed greatly in value creation for Shinhan Financial Group. program which helps seekers find jobs and have them open an installment savings account. CASE STUDY This project deposits hope savings for people who are newly employed in SMEs, with 56 billion won of resources raised from investments from subsidiaries of Shinhan Financial Group, while providing recruitment Having a new dream through smile microcredit encouragement funds to those SMEs. The personnel manager of an ‘Yakseon Samgyetang’ in Bisan-dong, Anyang city, Gyeonggi province has become a specialty in Anyang. Last weekend, the owner lowered the prices especially for the weekend and sold 1,270 meals, thanks to various healthy medicine and seafood such as Jangnyoi ginseng, acanthopanax, and abalone included in Samgyetang. The resSME, Dooha(located in Incheon), which recruited employees through taurant has been so successful that it made profits since the first month of starting business last July, and its monthly sales revenue was so successful as to reach 20 milthis project said we newly employed 5 people and applied for the lion won. 'Shinhan Installment Savings of Hope', and the new workers said they However, actually the owner had much difficulties until then. Her husband who was the owner of the restaurant had a car accident in 2006, and to make matters worse, Ms. Kim was diagnosed with thyroid cancer in 2007. However, Ms. Kim had to put off getting treatment and worked in a restaurant near her house. Ms. Kim said “in 2009, would definitely work for a long time in our company , and praised that I went to so many banks to ask for loans to open a restaurant of my own, but all I got was humiliation.” Shinhan Financial Group's job creation program is a program which But it was Shinhan Smile Microcredit which helped her. One day Ms. Kim read about Smile Microcredit in the newpapers and called Shinhan, and got a hopeful message “why don’t you visit us and get some counseling”, and so she visited Shinhan Bank thinking she had nothing to lose. After consulting Shinhan Bank, Ms. Kim was able to actually helps SMEs . Thanks to such efforts and response, we were able loan 30 million won of guarantee money for lease at a low annual rate of 4.5%. Ms. Kim says “if it weren’t for Shinhan Bank, I would still be suffering”. to achieve a 5,000 new employments in SMEs in July 2011. We are so ※ source: Korea Economy of September 9, 2011 proud to have helped resolve the youth unemployment problem and laid the foundations for 5,000 people to find hope. Created 5,000 SME job employment 22 Social Responsibility in the Group 02 Social contribution 23 Shinhan scholarship foundation for nurturing young Microcredit Finance Project, Shinhan Bank is operating the Shinhan apps, and ARS, the first and the largest exclusive channels for donation Shinhan Life Insurance selected ON Love voluntary service leaders for talents Hope Loan, Shinhan New Hope Spore Loan, and Shinhan Transfer Loan, in the financial industry. Shinhan Card also issues 'Beautiful Card' to each division and made 1 on 1 affiliations with welfare facilities of each and is also planning to contribute a certain amount to credit assurance increase awareness of the donating culture. This is the only exclusive area, to expand voluntary service, and is strengthening the importance Shinhan Financial Group is providing support for underprivileged funds and credit assurance foundations, and develop more various donation card in Korea. This is a card made only for the purpose of of voluntary service by designating voluntary activity programs as students who cannot concentrate on studying due to difficult family products for mutual growth with SMEs. donation, and thus subscribers are not given any additional services or mandatory courses in the training courses for new employees. It also situations. We established the Shinhan Scholarship Foundation to benefits, but 0.5~0.8% of the credit sales usage amount is accumulated conducted 'Building Love Houses' activities for low-income families provide a scholarship project(general scholarships and mentoring Shinhan Life Insurance newly developed 'Shinhan Hope Love Insuras donation exclusive 'Areum Points'. with no houses, and is carrying out various social contribution activities scholarships), educational institution support project, and academic ance' which is a petty insurance for people in the low-income class who such as support for child medical expenses and for seniors living alone. research support project. are unable to receive insurance benefits, and through contributions in dormant insurance accounts, provides free-of-charge services for All our employees proactively support voluntary activiAt the beginning of each year, the Shinhan Scholarship Foundation various illnesses, calamities, deaths and accidents. Furthermore, Shinhan ties for local communities We realize welfare for the disabled selects junior high and high school, and college students, after a Life concluded a donation agreement with World Vision, which is an screening process based on their backgrounds and school grades, and international relief development organization, and Seoul Catholic In April 2010, Shinhan Financial Group launched the group-wide 'Shinhan Since 2005, SFG has been proceeding with the 'Disabled Youth provides support for their tuition and stipends to help with studying. In Social Welfare Committee, and is sending 1% of the sales revenue from Financial Group Volunteer Group' where all employees of the group Dream Team-goes to 6 continents' jointly with the Korea Society for 2011, we provided 2,009 million won to a total of 480 students. 'Shinhan Christian Insurance' to them. Not only that, Shinhan Life develparticipate, in order to create synergy effects of the group and to enhance Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, encouraging the disabled to oped the 'Special Contract for the Disabled' which discounts insurance contribution to local communities. overcome disabilities by visiting advanced countries and experiencing For the mentoring scholarship project, the foundation selects the beneficiaries for the scholarship program among underprivileged premiums to the disabled and their families, and this was selected as their welfare policies and to become a member of the society with Every April and May, we hold the 'Shinhan Financial Group Volunteer college students, who in exchange become mentors for high school one of best case public products by the Financial Supervisory Service. confidence. Group Festival' where all subsidiaries participate to spread the culture students in their neighborhood. In 2011, 103 college students received of volunteer work. For a month from April 16 to May 21 in 2011, CEOs 581 million won from the project, and these students conducted We take the initiative in donation including chairman Dong Woo Han participated in the box vegetable mentoring education in 67 high schools in Seoul. garden sharing volunteer service, showing the management's initiative in Every year since 2002, SFG has made donations to our unfortunate the volunteer work. Furthermore, as part of the educational institution support project, neighbors through the Community Chest of Korea. In 2008, despite since 2008 to 2011, we have been providing 5~6 million won for afterthe global financial crisis, we donated 5 billion won, which was 2 billion school studying sessions in each of the 5~6 schools recommended by won more than the previous year's donation amount, proactively the Education Bureau of Seoul Metropolitan City. showing to the society our will to practice our business philosophy to Shinhan Financial Group contributed 50 billion won to the foundation fulfill social responsibilities. Since 2008, we have been donating 5 billion when it was first established, and contributed an additional 30 billion won every year. won in 2009, to help provide more students with educational opportuShinhan Bank has been operating a year round donation system 'Love nities. Click' through its social contribution homepage 'Beautiful Bank' since 2005, and is supporting local communities with its bank matching grant sponsor fund added to the funds raised by employees. In Overseas training for the Disabled Youth Dream Team'(English team) particular, Shinhan Bank has been developing and supporting various stories from around the nation in connection with Happy Bean since Shinhan Bank has been running sign language services for the first 2010, thereby contributing to settling and expanding the donation time in Korea since April 2011, and in August 2011, participated in Box vegetable garden sharing voluntary service culture of employees. In addition, Shinhan Bank developed the 'Donaconstructing the 'Saejong Puremai Center', the first integrated type tion Angel Transfer menu' where customers can participate in donation rehabilitation center in Korea, and donated 1 billion won, paying on internet banking, in order to provide opportunities to participate Besides these group-wide activities, each subsidiary is also conducting continuous interest and support in systematic rehabilitation of the in donation more easily, and furthermore, Shinhan Bank strengthened various activities. disabled. In addition, Shinhan Bank developed ATMs for the disabled convenience through systemization so that annual income deduction including various convenience facilities for the disabled in each branch, is possible without additional procedures. Shinhan Bank organized volunteer groups in branch units and is and is issuing braille security cards. providing volunteer work nationwide. In particular, led by the CEO and executives, Shinhan Bank is practicing its business ideology through In 2009, Shinhan Card made sister ties with 'Basketball Team of Love', a sharing with local communities, and is taking the initiative as the leader basketball team consisting of intellectually disabled people, and since During a camp of Shinhan Scholarship Foundation of the organization in encouraging other employees to take part in the then has been providing support for sports items(uniforms, basketball volunteer work. shoes and balls etc.), training expense, and game entry fees. Shinhan Card organized 93 voluntary groups and is providing active We deliver compassion by developing public products volunteer work nationwide. It is operating a donation system which We are continuously developing public products to practice social provides funds needed in the voluntary activities so that the volunteer responsibility management with the characteristics of the banking groups can concentrate on the activities. Furthermore, on every fourth business. In particular, we are encouraging our customers to participate Saturday, Shinhan Card is having volunteer activities with Shinhan Card in social responsibility activities and as a result of our relentless effort, customers to develop voluntary activities as a social culture together the number of social contribution type products is increasing. with customers. Shinhan Bank issued the 'Hoguk fixed deposit' where a certain amount In Shinhan Investment Corp., not only the employees but also the of the subscription amount is donated for the national defense contriMeet Shinhan Family(Shinhan Employees' 10,000 won Donation) executives are taking the initiative in strengthening social contribution bution, and 'national pension assurance account' which is a foreclosure activities. In March 2009, it launched an 'Executive Practice of Social prevention account for guaranteeing pension receiving rights of Shinhan Card is leading the petty donation culture by raising a total of Contribution', and through this the CEO and executives are conducting national pension beneficiaries. Furthermore, along with the Smile 4 billion won(accumulated amount) through 'Areumin site', smartphone voluntary work in groups. Shinhan Warm Love Sharing Campaign 24 Social Responsibility in the Group 02 Social contribution 25 Culture(Sympathy) Environment(Coexistence) We search for new sprouts of art In 2009, Shinhan Bank created the ‘Shinhan Music Award’ to find and sponsor classical music talents. Furthermore in 1997, Shinhan Bank opened the Korean Financial History Museum and Shinhan Gallery, and is operating the museum and gallery for free of charge. The Korean Financial History Museum holds exhibitions and various educational programs to raise awareness of the history of Korean finance, and Shinhan Gallery provides various culture projects such as providing new artists with opportunities to exhibit their work for free-of-charge through ‘Shinhan Young Artist Festa’ and various special exhibitions etc. Shinhan Card provides support to resolve cultural polarization and to develop talents of children and teenagers of low income families, through a special talent developing program 'Happy Club'. Shinhan Card is supporting virtuous cycle of social contribution activities through performances to patients in Yonsei Severance Hospital with the talents developed in the program. Sungnyemun Traditional Roof Tile Kiln Lighting Up Ceremony Winner of the 18th National Environment Photo Contest We nurture a bright and lively sports spirit Furthermore, in order to contribute to the popularization of the sports and golf culture in Korea, Shinhan bank established the 'Shinhan We see the future through traditional culture Donghae Open Golf Competition' in 1981, and helped it to grow into a We heighten the importance of environmental protecEnvironmental Voluntary Service Camp’ where 372 college students golf competition with the longest history and tradition. Especially in the tion and teenagers attended. Shinhan Financial Group is the financial company with the longest history in Korea. We place great importance in the values of the 'past', 2010 and 2011 competitions, Shinhan Bank raised a total of 100 million Shinhan Bank has been holding the National Environment Photo This event is an environmental voluntary service activity in affiliation supporting traditional culture preservation activities and art activities won and delivered it to the unprivileged class to raise awareness of Contest every year since 1994, in order to heighten the awareness of with the Community Chest of Korea and Comprehensive Social Welfare by young and famous artists, and we make efforts to contribute to sharing. the national environment and the importance of protecting Korea's Center of University of Seoul, which includes river purification activities establishing a sound and healthy sports culture, thereby expanding a For the development of sports and expansion of a healthy sports spirit mountains and rivers. This contest is sponsored by the Ministry of where selected junior high and high school students participate, and cultural consensus in our society. in Korea, Shinhan Bank is sponsoring swim teams, and is also running Environment, and is the largest photo contest in Korea. It is held under mingles branch school students with local residents, and participate in a women's professional basketball team(S-birds) to take part in the the themes 'Reporting on Environmentally Damaged Sites', 'Korea's ecology experience education, etc. Traditional culture is an asset for all of us Beautiful Natural Scenery', and the 'Harmony of Nature and Humans', development of women's basketball in Korea. Shinhan Bank is holding 'Cultural Asset Preservation Relay' events to and at the 18th contest held in 2011, about 1500 pieces were received. We pursue the practice of green living help all its employees and their families preserve traditional culture The winners of the contests are exhibited in major sales offices and We conducted a 'practicing green living' questionnaire survey through and carry out cultural asset love campaigns. Since 2008, about 4,000 public organizations in order to create a consensus on environmental the employee intranet, and provided pencils recycled from environemployees have been participating in the preservation campaign for protection. mentally friendly newpaper as gifts to participating employees. In addi50 cultural assets nationwide. Shinhan Bank has joined hands with tion, we carried out a campaign to encourage practicing green living the Cultural Heritage Administration in the Sungnyemun restoration We give names to trees and provided information on green living through our homepage. program to provide voluntary service in the restoration site since Since 1992, Shinhan Bank has been attaching tree labels with environAugust 2009. In particular, in August 2011, Shinhan Bank sponsored mentally friendly material in major national parks, Seoul University Park, We make low carbon communities manufacturing traditional apparatuses and kilns necessary for restoring and Yongsan War Memorial Hall, raising awareness of nature protection Sungnyemun, and 1.2 billion won for installing night lightings. among hikers. Shinhan Bank provided a total of 1. 4 billion won for As part of our public project in the environment field, we are providing manufacturing tree labels, label donation, and nature protection activisupport for establishing solar power generation systems for welfare Furthermore, Shinhan Card designated cultural asset love themes facilities jointly with the Korea Lohas Association. We supported the ties, and attached about 53,000 tree labels. such as the restoration of Geongcheonggung, preservation of establishment of solar power generation systems for a total of 9 welfare Namdoyeogwan, and traditional culture schools, and is having raising Since 2011, Shinhan Card has been conducting the 'Taking Care of facilities by 2011 including about a 150 million won donation for activities through Areumin(www.arumin.co.kr), which is Shinhan Card's Namsan' voluntary service every week together with Seoul citizens in constructing solar power generation systems with 3 local welfare facilisocial contribution site. order to make Namsan a popular tourism site. ties including Hanam City in 2009. In addition, we also supported the Delivery of the donation at the Shinhan East Sea Open Golf Competition We become closer to nature by the environmental voluntary adoption of roof garden facilities in 4 welfare facilities including 'Eden service camps House' in Paju, Gyeonggi-do, obtaining not only the economic effect of As part of an effort to “nurture future generations” in the Seojin River improving fuel efficiency, but also transforming the local communities area, Gurye, Jeollanam province, we held ‘2011 Tops Love Youth into low carbon communities. 27 03 Green Management Taking the initiative in practicing low carbon green growth Performance in environmental management is being utilized as an important element in evaluating corporate values. Shinhan Financial Group is making proactive efforts in responding to the climate change problem, and from the midto long-term perspective, we will strengthen the responsiveness of green management such as developing green finance products, thereby developing it as the major competitiveness of the group and taking the initiative in practicing low carbon green growth. Integrated Green Management 3.35 Costs saved by environmentally friendly activities Shinhan Financial Group pronounced 'Climate Change Response Strategies' in the foundation commemoration remarks, Environmentally friendly activities of reducing energy use and and derived major implementation tasks and established an integrated green management system to realize the improving productivity of business environments saved 3.35 strategies. Under the leadership of the holding company, Shinhan Financial Group established a climate change response billion won. organization, and introduced the 'integrated green management system' in 6 major subsidiaries including Shinhan Bank. billion won In addition, we secured objectivity and reliability through verification from international verification organizations, and we are implementing carbon offset strategies such as purchasing green energy and measuring and minimizing greenhouse gases caused by corporate activities. In the years to come, we are planning to introduce in a phase-in manner by 2015 a 1,613.6 monitoring and automatic control system for efficient management of buildings which use excessive energy such as sales Performance of support for the green industry offices and IDC(Internet Data Center) etc., in order to directly respond to the restrictions, and apply new renewable energy Performance of support for green corporations including 39.1 and high-efficient collaboration systems when remodeling and newly constructing our buildings. billion won of 'Shinhan Solar Power loans' and 327.4 billion won of 'New Green Corporation Loans' which provide preferential Basic directions of green management and 6 implementation tasks interest rates to green corporations was 1,613.6 billion won as billion won of the end of 2011. SFG's role Strategy directions Implementation tasks 1. Reducing greenhouse emissions through energy saving 6,020 Major player of greenhouse Minimizing environmentally negative 2. Introducing a group-wide greenhouse gas emissions managegas reduction elements caused by management activities ment system Issuance of environment love cards Performance of the issuance of Environment Love Cards 3. Achieving 'Carbon Offset' in a long term perspective which accumulate 0.1% of the card usage amount to the Focusing on distribution of funds for 4.Leading development of non-taxable green savings/loan Environment monitor Environment Love Fund, and which provide a 20% discount on supporting low carbon green growth products the participation fees of ecological tourism and ecosystem type 5.Giving preferential treatment to environmentally friendly green accounts tours was 6, 020 accounts as of 2011. Promoter of green manageContributing to reforming of environmentally corporations when screening for credits and investments ment friendly green industry structures 6. Carbon emissions rights trading, CDM* projects etc. 104.5 * Clean Development Mechanism System for reducing greenhouse gases jointly promoted by advanced countries and developing countries with a purpose to alleviate global warming under Article 12 of the SRI Fund holding amount Kyoto Protocol adopted at the Climate Change Convention Holds 104.5 billion won of SRI funds which invest in corporations which practice social responsibility management and which are environmentally friendly through 'Shinhan BigLife Variable Life Insurance' etc, and promotes the realization billion won of green finance. 28 Social Responsibility in the Group 03 Green management 29 Response Measures Against Climate Change Energy Saving Shinhan Financial Group is well aware of the regulatory, physical, Shinhan Financial Group is not a mandatory corporation subject to We are reducing energy usage by improving productivity Cost saving due to environmentally friendly environment and other risks and opportunities caused by climate change, and is the greenhouse gas target management system, but is preparing for Classification Activities Activity result We are trying to effectively reduce energy usage and improve work proactively promoting the group's strategies for responding to climate the implementation of the carbon emissions trading system in 2015 environment productivity. By adopting integrated transportation and Integrated Reducing ratio of vehicle operation by Number of times change, and is doing its best in education and lecture activities. In addithrough relevant learning organizations(CoP) starting from 2010, since currency of visits to sales management of currencies, sending internet newsletters, and web fax transportation managing currency transportation from branches decreased tion, we are proactively responding to climate change by encouraging it is expected to become a mandatory corporation soon. In the new currency to integrated unit system and teleconference system, we can reduce redundancy, thereby management by 13% purchasing of environmentally friendly products and investing into renewable energy sector as well, SFG provided 618.8 billion won to the creating environmentally friendly management performance. Preventing work redundancy by checking Saving about 300 green mileages and carbon offset projects etc. solar energy market before other financial companies, and is expanding Sending internet whether or not guidance DM was million won every newsletter the supporting areas to wind generation and waste development. received year Saving about 800 We analyze and control the risks and opportunities Major subsidiaries such as Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan InvestWeb fax system Minimizing paper usage by sending and million won every caused by climate change ment Corp, and Shinhan Life Insurance are operating calamity recovery receiving faxes from executives' PCs year Therefore, Shinhan Financial Group incorporates the physical effects systems to make preparations against natural calamities. Shinhan FSB Local Two way teleconference of national RM Saving about 280 headquarters due to climate change in selecting the areas in which to make busiresearch center and Shinhan Investment Corp are analyzing physical teleconference conference to reduce carbon emissions million won every from employees' transportation year ness entrances, and has devised and is implementing calamity risk risks and opportunity elements through environmental research. system management guidelines in order to prevent the damages when natural Furthermore, we hold green finance seminars every half year(Shinhan Providing concentrated education Sales office Saving about 1,970 bank), operate cyber academy courses(Shinhan Card), and participate according to individual times of calamities such as typhoons, heavy rain, heavy snow, and earthquakes teleconference executives without limitations and time million won every in green insurance expert training courses. system year that endanger safety occur, protect personnel and physical assets, and or space ensure continuous business activities. Saving about 3,350 Total million won every year Major risks and opportunity elements caused by climate change Classification Regulatory Physical Others International Post Kyoto system Sea level rise, rainstorms, abnormally high Employee health control and absence rate Risk temperatures, floods, coastline subsidence, Greenhouse gas target management system Information demand for climate change elements Domestic ecological system, food production, water Greenhouse emissions trading system problem responsiveness Opportunity Expansion of national infra investment(SOC) for Developing and operating new products related Expansion of new renewable energy markets elements environment improvement to programs such as carbon neutrality CASE STUDY We reduce carbon emissions by using a teleconference system We adopted the 'Local Headquarter Teleconference System' in 'nationwide conferences for heads of divisions' and 'national RM conferences' which used to be held in the grand hall on the 20th floor once or twice a month, to enable two way online teleconferences. Currently, 27 local headquarters and 2 head offices are using the teleconference system, reducing carbon emissions from employees' transportation and saving costs at the same time. Furthermore, the sales office teleconference system which is currently in use in Korean and overseas sales offices are utilized in teleconferences and tele-education. Recently, at the proposed sales contest supervised by WM business division, the preliminary contest was proceeded by proposing portfolios which had been recorded in advance and viewing and evaluating the proposals using the teleconference system, enabling efficient distribution of resources at the bank level. 화상회의 시스템 30 Social Responsibility in the Group 03 Green management 31 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Control Carbon Neutrality Activities Developing Green Financial Products Supporting Environmentally Friendly Green Corporations We manage greenhouse gas emissions in a systematic We hold internal events in a carbon neutral manner We are providing various green finance products and services which We are promoting green growth in the entire society through support manner are in line with the actual environmentally friendly activities, beyond for environmentally friendly corporations. Shinhan Bank held the comprehensive performance assessment In 2010, Shinhan Financial Group established a greenhouse inventory to mere donation. We provide loan services to green building, green contest which is the largest event in the company as a carbon neutral We reflect elements related to environment in the credit evaluation realize carbon neutrality from a long term perspective, and to promote housing, and energy efficiency facilities, and are developing finance event through recycling of resources and using public transportation process and we are proactively expanding financial support for green greenhouse gas emissions management and reduction activities. The products and service so that environment related activities do not stop etc. In particular, Shinhan Bank reused the banners used in events and corporations such as by providing practical benefits of reducing interest organization scope includes the 6 major subsidiaries, Shinhan Bank, as a one time event but could have sustainability. distributed pencil cases and bags made from the banners and received rates and offering preferential commission rates to new growth engine Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment Corp., Shinhan Life Insurance, good feedback. industry corporations of green energy or low carbon & high efficiency. Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management and Shinhan Capital, and Providing preferential interest rates to green corporations Furthermore, we are expanding investment and support for the new the operational scope includes the direct greenhouse emissions renewable energy development area which has recently emerged as We disclose carbon emissions information in a transWe have developed and are operating green finance products in amount(Scope 1) and indirect greenhouse emissions amount from an alternative energy source together with the concern for nuclear parent manner consideration of corporate business areas and activity region. We are purchased power or use of steam(Scope 2). By establishing the greenpower plant accidents, while providing construction funds for solar ray Shinhan Financial Group discloses current situations related to the also strengthening renewal processes and PR activities of existing house inventory, we became able to lay the foundations for long-term power plants, to support the development of green energy industry. greenhouse gas emissions amount and climate change to the public products in supporting energy efficiency investment and green carbon neutral management and make internal and external effects in a transparent manner through participation in the Carbon Disclosure corporations where market expansion is expected. such as enhancing energy efficiency and providing climate change Project(CDP) as part of an effort to establish a green management In August 2011, Shinhan Bank renewed 'Green Growth Loans' and We invest in environmentally friendly industries response information, at the same time. system to establish future response strategies against climate change. launched 'New Green Corporate Loans' which provide preferential It is expected that opportunities for financial organizations to Greenhouse gas emissions (Unit: tco2eq) Furthermore, SFG has been selected as the 'corporation which achieved interest rates to green corporations. We are concentrating on fund participate in environmentally friendly investment will expand as Unit of emission source 2009 2010 2011 significant improvement compared to the previous year(2010)' and distribution for supporting low carbon green growth and achieved corporate responsibilities and roles in the environment emerge. It the 'Financial Industrial Leader Corporation', being recognized for its pre-tax profits of 560 million won(pre-exemption of business costs) would be possible to create profits through not only activation of Scope 1 Direct emissions 4,279 4,298 3,868 excellence in responding to climate change. through this product. alternative investment due to expansion of environment related asset Scope 2 Inditrect emissions 34,280 33,939 32,897 products but also through national infra investment(SOC investment) Total amount of greenhouse gas 38,559 38,237 36,764 for environmental improvement, business planning in CDM projects, emissions We provide financial products having environmentally friendly functions fund introduction, and trading rights transfer etc. Thus, SFG will secure * Scope of data collection was restricted to 6 major subsidiaries: Shinhan Bank(head office, Ilsan IT center), Shinhan Card(head office), Shinhan Investment Corp.(main building, annexed building), new growth engines through sustainable environmentally friendly Shinhan Life(head office), Shinhan Paribas Asset Management(head office), and Shinhan Capital(head We are providing products with strengthened environmentally friendly investments. office). functions and actual customer benefits which are different from ** The Data of 2009 has been verified by DNV, and the data of 2010 to 2011 has been estimated by applying the same emission coefficient, formulas, and operational scopes of the Greenhouse Gas existing products which used to go through formal procedures. Inventory Report of 2007-2009. Shinhan Bank sells 'Hope Energy Installment Savings Account' which applies 0.3~0.5%p of preferential interest rates for those who sign Energy Love Practice Pledge. Shinhan Card adopted the 'Oil tax return Shinhan Financial Group's Greenhouse Gas Inventory card for light-weight vehicles' which aims at reducing air pollution and increasing energy efficiency due to the use of light-weight vehicles, Operational scope providing practical benefits to consumers and increasing environmentally friendly values at the same time. Shinhan Life Insurance Scope 1 Scope 2 is providing 'Shinhan Child Love Insurance' which not only reduces greenhouse gases but also guarantee services for environment related illnesses. Stationary combustion Mobile combustion Fugitive emissions Emissions of fossil fuel used within Emissions by vehicles owned by Fugitive emissions-leakage emission the SFG's management boundaries or managed by Shinhan Financial by refrigerants and fire extinguisher Group for transporting personnel or chemicals Greenhouse gas emissions caused Major facilities by the electricity purchased by Korea Boilers, heaters & air conditioners, emerbusiness purposes Major facilities Electric Power Corp., and purchased gency power generators, cafeteria, air Major facilities Air conditioners, refrigerators, thermohyheat(hot water) compressor, gas turbine generator etc. Buses, passenger cars, SUVs, trucks, and grostats, fire extinguishers, fixed type fire Energy source mobile generators extinguishing equipments LNG, boiler kerosene, indoor kerosene, Energy source Energy source diesel, gasoline, and LPG(propane) Gasoline, diesel Refrigerants and fire extinguishing chemicals Required Area of Corporate Management ※Organizational scope: 6 major subsidiaries( Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment Corp., Shinhan Life Insurance, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management, Shinhan Capital) Hope Love Energy Savings Poster 33 04 Responsibility and Reliance We protect our customers' precious information SFG establishes a group-wide information protection policy in order to protect important information of customers and companies. We will keep a safe control of personal information provided by customers, manage related information strictly and systematically so that customers can do financial transactions safely, and become a financial company that customers can rely on. Awarding ceremony for excellent consumer protection financial companies 2012 Customer Information Protection 61 Development of the world class information SFG is establishing information protection policies and systems at the group level in order to protect important informaprotection standard framework tion of our customers and the group. We established internal control plans for personal information protection based on We developed a world class information protection framework related regulations including the Personal Information Protection Act and are promoting systematic and strict control in 5 areas, 26 departments and 61 items, to examine and of customers' personal information so as to make a company which customers rely upon , protectemployees, and improve the level of customer information protection. items supports corporate business . Furthermore, we established processes for dealing with customers' opinions or complaints, so that complaints regarding 80 personal information can be dealt immediately to put priority on our customers' assets and happiness. Obtained 'Excellent' in fund sales mystery shopping by the Financial Supervisory Service Shinhan Bank and Shinhan investment were selected as excellent corporations(80 points or above) in Insurance fund sales mystery shopping by Financial Supervisory Service. Shinhan Financial Group's information protection system points or above Common response Subsidiary response 90 Establishing information protection policies Examining internal process Telephone finance fraud prevention rate Holding company IT security consultative body ᆞModifying information protecᆞStrengthening regular superviShinhan Bank placed exclusive telephone fraud monitors to tion systems and regulations sion on information protection protect the assets of the working class. In 2011, this rate was ᆞEstablishing and publicizing ᆞSupervising and improving infor90% up by 11.1% from 78.9% in 2010. information protection policies mation protection process ᆞResolving information protection ᆞDeliberating on security adequa% Group integrated security control center related issues cy of new project areas (6th floor of Ilsan Center) IT security solution/management Employee education/PR ISO27001 ᆞEstablishing an external hacking ᆞImplementing education essential Obtained international standards for information Joint promotion of receiving external organiprevention system to employee information protection ᆞEstablishing a data leak prevenᆞExpanding and improving inforprotection zations and IT protection related technologies tion system mation protection mindsets BS10012 We obtained international standard certifications ISO27001 under the common vision of the group. ᆞIntrodution of new technologies ᆞMaking basic rules of information and BS10012 for the security of important information such as for information protection protection as our daily lives customers' personal information and financial information etc. certification to manage our customers' personal information and certification financial information in the manner of the international level. 34 Social Responsibility in the Group 04 Responsibility and Reliance 35 Customer Information Protection Prevention of Financial Incidents Investor Protection CASE STUDY We protect customers' rights and profits We prevent telephone finance fraud As the 'Capital Market Law' took effect on February 2009, a 'Standard Sales Manual' has been enacted which contains minimum conditions We will protect customers' assets The Personal Information Protection Act is an act devised to promote Shinhan Bank tries to protect our customers' assets safely. In May 2009, which must be complied with by financial investment product sellers A homemaker in her 50s who lives in Ilsan once got a call from a con man saypeople's rights and profits by protecting privacy from being collected, we analyzed the fraud patterns and types used in past fraud crimes and ing that he had kidnapped her daughter who was overseas studying in Januselling products to investors. Shinhan Investment Corp is producing ary, 2012, so if she wanted her daughter back, she should send him ransom leaked, and abused. We comply with the 'Personal Information Protecestablished a computerized system for the prevention of telephone money. The woman sent 6 million won to the account that the con man had and distributing the 'Complete Sales Manual' and 'Complete Sales tion Act' and relevant regulations and guidelines in order to protect finance fraud for the first time in the banking sector. We also established told her. However, Ms. Park, who was working in the consumer protection cenScript' to provide proper information to customers and to prevent ter and her team were watching the transfer trend and felt that something customers' personal information. Our website provides our Personal practical response measures of monitoring employees to protect was suspicious since a large amount of money was deposited into an account illegal sales of financial products. Information Process Policies so that customers could easily access and customer information. Since 2009, 700~850 cases of telephone finance where there usually weren’t any transactions. learn about the ways their information is collected and used and safety fraud are taking place every year, and by preventing 5 billion won from So Ms. Park called Ms. Kim and her husband to check if their daughter was ok. After seeing that their daughter was safe, Shinhan Bank suspended the paymeasures for protection of information. We also select divisions and a total of 5.6 billion won worth of attempts, we achieved a 90% prevenReceived the 'Excellent' rating in the mystery shopping ment of 6 million won and the balance 20 million won. Ms. Kim visited Shinhan staffs in charge of personal information protection so that they could tion rate in 2011. Bank and thanked the employees and gave them gifts. The bank decided to We changed the existing CS visit monitoring method into an expanded donate the gift to low-income family children in need of tuition. promptly and precisely deal with all opinions and complaints related to monitoring method which includes a process of confirming complete personal information protection which may occur when customers use Prevention of telephone banking fraud (Unit: cases / million won / %) sales, to protect the rights of investors. Shinhan Bank and Shinhan our services. Date 2009 2010 2011 Total Investment Corp were included among 25 companies which received Number of 708 857 842 2,407 'Excellent' ratings(80 points or more) in the fund sales mystery shopping cases occurred We prevent customer information spills from hacking results conducted by the Financial Supervisory Service. Amount of the 2,747 4,947 5,618 13,312 We are strengthening rights control for those dealing with customer cases occurred Complete sales manual information in order to prevent security accidents such as leakage or Prevented 935 3,901 5,058 10,894 Classifidamaging of customer information, and are preventing forgery and amount Procedure Contents cation leakage of information through encryptions and access control on Damage 812 1,046 560 2,418 amount Identifying investors' purposes and their assets and Getting investor major information assets. Furthermore, in order to prevent customer Stage 1 information experiences by interviewing and asking questions Prevention rate 70.4 78.9 90.0 81.8 to general investors information being leaked by insiders, we go through a user certification system when printing out customer information. Note from 5.15 Stage 2 Classifying investor Making points on investor information statements type and interview results to classify investor types Shinhan Card developed a world class information protection standard Selecting products Recommending products most suitable to Stage 3 investors framework in order to enhance the level of customer information We prevent the occurrence of illegal transactions suitable for investors protection. This framework is applied to a total of 5 areas, 26 divisions Explaining in detail exact names and investment Shinhan Capital monitors illegal financial transactions utilizing report Explanation on risks etc, using material(investment guide book, and 61 items, and we use this framework to examine and improve the Stage 4 products simple investment guide paper etc) regarding the staffs and exclusive departments. Shinhan Capital conducts risk level of customer information protection on a regular basis. recommended products. management on potential money laundering criminals and terrorists Confirming investor's Giving necessary documents only when the investor utilizing anti-money laundering policies and systems, and manages Stage 5 decision wants to buy the product We received International Standard Certificates for risks exposed to those having possibilities to use our financial products information protection and services illegally. Stage 6 After service Explaining about after services provided after the investor buys the product In order to protect customers' precious information assets such as personal information and financial information etc., we are establishing information protection system and processes thereof on a regular basis. All companies of the group obtained the international standard certificate ISO27001 and are operating world class security systems. We also obtained the personal information protection international standard certificate BS10012, and established control systems thereof to maintain a world class level of personal information protection as well. Recently, as businesses which utilize customer information expands more and more, the risk of occurrence of financial accidents is also growing. In fact, numerous customer information leakage accidents are taking place in large volumes in financial organizations at home ISO27001/BS10012 certificate awarding ceremony and abroad. Thus, SFG is establishing and implementing a systematic countermeasures to prevent the risk of information leakage. Social Responsibility in Affiliates 01 Shinhan Financial Group 02 Shinhan Bank 03 Shinhan Card 04 Shinhan Investment Corp Shinhan Financial Group's goal is not just becoming no. 1 in Korea. It is to fulfill social responsibilities responsive to the demands of our time through a sustainable growth which enhances the values of customers and society. All employees of Shinhan Financial Group try to protect interests of customers and society in every daily activity. 05 Shinhan Life Insurance 06 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management 07 Shinhan Capital 08 Jeju Bank 38 Social Responsibility in the Group 39 Shinhan Financial Group Shinhan Financial Group obtained differentiated results amidst various uncertain market situations and domestic & overseas confusion. Shinhan will put in action the customer-oriented culture based on its various experiences of achieving changes and success by overcoming crises and taking on new challenges, through a transparent and firm system, thereby further growing to become a world class financial group which represents Korea. Chairman of Shinhan Financial Group Dong Woo Han 2012 Shinhan Economy Forum Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees Enhancing subsidiary employee values Shinhan Financial Group(SFG) was established on September 1, 2001, Shinhan Financial Group conducted a materiality assessment to write We develop employee values with the major purpose of governance and business management a report based on areas of concern to various internal and outside Revitalizing communication among subsidiaries In order to promote growth and development of customer value on financial subsidiaries and financial support for subsidiaries. SFG was interested parties. In 2011, ●Revitalizing communication among and corporate value, priority must be placed on improving values established through a share transfer from shareholders of Shinhan Bank, subsidiaries, and ●Improving employee values were identified as major We open the culture of communication of employees who are the source of growth and development of Shinhan Securities, Shinhan Capital, and Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset issues, and we are planning to report on how SFG is responding to With the launch of Shinhan Financial Holdings in 2011, the subsidiaries customer value and corporate value. Management, and was listed on the Korea Exchange in September these issues. of Shinhan Financial Group were reorganized into a parent company and subsidiaries centered around the holding company. Due to By developing and supporting such important employee values and 2001. In September 2003, SFG was listed on the New York Stock Major issues changes of the governance structure, the decision making channels creating excellent performance, we are maximizing customer values Exchange and took on aspects of a global financial corporation. between the parent company and each of the subsidiaries became and seeking enhancement of the entire groups’ corporate value. To this Revitalizing communication among subsidiaries Business & Employees clear, and revitalizing communication such as practical communication end, Shinhan Financial Holding Company is proceeding with a groupImproving employee values and information sharing with in the entire group emerged to be wise ‘employee value research’. of importance. Shinhan Financial Group establishes management The research on employee values included questionnaires on the plans every year and discusses directions for establishing strategies overall organization such as organization culture, balance between at working level and executive and CEO levels, and holds Shinhan work and life, discrimination, and personnel system etc., and is Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) management forums once every half year. Shinhan management searching for items having big effects on the employees' perceptions forum shares major strategy directions and reaches a consensus of the Employees Salary/welfare expenses 305 entire group through discussions on major issues and special lectures and company image based on the research result analysis, and is deriving areas that need to be improved foremost. presented by invited lecturers. Moreover, on every other week, a group Shareholders Dividends 6,295 executive meeting is held attended by the chairman and CEOs of 5 For the derived priority improvement tasks, corresponding contents major group subsidiaries, where they deliberate on the overall issues of are delivered to each subsidiary which establishes and proceeds Local communities Investments in social contribution 5.3 the group. Furthermore, when necessary, an expanded group execuwith individual improvement plans. In this way, the employee value tive meeting is held with the CEOs of each subsidiary. Furthermore, we improvement activities of Shinhan Financial Group are implemented. Government Corporate tax expense 6,289 vitalize communication among companies of the group so that various Shinhan Financial Group monitors promotion tasks for improving discussions and decision making could be made frequently among 0.5 employee values of each company of the group, and re-examines Cooperating companies Purchase and services working level staff regarding major issues. In 2012, we are planning to whether or not the improvements were made in the corresponding adopt a process of sharing with the holding company midto longareas at the next examination. Through this, we will continue to Others Other general management expenses 558 term strategy directions and management principles of each subsidiary contribute to raising values of all employees, customers, and corporate based on the company having major management issues such as values. appointing a new CEO etc. 40 Social Responsibility in the Group 41 Shinhan Bank Shinhan Bank is doing its best to create a bank which makes peoples' lives happy and develops a special relationship with our customers. We will become a bank which can be loved by all our customers and members of the society based on our mission to make the world a better place through the main businesses of finance. CEO of Shinhan Bank Jin Won Seo Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees measure the performances of brand management on a regular basis and are implementing brand strengthening activities of work-site Shinhan Bank which has been presenting new standards of finance Shinhan Bank conducted a materiality assessment to write a report based departments. in Korea with progressive products and services and differentiated on areas of concern to various internal and outside interested parties. In Strengthening brand communication business models is realizing the most profits among peers through 2011, ●Strengthening brand communication, ●Strengthening equity For example, the SME Customer Department in Shinhan Bank utilizes We strengthen communication among brands through togethership SMBI to predict the necessity to strengthen sales activities of selfexcellent finance knowhow and an optimized channel network. In capital ratio, ●Smart organization, ●Smart financial services, and ● addition, we are extending our internal growth based on excellent Improving consumer satisfaction were identified as major issues, and we Shinhan Bank established new brand strategies and modified the brand employed customers and to change credit policies, and as a response risk management capabilities amidst rapidly changing financial are planning to report on how Shinhan Bank is responding to these issues. system in order to provide greater value to customers and to pursue measure against these needs, the department is expanding credit environments, and are laying a firm foundation for sustainable growth partnered growth. support for self-employed customers and strengthening PR and Major issues by developing and nurturing the future growth engines such as marketing activities, improving brand management through SMBI Strengthening brand communication Strengthening equity capital ratio Under the mission 'making the world a better place with the strength of management. promotion of global business/smart banking/asset management. Business & Employees finance', Shinhan Bank conducted an awareness survey on employees Smart organization While leading Korean financial market based on such strong points, and customers to embody images of Shinhan Bank and ideal banks. We encourage group-wide brand management activities of our Shinhan Bank will make every effort in fulfilling the roles of corporate Product & Service Smart financial services Through this process, Shinhan Bank derived the core value of brand employees and executives citizen and in developing a precious relationship with our customers. Customer & Society Improving consumer satisfaction called Togethership. Shinhan Bank which is promoting various internal and external campaigns under the brand slogan 'going together for a better Togethership is a new term coined by combining Togetherness with tomorrow', is raising brand awareness of all the employees through Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) customers and Leadership. Togethership means that we grow together lectures by invited brand experts. Employees Salary/welfare expenses 12,763 with customers hand in hand for the success of customers. We see brand as a long term growth engine and not from a short We intend to secure a strong brand competitiveness, stipulate 4 promsighted approach which focuses on performance, and encourage Shareholders Dividends 7,400 ises with customers: authenticity, intuition, innovation, and integration, group-wide brand activities by reflecting brand management activities and pursue togethership with customers by putting those 4 promises on all business plans. Local communities Investments in social contribution 716 into practice. Shinhan Bank will not remain complacent with that fact it started brand Government Corporate tax expense 3,393 We utilize the Brand Management Index to promote a systematic brand management management for the first time in the financial sector, but will make another leap towards a global power brand through systematic brand 3,033 For the first time in the banking sector, we established the brand management. Cooperating companies Purchase and services strategy headquarters in 2011. For a systematic brand management, we developed the Shinhan Brand Management Index(SBMI) and are Others Other general management expenses 12,734 promoting a site-oriented brand management. Utilizing SMBI, we 42 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Bank 43 Business & Employees Strengthening equity capital ratio Shinhan Bank has been using both K-IFRS and K GAAP during settleSmart organization Ratio of regular job women (Unit: persons) ment of accounts since August 2007, in preparation for the official 2009 2010 2011 We maintain an excellent level of equity capital ratio adoption of IFRS, and is continuing its analysis on the differences of We spread a productive conference culture Number of general executives 10,265 10,762 11,151 Shinhan Bank maintains an excellent capital adequacy despite the the two accounting standards and monitoring on the possibility of As the administrative environment changes rapidly, conferences and Number of women general 3,018 3,211 3,369 global financial crisis. As financial institutions which had been believed modification of the system. meetings with employees are increasing for various decision making. executives to have strong capital adequacy had difficulties during the 2008 finanWe established a productive conference culture to prevent the Ratio of women 29.4% 29.8% 30.2% cial crisis, the need to strengthen the ratio of equity capital emerged. As we implement world class accounting standards in our accounting decrease of work efficiency due to frequent meetings. We analyzed the reports, we expect that our reliance on accounting transparency will fundamental problem of long meetings and designed a reasonable Ratio of manager job women (Unit: persons) Basel Committee on Banking Supervision(BCBS) under the BIS* increase and will alleviate the burden of dual book-keeping. meeting culture, and is spreading the culture to all Shinhan employees. 2009 2010 2011 announced Basel III : A global regulatory framework for more resilient Number of 4th grade employees banks and banking system in December 2010, which is expected to be 7,175 7,224 7,384 Comparison of regulated ratio of equity capital (Unit: %) We maintain the balance of life and work of employees in charge take effect from 2013. Basel III is demanding to upwardly adjusting the (Basel II VS Basel III VS Shinhan Bank) We support employees to have balance in life and work to prevent Number of women among 4th 1,408 1,440 1,517 current ratio of equity capital such as the Common equity Tier1 Capital grade employees in charge Equity capital of Total ratio of equity fatigue and inefficient workload. In 2011, the labor union and manageetc. as compared to the current Bazel II in order to strengthen the Classification Basic ratio Ratio of women 19.6% 19.9% 20.5% common shares(note3) capital ment agreed to normalize the working hours, and proceeded TFT capital capability of financial companies and absorption force of losses activities. We conducted a survey on 40 branches where employees Basel II 2.00 4.00 8.00 when crises occur. had been working long hours. We found out that stores with CASE STUDY Basel III (note1) 4.50 %(9.50) 6.00 %(11.00) 8.00(13.00) Shinhan Bank strengthened the good quality of capital by focusing employees working til late at night had a high ratio of new employees Shinhan's ratio(note2) 10.54 12.34 15.33 We operate financial education programs for a better on common share capital based on stable profitability management and that they were not used to the work. Thus, we adopted a system of tomorrow and is preemptively responding to changes of regulations and crises circulating new employees and veteran employees among branches Shinhan Bank is providing various finance education programs to stop the inNote1) (including Capital Conservation Buffer Ratio2 5%, Counter-cyclical Buffer Capital 2.5%) heritance of poverty and to help future generations to prepare for a better futhrough stable management of risk-weighted assets. Note 2) Shinhan Bank's BIS ratio for the 1st quarter of 2012(estimation) and were able to shorten the working hours. ture. Note 3) (Core capital-new capital securities)/risk-weighted assets We expand women employment and capability development 'Shinhan Economy Academy' which is an exclusive place for economic edWe enhance transparency and reliability of accounting through * Banks for International Settlement ucation in the Shinhan Museum for financial history is holding experience world class level accounting reporting Shinhan Bank has been increasing the ratio of women workers since type financial education programs at least 2 times a month, and is proactively participating in Youth Financial Education Network supervised by Financial As the capital market globalizes, there are increasing demands for an 2007. We treat our employees based on equality and human respect, Supervisory Service. internationally unified accounting standard. Korea also introduced and implement a fair employment and personnel evaluation system. We also provide education programs for helping low-income classes to set the International Accounting Standard(K-IFRS) in 2011 in line with this The ratio of women employees of managerial level or above is rising up businesses(Making Hope Stores), and provide financial education twice a month on a regular basis for North Korean defectors in Hanawon, Anseong, in trend. continuously due to sex equality, and in 2010, a woman head of order to increase their understanding of the capitalist market and to prevent them from suffering from financial frauds, so that they could start new lives. headquarters was appointed for the first time. We also operate scholarship projects for the underprivileged class in Korea There is a possibility that women employees may be isolated from through Shinhan Hope Foundation, Shinhan Bank Chungbuk Scholarship Association, and Shinhan Bank Gangwon Scholarship Association; overseas scholardeveloping their careers while concentrating on child raising during ship projects in China, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Mongolia, Cambodia, Vietnam, and India; and an academic support project for overseas financial and personthe maternity leave. Thus, Shinhan Bank implementing a flexible work nel organization associations. system(Shinhan Mom-Pro) to support developing capabilities of women workers. This system helps women workers who are in maternity leaves to strike a balance between work and housework(child raising) by working according to the selective hour system, and CASE STUDY provides various support to develop capabilities during the maternity leave. In 2011, 52 women workers were beneficiaries of the Mom-Pro Resolving future employment insecurity, securing employsystem. ment security Recruitment of high school graduates (Unit: persons) Shinhan Bank is implementing manager-exclusive contract and indefinite contract systems to improve the job security of employees and executives. Manager-exclusive contract system is a system which allows reemployment up until 2/3 of the toClassification 2009 2010 2011 tal retirement age for manager level employees who had employment period left but voluntarily retired, and the indefinite contract system is a system of converting Teller 1 3 20 general contract employees of among employees who worked for 2 years or more into 'indefinite contract employees', a type which has no expiration of contract period. Furthermore, Shinhan bank held a large scale recruitment in 2011 and emOther 64 99 106 ployed regular workers and tellers, and recruited high school graduates to practice our corporate social responsibilities. In 2011, we are planning to employ 126 more High school high school graduates, and in 2012, we are planning to increase the number. We 65 102 126 graduates are also planning to employ talented graduates from local universities for the development of local communities. Children's Finance Education Program run by Shinhan Bank 44 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Bank 45 Prodects & Services Customers & Society CASE STUDY Smart financial services Improving customer satisfaction We listen to various opinions of our customers through the We provide information and services on financial products We provide customer satisfaction and consumer protection 'Customer Evaluation Group' anytime, anywhere activities Since 2012, Shinhan Bank has been operating the 'Customer Evaluation Group SysThe term smart which used to be associated to new types of mobile Since the global financial crises, the importance of financial consumer protectem' in order to practice 'Compassionate Finance' and to create and protect customer values. phones is now a generally used term having a greater meaning in the tion has been increasing worldwide. At the 2011 G20 summit, OECD's '10 Customer Evaluation Group System is a system of gathering customers' opinions finance industry as well. As the IT technologies developed and smart Principles on Strengthening Protection of Finance Consumers' were adopted, on our products and services. We have 350 thousand research panels and 2,000 devices are widespread, customers have become able to use informadue to the fact that protecting finance consumers is widely perceived as a consumer panels to understand the exact needs of our customers from the development stages of financial products and services, using various methods such as tion and services of financial products anytime, anywhere. necessary element in stability and sustainability in the financial systems. online survey, email, telephone, and written survey. Shinhan Bank will make the Customer Evaluation Group System a mandatory proShinhan Bank has been expanding various non face-to-face channels Shinhan Bank recognized the changes and importance of consumer cess and take the lead in providing products and services for mutual growth with using the internet and smart phones besides the sales branches, and protection policies being introduced domestically and overseas, and started the customers. is operating a smart finance center which provides services from teleto operate a consumer protection system which encompasses customer counseling to product purchasing. The smart finance center provides satisfaction and consumer protection activities. The purpose of the consumer information on funds and loans equivalent to the services of sales protection system is to implement activities of resolving disputes which branches through the smart fund center and smart loan center, 'money may occur afterwards and preliminary protection activities which include mentor' which is a comprehensive asset management service, 'family protecting rights of the consumers, thereby minimizing financial damages to banking' where customers can manage accounts all in one, and 'Smile' customers. And as a result of recognizing the importance of consumer protecwhich provides customized financial information, providing optimized tion and operating major activities, we became the only financial company to products and services in line with the smart financial environment be selected as the '2012 Financial Company for Consumer Protection' by the and convenience and stability of financial service at the same time. Financial Supervisory Service. The smart finance center will take the initiative in providing innovative In 2012, we will expand the 6 major improvement tasks to 8, and adopt the financial services by continuing to expand the service areas. recent policies of the financial authority, to take the initiative in consumer Smart Finance Center & Services protection. Money Mentor Smail Easy and convenient acCommunication service count management service using smart phones Smart Loan Center Mission Plus Smart 8 improvement tasks for customer protection activities Customized product design Polite Internet consultation Finance service providing fun and service Center motivation Taking the lead as an Excellent Financial Company in Consumer Protection Smart Fund Center Family Banking by promoting preliminary protection services and post protection based on 'compassionate finance' Integrated fund information Asset management service by and professional consultahousehold unit through multiple tion service log in by numerous customers Preliminary protection activities Post protection activities ᆞRevision on unfair contract conditions and commissions ᆞConvenient customer complaint counseling ᆞImproving financial practices(institutions and systems) 2012 Comprehensive ᆞPracticing 'compassionate finance' Measures for Financial CASE STUDY ᆞManaging and supervising unfair sales activities ᆞPreventing IT finance fraud Consumer Protection ᆞQuick dispute resolving and compensating for damages ᆞEvaluating sales offices and employees to prevent reoccurrence (expanded to 8 major Introducing the new financial industry, green finance ᆞRaising consumer-oriented awareness improvement tasks) ᆞExaminations and sanctions on unfair sales activities & Supplementing system for reviewing complaints As the importance of climate change and environment increases, the need for the financial industry to adopt environmental friendly methods is increasing as well. Shinhan Bank is developing green finance products, securing environmental risk management capabilities within the company, promoting green Newly promoted in 2012 management, and is making preparations for the greenhouse gas target management system and the introduction of the carbon emissions trading system. ① Financial ② Financial Real ③ Healthy sales ④ Consumer Asset ⑤ Strengthening ⑥ Strengthening ⑦ Improving ⑧ E valuating products Name System Protection consumers' personnel institutions/ consumer comIn 2011, Shinhan Bank introduced 'New Green Corporate Loan': which provides preferential interest rates rights to know service systems plaints/VOC and commissions to excellent green corporations, and provided 327.4 billion won through the program, ᆞScreening contracts ᆞControlling arbitrary ᆞGood customer receiv·ᆞStrengthening security ᆞConsumer Finance ᆞEducation on preventing ᆞNotifying improvement measᆞEducation by external and contributed to 'New Renewable Energy Mutual Growth Guarantee Fund' to provide guarantee supand terms enquiries ing attitude in electronic finance education consumer complaints ures to departments relevant organization to heads port for new renewable energy corporations. We published '10 Green Industries Guide Book' to raise unᆞProducts for working class ᆞStrengthening procedures for confirming ᆞStrengthening counseling capabilities ᆞMonitoring on employees ᆞAlarm system for consumer damages for each position to consumer complaints of department where complaints occurred derstanding and expertise in green growth for our employees, and are holding green finance seminars on ᆞPreliminary negotiation identification ᆞPlacing penalties for ᆞCompliance of private ᆞProviding cyber training ᆞConsumer Protection ᆞNewly establish ᆞProduct survey ᆞEmployee training incomplete sales information proteccontents Committee Consumer Protection a regular basis, taking the initiative in supporting the development of green finance. ᆞProduct disclosure ᆞCompliance of legal sales tion act ᆞOperating CS site supᆞConsumer Protection Index ᆞCampaigns and events ᆞNewly establish port teams Dispute Council ᆞPutting more weight to Shinhan Bank is managing data on electricity and oil in each branch, and introduced the paperless private Homepage Financial ᆞSI ᆞStrengthening CS qual'compassionate finance' Consumer Protection teleconference system to reduce carbon emissions, and planted trees in the Forest of Hope in Andong, ᆞExamining and adopting ᆞManaging employees in ᆞKeeping away from ᆞStrengthening certificaInformation ᆞStrengthening support for business support ity of non face to face channels element ᆞClarifying who is to and Pureum Arboretum in Guro, trying to offset carbon emissions. recommendations by violation unhealthy sales activities tion means in smart ᆞStrengthening On/Off center ᆞImproving and applyblame for consumer the Financial Supervidesignated by the finance Line Product & Service ing credit & deposit complaints As a result of these activities, we won the Prime Minister Award at the 2011 Korea Green Management sory Service Financial Supervisory ᆞPreventing IT financial Comparison disclosure practices ᆞStrengthening site support for resolving Service fraud Competition, and the Environment Minister Award, in the excellent greenhouse gas reduction organizadisputes tion category. 46 Social Responsibility in the Group 47 Shinhan Card Shinhan Card thinks about the 'way of the card' for customers, and tries to come closer to customers. We try to become your true life partner by providing products that meet the needs of our customers through not only discounts and benefits but through processes of sincere love and attention to our customers. CEO of Shinhan Card Jae Woo Lee 2011 Love Concert Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees Systematic brand asset management Shinhan Card developed Shinhan Card BPI(Brand Power Index) in 2008 Shinhan Card is Korea's representative card company and 12th largest Shinhan Card conducted a materiality assessment to write a report based on and is implementing the measurement method for 2 consecutive years card company in the world based on credit purchase volume, with the areas of concern to various internal and outside interested parties. In 2011, ● Brand management for systematic brand management. no. 1 market penetration rate and 19.2 trillion won worth of sales assets. Brand management, ●Employee satisfaction, ●Developing market leading Shinhan Card newly launched with the integration of LG Card in 2007 products, ●Products encouraging the donation culture, and ●Placing Creating Shinhan Card's unique creative brand Based on the measured results, we have been managing brand assets selecting customer satisfaction as the top management value and is importance in customers and the market were identified as major issues, and We are practicing customer moving services through differentiated brand such as brand reputation, brand preference, and brand image etc. making every effort to improve customer satisfaction. we are planning to report on how Shinhan Card is responding to these issues. marketing and product development, and is strengthening its brand Shinhan Card BPI has continued to improve, and in 2011 achieved the competitiveness as a life partner. great result of becoming no. 1 in the credit card sector. We provide customized services suitable for customers' lifestyles such Major issues as auto finance related to purchasing cars and other IT sales, oriented Shinhan Card is a No. 1 credit card brand which has an overwhelming Furthermore, we have been recognized by overseas organizations, Business & Employees Brand management Employee satisfaction around card business projects which support credit purchase and cash market penetration rate in Korea, and is providing special experiences and achieving the most number of awards in the industry with 14 awards in Developing market leading products new images through various cultural performance programs with the brand survey and customer satisfaction. loans. In 2011, we successfully launched the Shinhan Vietnam Bank Product & Service Products encouraging the donation culture keyword 'LOVE'. We are creating our unique creative brand differentiated Global Card Project, and revitalized mobile apps, proactively responding to the new markets and future trends. Customer & Society Placing importance in customers and the market with other competitors through these brand activities. Furthermore, in order to practice 'compassionate finance' as a social corpoDistribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) rate responsibility corporation, we are proactively practicing 'compassionate finance' of Shinhan Financial Group and are strengthening our position as Employees Salary/welfare expenses 2,585 the representative credit card brand. In order to resolve the education gap Brand marketing Social contribution among local communities, we are focusing on the project of constructing Shareholders Dividends 6,000 'Areumin Library', and are providing social contribution activities in various 'LOVE' series of culture/sports Representative social contribution areas such as Areumin voluntary activities participated by employees, marketing brand brand 'Areumin ' Local communities Investments in social contribution 406.6 executives and customers, and supporting NGO activities etc. ᆞLOVE Concert(concerts) ᆞ<Areumin Library> construction ᆞLOVE Classic(music performances) project Government Corporate tax expense 2,135 Furthermore, we are making relentless efforts to receive continuous love from our customers as a 'Customers' true life partner which leads ᆞLOVE Day(sports games) ᆞLOVE Culture(plays and musicals) ᆞDonation portal <Areumin site> ᆞAreumin voluntary activities 2,455 ᆞLOVE Square(space marketing) Cooperating companies Purchase and services the future of the card industry' through various card product portfolios Other culture, arts sponsorcustomized to customers' consuming trends, sustainable changes and ship and customer experience Others Other general management expenses 3,610 innovation, and CS management. programs 48 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Card 49 Prodects & Services Employee satisfaction Furthermore, we are operating an information material library for the Developing market leading products S-more CARD S-more card has been created thanks to a change of employees to develop their management and humanities knowledge thought from regarding points as not only consuming measures but We take the initiative in practicing family love through reading books. The information material library opened in We create a new rule of competition in the card industry also as a financial asset which can be saved in savings accounts. This is Shinhan Card is taking the initiative in creating a culture and environOctober 2007, and is visited by a monthly average of 800 employees. Korea's credit card market which has grown significantly since the early a differentiated product in that if customers deposit the accumulated ment where all our employees could feel satisfaction through a There are about 12,000 books and 2,000 image materials on recent 1990s is now in a maturing stage with 50% of private consumption points in the S-more account, they can earn interest as well. pleasant working life. We operate a cafeteria system to provide various management and humanities studies. Employees can also ask for the being made by credit cards. As the competition is becoming so fierce benefits in their daily lives. This system provides points every year to that the market is full of so many similar services and products are The good thing about S-more card is that there is no expiration for purchase of new books, and thus about 60 books and 30 image mateemployees of Shinhan Card so that they can use their points in various being issued, Shinhan is strengthening the competitiveness of its values customers to use the points transferred to their accounts, and that rial are being added every month. items such as self-development, promoting health, childraising, leisure, by creating a wide range of product portfolios consisting of premium interest rates are applied to the accumulated points. Customers can and cultural acitivities. We make a workplace where employees can work better products for VIPs, general products for general consumers, and specialeasily see the increased points through ATMs and internet banking. Shinhan Card continuously tries to make a workplace where employees ized products for oil, airline, and differentiated point services. Furthermore, we are planning to issue an integrated S-more card which Furthermore, we expanded the scope of employee satisfaction and are accumulates points from other subsidiaries in one S-more account. want to work, and as a result, Shinhan Card was selected by GWP Korea operating the 'Employee Assistance Program(EAP)' where their families We provide customer satisfaction with a wide range of services as one of top 100 good workplaces for employees for 3 consecutive It has become possible to expect integrated products where points could also participate. The bulletin board in EAP homepage provides Platinum# service We are trying to help more customers to enjoy years. from other business types could be accumulated in the S-more information on various events, such as the weekend farm program, more benefits more frequently through our open premium service, college entrance explanatory sessions, summer vacation camps, family account utilizing charicteristics of a financial group. Shinhan Card will Platinum#. Open premium service is a new concept of premium service marathon and recreations etc. We support the employees to practice further develop into the core brand of Shinhan Financial Group by icon of Shinhan Card which hopes to practice love for our customers family love and strike a balance between work and families through strengthening its competitiveness through integration of the S-more by providing practical products and improved benefits to numerous these programs. card with other business types. customers not like other existing premium services of other credit card companies which provide services for only a minority of customers. We practice self-initiated career developing We are providing benefits to more customers through this upgraded We established a systematic Career Development Program(CDP) so Platium# service which requires the same subscription conditions but that our employees could grow in the organization by taking the provides more benefits, and strenghthening the premium product initiative in working. We help them measure their capabilities through system of Shinhan Card. self-diagnosis, set goals according to their capabilities, and provide Community of Practice(CoP) and licenses necessary to accomplish those goals. In 2011 we opened an additional CDP portal site and strengthened access and participation of employees by providing HR services for each employee. Employee culture center CASE STUDY We invite you to the wide world of Shinhan Card Shinhan Card as a wide range of product groups to respond to the needs of various customers. We will increase the convenience of living by providing practical benefits in the right places, through premium cards to general use cards. Product system (Unit: million won) Overview of major cards Actual number of cards as of Nov. and Dec. 100 THE PREMIER Big Plus GS Kaltax nano 3.5 million 900 thousand 50 THE ACE Lady 2030 20 THE BEST THE LADY BEST 2.4 million 850 thousand 10 THE CLASSIC HI-POINT S-MORE 2.1 million 700 thousand 3~7 Platinum# series products LOVE Living Love 1.5 milllion 700 thousand Less than 3 General Platinum products 4050 Big Plus Less than 2 General use products 1 million 450 thousand annual fee 50 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Card 51 Customers & Society Products encouraging the donation culture opportunities for customers to easily join in the donation culture Placing importance in customers and the market We put our love for customers in our products and services through various networks connected to about 170 public groups. In The donation culture makes everyone happy addition, through internet bulletin boards such as 'Areumin ParticipaWe listen to the voices of customers The further refined 'card matching rule for each customer' provides the Shinhan Card is issuing the first donation exclusive cards in Korea, tion place' and 'Donation', we are supporting sharing of information Shinhan Card listens to the voice of customer(VOC) and shares it optimal card suitable for characteristics of each customer based on the 'Beautiful Cards,' to expand the culture of the petty donation culture and activities on social contribution activities. group-wide. Through a systematic management on VOC, we intend Card matchcustomers' needs which have been further classified. ing rule by a majority of people. Beautiful Card is a card for the sole purpose of to improve the customer-oriented mindsets of our employees and It provides a guideline for establishing a card portfolio which compreby need of donation and does not provide additional services or benefits to the Furthermore, in order to expand the online donation culture, we issued to develop ideas for providing differential products and services. VOC hensively considers various elements such as lifestyles and card usage customers card owners. 0.5~0.8% of the amount used is accumulated as 'Arum the Smart phone App 'Smart Shinhan' for the first time in the financial received through various channels including the homepage and call pattern etc. of customers, so that customers could select the most suitable card in their interests. Points', and the accumulated points can be donated to places that the sector, so that people could join in the donation easily and quickly. center etc. is divided by type and is posted on the Consumer Protection card owners select among 400 donations places through the donation Furthermore, based on the fact that customers aged 60 or more have Bulletin Board for all employees to refer to. It is possible to make an exclusive website 'Areumin' site. We are increasing the participation rate a lower usage rate of Areumin compared to other age groups, we are inquiry for each work or type, and each department is having VOC Top Club is a differentiated program for managing best customers from by making it possible to make donations by credit cards besides the planning to introduce a donation channel through the ARS service inquiry and listening time according to a certain theme selected each Excellent which customers can receive preferential services according to their ratArum points, allowing various ways of donation: partial donation, donastarting from 2012. Through this, we are planning to create a culture month. Through this, we are trying our best to improve the quality of customer ings from all subsidiaries besides Shinhan Card. managetion on a regular basis, lumpsum and regular donations. The donation environment where people who are not used to smart phones can also our services and customer complaints by suggesting ideas and coming Shinhan Card selects the best customers based on their closeness such as ment fund raised in this way is used in various areas such as environment, join in the donation culture. up with improvement tasks through discussions on the selected system, annual use performance, continuity of using the card, and credit ratings, 'Tops Club' to provide benefits such as exemption of annual fee, commission, prodisabled, women, children & teenagers, elderly, and cultures & arts etc. themes. vision of premium coupons, cultural performances/travel discounts etc. Other public interest products Areumin donation overview (Unit: 100 million won) Functions as an ID for confirming that the person is a Customer panel system In order to come up with differentiated National pension beneficiary of the national pension, and provides rich and certificate card pleasant lives of national pension beneficiaries through customer satisfaction management strategies and implementation Convenient Number of Areumin donations Shinhan Card Total donations health care services and cultural benefits Shinhan Card always think about ways to make a better environment where participants amount donations amount amount(2005~2011.10) Functions as a military service certificate and discharge certifimeasures, without remaining complacent to the current achievements card using customers could easily use cards regardless of place, time and situation, and is Electronic national cate for military service workers, and provides subscription to environdefense card we have been operating the ‘customer panel system’ since 2008. The providing various services to support in that manner. 177,823 persons 38.5 437.5 476 accident insurance ment Disabled/men of merits Provides discounts when the disabled or men of merits customer panel consisting of 50 customers using other company cards or charge LPG vehicles, and provides free pass services for welfare card public transportation multiple cards evaluate service qualities through various activities such as Join in the sharing with just a click Provides the convenience of discounting oil subsidy monitoring, sessions, and online communities, and provides improvement Freight drivers/private automatically without the inconvenience of submitting 'Areumin' is the one and only donation website in the financial sector, taxi drivers welfare card an application and necessary documents to city or county ideas. Furthermore, the customer panel participates in interviews when offices operated in line with the Beautiful Card. Thanks to participation by not Provides the service of automatically deducting governdeveloping new core products and services and reflecting customers’ only customers but also our employees, we are contributing to settling Child love card ment support fund when paying day care fees using Child opinions in the process, contributing to improving the qualities of products Love Cards the culture of petty donation by a majority of people, and are providing and services to meet the needs of customers. CASE STUDY We provide an environmentally friendly reading environment for the youth Introduction to major services Shinhan Card is providing support for creating an environmentally friendly reading environment for development of future generations through the Areumin Library Project. This project which was launched in November 2010 is supporting 231 local children centers nationwide, and has a meaning to provide an environmentally friendly reading environment to underprivileged children and teenagers so that they could live better lives through reading. We are helping them have future dreams by pro24 clearing service for the first time in the industry Grace period for overdue interests of the deceased viding economic education and knowledge on economy, finance, and credit. Our real time withdrawal system prevents overdue payments for customers, and When a customer who uses our card dies, we exempt overdue interests which supported 145 thousand normal clearings a month. may occur while the families of the deceased have time to repay the liability, Supporting improvement of an environmentally friendly learning environment alleviating the burden on the family economy. We are providing sight protection lights, harmless wall papers and floors etc. along with environmentally friendly interior, for the creation of a pleasant and safe reading environment using environmentally friendly material. Furthermore, we are supporting campaigns for improving the environment of local children centers by exchanging old learning devices. Delivery of card to a 3rd place Customized ARS We make it possible for customers to receive cards in a 3rd place other than their We make it possible for customers to select and register the ARS menu that they Providing books recommended for children and teenagers homes or workplaces, for their convenience. frequently use, so that they could use the ARS service more easily. We supported establishing the Book Computerization System, to seek qualitative improvement of reading programs and systematic management of reading, and encouraged online community activities, promoting activity sharing and communication among centers. Library computerization system and online community are supported Operating exclusive consultant group for the elderly(65 or more) Chatting counseling for the hearing-impaired customers We supported establishing a library computerization system thereby seeking a systematic library management and We connect them to the consultants before other customers during ARS We provide an average of 1,400 special counseling cases a month for those who improvement of quality of reading programs, and encouraged online community activities and promoted commuconnection, and explain to them until they understand. have difficulty using the phone due to hearing disabilities. nication and activity sharing among centers. 52 Social Responsibility in the Group 53 Shinhan Investment Corp. As the leader of the financial investment industry, Shinhan Investment Corp. places top priority in our partnership role in successful investments in order to create values that our customers want and to design a better future for our customers. We will take the initiative in becoming the leader of financial investment based on our transparent management already recognized by various domestic and overseas institutions and our differentiated financial services. CEO of Shinhan Investment Corp. Dae Seok Kang Winner branch of 2011 Business Evaluation Contest Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees In order to efficiently use the expenses which incur as we implement our projects, we are improving the profit & loss structure, and activities Shinhan Investment Corp. started off from a merger of Shinhan SecuriShinhan Investment Corp. conducted a materiality assessment to write to improve cost efficiency in consideration of management environties and Goodmorning securities which had inherited the capabilities of a report based on areas of concern to various internal and outside interSmart organization ment. In a long-term perspective, we improved our activities in order to Ssangyong Securities, dubbed the 'military academy of securities' and ested parties. In 2011, ●Smart organization, ●Managing net capital increase the efficiency of investment input, and issued cost efficiency ranked no. 1 in international sales sector. ratio, ●Employee satisfaction and job security, ●Safe product sales, and We lead the mobile financial environment items. Furthermore, we modified the budget management system ●Improving legal convenience were identified as major issues, and we As the mobile financial environment changes and smart devices We are leading the domestic securities industry by combining stable to establish an adequate budget for our management plans and are planning to report on how Shinhan Investment Corp. is responding evolve, Shinhan Investment Corp. is settling the BYOD(Bring Your Own and strong corporate governance structure, financial structure, and to these issues. company volume. Device) system which utilizes various smart devices of employees and advanced management methods. Shinhan Investment Corp. is growing executives to strengthen business productivity . Major issues We go ahead of others based on a smart & green corporate culture further based on global derivative sales capability, thorough research BYOD is a concept of utilizing tablet PCs and smart phones as a Due to characteristics of the financial business, we have to use a lot functions, stable product operation and an advanced risk management Smart organization Managing net capital ratio Business & Employees subsidiary means while using PCs as main terminals, and this concept of paper. Thus, in 2011, the government requested that the financial system. Employee satisfaction and job security is utilized as a new profit creating means which go beyond reducing sector reduce paper use by 50% by 2015 as part of the green economy Product & Service Safe product sales revitalization effort, and Shinhan Investment Corp. has been proceeding expenses but also changing the business processes. Customer & Society Improving legal convenience with paperless movement to minimize the use of paper since 2010. Shinhan Financial Investment formed a smart network IT cooperative Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) body with other subsidiaries in the group, and in 2011, Shinhan In 2011, Shinhan Investment Corp organized a TFT to develop a business Investment Corp. started to improve mobile office support systems by process which uses electronic documents, computerizing the process Employees Salary/welfare expenses 1,814 introducing SNS marketing, and launching mobile office, expanding within the company. Furthermore, we are taking the initiative in saving the infra for establishing an integrated mobile management system. resources and preserving the environment based on the thought that a Shareholders Dividends 200 smart & green corporate culture is one of the major elements, and we are We strengthen cost efficiency by improving operational systems planning to expand the ratio of using electronic documents to 50% by Local communities Investments in social contribution 22.1 Shinhan Investment Corp. is improving its operational systems which 2015. could optimize the company's capability in order to respond to the Government Corporate tax expense 540 customers' needs and rapidly changing market. Cooperating companies Purchase and services 64 Others Other general management expenses 1,698 54 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Investment Corp. 55 Prodects & Services Customers & Society CASE STUDY Managing net capital ratio Safe product sales Improving legal convenience Green wave of fund, we introduce Bio Green Energy Fund We maintain financial soundness There is increasing demand for waste resources and biomass energy projWe minimize risks that may occur to our customers We make every effort to resolve financial incidents that happen to customers In order to pursue the financial soundness of financial investors, the ects as part of an effort to reduce greenhouse gases for the prevention of Shinhan Investment Corp. is implementing 'Risk Review in the Every time a large scale economic crisis such as the recent business global warming under the UN Climate Change Agreement. government has calculated the Net Capital Ratio(NCR) to use as the Customers' perspectives' in order to minimize the risk factors that suspension of insolvent savings banks or 2007 US subprime mortgage Shinhan Investment Corp. intends to contribute to revitalization of green regulatory ratio. Shinhan Investment Corp. is calculating daily NCR finance and green growth through investments into new renewable enermay occur due to purchase and investment into financial investment loan crisis occurs, 'mental hazard' has been mentioned as the reason. gies and environmental corporations. We are planning to participate in the through risk management systems and is monitoring the changes of Bio Green Energy Fund of the Environment Corporation under the Minisproducts. Every employee in Shinhan Investment Corp. complies with all the legal ratios according to positions. Furthermore, we set Early Alarm Indexes try of Environment led by PE department in the Investment Finance Headquarters, in order to take the initiative in developing green products that We are trying to minimize the risks that may occur to our customers by regulations based on its core asset of Shinhan Group's 'ethical reputaand maintain a preliminary monitoring system so that NCR could could be developed as national growth engines. expanding the review process which used to examine new products tion'. We pursue fair and ethical business performance, and in 2011, maintain a certain level. In addition, we calculate NCR at the end of each In addition, we are presenting various financial product ideas in the process of the bio green projects, and are inducing support and interest from and new projects based on the risks that the company faced to an area we established the Compliance & Ethics portal site to provide activities month and report to the Financial Supervisory Service, and get reviews various investors in the process of materializing the fund. in the perspective of customers. including legal counseling and tax consultation, and investor lawsuits by outside auditors on every end of quarters and disclose the results on Shinhan Investment will grow into an environmentally friendly corporation relevant to investment into financial investment products. the homepage. as a center of revitalizing green finance based on sustainable investment Furthermore, we set product sales guidelines regarding construction including Bio Green Energy Fund. industries and savings banks considering the recent depression in the We post legal and tax consultation opinions in the Compliance & Ethics We disclose risk management information in a transparent manner construction and real estate industries and savings bank crises, so that portal site on a regular basis, and encourage employees to explain it to Shinhan Investment Corp. provides risk management information every customers can be provided with adequate and stable financial investthe customers in person, in order to prevent any violation of regulations quarter. By disclosing risk management information, we let people see Ministry of ᆞF/S support ment products and services. in financial investment products. Korea Environment our risk management capabilities and soundness. Risk information is Environment Corporation ᆞVerifying business development and supporting other work reported in terms of credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. ᆞSupervising related work ᆞPolicy support When the customer suffers financial loss due to a financial incident Contribution which is not the customer's fault, we provide information on the legal Contribution Operating procedures. Furthermore, we carry out voice phishing prevention activiEmployee satisfaction and job security commission Professional Asset Investors Bio Green Energy Fund Operator ties and support lawsuits against the person who committed voice Income dividend We pursue a corporation that is pleasant to work for phishing. Shinhan Investment Corp. is implementing an ES program(Employee Selecting projects for Shinhan Investment Deliberainvestment Satisfaction program) to make a pleasant workplace. This program provides tion Committee Submitting project Project contest Investment Profit Investment Customers proposal Corp. Point of View employee counseling, employee satisfaction events, and differentiated ᆞWhat effects will this product service welfare systems etc., which have been well received by our employees. In policies have on the customers? 2011, we newly adopted the funeral support service. Project Developer ᆞHow much will the customers be affected when major risk elements change? ᆞDid the company fully consider the We open a fun organization culture inconvenient elements in the customers' point of view? We are operating divisional programs for better understanding of our Private Sector Public Sector team members. Through this program, employees can speak freely and alleviate stress and conflicts in the workplace. The program received great feedback in the survey conducted to employees. We create a stable employment environment Mutual trust and shared profits can be pursued only when job security is guaranteed. As the market fluctuates since the financial crises, employees Customer perspective checklist(example) feel pressure about the future, and thus we introduced a consultancy system to contribute to job security of senior employees, trying to Classification Checklist Checkpoints alleviate the stress about the future so that they could concentrate on Examining whether or not appropriate goal groups were selected according to the complexity and risks of products their work. Group general Did products, services, and policies etc. clearly select the customer questions groups that they take into consideration? Examining whether or not defining the customers and considering the standpoints of the customers have been omitted in advance Does the launch period of the products and services correspond to Examining whether or not the launch period of corresponding products is the current market situation in terms of securing stable profits for the Shinhan appropriate in the current market situation Financial Investment customers? questions Are there sufficient explanations on the core risk matters of the Examining whether or not there is notification of core risks inside the supplementary documents corresponding product such as product proposals provided to the seller? related to sales besides the documents provided as prerequisite documents such as proposal 56 Social Responsibility in the Group 57 Shinhan Life Insurance Shinhan Life Insurance provides advanced insurance services which meet the needs of our customers, to realize the dreams and happiness of our customers and create values beyond insurance. Based on our excellent financial network, we present new insurance products, and make every effort to become the most reliable insurance service company in Korea. CEO of Shinhan Life Insurance Ltd. Jeom Ju Kwon Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees Work-life balance Shinhan Life Insurance was established in March 1990 and was incorporated Shinhan Life Insurance conducted a materiality assessment to write Happiness of families is the happiness of Shinhan Life Insurance into Shinhan Financial Group in December 2005. It achieved remarkable a report based on areas of concern to various internal and outside Securing job security The happiness of families is regarded as the core value of Shinhan Life growth in profits every year, based on profit-oriented management of internal interested parties. In 2011, ●Securing job security, ●Work-life balance, ● Insurance as well as an important element in the lives of our employees. stability since then. We provide various insurance products and services optiObtaining asset soundness, and ●Products that think about customers We create a stable employment environment Shinhan Life Insurance helps our employees strike a balance between mized to the customers' needs such as saving type insurances and guarantee and the society were identified as major issues, and we are planning to Recently, non regular workers have rapidly increased and there is work and life so that each of them can exert their best capabilities type insurances, health insurancse and retirement pensions etc. based on the widespread concern for job security in our society. Shinhan Life through a sound working life. We intend to achieve the vision of report on how Shinhan Life Insurance is responding to these issues. total finance network of Shinhan Financial Group. Related products are sold Insurance intends to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities and roles Shinhan life where the dreams and happiness of our customers can through various sales channels such as FC channel, AM channel, and BancasMajor issues on job security by converting non regular jobs into regular jobs, and grow together with the company and employees. surance channel etc. Shinhan Life insurance is making every effort to develop Securing job security Work-life balance presenting clear career visions to employees and executives, thereby customer-oriented products and to improve customer satisfaction in order to Business & Employees Shinhan Life Insurance provides health management programs such Obtaining asset soundness securing a sound and healthy employment system. establish and practice 'BIG SHINHAN 2015' as the mid-to-long term strategies as counseling, non-smoking programs to realize a balance between under the vision that it is a new leader in life insurance. Product & Service Products that think about customers and the society We carried out systematic job group conversion and revitalized converwork and life, and is planning to adopt the Big Dream Card which will * FC:Financial Consultant, TCM:Tele-Marketing/Cyber-Marketing, AM:Agency Marketing sion of contract workers into regular workers, and as a result, achieved a provide vacation expenses from 2012. We will try to improve the quality regular conversion rate of 90% during the recent 3 years. In addition, we of lives, not only the employees and executives but also of their families established a conversion system of contract worker-regular worker(SO) by operating an employee satisfaction program where their families Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) and general worker(office jobs)-professional worker in order to provide can also participate. Employees Salary/welfare expenses 930 equal growth opportunities within the organization, and improved the existing personnel system and expanded the subjects for promotion Shareholders Dividends 60 and conversion scale, to clarify the screening requirements of job promotion. CASE STUDY Local communities Investments in social contribution 57.2 We devised guidelines such as performance assessment, self-career Preschooler camp event for the month of family Going on management plan statement, self-development evaluation, and job Government Corporate tax expense 727 capacity evaluation etc. to establish the screening requirements, to a picnic to mom and dad's workplace The workplace visiting program provided for preschoolers going on a picnic to create a long term and stable employment environment by providing mom and dad's workplace was developed to provide opportunities for children Cooperating companies Purchase and services 892 employees opportunities to develop themselves. to visit the workplaces of their moms and dads and create a consensus on their parents' jobs. We provided various physical activities in the eye-level of our children and parent lecture programs, to present the best month of family to our Others Other general management expenses 1,432 employees. 58 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Life Insurance 59 Prodects & Services Obtaining asset soundness Asset soundness overview (as of Dec., 2011) Products which think about customers and the society Discounts for multi-children/disabled/low income class (Unit: cases / insurances thousand won) A strong asset soundness protects our customers Ratio of risk weighted Ratio of Bad debt allowance We become closer to customers through compassionate insurance Classification assets insolvent assets accumulation rate ClassificaAggregated An insurance product has a long term contractual characteristic of We are trying to help customers in need and growth together with the 2009 2010 2011 tion amount Ratio 31.0% 0.14% 279% providing the agreed amount based on the previously paid insurance society based on the definition of 'compassionate insurance' which Discounts Number 829 38,139 85,206 124,174 premium to customers when an accident occurs. Therefore, asset Management 1st grade 1st grade 1st grade combines the meaning of insurance with SFG's compassionate insurfor families of cases situation evaluation with management which has its basis on a stable portfolio and asset ance which pursues helping out customers in difficulties and creating multiDiscount 1,135 13,439 29,271 43,845 soundness is an important element in increasing customer reliance and compassionate ties with them through the major business of finance. children amount achieving sustainable growth. Discount Number 1,245 2,047 2,700 5,992 As part of such effort, we expanded financial support for the working for families of cases Shinhan Life Insurance is making every effort to prevent decrease of class and are practicing compassionate insurance. We intend to deliver with the Discount disabled 3,875 7,184 9,953 21,012 profit rates caused by insolvency of investment assets by implementing the true meaning of insurance in that we create safety devices for the amount risk management on insolvent investment assets in order to provide happiness of each and every individual beyond merely selling insurDiscounts Number 51 51 for low of cases stable insurance services to customers. ance products. income Discount class 142 142 amount We established a balanced risk management system which has its basis Compassionate insurance products and related activities Number on profitability and soundness in order to sense the insolvency at an of cases 2,074 40,186 87,957 130,217 Support for We provide discount benefits to low income customers, disabled, early stage, and are conducting risk reviews and various monitoring, the socially multi-children and multi-culture families etc., and promote Total Discount weak preferential interest rates for saving type insurances. 5,010 20,623 39,366 64,999 so that in case of something happens in the indexes, the risk manageamount ment system could analyze the effects of the risks and come up with Supporting ※Multi-children discount implemented in Apr. 2007/ Disabled discount implemented in Nov. 2007/ social Low income class discount implemented in May. 2011 countermeasures. We select social righteous people among police officers and firemen righteous who had been restricted from getting insurances, and recommend persons' social insurance products to them. When promoting new projects such as changing major policies or insurance developing new products, we review the risk factors in a preliminary CASE STUDY products CASE STUDY For customers who lost their jobs, temporarily or permanently closed manner, and prevent reckless promotion of businesses for which Supporting their businesses against their will, we let extend their loan contracts determining the risk is not easy, and when screening credit cases, we We invest in public interests customers in for 1 year without having to repay the principle, minimizing their Reliable insurance that become a fence for customers difficulites interest burden. At around 1995, Mun Suk Jeong Fc's husband who was operating a small motor carry out financial and non financial analyses to minimize the possibility Shinhan Life Insurance hopes to grow together with the society through proacreduction gear factory was financially well off. He didn't feel the need to have an tive social investment utilizing the characteristics of financial business. We make We try to create a social donation culture by connecting insurance of insolvency. investments for various social purposes such as SRI fund which invests in corpoConnecting products with donation. We accumulate certain amount from cancer insurance. However, when he saw his elder brother suffer brain hemorrhage, we insurances changed his mind and took out a Shinhan Life Insurance. And after 10 years, he was rations which fulfill corporate social responsibilities, SOC investment fund which insurance profits and send it to cancer groups, and certain amount diagnosed with 1st stage in Lung Cancer. with Through such efforts, Shinhan Life's asset soundness indexes maintain invests in social infrastructure facilities such as roads, ports and railways, and BTL donation from dementia & funeral insurance profits to groups for home alone investment fund which invests in private-invested public facilities. We made sosenior citizens. It was really hard. I was in a panic, and I was really worried about my family if somethe best level in the industry. We will secure asset soundness, and cial investments in a positive manner based on strict evaluation standards, our thing would happen to me. I was in such a pain and despair, and so the insurance preemptively respond to insolvency of investment assets that may investment accounting for 5.5% of total investment and fund. The investment We are providing Children Insurance Matching Grant** project for of Shinhan Life Insurance was a great help to me. It was a stream of light to me at amount is continuously increasing. providing support for treating incurable diseases such as childhood that time. FCs of Shinhan Life were very helpful and told me not to worry about the occur in the future, and try to become a sound financial insurance Supporting cancer etc., by accumulating 1% of sales profits from Shinhan Child treatment expenses and to concentrate on the treatment. Thanks to them, I got In 2011, we invested a total of 104.5 billion won in SRI, an increase of 12.6 billion Love Insurance, and we are also providing education for children healthy again and now I'm living a new life. company. won from the previous amount. We are promoting the SOC investment through future safety prevention by accumulating 1,000 won per sales case of the investment in Eulsukdo Bridge, The Second Seohaean Expressway, Seoul generations Today, Mun Suk Jeong Fc's husband is healthy again and is living happily with his children insurance. Metro Line 9 and Seoul Outer Beltway. Our investment for society is being ex*Matching Grant: A system where the corporation pays the same amount of family, and his wife Mun Suk Jeong became an FC and is busy spreading the joy of tended to investments in other areas as well including renewable energy which subsidy as the amount paid by its employees life to people. is recently emerging. Financial products having social values (Unit: cases / 100 million won) Product 2009 2010 2011 Total Shinhan Child love Number of 175,176 291,626 320,695 787,497 Insurance cases 1% of the initial insurance amount is Early month Social investment overview (Unit: 100 million won) donated to children insurance 67 132 167 366 related groups premium Classification 2009 2010 2011 Shinhan Hope and Number of 350 318 473 1,141 Love Insurance cases SRI Fund 666 919 1,045 provides insurance services to low Early month BTL Investment 1,309 2,045 2,678 income families insurance 4 3 4 11 difficult to buy premium SOC Investment 1,146 957 4,224 insurances Mun Suk Jeong FC and her husband 60 Social Responsibility in the Group 61 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management which is at a new starting point maximizes customers' asset value based on various investment solutions and expertise. We intend to become a long-term partner which can be relied upon by customers based on differentiated and stable operation in line with customers' objectives beyond mere external growth. CEO of Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Bang Gil Choi Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees Prodects & Services The asset management businesses of Shinhan Financial Group is under Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management conducted a materiality taken by Shinhan BNP Asset Management. Through the successful assessment to write a report based on areas of concern to various Stable profit creation Providing financial information merger of Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management and SH Asset internal and outside interested parties. In 2011, ●Stable profit creation, Management in January 2009, Shinhan BNP Asset Management was and ●Providing financial information were identified as major issues, We create stable profit from a long-term perspective We provide financial information framed from a customer perpective newly launched. Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management is growing as Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management is trying its best to achieve In order to provide financial information suitable to customers' conveand we are planning to report on how Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset a leader of the asset management market based on the international reasonable operating performance by putting in practice sound nience and to increase accessibility of financial information, we are asset management knowhow of BNP Paribas and the strong sales Management is responding to these issues. management philosophy and investment principles. We are producing and issuing various materials by content. On a regular basis, network of Shinhan Financial Group. Shinhan Financial Group which is Major issues practicing asset management from a midto long-term perspective in we issue briefings on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis, and provide the domestic leader in finance has 65% of the equity, while the world consideration of various risk elements in order to maintain stable profit information on domestic and overseas situations, stocks and bonds, renowned financial group, BNP Paribas Group has 35% of the equity of Business & Employees Stable profit creation rates, and are focusing on in-depth analysis of individual corporations and funds etc. In addition, we prepare asset management reports that Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management. The asset volume currently Product & Service Providing financial information without being obsessed with short-term performance caused by can be read easily by customers and include information on funds and under management is more than 32 trillion won. Shinhan BNP Paribas market changes. Such management philoaophy is realized through a investment columns etc., to help customers' understanding of the situAsset Management is the third largest company among the 83 asset reasonable and systematic asset management process, and a compeation of the market and asset management. Besides this, we provide management companies doing business in the Korean market. tent research team conducts in-depth research and analyses utilizing in-depth analysis reports on a regular basis under different themes, corporate analysis and value evaluation models, and fund managers meeting demand for diverse and in-depth financial information. Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) establish the best management strategies. These two elements In addition, in order to help customers who are new to finance are combined organically for the decision making of investors, and understand it, we provide fund school services and tests on customer Employees Salary/welfare expenses 231 continuity and unity of management is obtained at the company level, to achieve continuous profit from a midto long-term perspective. investment patterns. We are planning to provide additional research reports and contents on market situations that are easy for customers Shareholders Dividends 357 to read, when we update the homepage of Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management. CASE STUDY Local communities Investments in social contribution 20.2 We nurture talents who have future intelligence and sentiment Government Corporate tax expense 119 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management hold youth arts economy camps every summer and winter vacation. We are providing opportunities to develop young people's sensibility through art and culture, so that they can become talents having both intelligence and sentiment. Cooperating companies Purchase and services 5.9 The 3 nights and 4 days of worry and expectation has passed. It felt as if I was in the event as well due to real time text messages and video clips. Just looking at the images and photos was such fun so when I imagine what fun it must have been for the children who attended the camps, I really feel grateful for all the staff who worked hard for a successful event Others Other general management expenses 147 and the mentors who had to take good care of the children. I hope the children will all return safely with precious memories. I also hope that our second child could also have this opportunity as well. 「From the parent bulletin board」 Shinhan BNP Mother Love Children Arts Economy Camp 62 Social Responsibility in the Group 63 Shinhan Capital Shinhan Capital provides competitive credit financial services based on its excellent financial soundness. We will develop financial products which meet the financial needs of our customers so as to become the best finance partner that our customers can rely upon and stay together for a long time. Furthermore, we will take the initiative in social responsibility management by practicing sustainable ethical management. CEO of Shinhan Capital Young Sup Hwang Company Introduction Major Issues of 2011 Business & Employees Work-life balance We create a proud workplace for employees Shinhan Capital provides stable lease products mainly consisting of Shinhan Capital conducted a materiality assessment to write a report Shinhan Capital conducts surveys on all our employees to create a facilities with high generality such as ships, printers, automobiles, and based on areas of concern to various internal and outside interested Securing job security proud working place for our employees. The result of the survey is medical devices. We also steadily promote developing new areas such parties. In 2011, ●Securing job security, ●Work-life balance, ●RevitalWe take the initiative in job creation and job security incorporated in the results of the final discussion at the TFT, and are as monthly installment finance for automobiles and machine facilities, izing SMEs, ●Preventing financial incidents, and ●Customer informaShinhan Capital guarantees 3 labor rights(right to organize, negotiate, reflected in the business environment improvement tasks to enhance real estate project finance, corporate restructuring business, venture tion protection were identified as major issues, and we are planning to and collective action) for job security. employee satisfaction. investment, factoring, etc. report on how Shinhan Capital is responding to these issues. We established internal policies to prevent giving disadvantages in Furthermore, we improved the welfare systems to provide a maternity We made various business ties with other subsidiaries, expanding Major issues personnel affairs in conducting collective actions such as joining the leave system to encourage childbirth, and encouraged employees customer contact points and providing competitive interest rate Securing job security Work-life balance Business & Employees to have annual paid vacations and health examinations, so that our conditions and customized financial services, thereby growing into a labor union. Product & Service Revitalizing SMEs employees can strike a balance between work and life. comprehensive credit financial company which promotes corporate Furthermore, we operated a labor-management dialogue channel finance most proactively. Preventing financial incidents Customer & Society such as the labor-management association, and the consultative body Overview of new recruits (Unit: person) Customer information protection consisting of representatives of each job position, and achieved wage Year 2009 2010 2011 increase in 2011. New recruits 10 18 8 Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) Furthermore, we are taking the initiative in job creation by recruiting Total number of employees 114 126 142 Employees Salary/welfare expenses 138 new employees every year despite the difficult management condiRatio of new recruits to the total 8.8% 14.3% 5.6% tions since the global financial crises. number of employees Shareholders Dividends 50 We maintain a new recruitment ratio above 5% of the total number of employees every year, contributing to job creation which is a big issue Local communities Investments in social contribution 12.3 socially. Government Corporate tax expense 147 Cooperating companies Purchase and services 19 Others Other general management expenses 53 64 Social Responsibility in the Group Shinhan Capital 65 Prodects & Services Customers & Society CASE STUDY Revitalizing SMEs Preventing financial incidents by a supervisor or 3rd person, in order to prevent any leakage of inforWe develop financial products customized to SMEs mation online. We will continue to do our best to protect customers' We provide financial services to revitalize small and medium We create a transparent financial transaction culture. credit information through strict management. sized companies Lease(Facility rent) Shinhan Capital has legal and practical measures in place to prevent the We provide financial services to revitalize small and medium sized We enable SMEs to newly acquire or rent certain items in various areas such as heavy equipment and medical devices designated by the presidential decree risk of money laundering by 3rd parties through our company. That is Overview of education on credit information protection (Unit: hour / persons) companies. Shinhan Capital is contributing to turning around SMEs Lease(facility rent) system through the lease(facility rent) system. Customers because the operation of all loan products except for household funds may make installment payments for the lease for the lease period and utilize 2009 2010 2011 through various financial services specialized in the SME sector. We are the necessary facilities when needed. Furthermore, we have the concerned paris based on actual transactions of credit products, thereby preventing Hrs of Number Hrs of Number Hrs of Number increasing the ratio of credit to SMEs thinking their perspective and ties determine matters such as disposal of facilities after the lease period in the the risk of money laundering at source. Shinhan Capital establishes educaof educaof educaof contracts. helping them overcome difficulties such as financial problems etc., and counter money laundering policies and systems to monitor money tion listeners tion listeners tion listeners as a result the ratio of SME customers in total increased to 79.6% and Ship finance laundering risks. We established an independent internal report system Education on We have been serving marine operators through ship finance where the exmoney laundering lease & installment increased to 83.5% in 2011. Furthermore, we are pertise and knowledge of the marine industry are necessary and the volume is and monitor suspicious transactions. We conduct money laundering and compliance 1 117 1 120 1 132 supporting SMEs effectively by using finance specialized in the credit large. We provide ship finance through ship lease, ship purchase and shipbuildprevention education sessions once a year to raise employees' awaresupervision ing fund loans through international networks. industry. We are contributing to resolving the financial difficulties of ness on prevention of money laundering, and we try to provide safe Education on SMEs by investing in and providing consultation to venture capital, private information 3 117 3 120 3 132 financial products and services. protection and new technology operators based on new technology finance, and are supporting efficient operation of funds through long term Customer information protection procurement of funding for facilities such as industrial machinery and equipment lease, thereby alleviating the burden of initial facility funds. We strictly manage customers' credit information Shinhan Capital protects customers' credit information to prevent any exposure of customer information. Employees who do not belong CASE STUDY to sales departments do not have access to customers' information, and we provide information protection education to all employees to We will become SMEs' growth partner Sales revenue of the major products(as of the end of 2011) (Unit: 100 million won) increase the effectiveness of customers' credit information protection 14,767 New Technology Finance(Venture Investment) policies. Furthermore, we made it mandatory for all emails to be verified We invest funds(acquisition of shares, corporate bonds etc.) in corporations with high growth potential to provide operation funds, facility investments, and also, 9,174 management consulting, and IPO etc., to become the growth partner in venture investment success. Mezzanine investment 2,823 We support SMEs' self-motivation through acquisitions of convertible bonds 950 921 890 (CB), bonds with warrants(BW), and exchangeable bonds(EB), which are half share and half bond products. Loan Lease, installment payment Large conglomerates SMEs Individuals Customer distribution overview of major products(as of end of 2011) (Unit: %) 5.2 8.4 15.2 8.1 79.6 83.5 Loan Lease, installment payment Large conglomerates SMEs Individuals 66 Social Responsibility in the Group 67 Jeju Bank Jeju Bank set the goal of a becoming a Local Top Bank and focused on customer value creation, sound internal management, and preemptive risk management etc. in order to develop as a small but strong bank. As a result, we are achieving qualitative growth despite difficult economic conditions. Jeju Bank will not be afraid of new challenges and will prepare for the changes and the future. CEO of Jeju Bank Business & Employees Customers & Society Chang Ki Heo Indigenous management Promotion of the local commercial districts It is a family-like bank that is helpful for Jeju Jeju Love Gift Certificate revives the local commercial district Jeju Bank which was established with the purpose of revitalizing the Since September 2006, we have been supporting the issuance neglected local financial industy, has been implementing site-oriented and sales of Jeju Love Gift Certificates in connection with Jeju SelfCompany Introduction Major Issues of 2011 business activities based on compassion and understanding of the local Governing Province, based on the belief that the development of all community for the last 43 years. We have been performing the role of local citizens and businessmen is the development of Jeju Bank. Jeju Bank was established in 1969 by local businessmen with the Jeju Bank conducted a materiality assessment to write a report based an intimate financial partner to local corporations, and tried to become support from the government with the purpose to provide finance on areas of concern to various internal and outside interested parties. Jeju Love Gift certificate, which employees of Jeju Bank also purchase, a 'family-like bank' of the local community which performs the public convenience to local citizens and to revitalize local economies. For 43 In 2011, ●Indigenous management, and ●Promotion of the local is now the region's representative gift certificate and cornerstone of the years since then, Jeju Bank achieved steady growth while contributing role of returning the profits created in the region back to the region. commercial districts were identified as major issues, and we are planlocal economy, and in 2011, a total of 13.7 billion worth of certificates to the development of the local economy of Jeju. Although we had Furthermore, Jeju Bank is a reliable finance partner which understands ning to report on how Jeju Bank is responding to these issues. were sold thanks to the proactive support and participation by the difficult times of foreign exchange crises etc., we are facing a new age local characteristics and situations the best based on information on for another leap as we were incorporated into Shinhan Financial Group citizens of Jeju. Major issues the area accumulated through a long period of monitoring and a in 2002. We consolidated our position in the local market by combining dense branch network. Jeju Bank is in charge of all processes related to the sales and delivery the retail business which is based on close local information with the Business & Employees Indigenous management risk management system and customer management methods of of the Jeju Love Gift Certificates, and is proactively participating in The ratio of loans to local SMEs to total loans was 70.1%(as of Dec.2011) Shinhan Financial Group, to become the Local Top Bank. We have Customer & Society Promotion of the local commercial districts revitalizing the use of the certificates by adopting automatic certificate exceeding that of nationwide commercial banks, 40%, and that of other the largest local sales network consisting of 36 sales offices and 98 vending machines so that payment can be made quickly to merchants 365 corners, based on which we take to role of a local bank which local banks, 60%. In addition, considering that the total population of of traditional markets and to increase the efficiency of the certificate communicates with the customers and supports the foundation of Jeju Island is only 583 thousand, the fact that 363 thousand customers process. local economy. use Jeju Bank shows that it is the flagship bank of Jeju Island. We intend to develop products and services that meet the needs of local Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: 100 million won) customers on a timely basis, and provide them flexibly, and become a 350 bank which can be of great help to Jeju citizens. Employees Salary/welfare expenses CASE STUDY Shareholders Dividends We are always with clean Jeju Local communities Investments in social contribution 18.1 Jeju's Shinyangli beach has become a tourism site which tourists must visit in Jeju, but since several years ago, every year an enormous amount of green laver has come ashore, damaging the appearance of Shinyangli beach and producing bad smells and creating an unpleasant impression for tourists. Government Corporate tax expense 74 Thus, Jeju Bank Voluntary Service Group has been removing green laver in the sands and stones on the beach along with the Red Cross Volunteer Group since 2009 as part of an effort of 'Jeju Bank Purmi Movement', and the collected green laver is used on farms as fertilizer. Cooperating companies Purchase and services 53 The volume of collected green laver was large enough to fill 130 bulk burlap bags weighing 60 tons, but our employees worked very hard in the removing green laver for our home, clean Jeju. Others Other general management expenses 129 *Jeju Bank Purmi Movement: Jeju Bank's sustainable environment purification activity to make a cleaner Jeju. Green laver removing operation(Jeju Purmi Movement) 69 Sustainable ShinhanWAY Governance ShinhanWAY is a group-wide value system which makes all members of Shinhan think and behave as 'One Shinhan' with confidence and passion. It consists of three elements: management principle(WAY of management), core values(WAY of thinking), and behavioral standards(WAY of behavior). ShinhanWAY Stakeholder communication Logo and elements of ShinhanWAY Governance structure Five major core values of ShinhanWAY Ethical management Based on management's Five major core values Introduction of values decision making from Standards for Risk management the perspective of the value determination In order to grow together with customers, we think and nt) that members geme organization for achieving Cor ev Customerbehave in a customer-oriented way based on honesty and the vision ana al must accumulate fo m oriented trust, and fulfill social responsibilities to all members of the f thinking) society and not just to customers. Management principles AY o (WA s(W We pursue joint development by respecting others' Mutual ue positions among groups, departments, and individuals, Y respect while maximizing the cohesiveness of the organization. We make attempts for creative approaches rather than av Be Leading tandards(WAY o remaining complacent in practice to secure differentiated ral s fb change vio eh competitiveness which can lead the future market. ha We set challenging goals always to become the best, Pursuing and obtain the expertise to accomplish those goals, and the best promptly executes them. Indexes which can induce changes of behaviors and attitudes of members We take the initiative in promoting business based on a Sense of strong sense of responsibility and belief that the developownership ment of the organization is the development of myself. Way towards customers Major ShinhanWAY plans for 2012 Along with a sustainable and systematic promotion of ShinhanWAY, Since 2011, we have been strengthening the practical capabilities we are planning to spread understanding and consensus on 'compasof ShinhanWAY and providing various activities to establish it as the sionate finance' and heighten our practice will so that 'compassionate organizational culture of Shinhan. We make ShinhanWAY awards at finance' which was announced in September 2011 can become deeply a group level, to proactively encourage practicing ShinhanWAY by rooted as part of Shinhan culture and become absorbed into the work, awarding employees who shows great performance in practicing it and and working methods of all employees. by spreading the best cases. In addition, we reformed Waf, a sensitivity communication site, so that employees can communicate and reach a Major plans Detailed introduction consensus. ᆞIncreasing understanding and practice will Spread and expand Utilizing various internal channels(newsletter,Waf, GoldWing ShinhanWAY of 'Way to customers' will continue to become a firm basis 'compassionate etc.) and joint training in the leap to becoming a World Class Financial Group which is the finance' ᆞSettling as the framework of Shinhan culture through groupwide practice vision of the group. ᆞStrengthening training to heads of departments ShinhanWAY award (6 companies under SFG and Shinhan Capital) ShinhanWAY award was created in 2011 to encourage practicing ShinᆞImproving the group's joint training program for new ShinhanWAY employees and establishing identity hanWAY in appreciation of the efforts by employees who contributed training upgrade ᆞExpanded implementation of change promotion organization joint training and allied activities to the development of the group. ShinhanWAY award will become a ᆞImplementing joint culture training to all employees great driving force to spread widely the best cases of the award winners (6 companies under SFG and Shinhan Capital) and to pass on and develop the success DNA of Shinhan Financial Forming sense of ᆞUpgrading sensitivity exchange program among group Group. unity of the group ubsidiaries(Group journalists group, Cyber mentoring, group union by strengthening club, group CoP) internal ᆞRevitalization of Waf site(Strengthening PR and implementing communication various employee participating program) 70 Sustainable Governance 71 Stakeholder Communication Shinhan Financial Group includes a stakeholder interest area in the report. The result of the survey on stakeholder interests shows Stakeholder interest analysis process various risks and opportunities related to SFG's sustainability, and increases understanding of stakeholders through detailed guidelines. Shinhan Financial Group conducted an assessment 'Process for Analyzing Degree of Interest of Stakeholders' to understand and report on actual of areas of stakeholders' interest from the perspective of sustainable management. We conducted an analysis on the degree of social interest through surveys and interviews with major stakeholders in order to collect their diverse opinions, and determined the order of priority of reported themes through analyses on business effectiveness where strategic importance and urgency of issues are taken into account. Then, we selected themes that SFG is interested in and divided them into groups, and then selected core issues for each subsidiary other than common themes at the group level, and reported them separately, thereby disclosing specialized values of each subsidiary and the groups' core values in a balanced manner. STEP1 Materiality assessment process STEP2 Analysis on common issues of the group and issues of each subsidiary Identifying internal issues Analyzing stakeBusiness effectiveᆞBusiness strategy and policy holder interest ness analysis Analysis on common issues of the group analysis ᆞMedia research ᆞStrategic importance Analyzing areas of common interest of SFG ᆞInterview and analysis on survey ᆞBenchmarking comanalysis panies in the same ᆞAnalysis on urgency industry of the issues Identifying external issues ᆞSustainability global standard Analysis on core issues of each subsidiary analysis(GRI·ISO26000) Selecting core issues derived for each subsidiary other than the common interest areas of SFG ᆞAnalysis on survey STEP3 Reporting type per issue Individual issues Common issues Page Report areas Subsidiary Page Compassionate finance Compassionate Shinhan Financial Group 38p 12~17p Resolving economic polarization finance Shinhan Bank 40p Group's ᆞBusiness Social responsibility management that we create together Promoting local cultures Social contribution & Employee Shinhan Card 46p common (coexistence,sympathy, 18~25p Each subsidiary's Shinhan Investment 52p Financial access of low income class symbiosis) Shinhan Financial Group is making efforts to listen to the voices of stakeholders and reflect those voices in the process of promoting management interest interest area ᆞProduct Shinhan Life Insurance 56p Green product development Green management 26~31p & Service activities. We established a stakeholder participation system last 2009 centered around various stakeholders such as shareholders, customers and area report Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Provision of marketing information 60p local communities, and based on this system, we developed communication methods such as stakeholder surveys and telephone interviews etc. ᆞCustomer Management report Responsibility and Customer credit information protection 32~35p & Society trust Shinhan Capital 62p Stakeholders Communication channels Communication methods IT security Jeju Bank 66p ᆞEmployee survey We confirm the reputation and values of SFG among employees. Employees ᆞEmployee session We monitor employee satisfaction and expectations. Results of analysis on stakeholders' degree of interest ᆞShinhan In(company newsletter) We measure changes of employees' awareness of external effects. ᆞLabor management council We evaluate employee's awareness of internal sustainability. Effect on the business ᆞCustomer satisfaction center We evaluate customer awareness and expectations of products and services. ● IT security ᆞCustomer satisfaction survey We evaluate brand recognition of SFG. Customers ● Customer credit ᆞHomepage We confirm SFG's reputation and core values among customers. ● Financial accidents ᆞCustomer evaluation group We create opportunities for dialogue based on the understanding of customers. information protection (money laundering, borrowed name bank account, insider trading) ᆞGeneral meeting of shareholders ● Strengthening BIS requirement Compassionate finance ● Shareholders and Investment We participate in strategic decision making processes. Securing new business ideas ● investors ᆞInvestment explanatory session We participate in collecting opinions in the process of developing projects and markets. ●Marketing information provision ● Strengthening  communication and brands ᆞBusiness report (incomplete sales, advertisements) ●Job security ᆞLocal community contribution activities Smart work ●Smart organization We confirm SFG's reputation and its core values in local communities. ● Local communities ᆞLocal community session ● Resolving economic We evaluate SFG's sustainability and promote improvement of awareness related thereto. polarization ᆞSocial contribution satisfactio survey ᆞSports sponsorship ●Co-growth(profit sharing system) Group's common ●Green product development We carry out social verification of business activities. Promoting local cultures ● interest area ᆞPress release We compare and evaluate SFG's sustainability in the perspective of outside experts. ●Strengthening human rights Financial accessibility Government, academia ●  ᆞAcademic support activities We derive potential risk elements and future priorities related to SFG's activities. Increase of employee satisfaction of low income class We share awareness among citizen groups and media representatives through online communication methods. ● core issues ●Job creation We evaluate practical values at the cooperating company level in partnered growth and cooperating relationships. ●Creating green business environment ᆞRegular session ● Need to strengthen communication and connectivity among subsidiaries We evaluate influence in the cooperating relationships with the subsidiaries. Cooperating companies ᆞCooperating company workshop ᆞSocial responsibility support We evaluate the reputation of SFG and its core values among cooperating companies. ● Workplace security(safety) major issues We create opportunities for dialogue based on the understanding of mutual cooperation of cooperating companies and SFG. Degree of social interest 72 Sustainable Governance 73 Governance Structure Structure of the board of directors Performance of the board of directors Committees under the BOD Audit Committee In 2011, the BOD held a total of four regular meetings and eight ad-hoc The Audit Committee consists of four directors including an accounting The board of directors consists of 10 outside directors, including the Currently, the BOD operates seven committees: the Board Steering meetings to vote on key management issues, to discuss key manageexpert and maintains objectivity and independence from the BOD CEO and one non-executive director, who have extensive relevant Committee, the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Recommendament issues, and to receive reports on major issues. and the management, and audits the performance of the directors by knowledge and experience in finance, the economy, management, tion Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Compensation overseeing the Group's accounting and deliberating on other matters. law, and accounting. The chairman of the BOD is to be appointed from Committee, and the Audit Committee Member Recommendation Overview of the board of directors (Unit: cases / %) among the outside directors so that the BOD can have an independent Committee, and Governance Structure & Chairman Recommendation Outside Director Recommendation Committee and transparent governance structure, and decision making on Classification 2009 2010 2011 Committee. Through these committees, the BOD ensures that its activiThe Outside Director Recommendation Committee is in charge of managing company may proceed from an objective and reasonable Number of BOD operations 8 8 12 ties remain efficient and professional. recommending outside director candidates, as well as all other matters point of view. Number of issues discussed 57 58 76 Board Steering Committee regarding such recommendations. Deliberation & voting 34 32 35 The Board Steering Committee consists of four directors who deliberate Audit Committee Member Recommendation Committee Operation of the board of directors Reports 23 26 41 on its efficient steering of the board, and recommend members of The Audit Committee Member Recommendation Committee consists SFG's board of directors approves management strategies and goals of Participation rate of executive directors 100 100 100 the committee. It determines the appointment and dismissal of top of all outside directors and deliberates and makes all relevant decision the holding company and subsidiaries, supervises implementation of Participation rate of outside directors 88.5 96.8 92.6 executives,excluding board members, methods of evaluating the on recommending candidates for the Audit Committee. the approved strategies and goals, and has environment and system BOD, its committees and outside directors, and resolves other BOD for risk management suitable for the management strategies of the Compensation system operational matters. Governance Structure and Chairman Recommendation Committee company. The compensation for outside directors is within the limit approved by Governance Structure and Chairman Recommendation Committee Risk Management Committee the general shareholders' meeting. The total amount of compensation consists of six directors and deliberates on matters related to the BOD operational regulations The Risk Management Committee consists of three directors and is calculated based on the number of BOD meetings held in the company's governance structure, establishes and reviews management BOD is convened by the chairman of the BOD as either regular or formulates basic risk management guidelines in line with management previous year, and can be changed when there has been a change in succession plans, and evaluates CEO candidate pool and recommends ad-hoc BOD meetings, and a regular meeting is held once a quarter, strategies, and also determines appropriate risk tolerance limits for the the number of BOD meetings. Compensation for the management CEO candidates. while an ad-hoc meeting is convened whenever deemed necessary by Group and its subsidiaries, including the limits of capital investments or consists of basic salaries and long term and short term incentives, the chairman. Voting in the BOD requires the meeting be quorate with losses taken. and the basic salary is determined by the compensation committee the attendance of a majority of directors and is by simple majority of consisting of outside directors only. Incentives are calculated according Compensation Committee those attending directors. It is permissable for the directors to take part to additional standards determined by the compensation committee. The Compensation Committee consists of four directors and is responin voting through communications media that allows the simultaneous Short-term incentives are associated with the management perforsible for approving evaluation and compensation programs for the top transmitting and receiving of sound. Those who have special interests mance of the company, and long-term incentives are granted in units managements of the entire group, as well as setting compensation in an issue do not have voting rights. of three years, and payment is determined based on the management levels. performance during the past four years. Overview of the board of directors Committees under the BOD Classification Name Profile Vice president of Shinhan Bank, president and vice chairman of Shinhan Life Insurance, Governance Structure and Chairman Internal directors Dong Woo Han Classification Board Steering Committee Risk Management Committee Compensation Committee CEO of Shinhan Financial Group(present) Recommendation Committee Other Non-standing Vice president of Shinhan Bank, vice president of Shinhan Financial Group, president of Jin Won Seo Internal Dong Woo Han Dong Woo Han director Shinhan Life Insurance, CEO of Shinhan Bank(present) Hoon Namgoong(Chairman of BOD) Chairman of Life Insurance Association, president of Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation Members Tae Eun Kwon, Kee Young Kim, Tae Eun Kwon CEO of Nambu Ham Professor at Nagoya University of Foreign Studies(present) Hoon Namgoong, Ke Sop Yoon, Kee Young Kim, Hoon Namgoong, Kee Young Kim , Seok Won Kim, Outside Hoon Namgoong, Jae Geun Yoo, Jung Il Lee Philippe Aguignier Sang Kyeong Lee, Hirakawa Haruki Philippe Aguignier Kee Young Kim President of Yonsei University, president of Gwangwoon university(present) Seok Won Kim Head of Korea OECD-multilateral Tax Center, chairman of credit Information Association(present) Jae Keun Yu Non-executive director of Shinhan Bank, chairman of Samgyeong Outside Director Recommendation Audit Committee Member RecomOutside directors Classification Audit Committee Committee mendation Committee Ke Sop Yoon Dean of College of Business Administration, Seoul University Honorary professor of Seoul University(present) Sang Kyeong Lee Judge at Korea's Constitutional Court General attorney at Wonjun Law Firm(present) ※Formed when outside directors ※ Formed when auditors are recomInternal are recommended at the beginmended in the beginning of each Jung Il Lee Executive at Kanagawa Korean Chamber of Commerce, CEO of Pyeongcheon Corp(present) ning of each year, and operated year, and operated provisionally Members provisionally until the general until the general shareholders' Hirakawa Haruki CEO of International Development, CEO of Pyengcheon Corp(present) Tae Eun Kwon, Seok Won Kim, shareholders' meeting in March meeting in March, and consists of Outside Philippe Aguignier Head of BNP Paribas China, Retail Banking Head of BNP Paribas Asia Retail division(present) Sang Kyeong Lee, Ke Sup Yoon all outside directors 74 Sustainable Governance 75 Ethical Management Risk Management Ethical transparency Ethical management education Risk management and revises risk management regulations and the group's risk association regulations. Shinhan Financial Group puts great importance on its ethical reputation Shinhan Financial Group strengthens ethical standards and legal SFG has been converting risk management from a 'functional' as its core asset, and to this end, has all its employees regard ethical compliance related to management activities of the group through perspective to a 'cultural' perspective through the establishment of Group risk association values as standards for desirable decision making and take part in sustainable ethical education and training programs and establishes a risk management system projects since the global financial crisis. In This is the body which discusses risk policies and strategies for each activities to raise awareness in their importance. basis for employees' practice. To this end, we demand our employees addition, we enacted 'group risk philosophy' to increase the risk ownersubsidiary, and votes on matters necessary for implementing the attend trainings, cyber training, and management stategy meetings ship of all employees and to make risk management part of our daily policies decided in the the risk management committee. It consists of Ethical management at least once a year. The following are major examples of education lives, and are utilizing these philosophies as standards when making all personnel in charge of the risk management, and personnel in charge Ethical conduct is strictly enforced by compliance officers in the holding provided by the group. business decisions. of risk management in each subsidiary. company and each subsidiary. In February 2010, a compliance officer was appointed to ensure the principles of ethical and transparent Shinhan Bank has designated every 3rd week as 'Compliance Key risks facing the Shinhan Financial Group Group risk management executive(group CRO) management. As the CEO reiterated in his 2010 New Year's Address, Surveillance Education Week(ABC week)', and provides timely ethical Risk type Explanation Supports the Group Risk Management Committee and ensures that SFG remains deeply committed to reinforcing its ethical management and compliance education through the 'Compliance Letter' which Risk that may occur due to debtor's bankruptcy, the risk policies and strategies decided in the committee are impleand adhering to strict ethical practices, thus helping to ensure sustaincontains baseline cases of compliance and recent examples of financial Credit risk noncompliance of contract by the counterpart mented consistently. In addition, CRO assigns a certain weight on the able growth. incidents. Furthermore, we opened a cyber training course 'ethical Risk due to changes of market elements such as risk management officers in each subsidiary, and conducts examination management and compliance of regulations' and made it mandatory Market risk interest rate, share prices exchange rate, product price etc. on the risk management situation of each subsidiary. It also has a group Enactment and implementation of ethical codes for all employees to take the course. Espeically, we provide customized Financial Risks risk management team which assists risk management personnel in In order to achieve a unified enhancement of ethical awareness of education to new employees and promoted employees. Risk that may affect financial situation such as Interest rate risk changes of net asset values due to changes in the group. employees, we operate a 'Group Ethical Management CoP', which interest rates Shinhan Card provided 'Shinhan In Compliance Practice Guidelines' officers in charge of ethical management in each subsidiary attend, and Risk where a problem may occur in overseas Risk management division of subsidiaries(committee and which aims at compliance, mindset enhancement, and prevention of Liquidity risk payment due to lack of asset liquidity in June 2011, we enacted and started to operate the 'Shinhan Finance exclusive organization) financial accidents etc. to all employees through online education once Risk due to inappropriate or wrong workforce Group Ethical Code'. Each subsidiary, as a good corporate citizen, has Each of the risk related committees and internal organizations of a year. In 2011, 3,060 employees(including contract workers) took the Operational risk or business procedure, system error or outside enacted ethical regulations in line with its business characteristics for incident subsidiaries realize the risk policies and strategies of the group. They course. We also provide self-evaluation on compliance once a year. prevention of bribery and corruption, and information protection, and Risk due to lack of response measures to report on the risk management situation to the holding company, disadvantage business decision, implementation with the ethical values and virtues that each employee should abide by. Shinhan Investment Insurance also conducts a survey on compliance Strategic risk of inappropriate decision, changes in business control the risks that may occur in the subsidiaries, and improve the risk indexes for all employees, in order to grasp the level of awareness of Nonfinancial environment etc. Risks management system of each company. employees on ethical management and compliance, and to seek the Risk due to deteriorated outside opinions Ethical management programs of customers and shareholders etc. due to right ethical management directions. Furthermore, we are trying to Reputation risk weak management, financial accidents, social Network of risk management experts Our group encourages all employees to sign the 'ethical practice increase awareness of compliance by providing related regulations and controversies etc. We created a risk expert group in the group based on business areas, pledge' each year covering core matters that employees must comply system changes, major compliance surveillance work, and incident Legal risk Risk that may occur due to misunderstanding of work experience, and knowledge capabilities. Risk management various contract documents or law suits with extracted from the detailed contents of ethical regulations. prevention through site survey in sales offices. experts identify potential risks through group meetings and derive Through this pledge, we provide the opportunity for group employees solutions. In addition, we conduct activities such as risk education and to reconfirm their will to practice ethical practice. Integrated risk management workshops etc. to expand the risk culture and nurture experts. Strengthening internal ethical regulation compliance We operate the 'finance transaction report system' to prevent disputes The risk management committee reporting to BOD of SFG sets the policy Integrated risk management chart We are implementing the 'Financial Incident Illegitimacy Report System' related to interests of transaction companies and have adopted a selfdirections for establishing basic policies for integrated risk management where a customer can report on any violation of regulation or unreaGroup Risk Management compliance program for fair transactions to prevent unfair competition. in the group. This is a committee participated in by risk management sonable business process, and the 'Internal Report System' where an Committee(GRMC) Assign part of Since 2011, Shinhan Bank has been providing education to 107 personnel from each subsidiary, where discussions are held and policies policies/strateemployee may report any violation of law, internal regulations, ethical gies employees in departments with a high risks of unfair trading every half are made regarding risk related policies. In addition, we operate a comprecode, to prevent the possibility of financial incidents within the group. year. hensive monitoring system for the current situation of risk management We are also providing on and offline education on a sound promotion Group Risk Association In addition, we enacted 'insider trading control guidelines' and a culture, proper share transctions, sound investment culture, and ban on of the group, to identify potential risks and core issues in a timely manner. Establishing and manual to prevent unfair trading(funds, assets, personal trading by receiving gifts or money on national holidays etc., to raise awareness of We analyze the level of risk influence for each potential risk and issue, holding implementing risk establishing preemptive countermeasures at a group level. company strategies Risk Management employees etc.), and we have each subsidiary review the adequacy of employees, and are trying to spread a righteous ethical practice culture Executive(GCRO) insider trading and report on it every quarter, improving transparency by strictly prohibiting political activities or joining political parties. Group risk management committee and fairness of group administration. This is the highest decision making body consisting of outside directors Risk Management Team of BOD of SFG, which establishes basic policies and strategies on risk management. Establish and implement detailed Reporting strategies It determines the adequate level of risk for each subsidiary, approves Risk Management subsidiaries Division of Subsidiaries adequate investment amounts and loss tolerance limits, and enacts 77 Sustainable Economic Performance Key Figures Shinhan Financial Group creates sound and transparent economic value on 'compassionate finance' to invest in social values. We intend to serve the public interest through social contribution activities which make the most of the characteristics of the financial business. Economic Performance Environment Performance EC1. Creation and distribution of economic values EC6. Local purchasing policies and ratios Social Performance The economic value created is distributed by various methods We give preferential treatment to suppliers or cooperating companies including salaries, tax, and investment to local communities embracing located where the business is in under operation when selecting the six stakeholder areas of employees, shareholders and investors, local local based supply or cooperating companies, and we are gradually communities, government and cooperating companies. increasing the ratio. Overview on economic value creation (Unit: 100 million won) Amount and ratio of local purchase (Unit: million won) Classification Amout Classification 2010 2011 Business profits 41,347 Amount of items and equipments purchased through all suppliers 31,848 44,893 Net profits 31,000 Amount of items and equipments purchased through local suppliers 4,176 8,309 Ratio of local purchase(%) 13.1% 18.5% * source: Shinhan Bank Distribution of economic values] (Unit: 100 million won) Stakeholders Items Amount Employees and executives Salary/welfare expenses 19,116 EC7. Employing local workers first and the ratio of managers Shareholders and investors Dividends 6,295 Led by Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Financial Group is pioneering overseas Local communities Investment in social contribution 1,258 branches and expanding markets. We classify host country workers Government Corporate tax expense 13,424 into manager candidate group, next generation leader group, and Cooperating companies Purchase and services 6,522 potential talent group, and provide support for the growth of core staff Others Other general management expenses 20,361 by selecting/educating and treating them as members of a core pool of local talent. EC3. Scope of pension support Employing local workers and the ratio of managers (Unit: persons / %) Classification 2009 2010 2011 In order to respond to the aging population and to stabilize living after Total number Number of local workers dispatched 151 172 173 retirement, we adopted and are operating the retirement pension of employees Number of local workers employed at the local place 949 1,116 1,247 system through labor-management negotiations held in 2006. overseas Ratio of local worker employment 86.3% 86.6% 87.8% Number of local managers 204 238 253 Overview of retirement pension system Ratio of managers from the locality 18.5% 18.5% 17.8% * source: Shinhan Bank Classification Description The year of initial adoption 2006 in the group EC8. Overview of social contribution activities Defined benefit retirement type(DB) system, defined Adoption type contribution retirement type(DC) system We operate various programs that may be of practical help to the Subjects All employees in the head office of subsidiaries and sales offices development of local communities based on the three social contribuOperating organizations 14 operators including Shinhan Bank tion principles of coexistence, sympathy, and symbiosis. Operated amount 659.1 billion won Number of subscribers 19,251(DB : 17,005, DC : 2,246) Overview of social contribution activities (Unit: 100 million won / persons) Social contribution Social contribution Annual Subsidiary Investment amount number of participants EC5. Ratio of wages of entry level employees to the Shinhan Financial Group 5.3 local minimum wages Shinhan Bank 716 Shinhan Card 406.6 Continued service year: We provide fair wages based on relevant Shinhan Investment Corp 22.1 standards such as continued service year, and job and business Shinhan Life Insurance 57.2 56,798 performance etc. The wage of entry level employees of Shinhan Group Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset 20.2 Management exceeds 2.4 times of the minimum wage. Shinhan Capital 12.3 *2011 legal minimum wage: 902, 880 won Jeju Bank 18.1 Total 1,258 78 Sustainable Key Figure 79 Environmental Performance Social Performance Shinhan Financial Group came up with a systematic and comprehensive green management response system for the promotion of Shinhan Financial Group is strengthening internal transparent management based on the ethical code, and is thoroughly protecting green finance. We established a greenhouse inventory for realization of carbon neutrality to manage and reduce greenhouse gas customer information and the human rights of stakeholders. In addition, we take into consideration whether or not companies which emissions amounts, and expanded support for developing green finance products and for green corporations, developing environment need our support have in place and implement human rights policies, when deciding whether or not to provide support to them. friendly green finance. EN1. Raw material usage EN22 Waste emission management A. Human rights indexes HR4. Total differentiated cases and related measures We use paper for various receipts, documents and contracts in the Waste paper and other wastes used in the buildings of subsidiaries is We are working on active implementation of guidelines for a ban on working process, but do not use recyclable paper for the sake of processed by authorized consigned companies. We prevent external HR2. Human rights screening ratio of major suppliers/ discriminative action against employees for fair personnel evaluation. customer information protection due to the characteristics of our pollution through a transparent management on the consigned company. contract companies Establishing organisation to prevent discrimination, we operate sexual business environment. However, we have adopted online conference systems and web fax systems for an environmentally friendly business Waste emissions (Unit: ton) When screening and selecting cooperating companies, we make a harassment prevention department, help desk, and internal report process, reducing the usage of paper in all subsidiaries. Scope of data collection 2009 2010 2011 comprehensive deliberation on credit ratings and quality of the subject system, and reflect performance in personnel evaluation. Shinhan Financial Group Head office companies, and their environment protection capabilities, in parallel Raw material usage (Unit: ton) General waste 306 329 336 Overview of occurrence of sexual discrimination (Unit: cases) Shinhan Bank Head office, Gawnggyo bldg with a consideration of human rights of employees. We continue Scope of data collection 2009 2010 2011 Gangnam annexed bldg. Shinhan Card Head office(except for leased bldgs) Industrial monitoring the selected companies as well. Classification 2009 2010 2011 Shinhan Financial Group Head office Shinhan Investment Corp Head office waste Shinhan Bank Sexual discrimination 7 8 7 (generated Shinhan Card Head office and Shinhan Life Insurance Haed office and all sales offices Shinhan Investment Corp sales offices during repairing and 2 1 2 HR3. Employee education situation on work related Amount of Shinhan BNP Paribas constructing human policies copy paper Shinhan Life Insurance 1,599.3 1,628.3 1,660.3 Asset Management Head office head offices HR5. Freedom of association and collective bargaining purchased Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Head office and branches) Due to the characteristics of the business, the ratio of women workers Shinhan Capital Head office We have labor unions and labor management associations, and Shinhan Capital Head office Total waste 308 330 338 is high, and thus we guarantee opportunities for development and Head office and Jeju Bank Head office employees can join or opt out of them freely. Furthermore, we joined Jeju Bank sales offices growth accordingly. We allocate work in consideration of gender the national financial industry union and guarantee union education, characteristics, and prohibit gender discrimination and provide sexual FS8. Values of each type of green finance product harassment education for all employees at the head office and sales various facilities and provision of materials, union activities and promoEN3 / EN4 Energy usage offices at least once a year. tion activities. Values of each type of green finance product (Unit: accounts / 100 million won) The total amount of electricity, heating fuel and the like used in the Product name Description Description 2009 2010 2011 head office and branches of subsidiaries, and energy used in personnel Education related to ethical management HR6 / HR7. Child labor and abolition of forced labor Accumulates 0.1% of card usage transportation has been on a gradual decrease since 2009. Environment amount to Environment Love Fund Number of 11,830 8,178 6,020 2009 2010 2011 Love Card 20% discount on eco-tourism and cards We comply with the human rights and labor principles of the ten Energy usage (Unit: GJ) eco-travel fee Classification Total Number Total Number Total Number of principles of UN global compact and the labot act, and strictly ban education of education of education applicants Insurance time applicants time applicants time (persons) Source of emission 2009 2010 2011 Shinhan Provides guarantees in case of premium (hours) (persons) (hours) (persons) (hours) forced labor and child labor. Electricity usge 258,557 255,456 251,016 Child Love environmental disease or traffic at the 67 132 167 Insurance accidents during using bicycles beginning of Education on fair trade City gas usage 25,909 28,118 25,438 9,720 6,315 11,669 6,257 17,281 6,662 month regulations Gasoline usage 37,410 35,739 39,146 HR8. Ratio of security personnel trained for human nsurance Diesel usage 1,932 2,095 1,759 Shinhan Invested in corporations which are premium Education on ethical compliance and rights policies and procedures Total energy usage 323,808 321,408 317,359 environmentally frriendly and practice 2,645 1,736 5,148 2,241 4,912 2,513 Variable at the 125 123 145 prevention on sexual social responsibility management, Insurance beginning of harassment through SRI fund month Implementation ratio of education on sales departments and (Unit: %) EN8 / EN9 / EN10 / EN21 Water usage and waste management Ethical compliance online security sevices euucation (including prevention 84,126 12,034 185,505 13,373 156,612 13,263 All the water used in the buildings of subsidiaries comes from the water FS4. Strengthening capabilities of employees for education on sexual Classification Ratio of human rights education supply service, and is finally sewage treated through the city sewage implementing environmental and social policies harassment) treatment facilities. We do not use groundwater or recycled water, and do Visit education and internal not discharge any harmful material which may affect the environment. Shinhan Card opened a cyber academy course under the title 'EnvironEthical compliance 2,625 48 7,019 8,028 Shinhan Bank Prevention email education once every 100 ment Management for Low Carbon Green Growth' in 2011, and held education half year or more 3 seasons of education, and Shinhan Life participated in the course for Seoul metopolitan Water usage (Unit: ton) Humans rights education nurturing green insurance experts. Meanwhile, Shinhan Bank held green compliance monitor 1,005 490 1,130 536 1,349 660 once every half year, and group training Jeju Bank Human rights 100 Ton Scope of data collection 2009 2010 2011 finance seminars, and published and distributed '10 major green industry work education and CS Shinhan Financial Group Head office guidebook' and 'green certification guidebook' for the financial sector, in an education Local sales office business 350 175 441 213 492 246 Shinhan Bank Head office Gwanggyo bldg. effort to strengthen the environmental and social capability of employees. circulation tour Gangnam annexed bldg. Shinhan Card Yeoksam bldg.,Dangsan bldg. Accident prevention Water 2,506 179 22,239 1,059 377,916 5,726 education and Shinhan Investment Corp Head office 239,907 257,528 250,762 FS5. Stakeholders' participation in the environmentally ewage usage Shinhan Life Insurance Training center friendly product development process Private information protection education 117 120 396 132 Shinhan BNP Paribas Head office Asset Management Shinhan Bank shared stakeholders' opinions for developing environmenShinhan Capital Head office tally friendly products through the 'Greenbank Idea Contest', awarded Jeju Bank Head office and sales offices selected pieces of work, and then published them as actual products. 80 Sustainable Key Figure 81 B. Labor indexes LA5. Minimum notification period for changes in major LA10. Overview of employee education LA15. Return ratio after maternity leave businesses The core of talent nurturing is nurturing strong Shinhan people. We LA1 / LA13. Overview of employees Return after maternity leave (Unit: %) Through labor unions and labor management associations we prevent operate various education programs such as global education and disputes and conflicts in advance, and gather employees opinions on leadership education so that employees can become leaders of 2009 2010 2011 Overview of employees per employment type and diversity type (Unit: persons) sharing issues and welfare related policies. When changes occur in Male 100 100 100 Shinhan, and provide quality education opportunities by investing Ratio of return to work after vacation 2011 major businesses, we make it mandatory to give notice of them 60 days Female 92 91 90 Configuration of employees 2009 2010 through a top level education budget. beforehand to improve the stability of working and labor management Ratio of work for at least 12 months Male 90 97 95 Male 5 7 7 30-50 cooperation. after returning to work Female 95 91 84 Female 0 0 1 Overview of education (Unit: million won) (Unit: hours) Executives Male 72 68 78 Over 50 Education training cost per person Education time per person female 0 0 0 LA6. Ratio of employees represented by the Labor Management Common Health Safety Committee 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 C. Product responsibility indexes Male 858 1,111 1,369 0.9 1.5 1.4 164.9 145.8 163.3 Less than 29 The labor union and labor management association are the main decision Female 2,895 3,267 3,521 making bodies related to employee safety and health matters. PR3 / PR6. Types of necessary product and service Male 9,846 9,926 9,866 information Employees 30-50 Female 5,138 5,526 5,827 LA11. S  ustainable employment and employment of LA7. Ratio of work related health problems such as retired workers We enacted 'financial product disclosure guidelines' and are operating Male 797 1,043 1,279 Over 50 23 52 67 injuries and work related disease supervisory procedures on finance product disclosure, and regarding Female To provide steady retirement benefits to our retirees, we offer a retirement the PR material of financial products provided by subsidiaries, we impleLoss due to injury and industrial illness plan that complies with the Retirement Wage Guarantee Act. Retirement Regular 16,316 16,969 17,404 (Unit: persons / %) ment preliminary screening so that contract terms can be disclosed. pensions for employees who have worked for more than a year are calcuEmployment type Temporary 945 1,483 1,584 2009 2010 2011 lated in accordance to the retirement payment provision regulations and At the same time, in order to effectively prevent consumer complaints, Non regular 11,321 2,485 2,983 Number of Industrial Number of Industrial Number of Industrial the executive retirement severance. The total estimate of the pension, we operate preliminary discussion system so that opinions from industrial industrial industrial calamity calamity calamity calamity calamity included in the budget, is calculated as the retirement appropriation debt consumer complaint related divisions can be reflected. No violation of victims ratio ratio ratio LA2. Cases/ratio of employee transfer victims victims and the total payable retirement funds are deducted from the retirement advertisements or marketing related regulations occurred during the 4 0.025 4 0.024 3 0.017 appropriation debt. reporting period. We try to reduce the employee turnover rate by providing various welfare benefits such as the improvement of the employee welfare Overview of compliance of marketing regulations (Unit: cases) system, leisure support, and free vacation culture, and medical support, LA8 / LA9. Health control programs LA12. Performance evaluation and career development and transparent and fair compensation on evaluation. Detaield items 2009 2010 2011 The labor management association provides various ideas and opinions We conduct performance evaluation once a year on all employees Cases of preliminary examination on financial 1,214 2,078 2,857 Turnover overview (Unit: persons) to support the maintenance of the health of employees and families, below heads of departments. Performance evaluation is divided into product disclosures and shares the results. work performance and multi-lateral evaluation, and is conducted as 1st 2009 2010 2011 Number Number Turnover Number Number Turnover Number Number Turnover or 2nd evaluation according to business characteristics of each departHealth control programs of of rate(%) of of rate(%) of of rate(%) ment. The final confirmer checks the adequacy of the evaluation. D. Social performance index employees transferers employees transferers employees transferers Program name Subjects Description 16,411 1,226 7% 17,061 613 4% 17,484 710 4% -Provides various health examination material Performance evaluation application ratio (Unit: %) SO2 / SO4 / SO8. Anticorruption analysis and number Health control program and information 2009 2010 2011 of violation cases -Consulting doctors and nurses LA4. Employee ratio subject to collective bargaining -Vaccination A type hepatitis 95 94 94 In order to prevent corrupt activities related to unfair trading and to Vaccination -Flu and swine flu vaccination maintain a transparent management environment, we manage and SFG guarantees the freedom to unite, collective bargaining, and -Cervical cancer vaccination collective action, and does not interrupt employees from joining or Employees supervise corruption risks for each business site. Through a dual insider and families -Healthy companionship campaign LA14. Ratio of basic wages between men and women withdrawing from the unions. We operate various communication Diet campaign -Health related lectures and diet hiking trading monitoring system by the compliance team of each subsidiary channels such as employee meeting sessions and labor and manage-Events participating with families There is no discrimination on basic wages based on the gender of and the audit team of the holding company, we imposed a transparent ment associations etc. -Consulting by internal employee having employees. Basic wages are calculated based on related regulations fair trading management system, and are trying to prevent corruption counseling license according to continued years of work and work. Nonsmoking programs -Connecting with outside center for related risks by implementing integrated self-diagnosis for employees. Subscription ratios of labor union and labor-management (Unit: %) consulting association of subsidiaries Basic wages for newly employeed (Unit: won) Situation of offices which received corruption risk analysis (Unit: number) -Nonsmoking campaign for employees Classification 2009 2010 2011 Nonsmoking -Providing nonsmoking patches to 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Shinhan Financial Group 57 57 59 campaigns participating employees Total offices 1,387 1,421 1,433 -Operating nonsmoking funds and CoP Basic wages for newly employeed 2,007,349 1,896,325 2,201,966 Shinhan Bank 100 100 100 Number of offices which received corruption risk -Examination on elements affecting 712 595 814 Shoulder-arm-neck analysis(diagnosis) Shinhan Card 81 81 83 orthopaedic system syndrome Shinhan Investment Corp 73 75 72 -Education on orthopaedic related disabilities Employees Laws and regulation violation overview (Unit: cases / million won) Shinhan Life Insurance 100 100 100 -Special examination on branches with poor Special examination Detailed units 2009 2010 2011 working conditions(lung, liver) Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management 100 100 100 -Overcoming metabolism syndrome through Cases of financial sanctions 4 0 4 Shinhan Capital 100 100 100 Partnership diet weight loss Amount of fines 101.4 0 10.5 Jeju Bank 100 100 100 -Marathon club newly Improved Cases of non financial sanctions 5 14 1 Full course marathon Total 94 94 94 -Confidence and work performace Cases pressed through dispute reconciliation means 0 0 0 83 Stakeholder UN Global Compact Information Shinhan Financial Group joined the UN Global Compact in May 2008 in order to reflect the international standards on sustainable management and to let the world know about its will to promote social responsibility management. Shinhan Financial Group is promoting climate change response and stable labor management relations based on green finance leading a sound finance culture through compliance with ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, and discloses the UN Global Compact results, fulfilling its social responsibilities as a pace-setting global finance leader. Independent Assurance Statement GRI Application Statement Classification Principles Indexes on activities and performances GRI Indexes Page GRI 3.1 Index Human rights 1. We support and respect internationally Employee education, HR1, HR2, HR3, 39, 48 About This Report pronounced human rights Human rights education HR4, HR5, HR6, Implementation of ethical management education, HR7 Contact Implementation of employee education, Implementation of sexual harrassment prevention education 2. We do not participate in human rights Total number of discrimination cases HR4, HR8 79 violation activities Labor 3. We admit the right to organize and to Number of members in the labor union, HR5, LA5, LA4 79 ~ 80 collective bargaining Whether or not labor disputes occurred 4. We abolish all types of forced labor Compliance with Labor Standards Act and International Labor HR7 54, 57, 63 Organization, Compliance with group agreements 5. We abolish child labor in an effective Compliance with Labor Standards Act and International Labor HR6 79 manner Organization, Compliance with group agreements 6. We abolish discrimination in employ Ratio of disabled employees, HR4, LA2, 79 ~ 81 ment and business Ratio of women employees LA10, LA13, LA14 Environment 7. We support preventive approaches to UNEP FI 4.11 27 ~ 28 environmental problems Carbon neutrality program 8. We take the lead in taking greater Carbon neutrality program, EN12, EN13, 25 environmental responsibilities Environmental performance management, EN14, EN18, 28 ~ 31 Green finance product development EN21, EN22, EN26, EN30 9. We support environmentally friendly Support for green corporations, EN5, EN6, EN7, 31 technology development and supply Investment into environmental development, EN10, EN18, Green finance products and services EN26 Anticorruption 10. We make efforts to eliminate all types Shinhan ethical codes SO2, SO3, SO4 69, 74 of corruption including unfair profits Strengthening self-diagnosing of ethical codes and bribery etc. 84 Stakeholder Information 85 Independent Assurance Statement To the '2011 Shinhan Financial Group Social Responsibility Report' This assurance result was based on comprehensiveness, significance, and responsiveness, which are the three principles of AA1000 AS, and the opinions on this report is as follows: management. This social responsibility report which has been issued as an integrated report of each subsidiary's social sustainability management activities, showed that Shinhan Financial Group has developed an integrated structure for building and performing sustainable management strategies and implements inspections to improve them under the leadership of the group and not at the individual subsidiary level. Such efforts by Shinhan Financial Group are meaningful in that they present advanced and developed ways for sustainable management to corporations at home and abroad. Comprehensiveness is a principle guaranteeing participation of stakeholders in order to develop and achieve strategic and responsible Independent assurance statement on the social responsibility report response measures to sustainability. BSI Group Korea Limited(hereinafter, BSI) was requested to conduct an independent assurance on the '2011 Shinhan Financial The assurance team confirmed that Shinhan Financial Group is implementing a participation process for stakeholders, and is collecting stakeholders' opinions, and making efforts to reflect the opinions in sustainable policies. It is also establishing a regular channel for communicating with each stakeholder Group Social Responsibility Report'(hereinafter 'report'). group, and determining the order of priority of reporting stakeholder questionaire and feedback became helpful in determining the contents of the report. This report reflects the performances from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. Each subsidiary of Shinhan Financial Group has stakeholders according to its characteristics. The assurance team noted that this report understood the major common issues of the group by selecting and participating stakeholders based on the interest areas of stakeholders at the group level, while Scope of assurance understanding the special issues of each subsidiary and stating those issues on the allocated pages for each subsidiary. The report deals with social responsibility management activities and performances of eight major subsidiaries of the group including Shinhan Holdings, It seems that a comprehensive report which covers important responsibility issues has been issued. and the scope of assurance is limited to domestic offices. More than just reporting on the performances on issues that stakeholders are interested in, it is necessary to enable effective participation by stakeholders The following are not included in the assurance. in the process of establishing and promoting strategic response masures for sustainability. -Financial information -In cases of environmental data, the scope of reporting is limited to major real estate directly owned by Shinhan Financial Group Significance in determining of issues by stakeholders that are necessary in making decisions based on information on Shinhan Financial -Additional information included in other homepages other than the report Group and its effects. The assurance team identified that there has been much improvement compared to previous social responsibility reports in systematic review on Responsibilities and independence important issues identified from the stakeholder participation process. The responsibility for writing the social responsibility report lies in Shinhan Financial Group. The responsibility of assurance is providing an independent Shinhan Financial Group is deriving 58 issues related to the group of among social responsibility issues from various stakeholders according to corporate assurance statement which contains professional opinions obtained after applying verification methods on the stated scope to the management of significance assessment process, and is deriving general issues that apply to the group in consideration of common values and influence of the holding Shinhan Financial Group, and providing that information to all stakeholders of Shinhan Financial Group. company and subsidiaries based on the 58 issues. Furthermore, it contains the major issues where characteristics of subsidiaries have been taken into The assurance team has no interest relationship with Shinhan Financial Group, was not involved in writing any reports other than providing the assurance account effectively through the pages of each subsidiary. statement on the report. Furthermore, the assurance process has been performed by the BSI assurance team consisting of experts of each area who have In order to consolidate and develop the sustainability issues identified from stakeholders, it is recommended to form a supreme organization system such extensive and in depth technical skill and experience to exert high level capability. as a sustainability management committee under the board of directors or to deal with the sustainability issues in the existing committee(risk management committee etc.). Through this, if it is possible to identify that the strategies established for sustainability management are connected with stakeholder Assurance standard issues and if it is possible to identify SFG's will and effort for sustainability, it will become a company more relied upon and loved by people. Assurance of this report has been performed based on the following standard. -AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) assurance standard Responsiveness is a principle of the scope by which an organization responds to a stakeholder issue. -GRI G3.1 Sustainable Management Reporting Guidelines The assurance team identified that SFG responded appropriately against the issues according to the business effects and degree of social interests. Strengthening such comprehensiveness and responsiveness will become important motivations for strengthening core capabilities of sustainability of SFG. The assurance team applied type 1, Moderate level of AA1000 AS(2008) standard, and identified compliance of comprehensiveness, significance, and responsiveness principles, and did not include reliability assessment on sustainable performance information in this assurance process. As for GRI index However, it is recommended to include not only performance information of the past but also strategies and goals so as to predict short term performances regulation, we applied application level A. of the group and policy directions on sustainability issues of each sector. Each business sector reflects positive aspects of the performance that the company achieved regarding the sustainability issue. However, in order to Assurance method maintain balance in reporting, it is recommended to derive issues with poor performance and include efforts to resolve those issues. The assurance team complied with the assurance standards, utilized methodologies developed for collecting related evidence so as to lower error on the reported contents. Performance information -Reviewing SFG's significance determining process and checking appropriateness to determine order of priority of assurance It is recommended to devise a system which integrates and manages performance data of each area of economy, society, and environment, and establishes -Reviewing sustainability strategy implement process and the system for implementation thereof a system which manages performances to goal on a regular basis, and to connect it with internal audit process for data reliability management. -Interviewing high level managers and executives who are responsible for managing sustainability issues, and selecting grounds and appropriateness which support the discussed issues -Generating, collecting, and checking the report processes of data in each performance area -Independent evaluation on SFG's report in preparation for applicability level of GRI guidelines Assurance opinions This assurance team reviewed the draft report and provided its opinions, and revisions were made to the report when necessary. Based on the assurance activities performed, the assurance team confirmed that Shinhan Financial Group complied with the reporting principles and wrote sustainability performances June 22, 2012 appropriately. CEO of BSI Group Jeong Ki Cheon This Assurance team confirmed that the GRI indexes stated in the GRI index were being reported either completely or partially as a result of the significance assessment process. This assurance team confirmed that the report satisfies the A+ applicability level of GRI guideline G3.1. 86 Stakeholder Information 87 GRI Application Statement GRI 3.1 Index ISO Extent of Index explanation 26000 reporting Page Common Ⅰ. Visions and strategies 1.1 CEO message 6.2 Fully 6~7 1.2 Opportunities and challenges 6.2 Fully 6~7 Ⅱ. Organization profile 2.1 Corporation name Fully 8 2.2 Major products and brands Fully 8 2.3 Operational structure 6.2 Fully 9 2.4 Location of main office Fully 92 2.5 Country where major business place is located Fully 8~9 2.6 Ownership structure and legal format Fully 8~9 2.7 Sales market Fully 9 2.8 Corporation volume Fully 9 2.9 Major changes of corporation volume, organization structure, and ownership structure Fully 8 2.10 Awards Fully 4 Ⅲ. Report medium variances 3.1 Report period Fully 91 3.2 Recent report date Fully 91 3.3 Report cycle Fully 91 3.4 Contact for questions related to the report Fully 93 3.5 Process for determining report matters Fully 71 3.6 Report boundaries Fully 91 3.7 Limiting reporting scope and boundaries Fully 91 3.8 Report boundaries that can have significant effect on comparability of information Fully 91 3.9 Data measurement technologies and ground for calculation Fully 91 3.10 Readjusting information provided in the previous report Fully 91 No major changes in 3.11 Major changes of report scope, boundaries or measuring method etc. Fully report scope 3.12 GRI Content Index Fully 87 ~ 90 3.13 Policies on independent assurance and recent practices Fully 84 ~ 85 Ⅳ. Governance structure, responsibilities, participation 4.1 Corporate governance structure 6.2 Fully 72 4.2 Whether CEO and chairman of BOD can be the same person 6.2 Fully 72 4.3 Structure of BOD 6.2 Fully 72 4.4 Mechanism where shareholders and employees can present opinions in the BOD 6.2 Fully 70 4.5 Connecting corporate performance and compensation to executives and management 6.2 Fully 72 4.6 Process at the BOD level to avoid conflict among stakeholders 6.2 Fully 73 4.7 Process for determining professionalism of executives leading economic, environmental, social strategies 6.2 Fully 73 4.8 Management principles 6.2 Fully 69 4.9 Procedures that BOD use in supervising the economic, environmental, social performances 6.2 Fully 73 4.10 Processes for evaluating performances of BOD, especially, economy, environmental, and social performances 6.2 Partially 73 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 6.2 Fully 75 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 6.2 Fully 4 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 6.2 Fully 4 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6.2 Fully 70 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6.2 Fully 70 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 6.2 Fully 70 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded 4.17 6.2 Fully 71 to those key topics and concerns Shinhan Financial Group's Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 fulfills all the requirement of Application Level A+ of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. (The + on the logo confirms that Shinhan Financial Group has submitted this report for external assurance.) 88 Stakeholder Information 89 ISO Extent of ISO Level of Index explanation 26000 reporting Page Index explanation 26000 Reporting Page 1. Economic performance 3. Social Performances EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8, 6.8.3 6.8.7 6.8.9 Fully 77 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate Labor EC2 6.5.5 Fully 28 ~ 29 change LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 6.4 6.4.3 Fully 80 EC3 Coverage of pension support Fully 77 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government N/A None LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 6.4 6.4.3 Fully 80 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 6.4.4 6.8 Fully 77 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 Fully 39, 43, 48 operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 6.3.10 Fully 80 EC6 6.6.6 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 Fully 77 operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 Fully 80 EC7 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 Fully 77 significant locations of operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.4 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and EC8 Fully 77 LA6 6.4 6.4.6 Fully 80 through commercial in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Fully 20 ~ 25 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 LA7 6.4 6.4.6 Fully 80 fatalities by region 2. Environmental performance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 78 LA8 Programs in place to assist workforce members, or community members regarding diseases 6.4 6.4.6 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.4 6.8.8 Fully 80 No recycled paper used do to LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4 6.4.6 Fully 80 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5 6.5.4 N/A information security problems LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4 6.4.7 Fully 80 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 78 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employEN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 78 LA11 6.4 6.4.7 6.8.5 Fully 81 ability of employees and assist them in managing career endings EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 29 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 6.4 6.4.7 Fully 81 IInitiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions EN6 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 31 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4 6.4.3 Fully 80 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 29 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 78 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 Fully 81 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 78 LA15 Ratio of returning to workplace after maternity leave Fully 81 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 78 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Human rights EN11 6.5 6.5.6 N/A biodiversity N/A value outside protected areas Percentage of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas N/ HR1 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.5 6.6.6 Not EN12 6.5 6.5.6 N/A have undergone human rights screening A and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas None EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5 6.5.6 N/A Percentage of cooperating companies that have undergone screening on human rights and HR2 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.5 6.4.3 6.6.6 Fully 79 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 6.5 6.5.6 N/A actions Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 6.5 6.5.6 N/A Percentage of employees trained on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human operations, N/A by level of extinction risk HR3 6.3 6.3.5 Fully 79 rights EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 6.5.5 Fully 30 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 6.5.5 N/A None HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 6.3 6.3.6 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3 Fully 79 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 6.5 6.5.5 Fully 30 6.2 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5 6.5.3 N/A HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 79 6.3.8 6.3.10 6.4.3 6.4.5 None EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5 6.5.3 N/A Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5 6.5.3 Fully 78 HR6 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.7 6.3.10 Fully 79 to contribute to the elimination of child labor EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 6.5.3 Fully 78 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5 6.5.3 N/A Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and HR7 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.7 6.3.10 Fully 79 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN24 6.5 6.5.3 N/A Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally None HR8 Percentage of employees in charge of security who received humans rights education 6.3 6.3.5 6.4.3 6.6.6 Fully 79 IIdentity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN25 6.5 6.5.4 6.5.6 N/A affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff No cases of violation Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.5 6.5.4 6.6.6 6.7.5 Fully 31 HR9 6.3 6.3.6 6.3.7 6.3.8 6.6.7 Fully of rights of indigenous taken EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5 6.5.4 6.7.5 N/A None people No case of violation Total number and percentage of business workplaces implementing human rights supervision Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with HR10 Fully 81 EN28 6.5 Fully of environmental and effect evaluation environmental regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the No cases of human EN29 6.5 6.5.4 6.6.6 Fully 29 Number of human rights related complaints raised through official complaint delivery organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce HR11 Fully rights related mechanism EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 Fully 31 complaints raised 90 Stakeholder Information About this Report 91 Extent of We envisage a compassionate future where we can be with stakeholders by developing future values through social responsibility management. Index Explanation ISO26000 reporting Page Society SO1 Programs and cases of assessing and managing effects on local communities 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 Fully 20-25 Report overview None due to Whether there is business sites that have negative effects on local communities either potentially SO9 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 N/A characteristics of the or practically financial industry Since 2009, Shinhan Financial Group has been publishing social responsibility reports which include S010 Tools for protecting or alleviating negative effects by business sites on local communities 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 Not the performance of each subsidiary's social responSO2 Number and ratio of business units where corruption risk has been analyzed 6.6 6.6.3 Fully 81 sibility management. This report has been published SO3 Ratio of employees who received education on anticorruption policies or procedures 6.6 6.6.3 Fully 74 with the purpose of reporting the performance SO4 Actions against corruption incidents 6.6 6.6.3 Fully 81 in 2011 in a transparent manner and to introduce Position on public policies, establishing public policies and participation in lobby in detail our future responsibilities and roles to all SO5 6.6 6.6.4 6.8.3 Fully 74 activities(donating political funds is prohibited) stakeholders of our group. SO6 Donations to political parties and politicians 6.6 6.6.4 6.8.3 Fully 74 SO7 Number of cases of legal actions on unfair and monopoly activities 6.6 6.6.5 6.6.7 Fully No unfair activities The scope of the report encompasses domestic SO8 Fines and non-financial sanctions for violation of legal regulations 6.6 6.6.7 6.8.7 Fully 81 branches and sales offices of eight major subsidiaries Product responsibility along with the holding company. Some data include the performance of overseas branches and indicate this. PR1 Customer health and safety policies 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 Fully 33 No violation cases of We promise to publish a faithful and easily underPR2 Number of violation cases of product & service health, safety related regulations 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 Fully service regulations Web Reporting standable report each year, and expand the inclusivePR3 Types of product and service information necessary in the process 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully 81 SFG's social responsibility report can be read from the homepage.(www.shinhangroup.com) ness of our performance to overseas subsidiaries as No violation cases of well. PR4 Number of violation cases related to product & service labeling 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully service regulations PR5 Policies and procedures related to customer satisfaction 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.8 6.7.9 Fully 33-35 PR6 Communication related policies and programs such as advertisements and sponsors etc. 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully 81 PR7 Number of violations cases of communication related(advertisements, sponsors etc.) regulations 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully Principles and guidelines for preparing PR8 Number of complaints related to violation of customer information protection 6.7 6.7.7 Fully No cases of violathe report tions of regulations PR9 Number of cases and amounts of violations of regulations related to product & service provision 6.7 6.7.6 Fully This report was written based on the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines. In addition, the contents of ISO 26000 which is an international Extent of standard for social responsibility have been reviewed Index Explanation reporting Page and combined with the GRI indexes. Financial industry additional index FS1 Policies related to particular environmental social elements that apply to industry field Fully 28 To obtain reliability for the report, we went through a verification process based on the three principles of FS2 Environmental social risk assessment and inspection procedures in the industry field Fully 28 AA1000AS(2008) by a global verification organization FS3 Process of monitoring implementation and compliance of customers' environmental social demands during contract or transaction Fully 33 ~ 35 BSI, and received a GRI Application Level Check and FS4 Process of strengthening employees' capabilities for implementing environmental social policies and procedures in the industry field Fully 78 statement which certifies that the report is of level FS5 Mutual reaction with customers/investors/business partners related to environmental and social risks and opportunity elements Fully 78 A+.(91p.) Detailed information on the verification FS6 Portfolio ratio of industry field per particular area, size(large/intermediate/small), industry Fully 8~9 results is included in the independent assurance FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to provide particular social benefits to each industry field segmented per purpose Fully 20 statement(84~85p)in the appendix. Monetary value of products and services designed to provide particular environmental benefits to each industry field segmented per FS8 Fully 78 purpose Scope and frequency of application of audit which assess implementation of environmental social policies and risk assessment FS9 Partially 75 process Ratio/number of corporations which report on environmental social issues of among financial institution portfolio incorporated FS10 Not corporations FS11 Ratio of assets that are subject to environmental social inspection in positive method and negative method Partially 58 Shareholders' decision making policies regarding environmental social issues within the boundaries where reporting institution has FS12 Not decision making influence FS13 Access points of areas that have little population or do not receive economic benefits Fully 20 FS14 Initiatives for improving financial service approaches for people who cannot receive benefits Fully 20 FS15 Policies on fair designing and sales of financial products and services Fully 33 ~ 35 FS16 Initiatives for strengthening finance knowledge(education) per beneficiary type Fully 43, 61 92 Stakeholder Information Contact Points For additional information and questions Shinhan Financial Group's social responsibility report is published in both Korean and English. For more information on the report, please visit the websites of Shinhan Financial Group and its subsidiaries, and for more detailed information, contact information is given below. Shinhan Financial Group Shinhan Life Insurance Social Contribution Team of Shinhan Financial Group, Public Relations Team of Shinhan Life Insurance, 14, 120, 2-Ga, Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Gwanggyo bldg., 1-Ga, Namdaemun-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Office 02-6360-3262 Office 02-3455-4341 Fax 02-6360-3159 Fax 02-3455-4180 Homepage http://www.shinhangroup.com Homepage http://www.shinhanlife.co.kr Shinhan Bank Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Social Cooperation Department of Shinhan Bank, Management Support Team of Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset 120, 2-Ga, Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Management, Shinhan Investment Tower, Yoido-Dong, Office 02-2151-3161 Yeongdeungpo-Gu, Seoul Fax 02-6263-8111 Office 02-767-9080 Homepage http://www.shinhan.com Fax 02-786-8900 Homepage http://www.shbnppam.com Shinhan Card Brand Strategy Team of Shinhan Card, PSOT Tower, Seoul Shinhan Capital Central Post Office, 1-Ga, Chungmu-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Planning Team, Shinhan Capital, 14 , Office 02-6950-7199 Gwanggyo bldg., 1-Ga, Namdaemun-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Fax 02-6950-1531 Office 02-3708-1829 Homepage http://www.shinhancard.com Fax 02-773-2970 Homepage http://www.shcap.co.kr Shinhan Investment Corp. Business Planning Department of Shinhan Investment Corp., Jeju Bank 23-2, Shinhan Investment Tower, Yoido-Dong, YeongdeungpoJeju Bank Comprehensive Planning Division, do 1-Dong, Jeju Gu, Seoul City, Jeju Special Self-Governing Province Office 02-3772-1482 Office 064-720-0226 Fax 02-761-2802 Fax 064-720-0188 Homepage http://www.shinhaninvest.com Homepage http://www.e-jejubank.com
