CIB Group Sustainability Report 2011 our values sustainability report 2011 cib Group Our values Integrity We pursue our goals with honesty, fairness and responsibility in full and true respect of the rules and professional ethics and in the spirit of signed conventions and agreements. Excellence We pursue our goals with honesty, fairness and responsibility in full and true respect of the rules and professional ethics and in the spirit of signed conventions and agreements. Transparency We set ourselves the goal of continuous improvement, farsightedness, anticipating challenges, and cultivating extensive creativity aimed at innovation; moreover, we recognise and reward merit. Respect for local characteristics and differences We are committed to making transparency the basis of our actions, advertising and contracts, in order to allow all our stakeholders to make independent and informed decisions. Equality We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination from our conduct and to respecting differences in gender, age, ethnic, religious, political and trade-union alignment, sexual orientation and language, and to respecting the rights of persons with disabilities. Values of the individual The value of every single person serves as a guide for our modus operandi: we use listening and dialogue as tools for continuously improving our relationships with all our stakeholders. Responsible use of resources We aim to use all our resources sparingly. In this regard we promote conduct that is based on the best use of resources and on the avoidance of waste and ostentation. We give priority to solutions that have been designed with sustainability in mind. 2 Key Performance indicators of CIB Group sustainability report 2011 cib Group Key Performance indicators of CIB Group 300 million HUF This amount (in HUF) has been donated to more than 100 civil organisations so far in the 6 years of operation of the CIB Foundation 500 thousand This amount of money (in forint) was successfully raised in donations by the employees of the SME division in connection with a charity concert held last November. 62 thousand We assisted approximately this many sick or healthy children and adults in need in 2011, either by providing financial support or equipment, or through voluntary work. 37 440 In 2011, as a result of selective waste disposal, some 37 440 fewer litres of communal waste had to be removed from our premises 8 444 This many cubic metres of natural gas were saved by the solar panels on the roof of our head office buildings, which is roughly equivalent to the annual gas consumption of three average detached houses. 990 In 2011 we collected 990 kg of PET bottles – three and a half times the quantity in 2010. 900 This many of us took part in CIB voluntary programs last year. 42 This many sick children were able to attend summer adventure camp at the Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage) due to our support as a strategic partner 36 At the end of 2011, in comparison to the previous year, twice as many of our branches had children’s areas. 18 This many frescos were completed at the small Roma village supported by the CIB Foundation in the framework of a longterm strategic partnership, the purpose of which is to revitalise the village – which lives in extreme poverty – through the creation of jobs. 3 Key Performance indicators of CIB Group sustainability report 2011 cib Group 10 The number of bicycles available as a part of CIB’s own bike-sharing scheme. 7 The number of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group’s core ethical values. 2 It’s a two-hour journey from Budapest to the Fairytale Therapy Centre in Paloznak, of which the CIB Foundation became a key sponsor in 2011, and where severely traumatised children in state care are rehabilitated. With the Foundation’s support the number of children that can be taken into therapy will double in 2012. 1 We have one planet, one country and one environment. Together we can do more for others, and thus also for ourselves. Key performance indicators of the CIB Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of customers 727 110 720 851 1 717 247 681 517 Number of employees 3 657 persons 3 279 persons 3 091 persons 2 945 persons Percentage of female employees (roun66% 66% 66% 67% ded to the nearest whole number) CO2 emissions from energy consumption 3.24 3.18 2.31 2.38 per employee tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes Energy consumption per employee 35.7 GJ 30.44 GJ 28.23 GJ2 29.04 GJ Total waste generated 29 688 kg 63 682 kg 66 548 kg 42 025 kg Amount allocated and paid in support HUF 62.6 HUF 51.7 HUF 34.6 HUF 45.3 of public-benefit organisations (CIB million million million million Foundation) HUF 85.029 HUF 50.636 HUF 31.768 HUF -5.108 Total economic value distributed billion billion billion billion Proportion of spending on locally-based 98.17% 98.11% 97.75% 96.7% suppliers Number of trade union members 355 persons 311 persons 323 persons 293 persons As of 31 December. 1 Adjusted in 2010. 2 Adjusted in 2011. 4 Our most important commitments for 2011, and their fulfilment sustainability report 2011 cib Group Our most important commitments for 2011, and their fulfilment The commitments listed below are described in detail in the sections relating to the individual groups of our stakeholders. Fulfilled, project closed or extended Mostly fulfilled, but project not yet closed Partially implemented and in progress, or closed Implementation has begun Implementation has not yet begun Commitment fulfilment status Corporate governance Continuation of simplification and rationalisation steps • The New Bank Program continued at unchanged intensity in 2011. Comprehensive review of the Lending Framework System • In 2011 the CIB Group articulated its Risk Management Strategy. For our employees Strengthening of employee engagement • We significantly increased our participation in voluntary work related to various social causes. Launch of initiatives to strengthen employee commitment • The CIB Spirit programs got under way. Raising of employee satisfaction • The results of the survey showed a slight improvement. Further increase in the number of training courses • More employees were able to take part in more training courses, for more training hours. For our customers Launch of new products • We introduced new products in response to the statutory changes affecting foreign currency lending. Simplification of the product range • The simplification of the entire product range continued. Engagement of our customers • We continued to conduct our “100% Listening” surveys. For our suppliers Further incorporation of sustainability and ethical considerations into the supplier selection process • In progress. Introduction of prequalification and post-performance rating systems • In progress. Development of a suppliers’ web portal • In progress. Community relations Forging of new strategic partnerships • We entered into a comprehensive partnership with the Hungari-an Food Bank Association Launch of local community initiatives • We stepped up our activities related to social causes at local level. Stepping up of efforts to protect cultural heritage • Contrary to our plans, no progress was made in this regard. 5 Our most important commitments for 2011, and their fulfilment sustainability report 2011 cib Group Strengthening of dialogue • As regards the development of our social relationships, we made even more progress than in 2010, and succeeded in strengthening our dialogue with local organisations. Holding of a voluntary-work day • Some 800 of our employees took part in various voluntary work projects during the year. Holding of charitable events, exhibitions • We organised our own fundraising events and took part in the implementation of fundraising events held by others. For our environment Launch of an energy project • The project did not get under way in 2011. Further communication of the environmentally-friendly aspects of our operation • Compared with 2010 we communicated more information relating to environmental topics, both in-house and to our customers. Expanding the scope of selective waste disposal • The system was introduced in two more buildings. 6 Our most important commitments for 2012 sustainability report 2011 cib Group Our most important commitments for 2012 Commitment Corporate governance Continued organisational integration of the environmental policy Further development of the rules of ethics procedures For our employees Preparations for an internal ethics training program Elaboration and launch of a bank group-level benefits strategy Overhaul of the performance evaluation process and system Elaboration and launch of a career and talent nurturing system Expansion of initiatives to boost employee commitment and satisfaction For our customers Simplification of the product range Further strengthening of customer engagement For our suppliers Further incorporation of sustainability and ethical considerations into the supplier selection process Community relations Maintaining the operation of the CIB Foundation Further expansion of voluntary programs Elaboration of new forms of cooperation with civil society organisations For our environment Introduction of a policy setting out environmental guidelines related to the organisation of events Inclusion of more head office buildings in the selective waste disposal system 7 Message from the Chairman sustainability report 2011 cib Group Message from the Chairman realities of a declining corporate market, a regulatory environment that had turned negative, and the eurozone problems that kept resurfacing. We had to manage all this in a period that saw us significantly reduce our operating costs and achieve improvement in our processes and efficiency. We remain committed to our mission, which is to become the bank of choice for highly discerning retail and business customers, differentiated by its outstanding quality of service, and to work hard to retain staff and develop their skills and potential through the application of transparent and performance-based HR management principles, while focusing more sharply on protecting the added value that we create. At the same time, the year 2011 was an important milestone in the sense that while we had to invest a great deal of energy in transforming business processes and adapting to the unpredictable regulatory environment, we also succeeded in increasing the level and diversity of our already substantial investments in social causes. In connection with our vari-ous programs, we directly assisted 62 000 sick or healthy children and adults in need, either through the provision of The CIB Group treats and applies sustainability not as a series financial support or equipment, or through voluntary work. of initiatives, but as an in-built attitude that permeates the This is a figure we could never have been achieved without whole of company management, along the lines of solid the active participation of our numerous third-sector partners ethical values and principles that apply to the bank group as and naturally our dedicated employees. a whole. We believe that the best practice is for the whole of the organisation, through its basic operation, to reflect We report on the CIB Group’s sustainability performance, the principles of sustainably. and its individual programs, continuously and in detail in the Sustainability section of our website. This year again, In contrast to the majority of market participants, the cornersplease read through the report carefully – which also contone of the CIB Group's sustainable development strategy is tains the level of compliance with the principles of the UN to adopt a fundamentally different approach to structuring Global Compact for the fourth consecutive year and share its CSR activities: we primarily work on forward-looking iniwith us any thoughts and comments that you might have, tiatives that are developed taking the views and expectations so that by taking them into consideration we can perform of our stakeholders into consideration, and which in many even better in the year ahead, to the satisfaction and benefit cases will only bear fruit after several years. All this takes place of all our stakeholders. in a fundamentally different context to that which we have become accustomed to in recent years and past decades. The year 2011 proved to be an even tougher period than expected for the entire population, the economy, and within it, the CIB Group. We had to continue all the efforts Dr György Surányi that were necessary to restore balance to our financial and Chairman business situation, while coping with having to support customers who had run into difficulties, as well as with the 8 Table of contents sustainability report 2011 cib Group Table of contents Our values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Key performance indicators of the CIB Group. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Our most important commitments for 2011, and their fulfilment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Our most important commitments for 2012 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Message from the Chairman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 1. CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 1.1. Significant external impacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 1.2. Distribution of income, from a stakeholder’s perspective. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 2. Long-term programs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 2.1. Customers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 2.2. Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 2.3. Suppliers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 2.4. Our social impacts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 2.5. Managing our environmental impacts in 2011 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 3. Corporate governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 3.1. Organisational structure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 3.2. Decision-making bodies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 3.3. Selection and evaluation of managers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3.4. Promoting ethically-sound and responsible operation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 3.5. CSR management and communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 4. Annexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 4.1. CIB Bank – core data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 4.2. Branch Network. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 4.3. CIB Bank in figures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 4.4. Compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 GRI Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ?? About this report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Imprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 9 1. CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives sustainability report 2011 cib Group 1. CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives 10 CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives sustainability report 2011 cib Group In order to assure long-term sustainable growth, in 2009 activities and customer service through an improvement in CIB Bank and its subsidiaries launched a transformation and the effectiveness of internal and customer processes. This restructuring drive in response to the altered environment will enable the CIB Group to respond to market needs with in which it is operating. When implementing this shift in high quality, reliable services. The group seeks to achieve organisational and operational focus, CIB kept two key consisustainable growth by providing real value to customers, derations in mind. Firstly, it has developed a group-based and this basic principle will guide the group’s future conorganisational solution: to boost operational efficiency and duct in the market. to take full advantage of internal synergies, it has integrated the group’s support functions. Concurrently with this, Based on the business strategy, the CIB Group targets two in order to best meet the requirements of its customers, it major areas of future business growth: the retail and the has introduced a segment-based business model. SME segments. A critical focus in the years to come will be on energising commercial activity in order to secure CIB provides numerous channels for the direct provision the bank’s future revenues and defend its market position. of feedback by its customers, and constantly monitors the CIB will place particular emphasis on the further developresults of this process, and based on this, it introduces innoment of its retail business, and accordingly, the bank aims vative solutions designed to improve the quality of its servito become the primary retail bank for its customers. This ces. In line with the above objectives, the group approved goes hand in hand with the ability to further improve deposit a three-year business strategy in April 2010, which takes collection activity, and the provision of high-quality wealth continual account of impacts from the external environment. management services. On the lending side, the bank’s aim – The direction set by CIB’s strategy and medium-term plans besides retaining its leading market position – is to develop is to ensure that customers choose the CIB Group as their mortgage products that will give impetus to home renovatiprimary service provider, by offer-ing the best overall value ons. The CIB Group has launched and continues to develop proposition in the market. This value proposition will be its own bank insurance broking division, with the help of built on the basis of optimally priced services, accessibility which it is expanding its service portfolio with a full range and ease-of-use of products, consistently transparent priof insurance products. cing and effective differentia-tion from the value propositions of competitors. The other priority of CIB’s medium-term strategy is the financing of the real economy, to which end it is further The bank group’s institutional and business restructuring developing its products and services aimed at SMEs and program, launched in 2009, reached a new milestone in micro enterprises. As a part of this, the bank is focusing 2011: the new program sets the earlier reorganisation actispecifically on supporting the manufacturing and service vities in a consistent framework, and has the objective of sectors. Besides corporate loans and leasing services, CIB comprehensively modernising the institution and its serviBank offers other means of financing to companies, e.g. ces. The fundamental concept is to apply a coordinated, through its factoring business line. carefully considered and focused approach to the transformation of our business model. A key element of this is the While the above sectors are currently its main areas of simplification of processes and the increasing of customer focus, CIB has set new goals to maintain the performance satisfaction. In this spirit, the CIB Group intends to stand of its large corporate business, which has always represenout among its competitors by applying quality processes ted a key segment. During the coming years CIB will build in all segments and providing its customers with excepon the synergies offered by Intesa Sanpaolo, as owner, tionally high quality services. We seek to implement the thereby strengthening its presence in the multinational sectransformation process building on eight pillars, in support tor. The primary objective is to establish a uniform, and of our strategy and objectives articulated in the three-year therefore transparent and cost-effective, service structure. business plan. The “New Bank” program is made up of Consequently, CIB is one of the first banks in Hungary to the following elements: the development of commercial have implemented, together with its parent bank Intesa capabilities; operational excellence; Basel II; Workout and Sanpaolo, a standardised electronic interface for banking the management of problem assets; financial excellence; transactions, through which it is able to provide a crossexcellence in IT; excellence in HR; and compliance with the border cash pool service. The purpose of introducing this applicable rules and regulatory requirements. Moreover, service is to improve the quality of the services provided by beyond the standardisation and sim-plification of the prothe bank to multinational corporations in the areas of cash duct portfolio, the program is also aimed at developing core management and trade finance. Beyond these objectives, 11 CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives sustainability report 2011 cib Group boosting the effectiveness of customer relationship manawhile real estate financing contributed 22.4% (+2.0%) of gement, increasing the corporate deposit ratio and deepethe portfolio. The share of large corporate and SME loans ning cross-selling activities are also priorities. decreased slightly during the year. Demand for new financing was low throughout the entire period, as new retail To help safeguard the quality of the group’s loan portfolio, placements fell by more than 27% and lease financing by the group had already set up a special Workout unit, which almost 22% compared to the same period of 2010, at which ensures the bank group’s ability to achieve the best possible time the crisis was already having a significant impact on rate of recovery on its non-performing loans. CIB’s purpose the financial markets. in developing its workout operations is to further enhance • In line with the situation in the Hungarian banking sector its collection processes and capabilities. In this way, in the as a whole, the quality of the CIB Group’s loan portfolio interest of ensuring the general stability of the institution, deteriorated. The share of non-performing loans rose within it is possible to maintain a healthy balance between growth the total customer loan portfolio, albeit at a much lower and sustainable, predictable loss rates. In the coming years, rate than in the previous year. The most notable increase the bank will allocate more resources to the Workout unit in non-performing loans occurred in the retail segment, in the interest of achieving these goals. especially in foreign currency-based mortgage products, due to the depreciation of the forint. To cover potential Main strengths of the CIB Group losses from non-performing loans, CIB set aside provisions Solid liquidity position of HUF 106 billion during the course of the year. Cost-efficiency • In 2011 our group continued with the repossession of properties that were serving as collateral for non-performing Capital adequacy loans. As a result of this, by the end of the year the value of Strong market position fixed and intangible assets rose to HUF 182 billion (+30%), Clearly defined organisational structure of which the value of repossessed properties amounted to and a clear governance model HUF 137.4 billion (+50.2%). • The CIB Group’s revenue amounted to HUF 120.4 billion (-11.0%), and its operating expenses to HUF 55.6 billion Business results (-6.1%), excluding the bank tax. As a result of the costreduction program implemented by CIB’s senior manage• The CIB Group’s equity increased by HUF 3 billion to HUF ment over the past three years, the employee headcount 244 billion over the year, as the HUF 40 billion capital of the CIB Group has fallen by 712 persons (-19.5%) comincrease implemented by the parent company in April 2011 pared to December 2008. Administrative costs increased was almost entirely offset by the losses of the reporting year. by 1.3% in 2011 as the result of a one-off VAT payment • The group closed the year 2011 with a loss of HUF 37.3 obligation and the higher costs of collection activity. The billion. The reason for the negative result was mainly the cost-to-income ratio stood at 46.2% in 2011 (2.4% points redemption of mortgage loans at a fixed exchange rate, higher than in 2010), as cost cutting measures were in-sufwhich caused a loss of HUF 25.3 billion (after the 30% ficient to fully offset the effect of the decline in revenues. that can be offset against the bank tax). The deterioration • New impairment recognised in the reporting period amounin the external environment, the high ratio of non-perforted to HUF 105.7 billion, while in 2010 it was HUF 83.1 bilming loans and the growing cost of funds also contributed lion. More than half of the new impairment came from the to the 2011 loss. retail segment, due to the redemption of foreign currency • The CIB Group’s balance sheet total amounted to HUF loans at a fixed exchange rate (HUF 36.8 billion) and to the 2,524 billion (+1.2%) at the end of December 2011. The considerable depreciation of the forint. New provisions in higher volume of assets resulted mainly from the improthe corporate business decreased by 33.4% in comparison ved liquidity position, while the balance of customer loans to the previous year, thanks to the slower decline in portshrank further. folio quality. The cost of lending (Provisioning/Loans) was • At the end of December 2011, the CIB Group’s consolida5.5% in 2011. The coverage rate of non-performing loans ted gross customer loan portfolio totalled HUF 2,178 bilimproved by 10.8 percentage points, to 45.3%. lion (-6.8%). Within the overall portfolio, the proportion of retail loans (mortgage, car financing and others) reached The CIB Group did not receive any government funding in 32.9% (+0.3%) by the end of the period, and was nega2011 (as was the case in the previous years). tively affected by the fixed-rate mortgage redemptions, 12 CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives sustainability report 2011 cib Group 1.1. • The deadline for applying was 30 December 2011. • The customer had to accept that the redemption would take place on the 60th day following the application, but the new regulations demanded that the funds coverage necessary for the loan redemption be checked on 30 January 2012 Significant at the latest. The final deadline for the loan redemption was 28 February 2012. • The bank can offset 30 percent of the loss against the external impacts 2011 bank tax. Up until the day of the act’s entry into force we drew up our The government’s Home Protection Program procedural rules and trained the staff working in the branches and back-office departments, to enable them to appropriately The government introduced a number of new measures in administer the loan redemption applications of customers. 2011 with the aim of improving the position of households with foreign currency loans. The first phase of the Home We prepared analyses to model the expected losses and the Protection Program – which was announced in mid-Septemimpacts on capital, revenues, financing costs and the bank’s ber – included the opportunity to pay off foreign currency liquidity, and then finally on 7 November 2011 we commenloans at a fixed exchange rate. This measure caused a substced the provision of forint-based loans for the purposes of antial, HUF 36.8 billion, loss for CIB, and led to a consideraforeign-currency loan redemption. ble deterioration in the quality of the loan portfolio. Impact of the act on the banking sector The measure of the second phase of the Program – which was • Borrowers repaid approximately 24 percent of the overall announced in December – besides caus-ing further signififoreign currency-based mortgage loan portfolio. cant losses for the banking sector and for CIB, could improve • The decrease in the foreign currency-based mortgage loan the quality of the loan portfolio as well as the consistency, in portfolio has, to date (August 2012), resulted in a gross loss terms of currency, of assets and liabilities. The most imporof HUF 370 billion for the sector. tant el-ements of the program are as follows: the option of servicing the debt at a fixed exchange rate that is lower than Impact of the act on CIB Bank the current market rate for 5 years, and in the case of loans • Borrowers repaid approximately 31 percent of the foreign more than 90 days past due, the waiving of 25% of the debt. currency-based mortgage loan portfolio. • The foreign currency-based mortgage loan portfolio decLoan redemption scheme reased by HUF 126 billion (calculated using the average exchange rate for August 2012) relative to the figure for On 19 September the Parliament enacted the bill on the September 2012. redemption of foreign currency loans. The act entered into force on 29 September 2011. The loss arising from the diffeSpecial tax on financial institutions rence between the fixed conversion exchange rate stipulated in the act (HUF 180 in the case of CHF/HUF and HUF 250 in The special bank tax of HUF 187 billion per year remained in place the case of EUR/HUF) and the prevailing market exchange in 2011, although 30% of the loss on mortgage repayments is rate has to be borne by the banks. deductible from the tax. The additional revenue has been used by the government to meet deficit targets and to create fiscal Main features of the act: room for the personal income tax cut that was put through at • The exchange rate applicable when redeeming mortgage the beginning of the year. The cabinet decided to extend the tax loans on residential properties was HUF 180 in the case of into 2012, promising to adjust it to the level of the planned future CHF/HUF and HUF 250 in the case of EUR/HUF, provided EU-wide special tax on banks whenever it comes into effect. that the exchange rate applied at the time of disbursement did not exceed these levels, and the contract was The tax burden is well in excess of that levied in other countries active (with contracts cancelled after 30 June 2011 clasof the European Union and has led to a deterioration in the prosed as active). fits of the banking sector players, in addition to harming their growth prospects. 13 CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives sustainability report 2011 cib Group The extraordinary bank tax has also significantly damaged the on external funding remained high in 2011, and therefore it banking sector’s capacity to generate revenue and to support the is especially reliant on stable foreign parent banks that are real economy through its lending activities. This has also damacommitted to their operations in the country; however, the ged the regional competitiveness of the Hungarian bank sector. EU debt crisis has also had a significant negative impact on the liquidity and capital position of the parent banks, which Changes in the banking environment has in turn diminished the lending ability of Hungarian banks. The main challenges for the Hungarian banking sector in As a consequence of this, the upturn in the banking sector’s 2011 and in 2012 were: lending activity is being delayed further in both the retail and • the deterioration in the external environment, which was corporate sectors, contributing to a slower-than-expected principally a consequence of the debt crisis in the eurozone; economic recovery in Hungary. • the government’s Home Protection Program, which significantly reduced the profitability of Hungarian banks and Agreement between the Government and the Banking altered the domestic operating environment; Association • the high ratio of non-performing loans due to the deterioration in corporate and household credit portfolio quality, To mitigate the negative impacts of the first Home Protection as a consequence of the changed environment; Program the Government and the Hungarian Banking • the worsening financial market conditions, rising financing Association agreed on a second package to assist customcosts and liquidity risk ers with mortgage loans denominated in foreign currency. The key points of the agreement are as follows: The deepening of the debt crisis in the European Monetary • 30% of the losses resulting from the first Home Protection Union carries the possibility of a new financial crisis, and is Program can be offset against the bank tax; exacerbating the global recession. This and the unorthodox • debt servicing at a fixed exchange rate that is lower than economic measures implemented by the Hungarian governcurrent market rates for 5 years; ment led to a significant depreciation of the forint and to • the waiving of 25% of the debt of customers in default for increased local interest rates, and had a negative effect on more than 90 days. the FX swap market. The Hungarian banking sector’s reliance 14 CIB’s business strategy and priorities, business results and objectives sustainability report 2011 cib Group 1.2. and services used (consumption). We performed the calculation of this data using the methodology applied by Intesa Sanpaolo. More information on the Bank’s business results can be found in the 2011 Business Report and the Annual Financial Statements that contain it. A break-down of the Distribution of economic value generated and distributed is given in the following table. The 2011 data once again reflects the protracted difficulincome, from ties faced by the Hungarian economy, and the impact of the substantially altered tax regime. Last year was closed a stakeholder’s with a negative profit, and there was no dividend payment. Another change with major implications last year was the introduction of what is referred to as the bank tax, which perspective substantially increased our payment obligation towards the state. Overall, the explanation for the changes of 2011 can From the standpoint of sustainable growth we use an be summed up in the key points below: approach that examines the movements of income (income “Total value generated” decreased due to the fall in interest transfer), resulting from the company’s business operations, revenues; between the various participants – customers, suppliers, “Total consumption” increased due to the growth in employees, shareholders, the state, the third sector – opeimpairment; rat-ing within the economic community of which the CIB “D” turned negative due to the losses realised on reposGroup is also a part. The data pertaining to the generation sessed properties; and distribution of economic value reveal how the orgathe tax line shows revenue due to the deferred tax calculanisation creates prosperity for its stakeholders. The total ted on the losses, while we were able to reduce the bank gross value generated is the difference between the total tax by the amount of the losses from loan redemptions. value generated (revenues) and the cost of goods purchased Economic value generated and distributed (HUF billion) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total value generated (A) 192.441 269.148 270.125 212.354 197.434 Total consumption (B) 118.686 184.562 219.448 180.758 201.288 Gross value added from core business activity (A-B=C) 73.754 84.586 50.677 31.597 -3.854 Revenue from the sale of fixed assets (D) 0.183 0.443 0.041 0.172 -1.254 Total economic value generated (C+D=E) 73.937 85.029 50.636 31.768 -5.108 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Shareholders (dividend) 2.500 0 0 0 0 Employees (wage payments) 27.232 34.614 30.356 27.966 24.744 State (direct and indirect taxes) 12.616 14.193 7.342 18.481 -0.723 Third sector (donations and contributions) 0.272 0.564 0.869 0.844 0.882 Corporate sector (profit reserve and depreciation) 31.316 35.657 12.069 -15.523 -30.010 Total economic value distributed 73.937 85.029 50.636 31.768 -5.108 15 2. Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group Long-term programs t the CIB Group, our efforts to achieve sustainability are based on a long-term commitment, and thus in 2011 we again launched several new initiatives, as well as continuing our projects that were already under way. In the following sections we give an account of these initiatives and our related practices, separately for each of our most important stakeholder groups. 16 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group 2.1. ted to loans, as well as to conditions and to certain fees. We continued to follow our previously introduced practice of taking an equitable approach to the assessment of complaints. As a result of this, the number of goodwill gestures rose, and the percentage of dismissed complaints decreased. Customers In mid-2011 a new entity was added to the list of organisations working to protect consumers: the Financial Reconciliation Board undertakes to intermediate between financial institutions and consumers in the settlement of individual disputes. Besides taking steps to mitigate the impacts of the economic The CIB Group cooperates with the Board, and in the course crisis, we focused particularly on ensuring that our customers of the hearings and negotiations, we assist in working towards receive a high-quality service. This involves being attentive an agreement by proposing customer-centred solutions. to customers’ needs, providing appropriate and suitable A high percentage of requests lead to a successful conclusion. information, listening to and investigating their comments Last, but by no means least, the CIB Group takes part in all and complaints and, in short, maintaining active, two-way cooperative initiatives that might deliver a solution for those communication. It remains important for us to be capable of of our customers whose situation has become untenable as offering products and services that are suited to the needs a result of the economic crisis, with the aim of preventing or of disadvantaged groups within society, thus affording them reducing the number of future complaints. easier access to banking services. We also believe we have a mission, through the targeted provision of services that Impact of the loan redemption scheme can be accessed at preferential terms, to help our customers cultivate a responsible attitude towards money, and a greaThe preparations for the loan redemption scheme included ter willingness to save. (For supplementary data and tables the development of complaints handling processes, which related to the section below, see Annex 4.3.) was able to commence after the other business processes had been elaborated. We placed particular emphasis – not Customer satisfaction and complaints management least due to the short and strict deadlines prescribed by law – on ensuring our ability to deal with and respond to the Last year, the efforts to increase customer satisfaction concomplaints as quickly as possible. The only way of ensuring tinued to strengthen at the bank. As the economic crisis this was to introduce a centralised process for dealing with deepened further, CIB was faced with a growing number of non-standard cases (and here, more than half of the compnew challenges in this area too. laints were classed as non-standard), in contrast to the usual In addition to our surveys of retail and SME customers and decentralised complaints management process. Owing to the active users of the CIB Internet Bank, we conducted research sensitivity of the issue, certain central departments (Product among large corporate customers in 2011, which we intend Management, Legal Services, Credit Underwriting, etc.) stood to repeat every year and which will be financed by CIB from by to state their positions regarding the complaints as a matter its own resources. of priority, thus enabling us to provide the branch network In 2010, as a part of the customer experience project, we or our telephone-based customer service desk, CIB24, with strengthened direct customer engagement in the branches: the requisite support. the proportion of customers using the questionnaires printed Overall, the majority of complaints related to loan redempon queue tickets to give feedback on the day’s transaction tions were unfounded, as no identifiable error had been was consistently over 20% in 2011 across the entire branch made by the bank, which can certainly be regarded as a network, which can be regarded as an excellent result. In 2012, good result. In a few cases, while refusing the request for based on the results of the 100% Listening surveys, by putting loan redemption, as a goodwill gesture we made a decision questions that may be varied as frequently as every quarter and on what kind of individual business proposal we could make relate specifically to the individual branches, we plan to initiate to the customer that lodged the complaint. targeted improvements in the branch concerned. Complaints related to loan redemptions were still being As was the case with customer satisfaction, we also handled as late as in mid-2012, despite the fact that the faced new challenges in relation to the management loan redemption option is no longer available. The reason of complaints in 2011. While the overall number of for this is that the majority of calls from the HFSA to hold complaints remained at approximately the same level, investigations were not received until the second quarter of an exceptionally high number of complaints were rela2012. The closure of these cases is in progress. 17 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group Number of complaints investigated Complaints by type by Voice of Customer (the complaints management depart-ment) at the CIB Group 20081 2009 20081 2010 2009 2011 2010 2011 16 332 18 148 17 697 17 237 20% 28% 33% 50% 13% 18% 12% 14% 12% 14% 9% 10% 55% 50% 46% 26% Terms and CommuniTransactions Other conditions, cation and Findings of and their customer investigations into complaints in 2011 application information 20081 2009 With respect to abuses of personal data, a total of 83 comp2010 laints were received (in 2010: 11), a significant proportion of 2011 which were related to external bank card fraud. Ensuring access to services We take seriously our obligation to ensure that everybody, including those of our customers who have disabilities affecting their movement, sight and hearing, or who are handicapped in other way, can gain equal access to our services. A part of this stems from fulfilment of our statutory obligations, while other initiatives are undertaken voluntarily. 50% 36% 42% 40% 15% 21% 24% 27% 35% 43% 34% 33% Substantiated Acknowledged in Unsubstantiated • On 31 December 2011 some 64%, or 81, of our 128 brana goodwill gesture ches were barrier-free, and one was equipped with a portable ramp. (In 2010, of 145 branches 88 were barrier-free, which rep-resents 60%). The main entrances to our central office buildings, and the bank branches housed within them, have also been made barrier-free. Complaints by type of service in 2011 • By the end of 2011 the bank’s branch network consisted of 128 units, and 186 CIB-operated ATMs were available to our customers. As in 2010, the CIB Group did not have any representative offices in 2011. • By the end of 2011, compared to the previous year twice Product/Service Number of com-plaints as many of our branches, a total of 36 (in 2010: 17) had Investment products 413 children’s areas, making it easier for customers with small Transfers 942 Credit and shopping cards 2 129 children to do their banking. Debit cards 1 766 Credit products 499 Current accounts and deposits 4 975 Products for customers with special requirements Mortgage loans 1 154 • The CIB Group also offers services to individuals and legal Insurance products 640 Electronic channels 1 668 entities with special requirements. In 2011 we continued to Leasing 2 163 market our products and services developed to suit the speOther 888 Total 17 237 cific needs of youth and senior citizens, a campaign which we supported with special promotions. We offer special account products for retirees, people with large families, students, non-profit associations and apartment buildings. 1 Due to data correction, we have modified the 2008 figure from 16 335 to 16 332. 18 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group 2.2. • Last year saw a continuation of the “Simply Better!” program launched in 2010, which supports the implementation of ideas underpinned by the high level of professional knowledge and experience amassed by our employees. The most important objective of the ideas competition Employees is – with the incentive of a cash reward – to encourage employees to develop proposals related to the processes that they believe are in need of development or improvement, which will result in changes that are constructive The guiding principle in our employee relations is to and – especially importantly – measurable, and will further forge relationships based on true partnership with improve customer satisfaction and cost-effectiveness. Under our colleagues, and we promote a corporate culture the scheme preference is given to implementing ideas that founded on initiative, performance, transparency, conhave been drawn up by a team of several employees ratsistency and rapid decision-making. Moreover, from her than a single individual, so it is necessary for several 2012 onwards we are devoting particular attention to departments to cooperate in its development. In 2011 more identifying, retaining and developing key personnel than 100 ideas were received from the organisation, and and talent. prizes were awarded for nine of the proposals at the endof-year awards ceremony. In addition, we awarded prizes „In 2-3 years I would like to see a bank that functions efficito the three colleagues who submitted the best ideas in ently, as a strong and highly motivated community, where the course of the year. the employees are happy to come to work and where they • 2011 saw an expansion of the employee awards system, know precisely what their work is worth, and what the future through which more than 10% of our colleagues were holds for them.” rewarded at the end of the year for showing superlative Quote from the Human Resources Strategy performance that went beyond what was expected of them. • A means of ensuring that positive experiences, however large In 2011 both the organisational structure and name of the or small, don’t pass unnoticed, is the Thank You Card, which HR unit changed, and human resources became a key priority was issued to every one of our employees, to be passed on during the course of the year. With the full backing of senior to another colleague as a sign of their appreciation. At the management, we established an HR structure that we believe end of the year, the 10 employees who had received the is capable of ensuring fulfilment of the group’s objectives even most cards were given a special prize: a trip for two to the in today’s changed circumstances, while bringing about an Slovenian seaside resort of Portorož. improvement in employee satisfaction. The new HR division is • In 2011 we launched the CIB Club, a series of informal events focusing primarily on the following areas: that we held every month, the venue for which was a pub in • a competitive remuneration strategy combined with strict Budapest. The purpose of establishing the CIB Club was to performance management; create an opportunity for gatherings that promote a strong • human resource development through structured career sense of belonging among our staff, in surroundings that planning and talent nurturing that opens up new horizons; differ markedly from the corporate environment. Under the • strengthening employee commitment through a healthy auspices of the CIB Club we held ten events during the year, work-life balance and innovative motivational tools; with a variety of programs: concerts, fancy dress parties, • state-of-the-art operational excellence solutions promoting karaoke, dancing, improvised theatre and, on one occasion, customer satisfaction. a charity concert. • Concurrently with this we continued our existing programs, Employee engagement such as the CIB Volunteering Day at the Bátor Tábor (Camp • In December 2010, we again conducted the internal empof Courage) in the town of Hatvan, in which around 110 loyee satisfaction survey, with questionnaires completed of our employees participated in 2011. Details of this and by staff at all the member banks of the Intesa Sanpaolo our other efforts to engage staff in the interests of strengGroup. We provided our employees with feedback on the thening our social relations are given in the section on our results in the course of 2011, and in early 2012 we informed community relations. our colleagues about the results of the survey held at the end of 2011. 19 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group • Our parent bank continued with the employee climate survey, vention and early diagnosis of cardiovascular and malignant which had been conducted for the first time in 2009. The diseases. The team screens for the risk factors associated purpose of this survey is to find out what our employees with diseases, actively assisting in the development of a working in the various countries think about their work at healthy lifestyle – advising on the appropriate diet and the bank. program of exercise – or, if necessary, in deciding on the • In the fourth quarter of 2011, together with an external most appropriate course of treatment. consulting firm, we launched a new project relating to job • Since 2007 we have provided all our employees – through descriptions and remuneration. The aim is to develop a comour partner insurance companies – with basic life, accident pensation system that is based on common principles and is and illness insurance cover, which can be supplemented understandable for all our colleagues, and which will lead according to individual requirements. to an improvement in our competitiveness in the labour market and the consolidation of a performance-based corWe are Intesa Sanpaolo Group porate culture. • The value of the benefits package provided under the In 2011, our international banking group continued the “We Cafeteria system to full-time employees in 2011 remained are Intesa Sanpaolo Group” programs, established with the at HUF 17,500 per month. Part-time employees are entitled aim of ensuring unified internal communications and a conto receive cafeteria benefits proportionately to their working sistent corporate culture. hours, while agency staff become eligible for fringe benefits • The CIB Banking Group offers its employees, and, in cerunder the system once they have been working with us for tain cases, their family members, discounted holidaying more than a year. opportunities at destinations both in Hungary and abroad. With the help of our parent bank, 48 children enjoyed Our general benefits package continues to be made up a trip to Follonica, Italy, while many families spent their of the following elements: summer holidays in Magione and Alassio in 2011. Besides • Mandatory: occupational health services, reimbursement this, we enabled 25 to participate in the one-week daytime of travel expenses, CIB Voluntary Pension Plan, prescription football summer camp held in July as a part of A.C. Milan’s spectacles youth program. • Provided voluntarily: cafeteria system, CIB Voluntary • Our international banking group holds numerous sporting Pension Plan, preferential banking services and discounted events, in which our employees can regularly take part. bank cards, staff loans, staff lease-financing plans, group In 2011 a total of 94 of our employees represented the CIB personal insurance. Besides these, we continue to offer, Group in these competitions in Sarajevo, Belgrade, Portorož, as optional benefits, a family mobile telephony plan and Košice, and Budapest. vacation opportunities in Hungary and abroad, as well as discounts on purchases. Training courses We continued to stress the importance of training our empOur temporary or part-time employees are also entitled to loyees and developing their professional abilities and interall of the above benefits, with the proviso that quantifiable personal skills. The average number of hours of training per benefits are granted proportionately to the number of hours employee was 42 hours, which means that each employee worked. All our employees are only eligible to receive benefits received an average of 5.5 days of training over the year. under the cafeteria system, and the employer’s contributions to the Voluntary Pension Plan, upon expiry of the three-month • The Leadership Development Program continued, with the trial period; and certain preferential staff loans are only avaiparticipation of first and second line managers. A total of lable after one or two years of employment. 75 managers from the CIB Group took part in the program. • Participation in all the periodical vocational and professional • We held management training courses on various manaaptitude and fitness tests prescribed by law naturally gement topics, which were attended by more than 100 of continued to be compulsory for all of our staff in 2011. our employees. • Managers above a certain level once again had the oppor• For those of our colleagues who are engaged in the sale of tunity to attend an annual executive health screening retail products, we organised a series of all-day professional in 2011. The screening tasks continue to be performed by events: the National Micro Enterprise Day was attended by a medical group, which has provided occupational health 200 people, while 110 people took part in the Premiumservices since 1994 and today has a countrywide network. Private Banking Day. The service package primarily offers assistance in the pre20 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group • Based on a management decision, to promote the Lean school near to their place of residence, while colleagues in Process approach within the bank group, some 60 employees Budapest had the opportunity to improve their language attended a training course culminating in an exam. skills in training courses held in small groups. We offered the • The Onboarding program launched in March 2010 continued, chance to attend intensive, speech-centred English language with the objective of ensuring that customers, from the very courses for those at pre-intermediate or higher level who moment that they become our customers, are assured of a expressed an interest. customer experience that paves the way for a long-term, active relationship. To this end, in February and March we We launched regular ethics-themed communication via various trained 496 colleagues in the most important aspects of internal channels, to prepare the ground for the ethics training the program. program scheduled to begin at the end of 2012. • More than 200 of our employees participated in a retail branch orientation program held, over a period of four (3 + 1) weeks, for new staff. • In connection with the redemption of mortgage loans, to ensure the smoother performance of the tasks that fell to Annual average the branch staff, and the appropriate handling of difficult, number of training hours per employee stressed customers, we held a two-day course attended by 131 persons. 2009 2010 • The leasing and corporate division introduced a new tran2011 saction proposal system on the basis of the redesigned pro47.70 57.01 42.00 cesses, and in the course of the year almost 500 colleagues Based on closing headcount as at 31 December. learned to use the new system. • From among the staff of the leasing division, around 200 people personally attended the anti-money laundering course, and 360 took an electronic exam on the subject. Number of training hours broken Some 950 people in the retail branch network, and 250 from down by professional status in 20111 the SME division, sat examinations on this subject. • In the course of the changeover from the Lotus Notes mesSpecialist and subordinate (female) saging to the Microsoft Office Outlook system, the entire Specialist and subordinate (male) Executive (female) bank group received training via the e-learning channel, and Executive (male) 160 requested assistance in person. Total number of training hours • The almost 100 employees joining the Collection unit took part in a two-day orientation program, and then acquired the skills necessary for their work by attending the required specialist training courses. • For the purpose of complying with the Basel II regulations, 82 498 34 010 3 125 4 725 124 358 we developed training materials relating to the topics of Basel II basic skills, and Operational Risk and Credit Risk, in which subjects all employees had to sit an exam. • In preparation for the insurance sales and financial services intermediation exams held by the authorities, we provided Number training courses in accordance with the requirements. of training hours by gender in 2011 •Our bank’s chairman, Dr. György Surányi, held a presentation, Total female which attracted a very large audience, on the financial crisis Total male and its implications for Hungary and the region. Total number of training hours •In 2011 a total of 514 people attended the English language courses supported by the bank group. Almost 40 of the senior managers took part in one-to-one training. Employees working in the provinces could choose an accredited language 85 623 38 735 124 358 1 Excluding training carried out in the school system and training provided in distance learning courses. 21 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group An unwanted effect of the crisis: layoffs The first step in the change of corporate culture: At the beginning of December 2011, due to the negative marstandardising the system for launching new initiatives ket developments, our retail banking division was forced to carry out branch closures. We set in motion a number of new initiatives which, in addi• We made efforts to find suitable positions for the colletion to the fact that we now communicate them under a agues concerned at other branches that remained open, uniform name, clearly reflect the approach that is aimed at and thus the number of employees laid off was far lower strengthening employees’ motivation and satisfaction at work, than the headcount of the closed branches (less than half, while we continue to regard individual and team performance, in fact). Due to the staff transfers, the number of dismissals transparency and consistency as principles of key importance. remained well below the headcount that would technically In 2011 these initiatives included: constitute a mass layoff. • new reward schemes and performance recognition systems, • Those of our colleagues who were laid off were able to alongside the continuation of the Thank You Card scheme leave at terms that were more favourable than those of the (which was launched in 2010); mandatory severance package prescribed by the Labour • team-building budget available to each organisational unit; Code. They were relieved of duties but permitted to remain • flu jabs for employees; in an employment relationship for a significantly extended • a Christmas gift for every employee; period, which improved their social insurance status as well • a massage voucher for every employee. as their chances of finding another job. • We continue to assist our laid-off employees in their search Equal opportunities and positive discrimination for alternative employment, with the assistance of a specialist partner. This service now also draws on our experience The CIB Group ensures equal treatment for its existing and gained in previous years. future employees in accordance with the Constitution of Hungary, the effective statutory provisions and the bank Employee representation group’s Code of Ethics. We offer our employees the opportunity to apply for interA trade union and Work Council operate within CIB Bank. nally advertised positions (both at CIB and in the international The number of trade union members was 293 at the end of group), and publish the relevant information on the Intranet. December (in 2010: 323; in 2009: 311). The Work Council In 2011 the bank group was once again compelled to make hold regular meetings to discuss, with the chief executive, its multiple redundancies. In connection with this, as on previous position on issues affecting employees. It also actively particoccasions, it was decided that the downsizing should not affect ipates in the internal communication related to these issues. any employee whose spouse or domestic partner working at Representatives of the Work Council and the trade union make CIB had already been laid off, or who is a single parent, a memup the Social Committee, which has the task of managing ber of an ethnic minority, or a person living with a disability. certain forms of social support provided to employees. The Work Council appoints two of the members of the bank’s Supervisory Committee. 22 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group 2.3. •w  e operate a supplier selection system that ensures transparency and a level playing field; • we provide consistent and favourable payment terms to suppliers; Suppliers • in the course of our HR-related tenders we carry out checks to ensure that the personnel used by our service providers are employed legally; • in certain of our contracts, we stipulate that in the course The key principle when choosing suppliers is to dispof fulfilling their obligations suppliers are obliged to use lay fairness and transparency in the selection process. environmentally friendly technology, products and mateIn the CIB Group's procurement processes: rials, and make ef-forts to recycle the waste that is generated. Number of suppliers by geographical location (numbers) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Hungary 6 821 6 767 3 570 3 526 3 683 Europe 620 113 57 71 108 North America 45 12 9 8 12 Asia* 0 1 1 2 5 Total 7 486 6 893 3 637 3 607 3808 Data as of 31 December Spending on services by geographical location of suppliers (HUF million) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Hungary 63 484 46 381 24 582 19 412 22 250 Europe 603 1 279 1 359 1 612 1 580 North America 1 387 362 457 170 134 Asia* 0 0,81 1 17 17 Total 65 474 48 024 26 399 21 211 23 980 Data as of 31 December *Israel is included in Asia. 23 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group 2.4. councils, regulatory authorities and supervisory bodies), professional organisations (associations, trade federations, chambers) and the third sector (non-profit organisations, foundations, local communities). From the CIB Group’s point of view the most important state institutions among our stakeholders, and Our social those that have the greatest impact on our operations, are the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority (HFSA), the National impacts Bank of Hungary (MNB) and the Competition Office (GVH). In many cases the value our steps taken in support of the community can also be expressed in monetary terms. HUF 219 million. This was how much CIB spent in 2011 on its support for The CIB Group regards corporate social responsibility as the wider community in the broader sense of the word. Once a strategic issue that lies at the heart of its business opeagain, it did so in a year fraught with exceptional difficulties. rations, and not purely an exercise in philanthropy. The purposeful management of community relations is a part Developing financial literacy of the process by which the bank – with the collaboration • Developing the financial literacy of Hungary’s population is of its stakeholders – aims to make dialogue into a funan important social objective. To ensure the quality training of damental prerequisite for the joint, and thus efficient, the financial professionals of the future we supported some resolution of problems. 80 training institutions with vocational training contributions amounting to approximately HUF 122.8 million. Responsible operation, sustainability, community. Grand words, • At the end of 2010, CIB Bank joined the “Everyday Finances” but it’s sometimes difficult to decipher what they actually program, which is sponsored by the National Bank of Hungary mean at a corporate level. It’s only natural that at home we and the Hungarian Financial Supervisory Authority, and overdo whatever we can to support our children’s nursery school, seen by the Financial Compass Foundation with the aim of collect paper, selectively dispose of waste where possible, widely improving financial literacy. The bank continued to show solidar-ity with the victims of natural or other disasters; participate in the program in 2011. and another very important thing to bear in mind: we pay • At numerous special events we made use of a game designed taxes, thus providing the funds to pay for those community to develop financial literacy, which helps young and old, services that we too make use of. The CIB Group’s efforts to children and adults alike to assimilate as much useful inforbe a responsible member of the community are the same, but mation as possible about savings and financial responsibility. due to our size they are on a different scale. We help where we can, using the tools and channels at our disposal. Social solidarity: the CIB Foundation in 2011 The purposeful management of community relations is a part of the process by which the bank – with the collaboration of The CIB Foundation was less active than originally planned its stakeholders – aims to make cooperation into a fundamenin 2011. Contrary to plans, in the second half of the year the tal prerequisite for the joint, and thus efficient, resolution of Foundation did not announce a new round of the “We Can Do problems. This includes: Something” scheme; however, the social engagement projects • developing financial literacy; launched at the beginning of the year, the children’s health pro• relations with civic and professional organisations; jects and strategic partnerships carried over from the previous • civic engagement; year (Camp of Courage, Bódvalenke Fresco Village) were all • social solidarity; implemented. In the course of the year the board of trustees • charitable giving; allocated a total of HUF 45.3 million, which, although lower • corporate volunteering. than the target figure, nevertheless exceeded the previous year’s Our definition of community relations includes our relationships amount by almost 30 percent. with the representatives of state institutions (government, local 24 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group Beneficiaries of the CIB Foundation in 2011 Volunteering as a part of the corporate culture (payment made in 2011) Volunteering is an important part of the “DNA” of the CIB Bátor Tábor (Camp of Courage) Foundation Group, and we regard it not only as a reflec-tion of our corpoGábor Kovács Art Foundation rate citizenship, but also as one of the pillars of our internal corHungarian Reformed Church Aid Foundation (Bódvalenke) porate culture. The CIB Group has a tradition of volunteering, Foundation for the Rehabilitation of Sick Newborn and linked to strategic partnerships and individual initiatives, that Premature Babies (We Can Do scheme) stretches back over many years, and which every year prompts Parents’ Forum Association (We Can Do scheme) a high proportion of our employees, anywhere between 10 Early Intervention Centre Foundation and 20 percent, to take action. We implement centralised and (We Can Do scheme) local volunteering programs, and regularly participate in the Foundation for Children with Special Disabilities preparation work for the summer programs run by the Camp of (We Can Do scheme) Courage, and in the voluntary renovation of schools, hospitals, “Nôvér-kék” (equestrian therapy) Foundation nursery schools and parks. (We Can Do scheme) Békés County Association of Persons with Disability At the beginning of 2011, in the course of one of our visits to (We Can Do scheme) our parent bank, Intesa Sanpaolo in Italy, our attention was Foundation for Children with Impaired Vision caught by an initiative that has succeeded in mobilising power(We Can Do scheme) ful forces in Italy. This is the food bank initiative, which was Association for Rainmen joined by our parent company many years ago; and we decided, in a knowledge of the activities of the local Hungarian food Alliance of Nógrád County Gypsy Minority Representatives bank, as well as of the transparency and accountability that it and Spokespersons (We Can Do initiative) has shown to date, to join the initiative in the framework of a pilot project and then, in the light of our experiences, make Donations made by the CIB Corporate Social a decision on whether it is worthwhile to develop this into a Responsibility Foundation (HUF million) long-term partnership. 2008 The discussions were held in the spring of 2011 and we deci2009 2010 ded, as a part of the European Year of Volunteering frame2011 work program, to not only provide financial support but to implement a voluntary program encompassing the entire bank group, and to do so in partnership with the Hungarian Food 62.6 51.1 34.6 45.3 Donations Bank Association. On the basis of this partnership the CIB Group, as main sponsor, made it possible for the National Fairytale Therapy Foundation Food Collection Weekend to be held on 25-26 November 2011. In 2010 the first Fairytale Therapy Centre in the world opened in Hungary, with the aim of applying a complex art-therapy We set the following as the objectives of the partnership: model to facilitate the adoption of a well-adjusted lifestyle – to collect durable foodstuffs sufficient for 15 000 families in based on the individual’s own internal values and the ability to need, and to distribute them – with the involvement of local maintain harmonious relationships with his or her immediate civil society organisations – in good time for the Christmas and broader environment, and to instil the capacity to attain period; happiness. – for at least 500 of our employees to participate as volunteers The Fairytale Centre was created for children and adults who, (the total staff headcount was 3,000 persons), but in such although considered to be physically and mentally healthy, a way as to ensure that all our branches participated in the have at some point in their lives faced difficulties that they local initiatives; are unable to cope with in the absence of outside assistance. – to ensure nationwide coverage, for which as many retail food The foundation primarily places the emphasis on avoidance store chains as possible had to be involved. and prevention in order to reverse, before it is too late, the processes that can cause physical and psychological illnesses. On 25 November the collection started at 173 supermarkets Through its support the CIB Foundation contributes to this in 111 towns and villages, assisted by thousands of voluntework, enabling 20 children to attend a therapeutic camp. ers – 2,500 altogether, including 700 CIB employees. Some 25 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group 100 of our colleagues who took part in the collection also tion with around 80 news reports, and we also succeeded in brought members of their families along, although these are engaging a large number of our own customers. not included in the official number of volunteers. The extent of local involvement also exceeded our expectations, The results of the collection far surpassed those of previous and we received a great deal of feedback regarding how many years, owing to the fact that our volunteers, especially the customers of our branches had taken part in the collection branch employees, were able to make good use of their sales through donations, associating positive feelings with the initiaexperience. The principles set out in the communication plan tive, and obviously – as an additional impact – with CIB as well. fulfilled our expectations: the media supported the collecThis has made the initiative into one of the largest national food Results in figures Number of beneficiaries 15 000 families in need Quantity of collected foodstuffs 80 tonnes (2010: 45 tonnes) Number of towns in which the collections took place 111 (2010: 103) Number of food stores involved 173 (2010: 139) Largest quantity of foodstuffs collected at a single collection point 2.2 tonnes Average quantity of foodstuffs collected 440 kg/store 700 (23 percent of the total employee headcount), Number of CIB volunteers 80 percent of whom work in the branch network Number of volunteers (including CIB employees) 2 500 (2010: 1 600 collection programs of all time, with an unprecedented number by stakeholders, each focusing on a clearly defined set of CIB volunteers (both in proportion and number) mobilised in of objectives. Our participation in these organisations is support of a good cause. We are proud of the fact that, as a result important for two fundamental reasons. Firstly, it creates of the added value that we contributed, we achieved far better an opportunity to engage in professional dialogue, and results than planned, thereby fulfilling the most important objecsecondly, it provides the CIB Group, and the bank sector tive of providing 15 000 families with a satisfactory food parcel. as a whole, with a means of upholding and protecting its interests as part of a structured advocacy group. Last Professional organisations year we reviewed and rationalised our membership of • Our partnerships with professional organisations also organisations, and at the end of the year we participated represent an important aspect of our community relatiin the professional work of a total of 16 organisations. For ons. The interests of the various sectors of the economy, a list of the organisations, see section 4. and society, are represented by the associations formed 26 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group 2.5. Managing our environmental impacts in 2011 In February 2011 we launched a selective waste collection waste collection scheme to our other buildings too, so as the program with the aim, through the establishment of a modern next step we also began to introduce the in the building of waste management system, of finding a solution for the selecour telephone customer service centre in December 2011. tive disposal of waste generated in the building at Medve utca 25-29, thereby reducing the quantity of communal waste and By setting up an in-house environmental protection database, improving our energy profile. Another objective of the progthe bank group further refined its system of sustainability ram was, with the help of intensive communication related reporting; the drafting of the sustainability report took place to the selective waste collection scheme, to strengthen our under this system in 2011, based on consultations with the colleagues’ sense of responsibility towards their environment. CSR specialists at our parent company. Based on the experience and feedback gathered in almost a year, we found that there is a demand to extend the selective Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total energy consumption GJ 131 696 112 883 103 159 102 089 Electricity consumption kWh 20 162 303 18 755 237 18 648 750 17 653 388 Other renewable energy kWh 115 189 111 969 89 061 80 221 Natural gas consumption m3 1 053 435 893 833 818 460 784 264 Vehicle fuel consumption l 728 890 464 199 250 872 245 505 Water consumption m3 30 295 28 149 33 466 28 612 Vehicle fleet db 450 206 154 141 Paper usage (office A4. A3) kg 238 896 235 131 209 779 177 433 Paper usage1 (office A4. A3 other) kg 329 572 315 184 368 958 Paper usage per employee (office A4. A3) kg/person 64.8 71.7 57.41 50.46 Paper usage per employee (office A4. A3 other) 2 kg/person 100.5 86.26 104.94 Energy consumption per employee GJ/person 35.7 34.43 28.23 29.04 Energy consumption per m2 of office space3 GJ/m2 1.21 1.17 0.93 1.21 CO2 emissions resulting from energy consumption 4 t 10 882 10 427 9 085.55 8 370 CO2 emissions from energy consumption per t/person 3.24 3.18 2.31 2.38 employee Water consumption per employee m3/person 8.21 8.58 9.16 8.14 1 For reasons related to data collection, the 2008 annual data only includes the quantity of photocopier paper used. The 2009-2011 figures also include the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction slips and letterhead. 2 For reasons related to data collection, the 2008 annual data only includes the quantity of photocopier paper used. From 2009 onwards the figures also include the quantity of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction slips and letterhead. 3 W hen calculating the energy consumption per square metre of office space the energy usage (GJ) arising from vehicle fuel consumption is not relevant, and therefore we have also modified the previous years’ data accordingly. Defining the concept of office square meter also took place based on the definition approved by Intesa Sanpaolo; net office area in 2010 102 461, 85 m2; in 2011 84 664 m2 4 In respect of the 2007-2009 period CO2emissions have been calculated based on the conversion rates set by the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, which are, in the case of electricity, 401 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.9739 kg/m3, and in the case of vehicle fuel (diesel, petrol), 2.46 kg/l. With effect from 2010, the conversion rates recommended by our parent company Intesa Sanpaolo are as follows: in 2010, in the case of electricity 368 kg/kWh, in the case of natural gas 1.934 kg/m3, in the case of vehicle fuel diesel 2.672 kg/l and petrol 2.444 27 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group • In an important change to corporate governance practices, the • This year, for the first time, our CO2 emissions data also includes CIB Group has adopted the parent company’s compulsory susthe carbon-dioxide emissions from business-related air travel, tainability principles to be followed when implementing exter-nal which was 73.8 tonnes. Had this quantity of carbon dioxide and internal events. The requirements influence both the choice of been generated from heating, it would be equivalent to the gas venue and the details of the implementation of corporate events. consumption of our smaller office building in Medve utca for The central guidelines will become a part of the internal operating the full duration of the winter heating season (October-April). 3 procedures for the departments concerned in the course of 2012. • While in 2007 and 2008 we only measured the quantity of photoA report will be made on the enforcement of the principles. copier paper used, from 2009 the figures also include the quantity • Owing to our energy-saving measures, as well as to the branch of marketing leaflets, newsletters, envelopes, forms, transaction closures, our total energy consumption decreased slightly, but our slips and letterhead. The quantity of recycled paper used in 2011 water consumption fell by almost 10%. The decrease in vehicle was 23 250 kg, which is 6% of the total quantity of paper used. fuel consumption was due to the fact that during the year we • CIB Bank also does a great deal to ensure sensible and efficient once again significantly reduced the size of our company car energy use in relation to hot water supply. The solar collectors fleet. The 154 cars owned by the company decreased, through installed on the roofs of the office building in Petrezselyem utca the sale of vehicles, to 141, while another contributing factor and the two office buildings in Medve utca, as well as the CIB24 was that from 2011 use of the pool car is no longer permitted building, provide hot water to the four central office buildings. between sites in Budapest. Last year the solar panels saved 8 444.32 m3 of natural gas, which is equivalent to the annual gas consumption of 3 average detached houses.1 Greenhouse gas emissions avoided 2008 2009 2010 2011 tonnes, as carbon-dioxide equivalent2 22 24 17.94 16.33 Shaping attitudes of-fice buildings for the use of our employees who ride a • As part of the spring and autumn “Bike to Work!” cammotorcycle or scooter to work. paigns, 40-55 of our employees pedalled a total of 6 314 • Almost 250 of our employees made use of the “CIB Bike kilometres, thus saving their environment from a total of Sharing” bicycle lending program during the year. 1 243 kg in carbon dioxide emissions t. • As the first of the financial institutions in Hungary to apply, Development of services we also took part in WWF Earth Hour, as a part of which • In the case of statements sent to the customers of CIB Bank, – for the purpose of raising awareness – the CIB Group also the leaflets used for marketing purposes (newsletters encswitched off the exterior illuminations of its central office losed with statements) are made from recycled paper; buildings for two hours. the number of these in 2011 was close to 2 265 million. Transportation Responsible Waste management, with benefits for • Currently a total of 83 bicycle parking spaces are avasociety ilable at our central office buildings in Budapest: we • Two years ago the CIB Group concluded an agreement with have fitted additional cloakroom lockers in the Petthe Hungarian Maltese Charity Service regarding the remorezselyem utca office building for the use of employees val and reprocessing of electronic waste. The Charity Service who cycle to work, so now a total of 157 lockers are has cre-ated the first electronic waste processing site to be available to our colleagues. At the changing rooms in the licensed by the environmental authorities, in the small town Petrezselyem utca office – our largest building – heating of Tarnabod, which is both socially and economically disadand hot water are provided all year round, even outside vantaged. The facility, which is run as a social enterprise, has the cycling season, for those diehard colleagues who also a maximum capacity of 600 tonnes per year, and besides cycle to work in the winter. In a new development, by achieving important environmental objectives it also creates popular request we have marked out a total of 23 special jobs for disadvantaged groups within society. In 2011 the CIB parking spaces at our Medve utca and Petrezselyem utca Group had 6 130 kg of electronic waste transported to the site. 1 Equivalent for achieving the same performance as that produced by the solar collectors, through the use of natural gas. (The conversion ratio applied by Intesa in 2011 was 1 m3 gas=9.5kWh, whereas in previous years we applied the 1 m3 gas=9.6 kWh specified by our energy consultant). 2 Conversion ratio: 1.934 kg/m3 (Intesa), in accordance with Intesa’s recommendation, we do not take the efficiency rating of the boiler into account 3 Source: Based on the list provided by our travel services provider and the recommendation of ISP’s CSR specialist, we used the CO2 calculator at www.jpmorganclimatecare.com 28 Long-term programs sustainability report 2011 cib Group • We continue to provide an opportunity to dispose of dry Interesting facts and figures: cells, which are classified as hazardous waste, in receptacIn 2011 we collected a total of 990 kg of PET bottles, three les located in our central offices buildings and the CIB24 and a half times the quantity of the pre-vious year, because customer service area. The weight of dry cells collected in owing to the selective waste disposal system employees now 2011 was 220 kg. take more responsibility for their environment and are more • Companies can generate high quantities of confidential docucareful about collecting the bottles separately, and thus the ments. After being destroyed, these can go to the paper quantity of communal waste has decreased. One kilogramme factory as a secondary raw material. High-capacity shredding of PET consists of on average of 25 crushed bottles, which and baling equipment is in operation at several of the CIB puts the number of selectively collected bottles at a total of Group’s business sites. Some of the branches send their office 24 750. At the smaller of our head office buildings in Medve paper waste to an external service provider for destruction, utca we have installed new, manual bottle crushers, which while collection bins are located in the corridors of the central are more environmentally-friendly than the earlier, electrical buildings. This paper waste is shredded in-house and depomodels, since they consume no electricity and no toxic gases sited by us at the appropriate waste collection sites. In 2011 are released when using them. At our colleagues’ request, we we deposited 31 550 kg of paper for recycling, from which have installed manual crushers of this kind in place of the old approximately 25 250 kg of recycled paper was made. A ones, or where no crusher was previously available. The new new development is that in 2011 a new service provider also crushers are popular; following their installation employees paid an acceptance fee for the waste, as well as removing sometimes even queued up to use the devices. it free of charge. Although the new process was launched in connection with the introduction of the selective waste collection system, the company also removes paper waste generated in our other head office buildings, and not only in the smaller office buildings in Medve utca. Quantity of waste generated by type (kg) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Paper 23 840 52 140 44 980 31 550 Packaging materials (paper, cardboard and plastic) 1 000 2 220 0 0 Office machinery 2 960 6 300 17 920 6130 Hazardous waste 1523 1 175 290 220 Used dry cells 365 745 155 220 Waste that is damaging to the ozone layer 1 158 430 135 0 (e.g. refrigerators) Other 365 1 847 3358 4125 Total 29 688 63 682 66 548 42 025 In past years we collected packaging materials in the building which we hand over to the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service. located in Váci út, Budapest, which was formerly occupied In consultation with the CSR specialist from Intesa Sanpaolo, by CIB Leasing. These premises have since been vacated, starting from the second half of 2010 we changed the method however, so since 2010 we have had no means of separately used for determining the quantity of waste. We now list not collecting package materials. In a new development, since only the oily sludge generated in car washes and kitchens as 2011 the boxes in which photocopier paper is supplied are “other” waste, but also PET bottles. now removed by our partner together with the non-confiThe selective waste collection system was put in place with a dential paper waste. minimal capital investment, and, since the quantity of comThe increase in the quantity of office machinery waste in munal waste has decreased as a result, the communal waste 2010 was due to the internal changes of premises, inventorydisposal service provider removes 34 560 litres less communal taking, the emptying of the storage facility in Budaörs, and waste every year. As a part of the selective waste collection the scrapping of equipment. scheme we separately dispose of PET bottles, non-confidential The types of waste we classify as hazardous include dry cells, paper waste, and where there was demand for it, tin cans as well as scrapped refrigerators and air conditioning units, and glass waste. 29 3. Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group Corporate governance orporate governance issues are central to the responsible operation of the organisation. As a member of an international group and an important market player, we must set an example and lead the way in terms of responsible corporate governance, not only by fully complying with the legal regulations, but also through initiatives that go beyond our core obligations. 30 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group 3.1. continuous growth in its customer base; however, this trend was inter-rupted by the financial crisis, which shifted the focus to customer retention and gaining the best possible understanding of client needs. The loan portfolio reflects an even higher degree of risk-awareness than before, with efforts being Organisational made to improve loan quality, while in respect of deposits the aim is to further accelerate the rate of growth. Naturally, structure profitable operation remains an important objective, in the inter-ests of which we are constantly improving our cost effectiveness. These objectives fundamentally serve the long-term stability of the banking group. We provide comprehensive Our bank group provides commercial banking, leasing, fund information about our services on our internet site, and in our management and factoring services to private and business Annual Financial Statements, which can also be downloaded customers in Hungary. Similarly to the other players in the from our website. (For supplementary data and tables related sector, in recent years it has placed an emphasis on ensuring to the section below, see Annex 4.3.) The organisational structure of CIB Bank (31 December 2011) Division Department Teams/Regions Managing directors/MC Directors Supervisory Human Resources Board Board of Directors Group Compliance Internal Audit CSR Governance Centre Chief Governance Voice of Customer CEO Group Legal Services Officer, Deputy CEO Organisation and PMI Security Mark eting & Communication Chief Workout Chief Business Deputy Officer, Officer CEO Deputy CEO ail Ret w er kin al nd an EB M ar it U ke ed SM g t ts Cr rit pi in Ca g CI & BL ry ea asu Ris sin g Tre k Ma IT nag Corp ce e man orate Finan t ons Banking Project Workout Finance Operati Following on from 2010, several significant organisational year – while continuing to provide nation-wide coverage – we changes – affecting the business and operating model – conserved our customers in a total of 128 branches. tinued in 2011 as well. The most significant organisational We strengthened our private banking operation, organising change of the period was the re-structuring of the retail and it into a separate division. In order to better leverage synerSME network. In response to the stricter regulations and the gies within the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, we joined the card protracted financial crisis, in 2011 we again had to rethink association founded by our parent company, and accordingly the size of our branch network. Following the closure of 18 the business-related tasks in this area were handed over to branches and the opening of one new unit, at the end of the ISP Card Hungary. 31 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group Among the other significant changes, we would especially need to focus on developing a newly built bank group. like to highlight the continued growth and organisational To this end we have taken the decision to elaborate an inchanges undergone by the bank’s workout (collection, restdepth and comprehensive restructuring program for the CIB ructuring, asset management) area. As a part of this proGroup. This means freeing up and mobilising management cess, the position of Chief Workout Officer was created and and employee resources in the inter-ests of a coordinated, is currently held by Jonathan Locke, reporting directly to the carefully considered and targeted transformation of our CEO. Within the division we also established a special asset business model. The focal point of the changes will be management unit, which deals with the management and simplification and the customer experience. operation of repossessed assets. • The prime objective of senior management is for us to stand The organisational structure of the Human Resources division out among our competitors, in each of our business lines, has been completely overhauled, and the importance of its through the quality of banking processes and the standard role is demonstrated by the fact that it is now exclusively of services provided to customers. We plan to implement dedicated to HR-related tasks. The role of the HR advisers is the strategy and objectives articulated in the bank’s threebeing steadily revised, with the focus shifting away from recyear business plan on the basis of six pillars. The initiative ruitment and towards a strategic partner role. Besides these is known as the “New Bank” program, and consists of the measures, in order to strengthen employee commitment, the following elements: Staff Program Office was also set up. In the interests of simplification and boosting efficiency, orga1. Commercial capabilities nisational changes were made at all the divisions following 2. Operational excellence a review of the relevant processes. 3. Basel II risk management program 4. Workout and the management of problem assets The “New Bank” Program 5. Financial excellence • In future, drawing on the lessons of the past two years – 6. IT excellence and the ten years of rapid growth that preceded them – we 7. HR excellence 3.2. Decision-making bodies in 2011 Members of the Board of Directors Name Organisation represented Dr. György Surányi, chairman Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Fabrizio Centrone Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Paolo Sarcinelli Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Giampiero Trevisan Intesa Sanpaolo bank group Tomas Spurny CIB Bank Eduardo Bombieri CIB Bank Dr. Gábor Király CIB Bank Gábor Plank CIB Bank Jonathan Locke CIB Bank As at 31 December 2011 32 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group Members of the Management Committee Name Position, area of responsibility Tomas Spurny CEO (chairman) Eduardo Bombieri Deputy CEO Dr. Gábor Király Chief Governance Officer, Deputy CEO Gábor Plank Chief Business Officer, Deputy CEO Jonathan Locke Chief Workout Officer, Deputy CEO Boglárka Kôszegi Head of Human Resources Krisztián Horváth Head of Retail Banking Dávid Csont Head of Corporate Banking Alessio Cioni Head of Project Finance Csongor Németh Head of SME Banking Áron Vitályos Head of Leasing Zoltán Tóth Head of Treasury and Capital Markets Zoltán Csordás Head of Credit Underwriting Zsuzsanna Németh Head of Risk Management Magdolna Juridesz Chief Financial Officer Andrea Wéber Head of Operations Attila Bukovszki Head of Information Technology Michael Clark Head of Workout As at 31 December 2011 The bank’s supreme decision-making body is the • The Steering Committees are authorised to indepenShareholders’ Meeting, which is made up of all the shadently make decisions and launch initiatives affecting the reholders. The structure of the other boards is as follows: entire CIB Group, within the scope of authority delegated • The bank’s executive body is the Board of Directors, to them by the bank’s Board of Directors: the members of which are employed either by the parent Management Committee group or by CIB Bank. Group Risk Evaluation Committee • The Supervisory Committee is responsible for overseeing Regulatory and Operational Risk Management Committee the bank's operations, and is chaired by Ivan Sramko. The Asset-Liability Committee Supervisory Committee has two members representing the Credit Committee employees, for whom it represents a means of communiProblem Assets Committee cating employees’ recommendations to both the owner Legal and Risk Evaluation Committee and the Shareholders’ Meeting. • The Operative Committees are independent bodies char• The Audit Committee, chaired by Walter Chiaradonna, ged with the making of non-strategic decisions at the level supports the work of the Supervisory Committee, primarily of the overall CIB Bank Group. in relation to auditing, risk management and compliance• The CIB Bank Group’s Technical Committees, within the related tasks. scope of their authority, have initiation, proposal and advi• The Executive Committee is authorised to decide on sory rights. matters determined by the Board of Directors. • Auditor: Ernst & Young 33 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group 3.3. Selection and evaluation of managers EA key factor in the success of an organisation’s operaskills, in accordance with the management competency tion is the expertise of its senior managers. Therefore the model determined by the owner. selection and appropriate motivation of managers, and the The appraisal of the individual and collective performance of evaluation of their performance, is an important aspect of senior managers – which also determines their remuneration corporate governance. – is approved by the owner based on the recommendation At the CIB Group, for all jobs – and this is especially true of the CEO. The appraisal, and thus remuneration, is based in the case of management and senior manage-ment posion the following factors, in the following order of importions – we have determined and recorded, in a job handtance: the company’s profitability, the performance of the book and personalised job description, the expectations division/business line overseen by the given senior manathat it is essential to fulfil in order to hold the given post. ger, and thirdly, the manager’s individual attitude towards In the case of senior managers this includes, among other setting the organisation on a new development path. The aspects, the necessary formal qualifications (higher-educaevaluation of performance, in the case of all employees, tion, specialised), the length and depth of relevant manatakes place in the context of formal appraisal interviews, gement and professional experience (for the management during which the fulfilment of the economic/social/environof larger units, several years of management experience) mental targets relevant to the given employee are jointly gained in the given specialist area (more than 8 years) and reviewed. In order to promote a culture of performance in the bank sector in general (5-8 years), the expected level management among our managers, we have introduced of foreign-language proficiency (at least negotiation-level performance management training as a selectable module English) and last, but not least, the requisite interpersonal in our management development program. 34 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group 3.4. protection of the personal and – in the case of an employee – the employee’s rights of the person making the report. The investigation of the reports is carried out by the Ethics Committee, which is chaired by the bank’s head of CSR, and whose members are the heads of HR, Internal Audit, Compliance and Legal Services. The ethical investigation – Promoting following a five-day preliminary assessment – takes 30 days. The Ethics Committee – in the spirit of the Code of Ethics – ethically-sound does not impose sanctions. Its task is to judge whether the accusations are warranted, and to take “educational steps” and responsible to share the lessons learned. Thus, at the end of the investigation there are two decisions that the Ethics Committee can operation make: it can either dismiss the allegation, or it can judge it to be warranted, in which case it hands the case over to HR for a decision to be made under labour law. In the majority of cases, ethical misdemeanors are in breach of the personnel Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct regulations and/or the rules of conduct, and the decisions are At the owner’s request, but in a continuation of work already made accordingly. commenced by the Bank on its own initiative, in April 2008 In 2011 a total of six ethics procedures took place. In one of CIB Bank’s Board of Directors approved the parent company’s these a condemnatory decision was made; in the remaining Code of Ethics, applicable to all members of the international cases the Ethics Committee found the accusations contained banking group. It also introduced the CIB Group’s Code of in the report to be unfounded. In all cases the reports were Conduct. The Code of Ethics is a document that reflects our made by employees, in the following categories: broader vision of our social and environmental responsibilities, • sexual harassment (in this case the accusation proved to and which attributes fundamental importance to our relationsbe founded, and the employee was dismissed with immehips with our stakeholders. It explains those values in which we diate effect); believe, and which we have made a commitment to uphold. • abuse of dominant position; Our ethical values are listed at the beginning of this report. • harassment; • impeding the work of the employee representation body; New rules on ethics procedures • disrespectful, threatening conduct. The procedural rules – which have been introduced, in keeping with special local requirements, at all the countries in In all cases that led to a finding of culpability the Ethics which the Intesa SanPaolo Group is present – ensures compCommittee shares the details of the case, and the lessons liance with the corporate values and principles espoused in that can be learned (without compromising the anonymity the Code of Ethics, and allows any breaches of such values of those concerned) with the employees. and principles to be identified. The Code of Conduct is a means of articulating, in the form All companies that operate in compliance with strict ethical of regulations, the values enshrined in the Code of Ethics. It norms have established mechanisms that serve to reveal risks goes into detail regarding the finer points of banking operathat have previously, due to their nature, remained hidden. tions, sets rules pertaining to the expected model of conduct, Ethical risks are typically of this nature. These can affect not and deals separately with the prevention of corruption and the only the company itself, but its employees or even its cuscriteria for gift-giving. The Code of Conduct has been incortomers or suppliers. The purpose of the procedural rules is porated into the CIB Group’s regulatory system as a Policy, to open up a channel for the disclosure of issues in relation the breaching of which has consequences under labour law. to which aggrieved parties have until now been unable to The Bank also clearly defines its fundamental principles pertaining ask for help; but it also creates the opportunity to consult to responsible practices in its Organisational and Operational and request advice on certain ethical issues. Regulations (OOR). By these means, the Bank rejects all forms of discrimina-tion and corruption in both its internal and external One of the most important principles of the new procommunication. Besides the above, the regulations governing cedural code: to enable anyone who notices unethical concompliance and risk management activities also proclaim duct to report the matter, anonymously if needs be, with full similar principles aimed at supporting responsible operation. 35 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group Functions supporting responsible operation the system and the processes involved, and in the provision Support for the appropriate handling of issues that are essenof constant feedback. tial for responsible banking operations is assured by the clear definition of responsibilities, or in certain cases – to empha• Internal Audit sise the importance of the given function – through the creInternal Audit is an independent and objective, corroboraation of a separate organisational unit. From this standpoint tive and advisory function, the purpose of which is to we regard legal compliance – especially with respect to the improve the operations and effectiveness of the given orgaprevention of money laundering – and the appropriate mananisation. In order to assist in achieving the organisation’s gement of the risks arising from our operation as being of stated objectives, the Internal Audit function methodically particular importance. and systematically assesses and improves the effectiveThe purpose of the risk management function is to identify the ness of the audited organisation’s governance and contrisks of the given organisational unit, to measure the identified rol procedures. risks and manage them to ensure that they do not jeopardise prudent operation or the fulfilment of business objectives. In • Assuring legal compliance the CIB Bank Group, the Finance and Risk Management diviThe purpose of compliance activities is to ensure that the bank’s sions are responsible for these activities. financial, investment and other service-provision operations We regard the continuous strengthening of fraud awareness are conducted within the constraints of the law, and with a within the bank group as being of key importance, whether view to mitigating related risk. The Compliance department this relates to the prevention of internal fraud, protecting agahas developed numerous internal regulations that provide inst external fraud attempts, or the handling of any succesthe CIB Group with clear guidance regarding the rules to be sful incidences of fraud. In 2010 we made an assessment to followed in respect of issues that are particularly sen-sitive or determine which of our activities within the Bank group are potentially controversial. the most vulnerable to fraud. Based on this, in 2011 we are drawing up a completely new fraud strategy, in a project that • Prevention of money laundering and corruption also encompasses the development of the appropriate system A separate team of specialists coordinates activities to combat of records, reports, and risk-mitigation tools. money laundering. Their task is to screen for suspicious transactions, provide staff with training in anti-money laundering • Responsible lending procedures, forward reports of suspicious transactions to the Our framework system for risk assumption supports active relevant authorities, and to ensure the necessary flow of inforbut responsible lending. The responsibility is two-sided, since mation. In 2010, building on previous efforts, by developing its not only does it means responsibility towards the CIB Group’s IT infrastructure the CIB Group increased the security and effecshareholders and deposit customers, which presupposes tiveness of its efforts to prevent and combat money laundering. cautious, risk-conscious lending in the interest of safeguarour employees participated in distance learning courses and took ding the invested funding sources, it also means responsibielectronic examinations in the prevention of money laundering, lity towards the customers that we finance; in other words, conflicts of interest and security awareness, via the e-learning offering financing solutions that are consistent with the cus(MultiLearn) interface. tomers’ risk profile and creditworthiness. To ensure the latter, In 2011 a total of 1 186 staff at the bank and 51 employees from we precisely assess our customers’ financial capacity, while the subsidiaries received training in the prevention of money in the interest of the former we maintain a lending policy laundering, and sat the examination that followed. The obligaand approval procedures that are based on the Bank group’s tory Code of Conduct, which was approved in 2008, includes experience and an analysis of other information, we operate a a set of rules on the prohibition of corruption. monitoring system, engage in workout activities, and manage As a part of its efforts to combat corruption – in keeping with the our risks in a complex manner, analysing them in their broarelevant guiding principles of Intesa Sanpaolo – the CIB Group der context. High-quality and effective monitoring activity does not, in any way, support politicians or political parties, or is assured by an electronic solution that automatically cominstitutions with which they are associated. putes what are known as early warning signs – information that can assist in identifying customers that could require • Prevention of conflicts of interest special help. Besides supporting monthly monitoring, the With respect to conflicts of interest, we proceed in accordance system is also suitable for the maintenance of action plans with requirements that are stricter than those set out in Act and for reporting, making it possible to measure the results CXII of 1996 (Credit Institutions Act), Act CXXXVIII of 2007 of action taken, which in turn assists in the fine-tuning of (Investment Services Act), and Act XXII of 1992 (the Labour 36 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group Code). To this end we have amended our internal regulatimanagement of risks, applicable to the various customers and ons pertaining to personal conflicts of interest, and proceed customer groups. They also specify in detail the lending-relaon the basis thereof. ted responsibilities and duties of the individual organisational units. In keeping with the requirements of the supervisory • Consumer protection bodies and its owner, the bank group pursues a prudent As a consequence of the economic crisis, the demand for policy with regard to the assumption of risk. consumer protection in Hungary has strengthened under The management of the lending process, from the initial pressure from both society and legislators. The CIB Group, customer request through the credit approval and moniadapting to the new expectations, has developed procedutoring process, to full repayment of the loan, or workout res that reinforce the protection of consumers. A dedicated management if unavoidable, takes place in accordance with specialist has been assigned to oversee this task, ensuring predetermined principles. The basis of all decisions related that consumers’ interests are taking into consideration in to credit risk is the overall exposure of the CIB bank group the course of day-to-day operation, and that this attitude to customers that are related to each other. becomes an integral part of our corporate culture. In the course of conducting its primary business activity the bank has to deal with interestrate risk. Due to the nature of • Risk management, prudent investments banking operations, a certain level of interest-rate risk has By necessity, the purpose of the Risk Management function to be as-sumed, since this is one of the main potential souris to identify the risks of the organisation, to measure the ces of generating profit and creating value. Each year, the identified risks and manage them to ensure that they do not Board of Directors, under the supervision of the Supervisory jeopardise prudent operation or the fulfilment of business Committee, determines the risk appetite and the corresobjectives. Ensuring fully comprehensive risk management ponding limits. The appropriate risk management commitrequires proper guidelines, appropriate limits and smooth tees receive monthly reports on the current interest-rate risk reporting procedures, for which the appropriate departments position, the content of which is determined in the market are responsible at CIB. risk management policy. In 2009, CIB Bank adopted and in 2010 implemented the Special emphasis is also placed on the management of liquiNon-Armament Bank Policy in effect at its parent company dity and cash-flow risks, due to the high importance of Intesa Sanpaolo, and reviewed its customer portfolio to idenmaintaining the Bank's solvency and ensuring the safety of tify any clients suspected of being involved in arms trading, customer deposits at all times. In the past year, due to the and to take the appropriate measures in respect of such crisis that began in 2008, the bank’s lending activity declined customers. considerably. In the second part of the year, we had a consiIn 2011 the CIB Group articulated its Risk Management derable surplus of liquidity, which enabled us to repay to the Strategy. The purpose of the strategy is to describe the interparent bank the funds utilised during the crisis. Also as a result nal capital adequacy assessment process and concept, which of the crisis, the bank group had to contend with the substencompasses the CIB Bank Group’s risk assumption policy, antially higher costs of using the FX and basis swap market. its appetite for risk and the structure of risk control operatiOf the various price risks, the bank group is predominantly ons. The strategy includes a detailed definition of all the risks susceptible to the impacts of changes in FX rates, while chanidentified within the CIB Bank Group, and the basic principles ges in the equity and other prices have a lesser effect. The and methodology for the qualitative and quantitative measbank group seeks to hedge its FX positions as securely as urement of the risks. possible: the carefully considered establishment of positiIn the course of its business operations, the bank group is ons takes place as a part of the trading activities performed mainly, and in the greatest extent, exposed to credit risk. by the Treasury The mitigation of this type of risk is achieved partly through compliance with the statutory requirements and internal • Labour law limits, and partly through prudent lending and loss-proThe CIB Group, as a responsible money-market participant, visioning practices. complies with the laws pertaining to employment, and with Legal requirements and the best practices of risk managethe relevant provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of ment are incorporated into the bank group’s daily operations Hungary (paragraph 70/B). By adding its signature to the UN through the internal regulations. The internal regulations addGlobal Compact it has agreed to be bound by the principles ress in detail the procedures related to debtor rating, limitset forth therein, and thus – with respect to employment – to setting, the recognition and evaluation of collateral, loan and fully comply with the passages prohibiting all forms of child customer monitoring, and the measurement, reporting and labour and forced labour. 37 Corporate governance sustainability report 2011 cib Group 3.5. CSR management and communication The task of the central CSR department is to coordinate and An essential part of responsible operation is the engageoversee the various CSR projects and initia-tives, and to impment of stakeholders, and maintaining a continuous dialolement uniform internal and external CSR communication.CSR gue with them. This makes it possible for opinions, ideas and activities have come under the direct supervision of the CEO proposals to be heard, discussed and incorporated into the since summer 2009, although for resource-distribution reabank's operation. In the course of 2011, we continued using sons the related tasks are performed by the Communication a variety of formats, communication tools and channels to department. A report on CSR activities is prepared for the engage with our stakeholders. The following are just a few senior management at regular intervals, presenting the most examples, which are explored in more detail in the various important achievements of the previous quarter and the chalsections of this report: lenges of the coming period. • As part of the Listening 100% program, we continued to survey the opinions of our customers and assess their Stakeholder engagement satisfaction, by means of a questionnaire distributed in our The basis of CIB’s corporate social responsibility activity is branches and posted on our website. the ongoing dialogue that it maintains with its stakeholders. • In an Employee Climate Survey, we assessed our employWe regard as our stakeholders all those who may be ees’ workplace sentiment, and their opinions and attitudes affected by the activities and operations of the bank, regarding CIB as an employer. and/or who may have an effect on our organisation. • We held consultations with the Staff Council, especially Of these, the following three groups are of critical with regard to the mass redundancies. importance from the perspective of our operation: • We gave our employees the opportunity to actively volunemployees, customers and the owner. Besides these teer their services in support of the Bátor Tábor (Camp of three priority groups, we have identified further stakeholCourage) Foundation. der groups, which are: suppliers, civic organisations, local • We have launched initiatives in several towns with the aim communities and professional organisations. of improving financial literacy among the local community. 38 4. Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Annexes 39 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group 4.1. CIB Bank – core data Name: CIB Bank Zrt. Territory of operation: Hungary Form of incorporation: Privately-held Joint Stock Company (Zrt.) Ownership structure: Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. 67.6905% Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. 32.3095% As at 31 December 2011 Members of the CIB Group1 CIB Factor Zrt. CIB Bank Zrt. 50% 145 000 000 000 HUF 32.3095% Intesa Sanpaolo S.p.A. 103 500 000 HUF 100% 50% 67.6905% 100% Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. Recovery Zrt. 5 000 000 HUF 100% CIB Leasing Holding Kft.. 5.025% 94.975% 100% 500 000 HUF 100% CIB Investment Fund ManagementZrt. CIB Real Estate Zrt. 600 000 000 HUF 52 000 000 HUF 98.1569% CIB Rent Zrt. 800 000 000 HUF 1.8431% CIB Leasing Zrt. CIL MNM Kft. 96.67% 51,000,000 HUF 3 000 000 HUF Brivon Hungary Zrt. 100% 100% 10 000 000 HUF CIB Car Kft. CIB Insurance 100% 10 000 000 HUF Broker Kft. 10 000 000 HUF As at 31 December 2011 1 Subsidiaries providing business services. 40 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group 4.2. Branch Network Current branch network Kazincbarcika Sátoraljaújhely Ózd CIB Branches Salgótarján Mátészalka Miskolc I-II Nyíregyháza I-II Mosonmagyaróvár Komárom Esztergom Eger I-II Vác Sopron Szentendre Gyöngyös Tata Piliscsaba Dunakeszi Hatvan Hajdúböszörmény Gyôr I-III Pilisvörösvár I-II Tatabánya Budakeszi Gödöllô Budaörs Debrecen I -III Törökbálint Vecsés Szombathely I-II Pápa Érd I Monor Karcag Százhalombatta Szigetszentmiklós Cegléd Ajka Székesfehérvár I-II Szolnok Veszprém I-II Balatonfüred Dunaújváros Keszthely Siófok Kecskemét Zalaegerszeg Békéscsaba I,III Paks Kiskunfélegyháza Orosháza Szentes Gyula Nagykanizsa Kalocsa Dombóvár Szekszárd Hódmezôvásárhely Kaposvár Kiskunhalas Szeged I-III Baja Pécs I-III As at 31 December 2011 Budapest Békásmegyer CIB Branches Csillaghegy 1 – Oktogon 11 – Zöldfa Újpest Pólus 2 – Nyugati tér 12 – Fényes Elek utca Eurocenter Váci út Újpalota Hûvösvölgy 3 – Szent István krt. 13 – Ferenciek tere Flórián tér Béke tér 4 – Pilvax 14 – Rákóczi tér Pasaréti út 7 12 Bosnyák tér 5 – Károly krt. 15 – Bajcsy 8 9 3 2 19 1 10 17 15 Mátyásföld 6 – Kálvin tér 16 – Ferenc krt. 21 11 4 5 18 Baross Örs vezér tere 13 6 14 7 – Rózsakert 17 – Szabadság tér MOM Park 16 Aréna Kôbánya Rákoskeresztúr 20 8 – Lövôház utca 18 – Blaha Gazdagrét 9 – Medve utca 19 – Westend Tétényi út Új Buda Center 10 – Kékgolyó utca 20 – Móricz F ehérvári 21 – Allee Skála Pesterzsébet Pestszentlôrinc I I I Budafok Csepel Campona Soroksár As at 31 December 2011 Our presence across the country 2008 2009 2010 2011 Bank branches 153 151 145 128 Representative offices 42 24 0 0 ATMs 228 221 211 186 Data as of 31 December 41 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group 4.3. CIB Bank in figures The CIB Group’s clientele by segment (number of customers) 2007 2008 2009* 2010 2011 542 255 641 333 633 535 627 240 593 418 70 714 85 777 87 316 90 007 88 099 612 971 727 110 720 851 717 247 681 517 Retail Corporate Total Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s retail customers by age group (percentage) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0–32 years 28.6 26.5 27.0 27.6 27.5 33–42 years 25.5 26.4 26.1 26.0 25.7 43–52 years 19.9 18.5 18.2 18.1 18.2 53–67 years 20.8 22.4 22.1 21.5 21.2 Over 67 years 5.2 6.2 6.5 6.8 7.4 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s retail customers by length of relationship with the bank (%) 2007 2008 2009* 2010 2011 0–1 years 41.8 16.8 14.0 9.2 6.4 2–4 years 41.7 50.1 43.9 38.3 32.4 5–7 years 11.1 20.6 27.6 32.7 33.9 8–10 years 4.3 9.4 9.7 11.9 16.4 11–20 years 1.1 3.0 4.8 7.8 10.9 20 years or more 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Data as of 31 December Retail product usage (including micro-enterprise customers) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Retail loans (HUF billion) 289.5 509.2 524.4 610.7 760.1 Retail deposits (HUF billion) 471.9 597.5 734.5 649.1 831.2 Number of active bank cards 354 417 439 257 459 259 458 799 420 524 Number of customers with an active 139 415 226 779 274 632 309 081 324 836 CIB Internet Bank subscription Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December * Updated in 2010 42 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Corporate product usage 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Corporate loans (HUF billion) 1 005.5 2075.2 1834.0 1 727.7 1415.8 Corporate deposits (HUF billion) 626.5 888.3 913.6 824.5 636.7 Number of active bank cards 17 807 12 181 10 971 10 787 7 700 Number of customers with an active CIB 27 415 16 691 13 115 11 791 8 542 Internet Bank subscription Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December Distribution of the loan portfolio by sector (%): 20103 2011 Trading 10.83 10.29 Private customers 30.76 30.80 Real estate investments 23.25 25.17 Other. mostly service industries 15.58 15.62 Food processing 2.55 1.75 Transportation and communication 3.55 3.47 Light industry 2.71 2.96 Heavy industry 2.90 2.56 Financial activities 4.13 4.55 Agriculture 3.16 2.28 Chemicals and pharmaceuticals 0.58 0.55 Consolidated, IFRS data as at 31 December Authority proceedings Competition Office (GVH) and the Equal Treatment Authority • Number of proceedings launched by the various authorities, concluded in 2011 with the passing of a resolution: 85 (in In 2011 neither the Competition Office nor the Equal Treat2010: 20, in 2009: 16) ment Authority imposed fines on members of the CIB Group. • Of these, the number of proceedings in which a breach of law was found to have been committed, and a fine imposed: Awards and accolades 46 (in 2010: 13, in 2009: 8) • Amount of fines paid in 2011: HUF 31.1 million (in 2010: In 2011 the CIB Group did not receive any awards. HUF 15.9 million, in 2009: HUF 206.5 million) The large statistical difference relative to the data from the previous years is due to the fact that since 1 January 2010 the HFSA has also launched consumer protection procedures. In the course of 2010 a significant number of procedures were launched against the CIB Group and the other market participants, the majority of which were concluded in 2011. Almost 95% of these procedures were launched on the basis of an individual complaint, and not at the authority’s own initiative on the basis of its “classical” supervisory rights. These accounted for HUF 23.1 million. 1 Excluding loans provided to members of the CIB Group. 2 Excluding deposits collected from members of the CIB Group. 43 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Human resources data Number of employees of the CIB Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fixed-term 144 99 82 33 Indefinite-term 3 513 3 180 3 009 2 912 Total 3 657 3 279 3 091 2 945 Data as of 31 December 2010 2011 Number of part-time employees 32 32 Number of employees with congenital disabilities 4 0 Number of employees with acquired disabilities 22 20 Number of agency employees 51 40 The CIB Group’s employees by age and gender (percentage) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Male, under 30 11.7 10.5 8.8 7.2 Female, under 30 24.4 25.6 17.7 17.1 Male, 30-50 20.8 18 23.6 24.7 Female, 30-50 36.3 40.4 43.4 44.7 Male, over 50 1.7 1.4 1.5 1.3 Female, over 50 5.1 4 4.9 5 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s employees by level of formal qualification (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 University 23.5 47.8 50.9 50.4 College 30.2 49.5 47.2 47.3 Other 46.3 2.7 2.5 2.3 Data as of 31 December The CIB Group’s employees by professional status (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Executive male 4.9 5.1 5.5 5.7 Executive female 2.4 2.3 3.7 4.4 Male specialist 9.4 9.8 9.0 9.1 Female specialist 9.0 9.7 9.5 9.6 Male subordinate 19.9 18.9 19.4 18.4 Female subordinate 54.4 54.2 52.9 52.8 Data as of 31 December Proportion of male and female employees at the individual levels of seniority (%) Male Female Executives 56.5 43.5 Specialists 48.7 51.3 Subordinates 25.9 74.1 The CIB Group’s employees by geographical location (%) 2011 Budapest 2375 East Hungary Region 304 West Hungary Region 266 Data as of 31 December 1 The substantial difference in the figures is the result of database cleaning. In 2 Secondary school, vocational school, technical college, skilled-worker training 2007 and 2008 the “other” category included those employees in respect of whom detailed information pertaining to formal qualifications was not available at the time of requesting the data. 44 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Proportion of employees leaving the company (%, number of outgoing employees/year-end headcount) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Proportion of employees leaving the company 20.4 17.14 19.3 20.6 Proportion of employees leaving the company, by age group, in 2010 (%) 2009 2010 2011 14.5 41.67 15.61 16.49 15.18 19.19 15.40 19.00 22.41 16.81 17.60 20.79 19.38 17.37 20.8 17.14 21.02 25.35 22.30 16.41 19.13 30.91 113.16 50.0 200 0 16.67 21–25 23–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 61– Proportion of employees leaving the company, by gender, (%) 2009 2010 2011 Male 19.01 23.8 24.5 Female 16.19 16.9 15.3 Employee turnover in the CIB Group (no. of persons) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employees joining 889 230 476 483 Employees leaving 747 562 598 621 Data as of 31 December Composition of the Board of Directors by age group (percentage, number of persons) 2009 2010 2011 37% (3 persons) 25% (2 persons) 22% (2 persons) 63% (5 persons) 75% (6 persons) 40–50 78% (7 persons) 50+ as of 31 December 45 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Composition of the Management Committee by age group (percentage, number of persons) 2009 2010 2011 7% (1 persons) 7% (1 persons) 14% (2 persons) 47% (7 persons) 47% (7 persons) 44.4% (8 persons) 77% (11 persons) 30–40 55.6% (10 persons) 40–50 50+ as of 31 December Board of Directors and Management Committee combined (%, number of persons): 2009 2010 2011 10% (2 persons) 15.8% (3 persons) 21% (7 persons) 9.1% (2 persons) 36.8% (7 persons) 36.4% (8 persons) 69% (13 persons) 47.4% (9 persons) 30–40 54.5% (12 persons) 40–50 50+ as of 31 December Magyar állampolgárok aránya az Igazgatóságban és az ügyvezetésben (százalék, fô)1 2009 2010 2011 36% (8 persons) 32% (6 persons) 40.7% (11 persons) 64% (14 persons) 68% (13 persons) Non-Hungarian 59.3% (16 persons) Hungarian as of 31 December Based on comment: Executives that sit on both committees have been counted twice. 1 Executives that sit on both committees have been counted twice. The data is not suitable for comparison with the data from previous years, when the same indicator was measured for a different group of 46 senior executives. In 2008, the proportion of local executives within the senior management was 94%. Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group The average monthly salary of career starters recruited by the bank in 2011 was HUF 242 108, or 260 percent of the statutory minimum wage. In 2010 it was HUF 231 270, or 258 percent of the statutory minimum wage. (2009: HUF 211 450 gross, 236 percent of minimum wage; 2008: HUF 259 650, or 313 percent of minimum wage.) The base for calculation is the annual statutory minimum wage for jobs requiring professional qualifications. Average annual basic salary of men and women by professional category (HUF million) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Executive male 13.54 13.32 12.30 12.83 Executive female 11.89 12.44 10.63 10.36 Male specialist 7.08 7.22 7.66 7.75 Female specialist 6.91 6.93 7.03 7.03 Male subordinate 3.77 3.92 4.01 4.2 Female subordinate 3.35 3.46 3.47 3.52 Data as of 31 December Accidents at work and the number of working days lost as a result (days) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of workplace accidents 12 8 6 8 Number of working days lost 161 106 726 222 Data as of 31 December Ratio of missed days by reason for absenteeism (%) 2 2008 2009 2010 2011 Illness 28.4 26.7 26.2 17.9 Accident 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Maternity leave 63.8 61.5 60.9 71.1 Other 7.6 11.7 12.8 10.9 Data as of 31 December 2 As a proportion of total days worked 47 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Membership of associations Hungarian Banking Association Hungarian SEPA Association National Association of Securities Dealers Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry Association for Electronic Commerce The Financial Markets Association ACI ICC / International Chamber of Commerce Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) IIA Institute of Internal Auditors of Hungary ISACA / Information Systems Audit and Control Association IIF Institute of International Finance Hungarian Advertising Association Hungarian Advertising Self Regulatory Board Association for Electronic Commerce 48 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group 4.4. Compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Global Compact Our performance Related GRI principles indicators Human Rights 1. Business should • We have made a commitment to protect human rights in accordance with • 4.8 support and resthe 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights. We expect all of our • EC5 pect the protection Hungarian and foreign partners to do the same. • LA7, LA8, LA13, of internationally • In the course of its operation the Bank fully respects the Hungarian ConsLA14 proclaimed human titution and all other general domestic and international treaties on human • PR8 rights. rights and ethics. • We treat protecting the personal data of our customers as a key priority; we investigate complaints related to data handling, and take steps to reduce the number of complaints to a minimum. In 2011 a total of 83 complaints were received. • We provide our employees with fair and satisfactory working conditions and pay, as well as a wide range of other benefits (see section 2.2). The average starting monthly wage is almost three times the statutory minimum wage. 2. Businesses should • In 2011 we continued with implementation of the Code of Ethics, and • 4.8 make sure they the Code of Conduct based thereon. One of the most important steps • HR6, HR7 are not complicit taken in-house in 2011 was the drafting of the rules of ethics procedures. • FS14 in human rights • We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination from our conabuses. duct and to respecting differences in gender, age, race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and language, and to respecting the rights of those with disabilities. • In 2011 we continued with the barrier-free conversion of bank branches, at several branches we launched the procedure to obtain the planning permission for such conversions, and we also carried on with the installation of easier-to-use ATMs. Labour 3. Business should • A trade union has been established to represent the interests of employees, • LA4 uphold the freedom which had 293 members at the end of 2011. of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should eli• The Bank abides by the laws of the land, and the relevant provisions of • HR7 minate all forms of the Hungarian Constitution (70/B). forced and compul• We have made a commitment to protect human rights in accordance with sory labour. the 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights. 49 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group 5. Business should be ef• The Bank abides by the laws of the land and the relevant paragraphs of • HR6 fective in abolishing the Hungarian Constitution (70/B). child labour. 6. Business should eli• We declared in our Code of Ethics that we are committed to eliminating all forms • 4.8 minate discriminaof discrimination from our conduct and to respecting differences in gender, age, • LA13, LA14 tion in employment race, religion, political and trade-union alignment, and language, and to respecting and occupation. the rights of those with disabilities. • Our organisation is willing to appoint physically disabled staff to certain positions. In 2011 a total of 20 persons with acquired disabilities worked at the CIB Group. • We place emphasis on achieving equality between the sexes: the difference between men’s and women’s wages is considerably smaller than both the Hungarian and the European average. Our long-term objective is to fully comply with the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. Environment 7. Business should • We aim to use all our resources sparingly. In this regard we promote conduct • EN8, EN18, EN26 support a precauthat is based on the best use of resources and on the avoidance of waste • FS1 tionary approach and ostentation. We give priority to solutions that have been designed to environmental with sustainability in mind. challenges. • In certain contracts we stipulate that in the course of fulfilling their obligations suppliers are obliged to use environmentally friendly technology, products and materials, and make efforts to recycle the waste that is generated. • We have launched numerous initiatives aimed at reducing energy and water consumption (for details, see section 2.5), including the installation of solar panels on the roofs of our central office buildings, in order to cut down on the use of non-renewable energy sources. 8. Business should • We extended the opportunity for selective waste disposal to two more • EN5, EN18, EN26 undertake initiatiof our central offices. ves to promote gre• Also last year, on several occasions we held week-long internal commuater environmental nication campaigns related to environmental awareness topics. On every responsibility. working day of the week we explored a different topic via the intranet, which is accessible via the internal network. The issues discussed spanned the most important questions related to paper use, energy consumption, environmentally aware transportation and waste management, and employees were also provided with useful advice and practical tips. 9. Business should • We endeavour to assume a role in the promotion of environmentally sound • EN5, EN18 encourage the deveenergy use, and for this reason we support the efforts and work of our lopment and diffusion colleagues and various civic organisations of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Business should • The Bank abides by the laws of the country. • 4.8 work against corrup• The Bank has approved the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct setting • SO3 tion in all its forms, forth the standards of behaviour that are expected of our employees, which including extortion also has a section devoted to the prohibition of corruption. and bribery • All employees of the CIB Group have received training in the prevention of money laundering and conflicts of interests, through the e-learning interface (MultiLearn) accessible via the internal network. 50 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group GRI Index Indicator Brief description Page number 1. Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance 1.1. page 8 of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2. Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities page 8 2. G3 profile disclosures 2.1. Name of the organisation page 40 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services page 11, 42 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operational 2.3. page 31, 40 companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4. Location of the organisation’s headquarters page 56 2.5. Countries where the organisation operates page 40 2.6. Nature and legal form of ownership page 40 2.7. Markets served page 41 Size of the reporting organisation: number of employees; net sales; total capitalisation pages 3–4, 2.8. broken down in terms of debt and equity; quantity of products manufactured, or value 42–47 of services provided 2.9. Significant changes in size, structure or ownership, during the reporting period page 56 2.10. Awards and prizes received during the reporting period page 43 3. Report parameters 3.1. Reporting period page 56 3.2. Date of most recent report page 56 3.3. Reporting cycle page 56 3.4. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content page 56 3.5. Process for defining report content page 56 3.6. Boundary of the report page 56 3.7. Presentation of any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report page 56 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8. and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ page 56 or between organisations 3.9. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations page 56 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, 3.10. page 56 and the reasons for such re-statement 51 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary 3.11. page 56 or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12. GRI Content Index pages 51–52 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report page 56 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1. Governance structure of the organisation page 31 4.2. Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer page 33 4.3. The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent page 32 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations for direction 4.4. page 33 to the highest governance body Link between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5. page 34 managers, and executives, and the organisation's performance Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure that conflicts of interest 4.6. page 36 are avoided Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7. governance body for guiding the organisation's strategy on economic, environmental page 34 and social issues Internally developed statements of mission or values relevant to economic, 4.8. page 35 environmental and social performance Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the identification and 4.9. page 35, 38 management of economic, environmental and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 4.10. page 34–35 with respect to economic, environmental and social performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11. pages 35-36, 37 addressed by the organisation Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or 4.12. pages 49–50 other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Memberships in associations (such as industry/sector associations) and/or national/ 4.13. page 48 international advocacy organisations 4.14. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation in any form of dialogue pages 38 4.15. Method and principles for selection of the stakeholder groups pages 38 4.16. Approaches to stakeholder engagement pages 38 4.17. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement pages 38 52 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Typically described in the introduction 5. Management approach to the individual sections EC Economic performance indicators Economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained page 15 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government page 12 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 page 47 significant locations of operation (national data available) EC6 Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers page 23 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local pages 34, 46 EC7 community at significant locations of operation LA Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region page 44 LA2 Total employee turnover page 45 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 page 20 or part-time employees, by major operations No collective LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreement Rate of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of LA7 page 44, 47 work-related fatalities by region Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place LA8 page 20 regarding serious disease LA10 Annual average number of training hours per year per employee by employment category page 21 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning page 20–21 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews page 34 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by gender, age pages 32–33, LA13 group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 44–46 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category page 47 HR Human Rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken page 35 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 page 35 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour page 37 HR7 Measures contributing to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour page 37 PR Product responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 page 17 assessed for improvement Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 page 17 customer satisfaction 53 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Fines incurred for non-compliance with ethical codes related to marketing PR7 page 43 communication Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 page 18 losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations page 43 PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services SO Society SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and page 36 procedures SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and page 36 related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly pages 43 practices, and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for pages 43 non-compliance with laws and regulations EN Environmental performance indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy sources page 27 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy sources page 27 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements page 27 EN8 Total water withdrawal pages 27 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight pages 28 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved pages 28 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method page 29 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services page 28–29 Indicators specific to the financial sector FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines page 28, 36 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines page 28 FS4 Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social page 24–25 policies and procedures as applied to business lines. FS5 Interactions with clients and business partners regarding environmental and social page 25, 35–37 risks and opportunities FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/ pages 43 large) and by sector Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social FS9 page 36 policies and risk assessment procedures FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people pages 18 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary page 24 54 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group About this reting the figures, and where possible we use case studies to illustrate the underlying factors related to data, decisions report or objectives, and the reasons for changes. The scope and boundary of the report, and the measurement techniques applied, have not changed significantly in comparison to the Reporting period: calendar year 2011 previous reporting period. Date of previous report: June 2011 (GRI B) Our economic data has been stated in accordance with the Reporting cycle: annual provisions of the currently effective Accounting Act and the GRI application level: B requirements of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group, while the social and environmental information is from the company’s internal data The report contains information regarding the CIB Group’s recording system. Unless indicated otherwise, the figures have organisational units and subsidiaries in Hungary. In all cases been arrived at through measurement or calculation. The report the data is group-level data, except where specifically stated only contains re-statements of previously disclosed information otherwise. When determining the content of the report we where this is necessary in order to comply with the GRI guiderelied to a significant extent on the comments and expectatilines. To ensure comparability over time, the quantitative data ons expressed by the panel of stakeholders held in July 2010. used to describe our operations is given for a period spanning In accordance with the findings, we shifted our focus back three years. Where this is not the case, we have specified the to addressing the issue of the financial crisis, and presenting reasons separately. Where possible we have also attempted to our responses to the crisis and the changes in the bank’s find comparative market data, but at present the availability of organisation. Besides this, we naturally also give an account sector-wide data is very limited both domestically and interof our long-term initiatives launched in the interests of ensunationally. Descriptions of the data measurement techniques ring sustainable operation from an economic, social and applied, and the bases for calculation, as well as the reasons for environmental perspective. We have made every effort to any restatements of data disclosed in previous are specified in disclose all the key information necessary for assessing the the detailed description of the given data item. extent of our corporate social responsibility. We paid partiContrary to our plans, in 2011 we did not seek external ascular attention to ensuring that the raw data, indicators and surance for the report. comparative tables presenting the changes over a three-year The report also gives an account of our efforts to uphold the period are accompanied by explanations to assist in interpprinciples set forth in the UN Global Compact. 55 Annexes sustainability report 2011 cib Group Imprint Text: Our thanks go to all employees of the CIB Group for their Róbert Kanizsai, Ádám Szinai help in preparing this report, especially Boldozsár Cseh, Rita Publisher: Csollár, Mariann Balázs, Ildikó Heckman, Ivonn Kökény, Zoltán Róbert Kanizsai, Head of Communication and CSR Kulcsár, János Németh, Ferenc Simity and Zoltán Surányi. Date of finalisation of manuscript: 30 June 2012 CIB Bank Zrt. Head office: CIB CSR Unit contact information 1027 Budapest, Medve utca 4–14. E-mail: 1537 Budapest, Pf. 394 sustainability@cib.hu Telephone: (+36 1) 423 1000 24-hour customer service call centre Fax: CIB24: (+36 1) 423 6500 06 40 242 242 SWIFT: From abroad: CIBH HU HB (+36 1) 399 8877 E-mail: cib@cib.hu Web: www.cib.hu www.cibalapitvany.hu 56
