Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 CSR Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Swedish National Road Consulting AB Address: Box 4021 SE-171 04 Solna Visiting address: Hemvärnsgatan 8, 2nd floor Telephone: +46 8 799 79 80 Fax: +46 8 29 46 89 E-mail: sweroad@sweroad.se Organisation number: 556224-1652 SWEROAD CSR Report 2011 Statement from the Managing Director Sustainability issues have been given a central role in One of the reasons for the institutional changes made in SWEROAD’S activities not least since SWEROAD 2009 bethe traffic authorities in Sweden in recent years is that came a member of The Global Compact. SWEROAD conplanning of all transport modes shall be integrated. This is tinues to support the Global Compact principles and also relevant for the international consulting and coordifuture work will be based on them. This work can be nating SWEROAD’S work with LFV Aviation Consulting in made visible through this sustainability report. Sweden is a step in this direction. SWEROAD has, with the Transport Administration’s support, during the recent SWEROAD is actively working to increase awareness and years also begun to explore opportunities to offer services skills of our employees on ethical issues such as corrupin the railway sector. SWEROAD’S activities in the environtion and human rights. In some of the countries where mental field have also increased. SWEROAD operates there is some economic and political instability. Through our activities we promote developOur vision is, as one of the leading consultants within the ment in these countries. transport sector, to contribute with knowledge and experience to develop sustainable Transport Sector ManWorldwide every year more than one million people die agement abroad. Through our services we focus on the in traffic accidents. The United Nations has put focus on needs of the client. Hence, projects are client driven and this fact and proclaimed the period 2011–2020 as the based on the client’s full commitment providing results Decade of Action for Road Safety, with a goal to stabilize that support sustainable development. Our vision also and then reduce the forecast level of road traffic fataliincludes sustainable operations at the head office in Sweties around the world by increasing activities conducted den and project offices abroad. at the national, regional and global levels. The problem has also been recognized by among others the World Gunnar Tunkrans, Managing Director, SWEROAD Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the EU. Since Sweden has carried out successful traffic safety activities and road safety is an important area for SWEROAD we have added extra power in this field. The economic crisis has cast its shadow over many countries in the last couple of years. Some of the countries where SWEROAD has been in business have had payment problems. Great efforts have been made to reduce the number of unpaid debts. Meanwhile, Swedish aid for infrastructure has been channelled through institutions other than Sida itself, which has contributed to that SWEROADs turnover has temporarily gone down. To address this, the number of project managers was increased in 2010 and this has resulted in more proposals and a higher turnover by the end of 2011. SWEROAD’S owner, the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications in Sweden, lifted 2010 the issue of SWEROADs continued legal status. It is SWEROADs view that proximity to traffic authorities is a prerequisite for SweRoad to retain its unique position in the market and to gain access to the expertise that is in demand. This view is shared by the Swedish Transport Administration who informed the Ministry of its opinion. 1 (9) SWEROAD CSR Report 2011 clude an operational management role including e. g. Operations development and maintenance plans. Organisational Profile Legislative issues, policy formulation, information search and statistics, overall and detailed organisational proposSwedish National Road Consulting AB (SWEROAD) is a als, operational planning, establishment and development limited company owned by the Swedish Ministry of of systems, feasibility studies, sector planning, superviEnterprise, Energy and Communications and governed sion, training and monitoring is included in various comby the Swedish Transport Administration. binations in the majority of SWEROAD’s projects. SWEROAD provides consulting services within the transKnowledge transfer is always included in the projects. Inport sectors especially road, road safety and railway to house education in Sweden or in cooperation with other clients outside Sweden by utilising the knowledge availprofessional institutions and businesses are key elements able within the Swedish Transport Administration and of all projects. other Swedish authorities, institutions and organisations in the transport sector. Projects run by SWEROAD The clients for SWEROAD’s projects are usually the authoriusually include advisory services and technical assisties responsible for infrastructure and transportation in tance to government agencies and local authorities. Due the country. The client can also be an aid organisation to its close ties with Swedish authorities it is natural for wishing to utilize SWEROAD’s and/or the traffic authorities’ SWEROAD to work in close co-operation with road, railservices. way and transport authorities in other countries. The scale of SWEROAD is shown in the table below. SWEROAD shall through its activities abroad do Swedish 2011 2010 2009 road and road safety skills at authority level accessible to Average number of the outside world. Most operations are carried out in employees, including close cooperation with The Swedish Transport Adminimanaging director 20 18 31 stration and will provide The Swedish Transport AdNet turnover, tSEK 32 643 25 888 45 360 ministration’s employees opportunities to work abroad Loss after taxes, tSEK 4 323 7 972 -5 905 and thus create self-development and stimulation. This Total equity, tSEK 18 358 22 681 30 752 makes The Swedish Transport Administration a more Total liabilities, tSEK 10 849 10 812 7 570 attractive employer. Total assets, tSEK 29 207 33 493 38 322 SWEROAD’s Head Office is situated in Solna, Sweden, where mainly sale and administrative work is done. No significant changes have accrued during 2011 regardDuring the year the company had seven project offices ing size, structure or ownership. which have provided administrative services for the SWEROAD has not received any awards during the period. projects. The project offices have been situated in Albania, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina (Sarajevo and Governance Banja Luka), Iran, Lesotho and Moldova. SWEROAD employs the Swedish Code of Corporate GovernThe countries where SWEROAD operates vary from year to ance and the Government’s Governance Policy for Govyear. In 2011 SweRoad carried out 34 (31) projects in 25 ernmental Owned Companies. The board is elected at the (18) countries (Sweden, Albania, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and annual meeting. Suggestions for candidates to the board Herzegovina, Botswana, Cambodia, Chile, Cyprus, are provided by the Swedish Transport Administration Denmark, Georgia, India, Iran, Iraq, Kenya, Lao, Lesoafter consultation with the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy tho, Moldova, Montenegro, Morocco, Namibia, Russia, and Communications. The board contains of a chairman Serbia, Sierra Leone, United Arab Emirates and Yemen). (former Director General of the Swedish Road Administration) and three board members (two from the Swedish Turnover by geographic areas 2011 Transport Administration and one that represents the South community). The board also includes two employee repEast Asia Africa resentatives, one member (from the Swedish Transport Administration) and one deputy member (from SWEROAD). Middle The Board appoints the Managing Director who is not a East member of the board. The top management of the comNorth pany consists only of the managing director. No board West Asia member is included in the top management of the company. Political representatives have the opportunity to present Europe their opinions to the board at the annual meeting. A copy of the notice of the annual meeting is always sent to the SWEROAD has an advisory role towards its clients and has Swedish Parliament. In addition to the annual meeting been active in most areas concerning roads and road meetings have also been held with the owner, represented traffic. As The Swedish Transport Administration’s reby the Swedish Road Administration, to discuss SWEsponsibility in addition to road also includes railway ROAD’s operations. Employees can present their opinions matters SWEROAD also offers services within this area. to the board through the employee representatives. The In its advisory capacity SWEROAD mainly works with public can send their opinions through an email address policy and organisation issues. Other assignments inthat are found on SWEROADs webpage. SWEROAD 2 (9) CSR Report 2011 Weekly meetings are held at the head office of SWEROAD faction and personal development. SWEROAD can among where the daily operations are discussed. Internal matother things provide society with increased road safety in ters are also discussed at the yearly employee conferthe countries where the company carries out such proence. The conference for 2011 has been postponed to the jects. beginning of 2012. Examples of issues raised during the year are concerns Report parameters regarding the fact that the company continues to generSWEROAD has chosen to define sustainable development ate losses, questions regarding the company’s risk manaccording to the Brundtland commission’s definition, agement and a new local union agreement. “Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”. CSR Report Different stakeholder’s opinions and views on social, economic and environmental aspects have been considered Report Profile in the development of the sustainability report. Some of This report presents SWEROAD’s sustainability with focus SWEROAD’s main stakeholders are the World Bank, Sida, on the company’s economic, environmental and social EU, the Swedish Transport Administration, the Swedish impact during the period January 1st to December 31st state and the employees. Their priority areas are employ2011. Comparative numbers from 2010 are shown ees, education, gender equality, environmental sustainwithin parenthesis. Indicators are also presented for ability, road safety, human rights, anti-corruption and 2009. The company makes yearly CSR Reports and the control of diseases, which are also relevant areas for latest report was presented on the company’s webpage SWEROAD’S activities. The basis for the World Bank’s global in March 2011. The company’s Managing Director is the and political development is the UN Millennium Develcontact point for questions regarding this report or its opment Goals. The World Bank has developed strategies contents. for different sectors to achieve the millennium goals and transport is one of the selected sectors. Moreover, the UN Report Scope and Boundary considers increased investments in infrastructure such as SWEROAD’S CSR Report contains information regarding the roads, essential for promoting the democratization in low projects that SweRoad performed during 2011 and the income countries. The EU has entered into commitments company’s business in Sweden and in the seven project on policy coherence for development in twelve areas, of offices abroad. which transport is one area. The CSR report mainly contains information regarding In March 2010 the UN assembly proclaimed the period SWEROAD’s impact on the environment and society. The 2011–2020 as the Decade of Action for Road Safety, with financial information is mainly found in SWEROAD’S ana goal to stabilize and then reduce the forecast level of nual report for 2011. road traffic fatalities around the world by increasing activities conducted at the national, regional and global No significant changes have been made from the previlevels. This has been followed up with action plans of the ous reporting periods in scope, boundary or measuremajor aid organisations such as EU, World Bank and ment methods applied in the report. Asian Development Bank. Sweden has internationally low Stakeholder engagement death rates caused by traffic. SWEROAD has, through cooperation with the Swedish Transport Administration, been The different stakeholder groups’ opinions about social, able to offer and receive projects in the field of road safety economic and environmental aspects have been considin several countries in recent years. ered while making this CSR report. The main stakeholders of SWEROAD can be divided into the following In 2008 a working group including project managers, the groups: controller and the managing director selected a base including relevant indicators, stakeholders, vision, sustain• Clients/Financial institutions – EU, World Bank ability definition and boundaries for the reporting. These (WB), Swedish International Development Cooperaselected individuals represented different parts of tion Agency (Sida), Asian Development Bank (ADB), SWEROAD’s activities and had contact and dialogue with Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and other develthe company’s internal and external stakeholders. opment banks and foreign ministries and organisations. In 2010 a working group consisting of the controller, a project administrator and a project manager with experi• Resource base – transport authorities, Swedish trafence from work at the head office and in projects abroad fic police, other Swedish authorities, universities and continued the work done in 2008 and supplemented it consulting companies. with additional indicators considered relevant for • The Society – both the Swedish society and the socieSWEROAD. A stakeholder dialogue was also carried out with ties abroad where SWEROAD performs projects. the company’s owner and the result were presented for • The owner – the Swedish Government. and discussed by the company’s board. During 2011 a plan has been prepared to identify future activities. • Employees To collect the employees’ opinions a survey is carried out All stakeholders have an interest in the company’s sureach year among the employees at the head office. vival which requires economic profit and long term obTargets for some of the selected indicators can be found in jectives. The clients and financial institutions expect the company’s balanced score card. services of high quality. The employees expect job satis3 (9) SWEROAD CSR Report 2011 Management Approach and Revenue by financial institution Performance Indicators 100% 80% Other Economic 60% EU/EBRD The Swedish Transport Agency, SWEROAD’s governor, yearly establishes economic goals for the company. With 40% ADB/NDF these goals in mind the board establishes a budget. In 20% Worldbank 2011 the goals were an operating margin of two per cent and a positive cash flow but the company have not 0% Sida reached these goals. 2009 2010 2011 More information regarding SWEROAD’S financial performance can be found in the annual report for 2011. SWEROAD have had problems with receiving payments in projects that are not financed by the financial institutions. EC1 Direct economic value generated The company therefore have decreased the ratio of those and distributed projects and have thereby lowered the risk for bad debt tSEKr 2011 2010 2009 losses. Direct economic value generated EC6 Proportion of spending on locallya) Revenues 32 781 26 060 34 086 based suppliers Economic value distributed One of the purposes with aid projects is to support the b) Operating costs -14 153 -14 031 -25 819 local economy in the project countries, local economy c) Employee wages and defined as the country where the project is carried out. benefits -21 233 -19 953 -19 439 SWEROAD endeavours to use local consultants and to spend d) Payments to providers as much as possible of the projects costs, for instance of capital -0 -31 -6 accommodation, transports and printing, locally. In 2011 e) Payments to government --’597 26 (19) per cent of the costs of the projects were spent f) Community investments ---locally. In some projects the client demands that a part of the contract price shall be spent locally. In the end, the Economic value retained -2 605 -7 955 -10 581 selection of a product/service is decided by the availability and the price. The table below shows the proportion of The last three years SWEROAD has generated losses. The spending on locally based suppliers for each project councompany have made investments in marketing and try. promotion activities but they have not yet fully paid off. Therefore the board has decided to reduce the fixed Country 2011 2010 2009 costs for administration at the head office extensively during 2012. Albania 85 % 45 % 42 % Azerbaijan 44 % 26 % -EC4 Significant financial assistance reBosniaceived from government Herzegovina 14 % 3% -The services that SWEROAD provide are mainly financed Cambodia 25 % --through the client country’s budget. In many cases the Ethiopia -12 % -client country’s budget is dependent on loans from inGeorgia 6% 5% 0% ternational financial institutions and in some cases aid. 21 % Iran 32 % 38 % This means that the availability of projects varies Kenya 6% --strongly depending on the budget situation of the international financial institutions. Since SWEROAD’S market Lao 64 % -69 % depends on the supply of projects it will change from Lesotho 10 % 5% 10 % year to year. Moldova 10 % 21 % 16 % Although SWEROAD is a governmental owned company it Namibia 95 % 44 % 15 % receives no grants or other financial assistance from the Serbia 31 % --government. The graph below shows how the revenue is Total 26 % 19 % 26 % split between the main financial institutions. 1 In some projects there are no local costs since the client pays these costs directly. Only projects where there are a local co-operation or a local project office are included. Costs for allowances and single hotel nights, taxis etc are not considered as local costs if they are paid by the employees and reimbursed by travel expense sheets. 1 Other is projects that are financed directly by a country’s government or by a private company. SWEROAD 4 (9) CSR Report 2011 Environment Travel by plane project 2011 2010 2009 Environmental issues have generated larger and larger kg CO2 83 000 88 000 119 000 interest during the last decade. SWEROAD has initiated a g CO2/SEK 2,5 3,4 3,5 number of projects that can reduce the effect of global warming in developing countries. During 2011 the employees at the SWEROAD head office SWEROAD’S main purpose is to carry out and administrate generated about 7 000 (6 500) kg CO2 by travelling to and from work 5 . This corresponds to about 773 (652) kg consulting services for international customers all CO2/employee. It is mainly travel by car that has inaround the world. The company therefore does not creased. transport goods or materials. SWEROAD’S main environmental impact arises from travelling by air to and from Travel head office 2011 2010 2009 projects abroad. At the head office in Solna, and in the offices abroad, the main environmental impact is conkg CO2 7 000 6 500 22 000 sidered to arise from the employees travel to and from g 773 652 1 965 the office and from office waste. CO2/employee Data used in converting km to CO2 is based on Nätverket för TransEN22 Total weight of waste by type and porter och Miljö (NTM) and adjusted by Conlogic AB. disposal method During 2011 3 983 (2 113) kg garbage were generated at Social Performance the company’s head office. In 2011 the head office SWEROAD’S social impact is accounted for within the areas moved to new smaller premises. During the move a lot of labour practices and decent work, human rights, sociof old material was thrown away and therefore the ety and product responsibility. numbers for 2011 are not comparable with the numbers for earlier years. Labour Practices and Decent Work Since SWEROAD’s main purpose is to deliver knowledge the QuanQuanQuantitity 2 tity 2 ty 2 employees are crucial for its business. This ambition is during during during shared with The Swedish Transport Administration. Types of 2011 2010 2009 Disposal Most of SWEROAD’S employees are members in the trade waste (kg) (kg) (kg) method 3 unions that are represented in the company’s board. Paper 2 700 900 900 SWEROAD has signed collective agreements with the trade Soft plastic 100 30 30 Waste left to unions and considering the international business extra Wrap350 350 200 the house insurance have been taken out for the employees. ping/carton disposal SWEROAD also is a member of Trygghetsrådet TRR. Styrofoam 15 15 15 plant for recycling. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Toner 4 15 15 15 Batteries 4 3 3 3 employment contract and region Waste left to The number of employees varies during the year dependthe house ing on how many projects that are carried out at that parGarbage 300 300 300 disposal ticular moment. By the end of 2011 35 (34) persons were plant for employed and of those 5 (7) had permanent contracts. burning During 2011 SWEROAD has had 50 (42) employees in 12 Secrecy Collected by (11) countries. 500 500 500 HA for recypaper cling Employees by region Total 3 983 2 113 1 963 16 14 12 EN29 Significant environmental impacts 10 8 of transporting members of the work6 2009 4 force 2 0 2010 Travel made within the projects generated about 83 000 Europé North and South and Middle East Africa Sweden Central 2011 (88 000) kg CO2 during 2011. This corresponds to about America 2,5 (3,4) g CO2/SEK related to SWEROAD’s turnover 2011. West Asia East Asia The reduction is mainly due to the fact that the company’s projects are situated in countries closer to Sweden. In 2011 11 (11) employees (including the managing director) have been employed to do mainly administrative work at the head office in Solna. In addition 39 (28) employees have worked in projects all around the world. 2 Data only includes waste from the head office. 3 Disposal of waste left to the house disposal plant is managed by the house owner. SWEROAD has decided that secrecy paper shall be recy5 Only employees at the end of the year have been included in travel to cled. and from the head office. Employees in projects in Sweden have not 4 Dangerous waste. been included since they do not work at the head office. 5 (9) SWEROAD CSR Report 2011 Employees in the projects are only employed by The table below shows programs related to assisting SWEROAD during the project. Normally they are emworkforce members and their families regarding serious ployed by The Swedish Transport Administration, other diseases. Swedish authorities/organisations or are retired. In EducaCounPrevenTreatment addition services have been bought from 12 (21) contion/Traini selling tion/Risk sultants. ng Control Program Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Employees by contract recipients 40 Adminisx x x x trative 35 personnel 30 Project x x x x 25 personnel 20 Project x x x x 15 2009 person10 nel’s 5 2010 families 0 2011 LA10 Average hours of training per year Project Consultants Administration Administration Project per employee full‐time During 2011 administrative personnel received 49 (286) part‐time hours of training. This corresponds to 4 (20) hours per full‐time part‐time employee. 72 (46) % of the training were an external training within controlling and taxation. Remaining training 28 (54) % were internal training in new tasks due to LA2 Employee turnover retirement. Project employees have not received either In 2011 11 (11) persons (including the managing direcexternal or internal education from SWEROAD. tor) were employed to do mainly administrative work. 2011 2010 2009 During 2011 1 (2) of these employees retired. The result Administrative personnel is an employee turnover among administrative personincluding managing direcnel of 9 (14) %. tor 11 14 11 SWEROAD’s business changes from year to year dependHours of training 49 286 121 ing on the contents of the projects carried out. The comHours of training per pany therefore hires employees on a project basis deemployee 4 20 11 pending on what expertise is needed in current projects. The result is a relatively high employee turnover. In LA11 Program for skills management and 2010 28 (36) persons were employed in SWEROAD prolifelong learning jects. In 2011 20 (22) of these employees were still workTo be a successful company SWEROAD must have employing for the company. The result is an employee turnover ees with good knowledge and social ability. Many clients of 29 (36) %. wishes that the experts have experience from the region in LA8 Education etc in place to assist question. workforce members and their families Most of the experts that SWEROAD engage have long exregarding serious diseases. perience and many of them from international work. Many of the experts are retired or will soon reach retireSWEROAD’S projects are situated in countries were the ment age. To be able to engage new experts SWEROAD amexposure for diseases normally are bigger than in Swebition is to give younger employees at the Swedish Transden. SWEROAD have no general policy on how to handle port Administration the opportunity to get international diseases during the project since the project countries experience, to build their CV. This is one reason why varies. To minimize the risk of disease all employees SWEROAD offers the Swedish Transport Administration’s must undergo a medical examination (at SWEROAD’S trainees to spend a few month of their trainee period expense) and be approved by the insurance company abroad. During 2011 nine trainees participated in before they start working abroad. If an employee is acSWEROAD’S project in Sarajevo. companied by his family the whole family must undergo the medical examination. Immunization and medical examinations are made by a fully qualified doctor at the location where the employee lives. In connection with the doctor’s appointment the employee receives special health counselling about the geographical area where the project shall be carried out. During 2011 1 (0) employee working in project have been on sick leave. The workforce at the head office is entitled to free medical care. SWEROAD 6 (9) CSR Report 2011 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 100% regular performance and career devel90% 80% opment reviews 70% All personnel (100 %) at the head office have staff per60% over 50 years formance reviews with the managing director. Mainly 50% questions related to personal development and the work 40% 30‐50 years situation are discussed. SWEROAD have the main em30% under 30 years ployer responsibility for project managers based in Swe20% den and full time employed team leaders abroad. For 10% project employees who only works part time for 0% SWEROAD the main employer has the primarily responsi2009 2010 2011 bility for personnel development. The company has close contact with the project personnel during, before From April 2011 SWEROAD’s board of directors includes and after the employment. five men and one woman. The woman and the deputy LA13 Composition of governance bodies employee representative are between 30-50 years old and the remaining four is over 50 years old. and breakdown of employees per employee category Human Rights SWEROAD works all over the world and the experts in the SWEROAD operates in countries where there may be politidifferent projects are expected to have both experience cal instability, and it is therefore important that all emof international work and good knowledge in foreign ployees are aware that all business relationships under the languages. Therefore it is natural for the company to company’s name follow an ethos that guarantees the search for people with varied backgrounds when the company’s seriousness and credibility. 2008 SWEROAD different positions in a project shall be filled. SWEROAD adopted the Swedish code of corporate governance. The do not register the employees by minority groups. company has had a business ethic policy since 2005 and a code of conduct since 1986. These documents emphasize Number of employees 2011 2010 2009 that human rights violations must not occur within Board including deputy 6 7 7 SWEROAD’s activities. SWEROAD’s employees are informed of Managing director, top 1 1 1 the company ethos by reading the business ethics policy management and code of conduct which is attached with the contract of Administrative personnel employment. SWEROAD have developed a routine which excluding managing states that SWEROAD’S global responsibilities are discussed director 10 13 10 when a project is started. During this meeting, country Project personnel 39 28 36 specific risks and cultural clashes for each project are During 2011 SWEROAD employed 50 (42) persons, 11 (7) discussed. women and 39 (35) men. HR3 Training on policies and procedures 100% concerning aspects of human rights 90% Employees have not received any special training in hu80% man rights. They have not received any specific informa70% tion on how human rights are affected by SWEROAD’s activ60% 50% ity. However, to illustrate how important these topics are Male 40% to SWEROAD a routine in which these topics are discussed 30% Female when a project is started has been implemented. A routine 20% has also been developed to ensure that employees are 10% taking note of information regarding SWEROAD’S ethos and 0% to check whether employees have received additional 2009 2010 2011 information/training in human rights from their main employer. 1 (1) employee was under 30 years, 18 (12) employees HR4 Total numbers of incidents of diswere between 30-50 years and 31 (29) employees were crimination and corrective actions taken older than 50 years. There is no (1) reported incidents concerning discrimination. 7 (9) SWEROAD CSR Report 2011 Society GRI Content Index To emphasize the importance of sustainability, SWEROAD SWEROAD has established the sustainability report accordhas included sustainability in the company’s manageing to GRI’s guidelines G3 application level C+. These ment system. Sustainability work should be performed aims to ensure that information on the business aspects of on the basis of UN Global Compact’s ten principles and sustainability are included as well as to that the quality of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. the information provided meets the given criteria. SO2 Business units analysed for risks Indicator Description of indicator Page related to corruption 1.1 Statement from the most senior deci1 SWEROAD has decided to implement an anti-corruption sion maker about the relevance of policy. After this policy has been implemented the comsustainability to the organisation and pany are planning to analyse business units for risks its strategy related to corruption. 2.1 Name of the organisation 2 SO3 Training in organisations anti2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or 2 services corruption policies and procedures 2.3 Operational structure of the organisa2 These topics are important and SWEROAD has a routine in tion which these topics are discussed when a project is started. A routine has also been developed to ensure that 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquar2 employees are taking note of information regarding ters SWEROAD’S opinion about corruption and to check 2.5 Number of countries where the organi2 whether employees have received additional informasation operates, and names of countion/training in anti-corruption from their main emtries ployer. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 SWEROAD are developing an anti-corruption policy. When 2.7 Markets served including geographic 2 the policy is finalized the company will ensure that all breakdown, sectors served, and types employees take note of the information in the policy. of customers/beneficiaries During 2011 the Managing Director received training in 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 2 anti-corruption from the Swedish Transport Admini2.9 Significant changes during the report2 stration. Other employees have not yet received any ing period training in anti-corruption or specific information on how SWEROAD’S business is affected by corruption. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting 2 period SO4 Actions taken in response to inci3.1 Reporting period for information pro3 dents of corruption vided There are no known incidents were any of SWEROAD’s 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 employees have been involved in or has been prosecuted 3.3 Reporting cycle 3 for corruption. SWEROAD has not stopped any contracts due to alleged corruption by the opposing party. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding 3 the report or its contents SO7 Legal actions for anticompetitive 3.5 Process for defining report content 3 behaviour 3.6 Boundary of the report 3 SWEROAD discourages collusion partnerships that provide a competitive advantage in the bidding process and 3.7 State any specific limitations on the 3 scope or boundary of the report has never been prosecuted for such a matter. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re3 Product Responsibility statements of information provided in Since SWEROAD’S activities are financed by different exearlier reports, and reasons ternal sources, it is important that clients are satisfied 3.11 Significant changes from previous 3 with the work SWEROAD perform. reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied PR5 Customer satisfaction 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 8 SWEROAD have decided to measure customer satisfaction standard disclosures report but the company has trouble to find a practise on how to measure. A couple of standard surveys have been tested 3.13 Policy and current practices with 8 but no decision has yet been made on which one to use. regard to external assurance The goal is to ask all customers about SWEROAD’S per4.1 Governance structure of the organisa2 formance at least when a project is finalized. tion 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the 2 highest governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 State the number of members of the 2 highest governance body that are SWEROAD 8 (9) CSR Report 2011 independent, and/or non-executive of corruption. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 2 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti8 employees to provide recommendacompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and tions or direction to the highest govmonopoly practices and their outernance body comes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfac8 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 3 tion, including results of surveys the organisation measuring customer satisfaction. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 3 stakeholders EC1 Direct economic value generated and 4 Assurance distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, Auditor’s Review Report on the donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and SWEROAD CSR Report 2011 payments to capital providers and We have been engaged by Swedish National Road Congovernments. sulting AB (SWEROAD), to review the SWEROAD CSR Report EC4 Significant financial assistance re4 2011.Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the ceived from government. CSR Report based on our review. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of 4 Scope of review spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of sustainability reports issued by Far (the EN22 Total weight of waste by type and 5 institute for the accountancy profession in Sweden). A disposal method. review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons EN29 Significant environmental impacts of 5 responsible for CSR matters and for preparing the CSR transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organizaReport, and applying analytical and other review procetion’s operations, and transporting dures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit members of the workforce. conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on AuLA1 Total workforce by employment con5 diting and Quality Control and other generally accepted tract, and region. auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed Total number and rate of employee by consequently do not enable us to obtain an assurance that LA2 6 age group, gender, and region. would make us aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express LA8 Education, training, counselling, pre6 vention, and risk-control programs in an audit opinion. The criteria on which our review are place to assist workforce members, based are the parts of the “Sustainability Reporting their families, or community members Guidelines” published by the Global Reporting Initiative regarding serious diseases. (GRI), which are applicable to the CSR Report. We conLA10 Average hours of training per year per 6 sider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the CSR employee by employee category. Report. LA11 Programs for skills management and 6 Conclusion lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention assist them in managing career endthat causes us to believe that SWEROAD’s CSR Report ings. 2011 has not, in all material aspects, been prepared in LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 7 accordance with the above stated criteria. regular performance and career development reviews. Stockholm February 3 2012 LA13 Composition of governance bodies 7 and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Niklas Angestav and other indicators of diversity. BDO Consulting Group AB HR3 Total hours of employee training on 7 policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimi7 nation and actions taken. SO2 Percentage and total number of busi8 ness units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 8 organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents 8 9 (9) SWEROAD Swedish National Road Consulting AB Box 4021 171 04 Solna Sweden Tel +46-8-799 79 80 Fax +46-8-29 46 89 sweroad@sweroad.se www.sweroad.se
