Sustainability Report 2011 The global leader in door opening solutions Sustainability Sustainability highlights 2011 1 ASSA ABLOY in brief 2 CEO statement 4 Challenges and opportunities 7 Goals and performance 8 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working 9 Customers value and innovation process 11 A process towards more sustainable products 12 Sourcing process and supply chain integrity 17 Manufacturing 21 Energy consumption and CO2 emissions 21 Water and waste 23 Sustainability Report Organic solvents and surface treatment 27 2011 People People make it all happen 29 The global leader in door opening solutions Career at ASSA ABLOY 30 Health and safety 32 A responsible employer 33 Gender diversity 34 Stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders 36 Dialog with SRI investors and analysts 36 External recognition 38 Memberships 39 Community outreach 40 Governance Governance 43 Organizational responsibility 44 Code of Conduct 45 Acquisitions 46 Reporting Reporting the Group’s progress 49 Reporting principles 49 GRI content index table 50 Glossary 52 Contacts Sustainable door opening solutions from ASSA ABLOY are used throughout 41 Cooper Square, New York City’s first LEED Platinum-certified academic building at The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. The first LEED Platinum-certified education facility in New York City achieved a blend of security, life-safety, aesthetics and sustainability with a mix of door and hardware products Reader’s guide from ASSA ABLOY Group brands. ASSA ABLOY has published a sustainability report From a sustainability perspective, all of each year since 2006. The report describes the the doorway products are constructed with Group’s sustainability initiatives and addresses percentages of recycled material that exceed issues that ASSA ABLOY has identified as the most LEED Materials and Resources guidelines, and important to its stakeholders. The report is aimed when used together as a complete assembly, at experts with an interest in ASSA ABLOY’s sustainthe openings can help improve building ability performance, including analysts, investors and envelope thermal performance. nongovernmental organizations. The 175,000-square-foot building, located As signatory to the UN Global Compact, on the east side of Third Avenue between 6th ASSA ABLOY will submit this report to the UN Global and 7th Streets, features laboratories, s­ tudios, Compact as a Communication on Progress report. classrooms, lounges, offices and several The sustainability report is aligned with the Global public spaces. The facility is 40 percent more Reporting Initiative guidelines declaring level C energy efficient than a standard building of (see page 50–51 for GRI content index). The data its type and is built with renewable, recycled presented in this report has been collected over and low-emission materials. the calendar year and includes all ASSA ABLOY operations. For further information regarding the sustainability report and its reporting principles, see page 49. The emission of greenhouse gases from the ­production of this printed product – including paper, other materials, and transport – has been offset by investment in the c­ orresponding amount of ­certified reduction units from the Sri Kalyani CDM project, a biomass-fired power plant in India. Sustainability highlights 2011 • Number or reporting units increased to 256 from 204. • 4  93 sustainability audits were performed in low-cost countries, compared to 376 in 2010. At the year-end, 461 active suppliers had satisfied the minimum standards for quality and sustainability and were classed as reliable. • T  wo independent social compliance audits were performed in China. • The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct was updated. • ASSA ABLOY has adopted an Anti-Bribery policy that applies to the whole Group. The policy is being implemented through face to face trainings, webinars and an online e-learning tool available at ASSA ABLOYs intranet (keyPoint). • A gender-diversity target was established; 30 percent of management positions filled by women in 2020. About this report This report, along with additional information available online, explains the Group’s sustainability performance in 2011. Unless otherwise stated, all information refers to activities undertaken between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011. The 2011 data is based on 130 factories and 126 sales units and offices, compared to 105 factories and 99 sales units and offices in 2010. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 1 Locks and locking systems Mobile keys Access control Door closers ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door-opening solutions, dedicated to satisfying end-user needs for security, safety and convenience. ASSA ABLOY is represented in both mature and emerging markets worldwide, with leading positions in much of Europe, North America, Asia, Australia and New Zealand. Share of Group sales by region 2011 EUROPE NORTH AMERICA 48% 28% ASIA 16% 2% 1% AUSTRALIA 5% NEW ZEALAND SOUTH AMERICA AFRICA Schools and offices Museums Homes Hospitals 2 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 2011 Electromechanical locks Entrance automation Industrial doors Digital locks As the world’s leading lock group, ASSA ABLOY offers a more complete range of door opening solutions than any other company on the market. Since its formation in 1994, ASSA ABLOY has grown from a 42 Sales of SEK 42 billion regional company into an international group with around 41,000 employees and sales of around SEK 42 billion. In the fast-growing electromechanical security segment, the Group has a leading position in areas such as access control, identification technology, entrance automation and hotel security. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM IN BRIEF 2004–2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Code of Conduct Sustainability Sustainability strategy for Sales companies and Increased audit of Increased reporting of Whistle-blowing program product development, offices are included in suppliers in low-cost environmental data including checklists reported figures countries 25 percent more Internal audits Employee survey Increased monitoring of Targets for 2015 are Group companies Due diligence directive Marketing and sales energy consumption and defined for all included in reporting Tools for supplier CO2 emissions monitored areas training Improved analysis and control Training in supplier Launch of joint recruitbenchmarking opporEmployee survey ment and selection guide tunities between control Group companies Updated Code of Conduct Updated Code of Conduct Industry Arenas Airports Hotels ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 2011 3 CEO statement Increased focus on sustainable products Handled correctly, sustainability is an asset. ASSA ABLOY c­ orporate sustainability organization, which mainly handles develops sustainable products that assure best value and guidelines, follow-up and coordination. All other staff dealless waste at minimum cost. This is the reason why ASSA ing with these issues are based in the divisions close to the ABLOY embraces sustainability in all of its processes. business processes. During the past six years, we have successfully integrated We are well under way toward our 2015 sustainabilthe sustainability methodology into the main business ity targets and have made strong progress in most areas. processes – sales, logistics, manufacturing, product develAreas in which we made especially good progress during opment and sourcing. This is fundamental as sustainability 2011 included reduction of chlorinated organic solvents, is not a stand-alone process that we simply add on top of reduction of water consumption, reduction of hazardeverything else we do. As we now have very good traction ous waste and increase of the total waste recycling ratio with sustainability in our business processes, it is time to to 80 percent. It should also be mentioned that there are take the next step. ­challenges going forward. The most important of these is Our next step is to bring sustainability into our products the geographical shift, whereby our growth is very strong in on a broader scale and make it an even stronger comcountries in the emerging markets, where energy systems petitive advantage. There is no contradiction between a are less environmentally efficient. This will of course change sustainable product and our competitive strengths. It is over time, and I am confident that we will deliver on our actually the other way round: a more sustainable product is targets by 2015. more competitive and also more cost-efficient, generating Nearly 50 percent of our direct materials, components value for all of the company’s stakeholders. and products is sourced from low-cost countries and we Going forward, this means that our product develophave continued to expand the program for audits of quality ment organization – through our ongoing voice of the and sustainability in these countries. customer process – will put even more emphasis on our During 2011 we have also continued our program of customers’ sustainability needs. One example already in social audits through an independent audit company. The place is a life cycle environmental declaration of some social and ethical performance of our sites is an important products according to the ISO 14025 standard. Other part of our approach to sustainability. examples include products with high percentages of We have also conducted a roundtable meeting with recycled content, more energy-efficient ­electromechanical ethical investors. The meeting went well and we thank all solutions, healthy in-house materials and climate-smart investors and analysts for their interest and valuable input. door-opening solutions. That last area, climate-smart doorI also want to thank our employees for their dedication opening solutions, is becoming more and more important and achievements during the year. all over the world as demands for climate smart buildings I hope that this report will be valuable to you, and give increase. In cold climates or seasons, you want to reduce a fair and in-depth picture of the sustainability activities heating costs, and vice versa in warm climates or seasons. within ASSA ABLOY. Group Management sets the sustainability targets and the framework, but execution is the responsibility of the Stockholm, 20 April 2012 operational divisions. This is why we have only a small Johan Molin President and CEO 4  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 “ASSA ABLOY remains committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This report contains our annual communication on progress.” “Handled correctly, sustainability is an asset. ASSA ABLOY develops sustainable products that assure best value and less waste at minimum cost. This is the reason why ASSA ABLOY embraces sustainability in all of its processes.” ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 5 Advancing our business through sustainability 6  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Challenges and opportunities ASSA ABLOY’s most important sustainability challenges are The Group’s most important sustainability opportunities related to resource consumption, dependence on certain are related to ASSA ABLOY product offerings that are susinput materials, expansion of manufacturing in low-cost tainable; either inherently or because of what they can do countries and health and safety in manufacturing. for our customers or to create a safer environment. To mitigate challenges, the Group will: To manage opportunities, ASSA ABLOY will: • Continue to reduce resource and energy consumption • Create products that fulfill our customers’ demands • Continue to improve water and waste management • Create products that our customers buy • Continue to improve health and safety performance in • Increase our knowledge of customers’ future demands manufacturing • Continue to improve suppliers’ compliance with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct Eduardo de Jesus, director of quality Asia Pacific region for HID Global. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 7 Goals and performance Most of the sustainability KPIs improved during 2011 – for the Group as well as for each individual division. In 2010, ASSA ABLOY updated its sustainability program with goals and targets set to run until 2015. The program is based on the Group’s risk assessment procedures, covers material sustainability issues and mandates measurable results. The overall goal for 2011 was for ASSA ABLOY to ensure a database and analysis tool is a key element for tracking strong implementation of the updated sustainability pro­performance and identifying areas where improvements gram throughout the Group in order to achieve the defined can be made. short and long-term targets. With 256 reporting units, it is important to ensure a Since 2010, the divisions are obliged to identify and report high level of knowledge of the Group’s sustainability in all the most material environmental risks for each individual parts of the organization and to share information and best entity, and also to explain how these risks are managed. practices between entities. The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Performance reporting flow Collection and Data analysis Short-term targets Long-term targets validation of data Using the 2010 data as a baseline, the 2011 data was colEach division is fully responsible for the implementation lected and analyzed in order to understand the status quo of the sustainability program within its entities and, in and to set longand short-term targets. ­several cases, a monthly follow-up of the prioritized KPIs Each company is obliged to set targets for the coming and defined actions is conducted. year for all of the main KPIs and will report on progress at least every six months to ASSA ABLOY Group. Material KPI Target¹ Area 2010 2011¹ 2015 Environmental KPI Number of manufacturing entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other certifiable management systems 69 75 852 KPI, Greenhouse gas emission CO2/Value added (Tonne/SEK M) 15.4 14.8 –10% KPI, Energy consumption/Value added (MWh/SEK M) 39.4 37.2 –15% KPI, Water/Value added (m3/SEK M) 135.2 124.6 –15% KPI, Hazardous waste/Value added (kg/SEK M) 293 191 –15% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tonne) 32 22 –75% Social KPI KPI, Percentage of spend in low-cost countries represented by sustainability audited suppliers 80%3 90%4 >90%5 Injury rate 7.8 8.0 –15% Injury lost day rate 141 144 –15% Suppliers – Sustainability appraisals – Code of Conduct requirement for all suppliers 376 sustain­ability 493 sustain­ability Sustainability audits of suppliers in risk category audits3 audits 4 Gender diversity See page 34 See page 34 1 For comparable units. 2 Number of entities with significant environmental impact. The remaining factories are mainly assembly and customization operations. 3 Countries covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan. 4 Countries covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Philippines. 5 Countries covered: All low-cost countries. 8  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working Sustainability is one of the drivers in the ASSA ABLOY value chain. By placing ASSA ABLOY in a broader context, the Group can better understand the sustainability risks and opportunities in the business. Managing these risks and opportunities in a good way will help ASSA ABLOY grow and remain profitable. Sustainability in line with our vision reducing production materials, optimizing product comManaging sustainability risks and opportunities is essential ponents and streamlining production as well as transport to fulfill ASSA ABLOY’s vision. By offering products that are methods, ASSA ABLOY minimizes its environmental impact more sustainable, the Group will strengthen its position while remaining cost-efficient. as a world-leading, successful and innovative provider of ASSA ABLOY has set up a Sustainability Council that door-opening solutions. It is important for ASSA ABLOY to is responsible for developing the Group’s sustainability understand the customers’ needs, the context in which the program. A new program was launched at the beginning products are used and how the Group can develop its offerof 2011 and will run until 2015. ing to create added value. If ASSA ABLOY acts responsibly, maintains its market-leading position and offers a diverse Sustainability program for 2011–2015 and constantly developing environment to our employees, • Targets set for all sustainability KPIs, covering all it will also be an attractive employer. entities and the Group ASSA ABLOY’s approach to sustainability is organized • Coordinated implementation of environmental around the customer offering. This means that sustainabilmanagement systems ity programs, indicators and objectives are all integral to • Increased capabilities for data analysis and the business process. Sustainability is factored into business benchmarking plans, decision-making processes and business principles. • Increased focus on minimizing waste In keeping with the Group’s long-term risk-management • Increased focus on sustainable products strategy, sustainability is an integral part of the approach to value-chain management – from sourcing to recycling. The procedures put in place to maintain quality and manage environmental impact have been successful. SusSupporting Group strategy tainability targets and policies have been implemented ASSA ABLOY is a world leader in its market and a premium throughout the Group, and each division is responsible for brand. The Group has achieved this by utilizing the identifying its greatest impact on the environment and prestrengths of the brand portfolio, by increasing growth in senting an action plan to address the problem. our core business and by being successful in expanding into new markets and segments. To fully exploit the brand portMonitoring progress folio across diverse segments, it is necessary to identify and To effectively monitor progress and maintain a systematic manage business opportunities related to sustainability approach, ASSA ABLOY has developed a database of all performance and to understand the market. The Group’s manufacturing companies’ sustainability indicator reports. expansion into new markets is facilitated by a strong brand In addition to the actual KPIs, the database also includes and a good reputation, which is earned in part by acting in a best practices and tools. Details of measures taken by the responsible way. various companies to reach the Group sustainability targets By considering the environmental impact from the have been entered into the database. ASSA ABLOY compadesign phase onward, using resources efficiently and applynies and divisions can access information from the database ing the reduce-reuse-recycle principle, ASSA ABLOY can cut to compare progress and trends. In 2011, 256 factories, production costs while also acting in a more sustainable sales units and offices reported. manner. By being systematic, exploring various means of SUSTAINABILITY Integrated in each part of the value chain CUSTOMERS: ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to supply high-quality products that fulfill customer Cus le s to m requirements, have a long life and are manufactured with minimal use of resources and Sa e environmental impact during their life cycle. rs INNOVATION: New products are evaluated from a life cycle perspective. Many recently developed products save energy as a result of improved insulation and intelligent control of various door-opening solutions. Code of Conduct ing SOURCING: The Group’s suppliers in risk areas are evaluated from a sustainability perspective. and Governance Innovat tur Suppliers failing to comply with the Group’s requirements are encouraged to make improveEmployees i on Manufac ments or will otherwise be phased out. MANUFACTURING: Manufacture of the Group’s products should be carried out safely and with the least possible environmental impact. Hazardous processes are gradually being phased out and replaced by eco-friendly alternatives. SALES: ASSA ABLOY respects laws and regulations concerning business ethics in the countries Sourcing in which it operates and requires all partners to act in the same way. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 9 Sustainability – increasing customer value 10  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Customer value and innovation process Increased focus on sustainable new products Customer demand for sustainable products is increasing. It is in ASSA ABLOY’s longand short-term interest to ensure that the Group run a sustainable business and offer the customers sustainable solutions. With buildings generally accounting for around 40 percent products and focus the engineering efforts on areas where of energy consumption in society, the focus on sustainabilthe greatest impact can be achieved. The Group place each ity in the construction industry has increased over the past product in a broader context than that of its own develcouple of years. This is expressed in an increased number opment and production processes as its environmental of sustainability-certified buildings, sustainability-profiled impact can increase significantly when it is part of a larger architects, and so on. At the same time, security-related system, such as a hotel, hospital or university. regulation is increasing and financial investments are ASSA ABLOY believe that by being sustainable the Group increasingly being based on sustainability criteria – in comcreate value for its customers cutting costs at the same panies as well as in building projects. time, as sustainable products and processes are inherently ASSA ABLOY has focused on improving its sustainability more efficient in their use of materials, energy, transport profile for several years. The Group monitors performance and other costs. in the manufacturing plants and have implemented improvement targets in many important areas. To improve A process toward more sustainable products the performance further, the Group has increased the focus Keeping up to date with sustainability development on sustainability in new product innovation. throughout the ASSA ABLOY value chain is important in ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to develop new product order to create and maintain awareness. We do that by concepts that are truly innovative in the way they solve training programs that covers governance, innovation, customer problems or create customer value, while being sourcing, manufacturing and sales etc. The Group intranet based on more sustainable solutions and processes. and the staff magazine are other important channels to To maximize the sustainability of new products and engage with the employees on this matter. solutions, ASSA ABLOY considers the whole life cycle of Replacing brass with stainless steel results in increased durability and reduced environmental impact Challenge For durability and esthetic reasons, many lock components have traditionally been made out of brass. However, when using brass an additional surface treatment process is required to protect the metal and accomplish a decorative f­ inish. This process not only involves the use of hazardous substances, but also the consumption of a significant amount of energy. The additional surface treatment process also contributes to longer lead times, a more complicated production process and limited flexibility toward customers. Solution For these reasons, ASSA ABLOY Hospitality has substituted stainless steel for brass – a change that has had several positive repercussions. The use of stainless steel has eliminated the need for a surface treatment process for five out of nine decorative components in ASSA ABLOY’s electronic hotel lock products. Ninety percent of the total lock volume is now made of stainless steel, of which 75 percent is untreated. Only 15 percent is electroplated to match other components still made out of brass. The switch to stainless steel has reduced the use of materials, cut electricity consumption by 70 percent and lowered carbon emissions by 70 percent, while boosting quality and durability. In terms of raw materials, producing stainless steel generates 80 percent less carbon emissions than producing brass. Result From a customer perspective, the use of stainless steel shortens the delivery process, allows for more flexibility and ­ultimately results in a more sustainable and durable product. From an ASSA ABLOY perspective, the new approach eliminates a production process, reduces resource consumption, shortens lead times and it results in more secure and high-quality deliveries from a smaller number of suppliers. In summary, it creates a more attractive product. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 11 A process toward more sustainable products Being a premium brand and a preferred supplier that creates customer value demands high levels of innovation, as well as the highest possible levels of quality and design. Sustainability is at the heart of it all. The ASSA ABLOY Product Innovation Process is based on Delivering what customers want lean innovation principles and consists of several modules, For several reasons, it is important to understand the cusincluding product management, voice of the customer and tomers’ needs in relation to sustainability. Most obviously, efficient delivery of innovation projects. ASSA ABLOY needs to deliver sustainable products that cusThe product management module addresses long-term tomers understand and want to buy. If the Group develops trends and generation planning of products and technoloworld-class sustainable solutions that no one buys, nothing gies. With voice of the customer methods, information has been improved. If a new smart door seal is developed about customer needs is collected and forms the founand the door is not closed properly, the target has also dation for the development of relevant, value-creating been missed. offerings. Efficient delivery of innovation projects ensures Understanding our customers is therefore essential. elimination of waste related to products and processes, This includes understanding their needs, their business as well as delivery of high-quality products. ­models and challenges, as well as their knowledge levels. ASSA ABLOY must also understand their ability to comUnderstanding long-term trends prehend, accept and embrace various concepts, as well and planning for the future as what they are prepared and able to pay for. In the product management process, ASSA ABLOY looks The ASSA ABLOY voice of the customer process looks at long-term social, political, technological and customer at everything from longer-term customer needs and trends trends, market development, standards and regulatory to highly detailed choices related to specific products or development. With this knowledge as a starting point, components. generation plans are laid out for new products and for the development of entirely new technologies. Long-term Lean principles and methods reduces trends indicate a steadily increasing focus on sustainability inefficiencies and waste driven by, for example, the depletion of important raw New innovation projects are developed in a similar way materials and the increasing concentration of greenhouse across the Group and based on the reduce-reuse-recycle gases in the atmosphere. These factors result in stricter principle. The way projects are run is documented in the regulations and increased demand for more sustainable gateway process and communicated in the lean innovation solutions – all of which ASSA ABLOY must take into account instructions. in the long-term planning of products and technologies. The process encourages “up front loading” to ensure The reduce-reuse-recycle principle that guides us in development of “the right things” before focusing on product innovation also comes into play in our long-term efficient project execution. In practice, this means that planning, as we need to consider service, upgradability, concepts must be carefully evaluated and tested against exchangeability and new business models in our generation customer needs and sustainability should be considered planning. before moving into the engineering design phase. Product Innovation Process The ASSA ABLOY P ­ roduct Innovation Process is Management based on lean innovation principles and consists of several modules, includVoice of the customer / ing product management, Product Management Lean / Gateway process Voice of the technology voice of the customer and efficient delivery of innovation projects. Organization Values and principles 12  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Trio E combines beauty, durability, health and energy efficiency Underwriters Laboratories (UL) recently released UL 102, Standard for Sustainability for Door Leafs. The new standard helps gauge the environmental and human health impacts of various products. Trio-E is the first door to be certified to these strict sustainability requirements. UL 102 provides detailed requirements to evaluate the environmental impacts related to producing a variety of door types. The life cycle impact of doors is measured throughout the materials management, energy use, water use, manufacturing and operations, health and environment, product performance, product stewardship and innovative practices of production. Steel stiffeners are thermally broken within the door interior and reduces energy transfer. The core of the door is filled with a highly insulating polyurethane foam resulting 39% in a product that has achieved an operable U Factor of 0.29 and is 39 percent better than previous versions of steel stiffened doors. The product also takes into account the human health impact and is certified to UL’s GREENGUARD Children & Schools testing to insure the product meets the emissions standards for indoor air quality for California’s 01350 test, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) as more efficient than previous versions well as the International Green Construction Code (IGCC). of steel stiffened doors. Crawford UK outfits sustainable logistics warehouse Customer Gazeley Ltd’s distribution center in Chatterley Valley, Staffordshire, called Blue Planet, is the first building to achieve an “Outstanding” design rating from BRE Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM). Challenge Gazeley Ltd had stringent specification requirements; the majority of materials used in the building are A or A+ rated in BRE Global’s Green Guide to Specification. Solution McLaren Construction involved Crawford UK at an early stage of this development as Crawford had demonstrated its ability to meet Gazeley’s requirements. Thirty-eight dock levelers were required for the 34,000 square meter warehouse and this also involved supplying and installing dock doors, dock levelers, bay shelters, traffic lights, dock lights and level access doors. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 13 When a concept is validated and approved, it is further as well as the various divisions in the Group. This council developed during the specification and design phase. develops and shares best practices within the ASSA ABLOY To ensure all sustainability aspects are taken into conGroup, reviews methods and tools that can further support sideration in the development of the product and the ASSA ABLOY in its development work and also formulates manufacturing process, the gateway process requires all measures, targets and communication policies. project leaders to apply the environmental checklist before The global council will also coordinate the development they are given the go-ahead to proceed beyond the process of value-chain analysis related to key product groups and and design stage. The checklist is a reminder of all areas that environmental risk areas. The results of the analyses will should be taken into account in relation to sustainability be made available to the developing units to support and when developing a new product, such as packaging, the use focus their sustainable design efforts. of process chemicals, logistics concepts, and so on. During 2011, webinars were held on sustainability in the innovation process to speed up the processes of awareness Improving the innovation process building and knowledge sharing. To further strengthen the innovation process in regard to sustainability, a global council has been assigned that represents various functions within innovation and design, Reduced power consumption for greater efficiency Challenge A steady amount of power was supplied to effeff’s electric strike during the entire unlock phase, resulting in unnecessary power consumption. Solution Power supply to the strike mechanism was modulated so that it only receives power when required. Power to the ­solenoid is increased only until the unlock state is reached, instead of using full power during the entire unlock phase. Result Less power is now needed to hold the strike in the unlock state, thereby reducing power consumption. For ASSA ABLOY’s customers, this modification has resulted in a product that works better, is more reliable, is easier to maintain and draws less power. For ASSA ABLOY, the use of a different material in the solenoid has resulted in less waste in the production process, reduced dissipation of energy and – ultimately – a more attractive product. 14  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 New home embraces green building principles ASSA ABLOY’s drive to make sustainability an integral part of its business philosophy and culture is apparent in the newly constructed Group building. The Phoenix, Arizona home of Group brands HES and SECURITRON incorporates ­sustainable construction methods that are expected to earn the facility LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver certification from the United States Green Building Council (USGBC). Formal certification is expected to come in summer 2012. The new building was built HES and Securitron completed the move to the 94,000-square-foot Phoenix facility in August 2011. When designusing sustainable construction ing the facility, one main priority was to make it as eco-friendly as possible. The building incorporates a wide variety of methods. building design features to help improve energy efficiency, air quality and sustainability. New mechanical and electrical systems include a highly efficient air-conditioning system, plus energy star appliances Sustainable construction and equipment. The building features skylights, automatic controls and sensors that conserve energy, as well as lights ­methods included the use of on motion sensors and timers for climate control. Upgraded insulation and reduced water consumption for plumbing FSC-certified wood, as well as fixtures reduce energy and water usage. Employees in the new building benefit from improved interior air ventilation. low VOC-emitting paints and Sustainable practices used in the construction process include recycling and minimizing construction waste, and adhesives. using FSC-certified wood, as well as low VOC-emitting paints, adhesives, and other surfaces throughout the building. Air was also filtered during construction to reduce the spread of dust. Tight-sealing sliding doors improve energy savings for Besam customers Besam has launched greener configurations for their existing sliding door profile packages. The TightSeal features extra brushes and rubber bumpers for a more energy-saving seal and the configuration is available for existing as well as new sliding door systems. Benefits include less air leakage and water infiltration, which is especially optimal during ­non-­business hours but also beneficial whenever the door is closed during opening hours. Studies show that reducing air leakage can lead to energy savings of up to 60 percent compared to standard sliding door systems. Depending on the configuration, the very attractive payback time for the customer is between 12 and 24 months. When fitted to the Besam Frame and Slim Thermo, these automatic door systems meet BS EN 12207 (Air Permeability) Class 1 standards for thermal efficiency, an official European regulation that will come into force in 2013. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 15 + Quality + Trust + Targets + Audits = Integrity in supply chain 16  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sourcing process and supply chain integrity Sustainability is a vital factor in our sourcing process. For ASSA ABLOY, auditing and improving sustainability performance among our suppliers is a continuous task. Process and organization for Based on a risk assessment, high-risk suppliers in low-cost sustainable supply management countries are required to perform a supplier self–assessGroup Management sets the sustainability targets and ment in the sustainability areas that correspond with the framework whereas each division is responsible for the areas covered in ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct. Following operations and maintaining a good supplier base. the self-assessment, on-site sustainability audits may be Group Supply Management leads a Sustainability Counagreed with the supplier. cil with representatives from each division. The Council Both the self-assessment and the on-site audit checklist coordinates activities and follows up progress on targets. are designed to verify whether the supplier is compliant All divisions have the same guidelines, processes and IT syswith the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct, covering business tem, which are all provided by Group Supply Management. ethics, labor rights and human rights, environment, health and safety. The sustainability audit process Each division is responsible for performing audits when It is a requirement that the Code of Conduct is followed in required, and their audit reports are submitted to the all supplier contracts. Sustainability audits are carried out Group’s supplier database. on suppliers in risk categories. The objective is to minimize risks of non-compliance among suppliers, primarily in lowScoring Principles – The Traffic Light System cost countries. The sustainability audit process is the main Audit scores are linked to a color-coded system in which tool used to evaluate how well a potential supplier meets green means that the supplier is accepted, yellow that the requirements. Audit PROCESS Long-term Supplier development and consolidation Mid-term Supplier risk assessment Targets and measurements Supplier On-site Audits Supplier Development Self Assessment Grow Ongoing Scoring Principles Traffic Light System Fix Sustainability Supplier quality Follow-up audits Exit The audit is carried out using a sustainability audit checklist, which lists business until the problems have been resolved and this has been veria number of criteria and questions that the auditor uses to calculate a fied by a follow-up audit. If the supplier fails to improve its performance, score according to ASSA ABLOY’s Scoring Principles – The Traffic Light ASSA ABLOY will end the professional relationship. Some criteria in the System. The Traffic Light System links the scores to three colors: green, audit checklist are of such significance that they are called “stoppers”. If yellow and red. Green means that the supplier is accepted, yellow that a supplier fails to comply with these ASSA ABLOY standards, it is autoimprovements need to be made within a certain time frame and red matically rated red – regardless of its performance in other areas. that the supplier has been blacklisted and will not be given any new ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 17 Sourcing process and supply chain integrity improvements need to be made within a specific time Calibration audits frame and red that the supplier is rejected. Calibration audits play an important role in ensuring supBoth red and yellow statuses can be revised based on pliers are scored in the same way by ASSA ABLOY auditors. evidence of a corrective action plan, well-documented A calibration audit involves a team of senior ASSA ABLOY progress and firm commitment from the supplier. Conemployees who are responsible for auditors in various tracts with suppliers may be subject to termination in case divisions, together with managers from Group Supply Manof non-compliance that is not remedied within an agreed agement, auditing a number of suppliers during a weeklong time frame. process and then comparing their scores. The need for calibration audits will grow as both the number of audits and Suppliers in low-cost countries the number of internally trained auditors increases. ASSA ABLOY suppliers in selected low-cost countries are listed, graded and tracked in a supplier database. The Audits and results in 2011 database ensures transparency and that the purchase orgaIn 2011, the scope of the supplier sustainability audit pronization has access to consistent information about the gram was expanded to cover not only China, Hong Kong, suppliers’ performance. The supplier database is available Macau and Taiwan, but also suppliers with production facilion the Group intranet for access by selected p ­ urchasers. ties in other low-cost Asian countries. In total, the Group Confidentiality is ensured by assigning user rights and has 1,300 direct material suppliers based in low-cost Asian by limiting updating rights to accredited and trained countries. administrators. During the year, 479 suppliers were audited. Including The database enables several key performance indifollow-up audits, the number of total audits increased to cators to be followed up and is an important means of 493, compared to 376 in 2010. At year-end, 461 active identifying and developing preferred suppliers. ­suppliers had satisfied the minimum standards for ­quality Auditing for a safe and sustainable ASSA ABLOY As ASSA ABLOY acquires more companies and therefore expands its supplier base, the need for supplier audits increases. The Group insists that suppliers measure up in the key areas of environment, health, safety, business ethics and human rights. It’s essential that all existing and new suppliers meet the Peak has conducted more than 200 audits since he joined Group’s high standards. ASSA ABLOY four years ago. “Safety, health and human rights Peak Chang, senior supplier management engineer at are parts of the operation that we mark most often,” he says. division Asia Pacific’s Asia Sourcing office, emphasizes the “Some companies only focus on business ethics. In their eyes, importance of audits, especially when moving production health and safety don’t affect the customer. But ASSA ABLOY to low-cost countries. disagrees – all five parts of the audit are equally important.” “Moving production to low-cost countries increases the Every audit combines interviews with management and need to secure the quality level of our suppliers,” Peak says. randomly selected individuals in the organization, on-site “ASSA ABLOY has a unique opportunity to strengthen our inspections and document reviews. Every supplier needs to brand, products and market position when we manage our be in compliance with ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct and risks properly in enhancing our sustainability management.” understand the Group’s core values. Audits are designed to assess risks within five main areas: ASSA ABLOY has been conducting audits on high-risk environment, health, safety, business ethics and human suppliers in low-cost countries since 2006, focusing on rights. The ASSA ABLOY process is always the same, regardChina, Hong Kong and Taiwan. As the number of suppliers in less of the type of supplier or auditor. Asia increased, so did the need for audits. More countries in 18  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 and sustainability and were classed as being reliable. These In 2012, the scope for suppliers to be audited will increase supplier represent 90 percent of the Group’s spend for further to cover all low-cost countries in the Group. This direct materials in low-cost Asian countries. At the end will mean that suppliers in Eastern Europe, Africa, and South of 2011, 19 suppliers were blacklisted by the ASSA ABLOY and Central America will be included in the program. Group – meaning they are not allowed to be given any Furthermore, calibration audits will be performed on a new business by any ASSA ABLOY entity. regular basis and our systems will be improved to better In 2011, 15 internal auditors received training in the support the processes. ASSA ABLOY audit method and scoring principles. Part of The main challenge going forward is sustainable the training process involved performing actual audits in ­management and ensuring that standards are met at the order to harmonize the scoring of individual areas of the growing number of suppliers, including a large number ASSA ABLOY standard review list. of low-­volume suppliers. One reason for the increase of suppliers in China is Challenges and focus going forward acquisitions. To manage this, ASSA ABLOY is continuously ASSA ABLOY Supply Management will continue to work identifying strategically important and preferred suppliers with and develop suppliers in order to improve their and phasing out the non-preferred ones. ­ratings in the supplier assessments. This will reduce risks associated with non-compliance and, at the same time, contribute to improving the quality of our suppliers. Asia have been added to the audit list, and the internal major issues that require process changes or reconstrucorganization within ASSA ABLOY changed to better meet tion of the site. The time given to make improvements the needs. depends on the extent of the issue – it can be anything In 2010 the responsibility for audits was laid on the from a few weeks to a year. ASSA ABLOY then carries out Group’s five divisions. They are now responsible for tara follow-up audit. gets, follow-ups and budgets. ASSA ABLOY must offer the incentives to change and “We needed an organization that reflected the it is our duty to tell the supplier what is correct or not. requirements and that could bring us closer to the operCertain issues are more sensitive than others, which ations,” says Anders Wirsenius, group supplier quality make it important to know how to communicate in the and sustainability manager at ASSA ABLOY. “All five diviright way. sions have their own auditors, educated by ASSA ABLOY The audits are not only about controlling suppliers, in our standardized audit process.” but a tool to help ASSA ABLOY develop as a company. The auditors needs to understand the extensive “Through our audits we can create new business opportuprocedures that go into manufacturing ASSA ABLOY’s nities, learn from our suppliers’ experiences and pick up advanced products, as well as laws pertaining to the new knowledge concerning product trends, technology environment, health, safety, business ethics and human and the external environment,” he says. “By listening rights. to their expertise, we can collect information that will “What our suppliers believe is important to the busibenefit us in the future.” ness relationship is not necessarily what ASSA ABLOY think is important. A supplier can get a high score in four of the five areas we measure, but leaving out that fifth one can mean the end of our business relationship.” Minor complaints in an audit are often easily addressed – it might be that the workers don’t use protective glasses or gloves. The suppliers are then happy to make improvements quickly. It is harder to improve ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 19 + Streamlining + Smart solutions + Alternative energy sources = Resource efficiency 20  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Manufacturing Energy consumption and CO2 emissions Reduced energy consumption is a top priority for all factories and sales companies within the Group. The reported data forms the basis for performance evaluation and benchmarking. New metrics such as energy consumption per square meter and energy consumption in relation to number of worked hours have been introduced to be able to compare similar entities with each other. ASSA ABLOY has been conducting assessment of its proddependant consuming devices. This means that the ongoucts and production processes for several years. The results ing manufacturing footprint consolidation will contribute show that it is energy consumption in the production phase to further energy reduction savings. Each remaining facilthat has the most significant impact on the environment. ity will be streamlined and specialized on production of certain products, meaning high utilization of machines, Energy consumption in factories and sales companies equipment and floor space. It is important to stress that the Analysis of the energy consumption in large manufacturing streamlining enables full capacity, efficient working pracunits show that 40–60 percent of the energy consumption tices and high standards of quality at the remaining sites. in those units is related to heating, ventilation, l­ ighting, Understanding the main drivers for the base consumpoffice equipment and other non-production volume tion is important to achieve further reductions in energy Energy consumption MWh 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011¹ Direct energy – oil 35,000 9,000 23,000 34,400 26,600 – gas 190,000 191,000 174,000 176,600 171,100 – coal 67,200 75,500 – Total 225,000 200,000 197,000 278,200 273,200 Indirect energy – electricity 283,000 260,000 261,000 291,200 291,900 – district heat 28,000 22,000 33,000 35,700 24,600 – Total 311,000 282,000 294,000 326,900 316,500 TOTAL ENERGY USE 536,000 482,000 491,000 605,100 589,700 ¹For comparable units. Total energy consumption amounted to 632,000 MWh, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. Total energy use (MWh) Greenhouse gas emission CO2 total (tonne) MWh Tonne 700,000 250,000 600,000 200,000 500,000 400,000 150,000 300,000 1 For comparable units. Total 100,000 ¹ For comparable units. Total greenhouse gas emissions 200,000 energy consumption amounted amounted to 248,600 tonne, 100,000 to 632,000 MWh, including 50,000 including units acquired durunits acquired during the year ing the year and increased 0 and increased reporting. 0 reporting. 07 08 09 10 11¹ 07 08 09 10 111 KPI, Total energy/value added (MWh/SEK M) KPI, Greenhouse gas emission CO2/value added (tonne/SEK M) MWh/SEK M % Tonne/SEK M % 40 8 20 8 30 6 15 6 Annual improvement, % Annual improvement, % 20 4 10 4 1 Due to implemented changes 1 Due to implemented changes in reporting and calculain reporting and calcula2 tion principles (see page 49), 2 tion principles (see page 49), 10 5 KPI-reference values are not KPI-reference values are not available for 2007 to 2009. available for 2007 to 2009. 0 0 2 For comparable units. 0 0 2 For comparable units. 071 081 091 102 112 071 081 091 102 112 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 21 consumption. Each entity has defined a target for energy ASSA ABLOY has increased its demands for information consumption for the coming year and a detailed mapping from its travel agents in relation to business travel. This of the energy consumption has been made in several units. information allows ASSA ABLOY to better understand its Ongoing consumption is measured continuously. Perforemployees’ current travel behavior and to promote more mance metrics and targets are being displayed visually environmentally efficient behavior. On the Divisional level, and employees are encouraged to come up with ideas for there are guidelines for business travel and routines for improvements. Many entities have invested in equipment approval of such travel. for more intelligent control of energy consumption, such as: • Timers for control of heating/cooling, ventilation, lighting Environmental impact and compressors ASSA ABLOY is dependent on energy in its production • Sensors for lighting and ventilation processes and the company is vulnerable to the effects of energy retrieved from exhaustible resources. Examples of The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability database and analysis tool such effects are an increase in price and reduction in supply contains current and historical data per entity as well as of certain energy sources. Further, the company affects the a set of standardized measures of energy performance – environment in the consumption of energy and fossil fuels for example, energy consumption per square meter and and through emissions. There are trends toward taxes on energy consumption per worked hour. In order to identify emissions and increasing oil prices – emphasizing the fact areas for further improvements, entities producing similar that ASSA ABLOY’s ability to run its business in an effective, types of products can be compared. The analysis capabilienvironmentally sensible way is closely linked to the supply ties will be further developed in 2012 and will, for instance, and cost of resources. include climate data per geographical site as heating and cooling are important drivers of total energy consumption Performance in certain areas. Total energy consumption for comparable units decreased by 14,000 MWh or 2.3 percent compared to 2010. The Transport normalized result – i.e. energy intensity – improved by Efforts to reduce our carbon footprint continued in 2011, 5.5 percent in 2011. The target for 2015 is to reduce energy including the improved monitoring of transportation of intensity by 15 percent compared to 2010 (see page 8). goods and employees. A database has been established to Total carbon dioxide emissions for comparable units store the geographical locations of all suppliers of direct decreased by 2,600 tonnes or 1.1 percent compared to materials, as well as all ASSA ABLOY factories and sales com2010. Emissions intensity for comparable units improved panies. At the end of 2011, the GPS coordinates of 4,000 by 4.3 percent compared to 2010. In 2011, 10 percent suppliers had been entered into the database. The database of the energy used came from renewable sources. The is connected to ASSA ABLOY’s central purchasing database, reduction in energy consumption did not translate into which enables transportation impact estimations based on a comparable reduction in emissions due to the varied purchased value, weight of purchased goods and mode of energy mix across the ASSA ABLOY Group. ASSA ABLOY is transportation. The system will also be used for optimizalooking for ways to make its energy supply more efficient tion and coordination of transportation within the Group, and cleaner. as well as from suppliers in different geographical regions. The implementation of the system will continue in 2012. ASSA ABLOY Australia reduces electricity consumption Challenge As the buildings at the Melbourne site are now quite old, most of the translucent panels had become dirty and were not allowing a great deal of sunlight through. As a result, it was decided to repair, clean or replace these existing panels as required, in addition to installing additional translucent panels elsewhere throughout the facility. Solution In an effort to reduce its electricity consumption, ASSA ABLOY Australia has replaced some of the roof at its Melbourne facility with translucent panels and installed daylight sensors so that the lights can be turned off automatically when there is sufficient natural light. To maximize energy savings, sensors were also installed to ensure that the artificial lights only turn on when there is not enough natural light. Result This and other projects have reduced electricity consumption at the Melbourne facility by approximately 5 percent, while maintaining safe light levels, for an annual saving of around AUD 35,000 (about SEK 245,000). ASSA ABLOY Australia has also tested the use of motion sensors for lights in some parts of the Melbourne factory, which will one day ensure that – even when there is insufficient natural light – the artificial lights will only turn on if there is someone in the area. 22  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Manufacturing Water and waste Improving the waste management process and reducing water consumption are important elements of ASSA ABLOY’s efforts to minimize its environmental impact and cut costs. Water Emissions to water are monitored in accordance with local Efforts to improve water efficiency have focused on faciliregulations. The ASSA ABLOY units that manage chemicals ties with painting or plating operations as these consume must have proper licenses and be registered with the local the most water. The 20 largest entities in terms of water authorities. consumption account for more than 70 percent of the Group’s total water consumption. The ASSA ABLOY SusWater tainability database and analysis tool contains current and 2007 2008 2009 2010 20111 historical data per entity as well as a set of standardized Purchased water (1,000 m ) 1,997 1,763 1,765 1,819 1,737 3 measures for water performance evaluation. In order to Water from on-site wells identify areas for further improvement, entities producing (1,000 m3) 141 104 91 256 237 similar types of products can be compared. The analysis Total water consumption capabilities will be further developed in 2012 with respect (1,000 m3) 2,138 1,866 1,856 2,075 1,9741 to process types and volumes of products painted or plated KPI, Water/ Value added (m3/SEK M)² NA NA NA 135.2 124.6 in particular production lines. The aim is to reduce operating costs and environmental impact. ¹ For comparable units. Total water consumption was 2,075 (1,000 m3) including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. Technological innovation in the recirculation and reuse ² Intensity values are calculated for comparable units between 2010 and 2011, of water resulted during 2011 in a decrease in water dis(see page 49), reference values are not available for 2007 to 2009. charge compared to 2010. Using less water also means that we have less water to heat, which in turn decreases our energy consumption. Rockwood Manufacturing is committed to safety and sustainability Challenge Rockwood Manufacturing, a US-market leader in the production of door pulls and trim hardware for doors in non-residential buildings, recently implemented a major sustainability program. Solution Joseph Morocco, the company’s environmental/safety supervisor says that, as a result of increasing environmental awareness, sustainability is not just the right thing to do, but also something that customers have come to expect. He adds that his responsibilities are twofold; reducing Rockwood’s environmental impact and developing a safer and healthier working environment for the company’s employees. “At the same time, we are reducing costs and meeting customer demands that we become more ‘green’,” Morocco says. Result In an effort to reduce the environmental impact, Morocco and his team encouraged Rockwood’s employees to take a number of steps, such as recycling cardboard, paper, plastic and alkaline batteries. “We have installed energy-efficient lighting throughout the facility, reducing electricity usage while indirectly reducing our carbon dioxide emissions,” he adds. “Also, we have installed coolant-recycling units on lathes, thereby reducing the amount of waste coolant generated.” Looking ahead, Morocco says Rockwood will continue to improve its health and safety standards, while also reducing its environmental impact. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 23 Waste Various metals are sorted by type to assist in the r­ ecycling ASSA ABLOY works to minimize waste related to packing of their content. Cutting oil is extensively filtered and cleaned and waste created directly and indirectly by its manufacso that it can be reused in the manufacturing. ­Certified comturing processes. In 2011 the total amount of waste in the panies appropriately dispose of any hazardous waste that manufacturing companies was 59,600 tonnes, of which cannot be reused. The total amount of hazardous waste was 80.3 percent was recycled. A number of companies have reduced by 32.6 percent for comparable units. reduced their amounts of packaging material, switched to The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability database and analysis more environmentally friendly packaging materials and in tool contains current and historical data per entity as well some cases also introduced returnable/recyclable containas a set of standardized analysis for waste performance ers. The increased use of electronic orders and integrated evaluation, e.g. generated waste per worked hour. Compainformation flows between systems has also reduced the nies producing similar types of products can be compared number of printed documents. in order to find best practices and areas for improvements. Hazardous waste Non hazardous waste 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Metal sludge (tonnes) 1,443 895 751 728 659 Household incinerated 1,192 1,001 1,778 1,515 1,563 Oil for recycling (tonnes) 741 878 769 564 487 Household deposited 7,140 5,339 5,340 5,593 5,267 Other types of toxic waste Paper and cardboard (tonnes) 1,991 2,688 2,694 3,211 1,884 for recycling NA NA NA NA 2,520 Total hazardous waste Plastic waste for recycling NA NA NA NA 263 (tonnes) 4,175 4,460 4,214 4,502 3,0301 Other types of waste 3,179 2,993 3,530 4,633 2,352 KPI, Hazardous waste/ Total 11,511 9,333 10,649 11,740 11,9651 Value added (kg/SEK M)2 NA NA NA 293 191 KPI, Non hazardous waste/ 1 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste was 3,082 (tonne) Value added (kg/SEK M)2 NA NA NA 757 755 including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. 2 Intensity values are calculated for comparable units between 2010 and 2011, 1 For comparable units. Total amount of non hazardous waste was 14,207 reference values are not available for 2007 to 2009. (tonne) including units aquired during the year and increased reporting. 2 Intensity values are calculated for comparable units between 2010 and 2011, reference values are not available for 2007 to 2009. Recycled metal Tonne 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Waste metal for recycling 59,300 38,700 35,800 39,000 36,900¹ 1 For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 42,300 tonnes, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. ASSA reduces energy consumption by about 50 percent compared with 2006 Challenge In 2007, the ASSA ABLOY Group set a target of reducing energy consumption by 15 percent over five years, and began efforts to identify equipment that might be using unnecessarily large amounts of energy. Solution One of the first steps taken at ASSA was to purchase four clamp meters and software that could be used to ­measure energy consumption. ASSA staff used these tools to measure the consumption of most equipment at the Eskilstuna facility. After performing an inventory of all light fixtures at the plant, it was decided that it would be more profitable to install motion detectors, photoelectric lighting controllers and, where possible, to reduce the number of light fixtures and fluorescent bulbs. LED bulbs have replaced halogen and fluorescent bulbs in certain light fixtures and installing motion detectors in production facilities, storage areas and facilities in the basement has saved an average of 4 kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity per weekday. Other areas that have been updated include changing rooms, stairways and corridors. Result Through these measures, energy consumption decreased by about 50 percent compared with 2006. This is in addition to savings made in previous years, such as when the decision was made to reuse water that had been heated in the process of cooling compressors, saving about SEK 250,000 per year. 24  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sainte-Savine factory sorts waste, benefits community Challenge In the interest of the environment, ASSA ABLOY France decided in July 2010 to start using a small train to collect waste generated by the factory in Sainte-Savine. Solution The train now makes five circuits of the factory each day, collecting the waste from each work station. The driver ensures that the waste he collects has been properly sorted into separate bins, according to the agreed categories: domestic waste; paper and cardboard; materials soiled with grease and oil; electronic waste; ink cartridges; and PVC. In May 2011, it was decided to go one step further and sort plastic wrapping materials. Previously, these m ­ aterials had been mixed in with the domestic waste and ended up in a landfill. Several collection points were set up around the factory and a campaign was launched to inform factory personnel about the need to sort plastic ­wrapping materials. When he goes on his rounds, the driver of the train collects plastic wrapping materials in biodegradable bags, which are then put into our cardboard box compactor and sent to the town’s sorting center. There, the plastic wrapping materials are pressed into bales before being sent to recycling plants and processed so that they can ­ultimately be used to make bottles, pens or even computers. Result In 2011, no less than 13.84 metric tons of plastic materials were collected and recycled. In addition to benefitting the environment, the introduction of the recycling train has had a beneficial social impact. The train driver, Stéphane Bauland, was hired from a local municipal department that helps to find jobs for disabled people. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 25 Mul-T-Lock introduces advanced and environmentally efficient wastewater treatment Challenge When Mul-T-Lock moved its main manufacturing facility from Barkan, east of Tel Aviv, to Yavne, in Israel’s Central District, it took the opportunity to upgrade its industrial wastewater treatment system. Solution The new system, installed by Israeli developer Elgressy Ltd, and combining the technologies of electrocoagulation and ­electroflotation, benefits both the planet and the company’s bottom line. Unlike the traditional waste-removal system used formerly by Mul-T-Lock, the new facility uses no hazardous and aggressive chemicals that require special storage and great care. Based solely on electrical processes, the new method is exceptionally safe and clean. Result Thus, the new system generates some important advantages, both financial and environmental: the cost of the entire new process is no more than 30 cents per hour, and the amount of sludge to be transported to distant landfills – another heavy expense – has been reduced by as much as 80 percent. Moreover, the technology removes about 95 percent of the m ­ etals, compared with about 60 percent with traditional chemical processes, which means that the water is clean enough to ­recycle back to the plant – for a better environment and considerably diminished water bills. Reduction of hazardous waste Abloy Finland recently made the decision to use vegetablebased oil rather than cutting emulsion in its Door Control business unit’s IMAS machining center. Previously, the cutting emulsion had to be changed two or three times a year, resulting in a total of 8,000 liters of hazardous waste being produced per annum. The vegetable-based oil used now is biodegradable and very seldom needs to be replaced – just topped up from time to time. As a result, the total amount of toxic waste produced by the Abloy factory in Joensuu, Eastern Finland, has been reduced by 3 percent. The vegetable oil is also gentler on the cutting machine, helping to reduce maintenance costs. 26  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Manufacturing Organic solvents and surface treatment Chlorinated organic solvents such as perchloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) are often used for surface treatment of metals, including degreasing, cleaning and pretreatment before plating. While ASSA ABLOY measures its use of several different Consumption of organic solvents organic solvents, perchloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) are mentioned in the sustainability report PER consumption because they are the most environmentally hazardous organic solvents. ASSA ABLOY has been working systemTonne atically for many years to reduce and, in the long run, 80 completely eliminate its use of these two solvents. They are now used primarily in a small number of entities acquired 60 in recent years. Most of the Group’s entities use environmentally friendly alternatives such as ultrasonic cleaning 40 processes and wateror steam-based processes. 20 ¹ Total consumption Performance amounted During 2010 the phase-out of TRI was completed. The 0 to 22 tonne. 07 08 09 10 11¹ phase out of PER within the Group continued in 2011 and a further reduction of the number of sites using PER was achieved. Total consumption of chlorinated organic TRI consumption solvents was reduced by 35 percent compared to 2010. Commitment to reducing the use of chlorinated organic Tonne 50 solvents will continue and it is ASSA ABLOY’s aim for all of its facilities to cease using them. 40 Surface treatment 30 Metals are widely used in ASSA ABLOY products. Products 20 and their components need surface treatments to meet high standards of durability, corrosion resistance, quality 10 and finishing. In most cases, the surface treatment processes are 0 07 08 09 10 11 highly complex and require accurate process controls. Care must also be taken to ensure the correct concentrations of active chemicals are used in order to achieve the desired PER and TRI total consumption results. Parts are treated in sequential baths and cleaned in water tanks before each new sub process commences. Tonne 100 Using modern cleaning technologies, the waste water can be recirculated back into the process multiple times, 80 thereby minimizing water consumption, saving energy and reducing costs. ASSA ABLOY has long-established expertise 60 in the surface treatment field, including processes such as 40 passivation, anodization and plating. 20 1  Total consumption Performance amounted to 22 tonne. During 2011, the conversion of two surface treatment 0 07 08 09 10 111 processes was completed. The conversion of another two processes was initiated and will be completed in 2012. Surface treatment processes under change Processes under change Number 40 30 20 10 0 07 08 09 10 11 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 27 + Knowledge + Creativity + Hearts + Brains = Employees Employee survey improved communication “The employee survey helped us realize the opportunity we had to improve our internal communication, and it has been a high priority ever since then. I believe that employees are more aware of what is going on within our organization with the help of our monthly companywide meetings, informative e-mails, communication boards and posted bulletins.” Heather Goldman Manager of continuous improvement ASSA ABLOY EMS & OEM Group, USA 28  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 People make it all happen It is ASSA ABLOY’s vision to be an attractive company to work for. The ­ company wants to fulfill this vision by offering challenging tasks, good ­development opportunities, a safe and sound work environment and ­delegation of responsibility. Company knowledge Employee survey results from 2010 For employees to be motivated and engaged, they need related to sustainability to know the company and how their jobs contribute to overall goals and objectives. ASSA ABLOY employees learn about the company’s history, products, strategy, Code of 3,9 1 2 3 Conduct and goals and objectives through the web-based 3,8 4 5 interactive training program “Entrance to ASSA ABLOY”. The 3,7 6 7 program is available in 15 languages on the Group intranet 3,6 3,5 and is a mandatory part of the introduction of employees 3,4 across the Group. 2008 2010 A new version of the program was launched in 2011. All employees are expected to take this program. 1: strongly disagree, 5: strongly agree. Employee survey An employee survey is carried out globally every 18–24 How well do the following statements months. The objective is to give all employees the opportucorrespond to your opinion? nity to express their views about their jobs, their workplace 1. My unit values diversity among its employees – and the company, and thereby stimulate involvement and 3.75, 9th highest score among 36 questions. engagement. Depending on the result, the survey is fol2. My unit is a good place to work – 3.71. lowed by activities that address areas in need of change and 3. My unit shows environmental improvement. responsibility – 3.77, 6th highest. All employees should have annual performance reviews. 4. I am treated with fairness and respect The employee survey addresses this matter and employees at my unit – 3.70, 11th highest. are asked whether their reviews have taken place or not. 5. My unit shows responsibility regarding Other survey questions that are directly related to sustainthe health, well-being and work ability are: “My unit provides equal opportunities to both environment of its employees – 3.69. women and men”, “My unit shows environmental responsi6. I can openly and with respect express my bility” and “My unit has high ethical and moral standards”. views and opinions within my unit – 3.59. The next survey will take place in March 2012. Com7. My unit has high ethical and moral standards – 3.64. parison with earlier surveys will show the impact of actions taken. The results will be broken down for around 275 The scores on the questions are very much entities to make actions and communication as relevant as in line with those from the 2008 survey. possible. Best practices are shared between the entities. “The employee survey helped us to address “After the previous employee survey some communication gaps between different highlighted a need for better internal comfunctions and to streamline processes. The munications, we encouraged all staff to be survey made it possible to hear the voice of involved with the monthly newsletter, and junior staff with the same level of importance we’ve had a great response to this. We introas senior staff. An all-team discussion helped duced communication boards both in the to identify gaps, such as the need for more offices and on the factory floor. We actively training. As a result, designated employees use the intranet site for providing comwere nominated for certain external training pany information, and we also have a new programs.” SharePoint site being launched this year.” Ranjit Nambiar Sara Fisher National sales manager Executive assistant HID, India ASSA ABLOY, UK ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 29 Careers at ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY believes that employees are the key to success and should have the opportunity to perform and develop according to their potential. Challenging tasks, training, regular feedback on performance and teamwork are important elements for career development. Training and development Talent Management Process Two Group-wide development programs are run yearly and ASSA ABLOY’s Group-wide Talent Management Process offered to a number of ASSA ABLOY’s senior leaders. One aims at supporting career development and ensuring availis the internal program “MMT”, in which the participants ability of the resources, skills and competencies needed learn more about all parts of ASSA ABLOY’s business and to meet future challenges and opportunities. The prooperations, develop a network with colleagues from other cess involves all levels of the organization and includes a countries and businesses, share best practices and identify structured approach to succession planning and career new business opportunities. This is of particular importance development. to ASSA ABLOY, given the many acquisitions. “MMT” therefore also plays an important role in successful integration. Job posting and recruitment Since its launch in 1996, 419 leaders from 36 countries It is ASSA ABLOY’s philosophy that the employees must have participated in the program. take charge of their professional careers. Consequently it The other initiative, the ASSA ABLOY-IMD “Boosting is the policy to post all job openings on the Group intranet, Market Leadership Program”, has the primary objective thereby informing employees about vacant positions and of supporting strategy implementation. The program was giving them the opportunity to apply. Internal candidates launched in 2011, replacing an earlier ASSA ABLOY-IMD are given priority, provided their qualifications are compaprogram. rable to those of external candidates. In 2011, 57 leaders participated in one of the above The job posting and recruitment policies are now well programs. established within the Group. Hiring of employees is normally done locally and the vast majority of employees, Scholarship program including senior management, are – with few exceptions The ASSA ABLOY Scholarship Program provides the oppor– local. tunity for employees to work at a Group company other than their own for a limited period of time. The purpose is to share knowledge and experiences, and learn from other cultures and ways of working. The program is open to all employees. Scholarship program contributes to development of South Korean employees Four ASSA ABLOY employees based in South Korea participated in the ASSA ABLOY Scholarship Program in 2011 to support their career development. One of the participants was Sean Gon Sohn, who has worked for ASSA ABLOY since April 2006, and is now inter-group product manager at iRevo. Under the scholarship program, he worked with the Yale team in the UK for seven weeks to improve his understanding of the digital door lock market in the UK, and also look for new opportunities for the business in Sean Sohn Europe. “The UK is the most important digital door lock market for Europe,” says Sean. “It is important for both iRevo and the Yale team in the UK to improve understanding, share experiences and work more closely together. My participation in the program helped iRevo to complete the final stages of product development and also to initiate new p ­ roduct Eon Park launches,” Sean adds. Eon Park, a product and marketing manager at iRevo, spent some time with the Electronic Access Control (EAC) team in New Haven, and Yale Commercial Locks & Hardware in Tennessee, USA. “Seeing is believing and one picture is worth a thousand words,” says Eon. “Due to the differences in the terminology used and the different cultures, iRevo sometimes runs into problems when developing products that might cause delays. The scholarship program gave me the opportunity to learn more about the US market, work on the voice-of-customer process for brand-new iRevo-developed products and develop new concepts for next-generation products,” Eon adds. 30  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 “My role as a product marketing trainee within Yale EMEA allows me to work alongside a very dedicated and proficient team in many different markets,” says Gemma Lamont. Sun Chao, general manager of Ruizhong Tianming Door, has participated in the MDP program. Training for the future in EMEA Gemma Lamont from the UK is one of 10 trainees in ASSA Each year about 25 people ABLOY’s 18-month EMEA graduate trainee program. She applied for the program while completing a MA degree participate in the Management in business and economics in Glasgow. After spending six months with Yale EMEA in its UK offices, she transferred Development Program in ASSA to Rome to work on a catalogue-generator tool. Her next move will be to Poland, where she will be part of the Yale ABLOY Asia Pacific central distribution project for a couple of months before she returns to the UK. The Management Development Program (MDP) program is a platform for develop“It’s been very interesting so far, and I’ve definitely ing new leaders in the division, and the participants are selected based on three learned a lot,” Gemma says. She stays in close contact criteria: exceeding expectations on performance; demonstrating potential and with the other trainees in the program, all of whom have aspiration for further development; and their potential for filling management different specializations. “We get together every couple ­positions in the organization. of months and share experiences,” she says. “It’s quite Holly Li, HR director at ASSA ABLOY Asia Pacific, describes the program this way: a steep learning curve, but in terms of career develop“In the early stage of MDP, the program aimed to provide a platform for internal ment the program is number one. It combines hands-on sharing, learning and site visiting, so that participants could adopt each other’s best project development with educational aspects so that we practices and create internal synergies,” she says. “Since 2010, we have updated the can put ourselves in line for managerial positions in the program with more leadership-development training elements, and the training future.” is designed around APAC’s new leadership-competency model: Envision, Execute, Bill Harding, VP of human resources in division EMEA, Empower and Collaborate. says the program aims to secure future talent. “As we We’ve also put learning activities into the program, where participants are asked move more into electronicand IT-related solutions, we to identify new business initiatives or improvement opportunities, propose an are clearly looking for graduates in those disciplines,” he action plan and execute it, and then report on the results in a sort of graduation says. “But we are also looking for people in marketing, paper.” sales, supply chain, mechanical engineering and finance. The purpose is to strengthen our talent pipeline.” ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 31 Health and safety A workplace culture where everyone takes responsibility is the foundation of ASSA ABLOY’s health and safety strategy. ASSA ABLOY is committed to providing a safe work environment and to eliminating risks that can cause accidents or Injury rate, total1 impair the health and well-being of its employees. Ultimately, managers are responsible for compliance 12 with ASSA ABLOY’s health and safety procedures and the regulatory requirements within their work areas. 9 The production units have their own health and safety committees, which include union representation where 6 ­applicable. The committees gather incident reports, monitor health and safety performance and discuss opportunities 3 for improvement. The committees also initiate training to address specific risks. 0 07 08 09 10 112 Injury rate in injuries per million hours worked. 1 Learning from each other For comparable units. The total injury rate as 8.9 including units acquired 2 All entities are benchmarked against each other and best during the year and increased reporting. practices are shared, thereby helping each other to attain higher standards. Injury lost day rate, total1 Recognized risks ASSA ABLOY’s health and safety risks are mainly related to 200 the use of chemicals for degreasing, painting and surface treatment, and to production processes such as die casting, 150 stamping, drilling, cutting and polishing. 100 50 0 07 08 09 10 112 Injury lost day rate in lost days per million hours worked. 1 For comparable units. The total injury lost day rate was 161 including units 2 acquired during the year and increased reporting. Training reduces number of accidents in Mexico The management team at the Phillips factory in Mexico City demonstrates their commitment to employee health and safety each and every day. As part of a company-wide safety initiative launched in September of 2009 referred to as “STOP” (Safety Training Observation Program), employees meet daily to address any safety-related concerns they may have, based upon observations made by members of a department, or by members of the recently added employee safety brigade. The STOP program began with intensive training for managers, department heads and other stakeholders on how to make observations of activities within a work area to determine where potentially unsafe actions or operations exist. Observations are documented and then become actionable. Using the STOP program as a foundation, the Phillips team launched a permanent security campaign in April 2011, amidst much fanfare – including a formal ribbon-cutting ceremony to underscore the importance the company places on maintaining a safe working environment for employees. Aside from introducing new safety posters and bulletins, the campaign set up special security brigades, known as Guards for YOUR Safety. These brigades are comprised of union and non-union employees, and team members receive intensive training on the STOP program methodology. Members are distinguished by the red T-shirts they are issued upon successful completion of the program. Since the inception of STOP in 2009, the number of workplace accidents at Phillips has been cut in half – clear ­evidence of the effectiveness of the program. 32  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 A responsible employer Independent factory compliance audits, covering areas such as labor standards, human rights, work environment, workplace culture and skills development are conducted on a regular basis. The audits are conducted in line with internationally accepted and applied procedures by external auditors to obtain an independent view of the situation. Depending on their findings, the audits may be followed Employees’ voices heard through the EWC by measures to correct and improve procedures where The European Works Council (EWC) is a forum where 24 necessary. In 2011, two of ASSA ABLOY’s factories in European employee representatives get information about ­Shanghai, China were audited. In 2012 another two audits key events and the development of the company and have will take place. the opportunity to meet representatives from Group management and ask them questions. In 2011 a new EWC agreement was signed to align ASSA ABLOY with the new EU directives on European Works Councils. Signs of progress in low-cost countries Interview with What are the challenges that ASSA ABLOY, How do you think ASSA ABLOY is faring in its representative of together with other international production efforts to manage the conditions in China? third-party auditor companies, faces in many low-cost countries? We have visited three of ASSA ABLOY’s entities in China, It faces a context in which basic human rights and needs are and they are doing quite well. I think that they outpernot protected or met. There is a general trend of excessive form many comparable companies. The open dialogue overtime, low wages and poor health and safety conditions. and honest intentions are very positive. Implementation As a consequence, it is not unusual for employees not to is always a challenge but I have experienced that ASSA trust the management. Corruption and ethical misconduct ABLOY has set up systems to spread the Code of Conare common and the lack of transparency in both public and duct from management throughout the organization, private organizations is a context that must be managed resulting in a high level of awareness. with care. Which are the main challenges How can these challenges be managed? that still remain for ASSA ABLOY? As ASSA ABLOY has its own factories, it can directly impact Excessive working hours continue to be a challenge, on these issues. It is important that they are addressed but not just for ASSA ABLOY. I think that the employee openly and that management demonstrates awareness. turnover in ASSA ABLOY’s Chinese companies is lower I think that ASSA ABLOY does this quite well and that the than for many other companies, which is a positive sign. company has been successful in implementing its values In order to secure that situation, ASSA ABLOY must and Code of Conduct. continue to work actively with issues such as working conditions, working hours, wages and so on. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 33 Gender diversity ASSA ABLOY values and promotes diversity. This includes the ambition to achieve a better gender balance at all levels of the organization over time. The goal is to have women fill 30 percent of management positions by 2020. A gender diversity policy was introduced in 2010. As of 2011, about 35 percent of the employees are women, have at least one candidate from the underrepresented while the percentage in managerial roles is significantly gender on the shortlist of candidates for each position. lower. In order to further promote gender diversity, a workFemale managers at different levels shop was held in Stockholm in June 2011 with participation in the organization from all divisions and members of Group Management to Percentage of females discuss goals and measures. It was agreed to set a goal that, Level 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 by 2020, 30 percent of employees at levels 2–5 (see below) 2 – reports to CEO 0 0 0 0 0 will be female. It was also agreed to increase the focus on 3 – reports to level 2 14 11 15 16 15 gender diversity in connection with the Talent Management 4 – reports to level 3 19 17 18 18 19 Process. 5 – reports to level 4 22 23 20 24 26 Other actions agreed on include to give priority to the Level 2–5 – – – – 24 underrepresented gender in connection with recruitment, All employees 39 40 39 37 35 provided their qualifications are comparable, and to try to ASSA ABLOY AB head office is not included. The decrease is due to the acquisitions of Pan Pan and Crawford. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION GENDER DISTRIBUTION Number 50,000 Europe, 14,474 Men, 65% North America, Women, 35% 40,000 7,423 Central and South 30,000 America, 911 Africa, 479 20,000 Asia, 16,703 Pacific, 1,080 10,000 0 07 08 09 10 11 ASSA ABLOY paves the way for women ASSA ABLOY strives to promote more women in the Group. The overall Agnès Richter, product goal is to have women in 30 percent of management positions by 2020. group manager, ASSA ABLOY ASSA ABLOY’s HR Director Krister Eriksson believes a better balance France, was one of 20 particibetween men and women at all levels in the organization will contribute pants in a June 2011 workto making ASSA ABLOY an even stronger company, both in terms of shop in Stockholm on the performance and its attractiveness as an employer. topic of increasing the num“It will broaden our perspective on various issues, which will help us ber of women in senior manmake better decisions,” Krister says. “Gender diversity should be part of agement positions. the Group’s DNA.” Studies show that companies with women in senior management positions perform better. ASSA ABLOY’s traditional business and technology has historically attracted mostly men, so it’s certainly a challenge to attract and retain women in the Group. To ensure that ASSA ABLOY reaches its goal of 30 percent of management positions being filled by women by 2020, the divisions will increase their efforts to achieve a better balance and there will be a systematic follow-up on the progress made. The ambition is also to increase the proportion of female participants in leadership programs run by IMD, the international business school ASSA ABLOY works with. “Primarily, we want to promote the women already working for the company,” says Krister. “I think perhaps women need an extra push and support to apply for jobs internally.” It’s a matter of changing the company culture, and we can do it. 34  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 + Engaging + Sharing + Transparency + Feedback = Stakeholder dialogue ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 35 Engaging with stakeholders Dialog with SRI community and analysts To ASSA ABLOY, our stakeholders are those who have a direct relationship with us, are affected by us, or affect us. ASSA ABLOY has identified stakeholders of particular interest from a sustainability perspective. They are: customers, shareholders, investors, suppliers, employees, local communities, non-governmental organizations and media. The socially responsible investment (SRI) community is an important stakeholder in ASSA ABLOY’s business and sustainability performance. Folksam: Swedbank Robur: Emelie Westholm, Anna Nilsson, Analyst Corporate Governance Head of Responsible Investments Dialog with SRI investors and analysts “Folksam has conducted an active engagement with “ASSA ABLOY is a truly international company and is thereASSA ABLOY for several years and is pleased to see fore exposed to all of the positive aspects of globalization, the Group’s progress on sustainability management. but also to the challenges. ASSA ABLOY has made signifiIn 2010 Folksam decided to focus its engagement cant improvements in its sustainability management, and with ASSA ABLOY on diversity and gender issues. This has been responsive to external input regarding risks and means that Folksam, to some extent, relies on its opportunities. From our perspective, the most material industry colleagues to challenge ASSA ABLOY on other issue is ASSA ABLOY’s supply chain management. Given its matters, such as supply chain management, worksizeable and decentralized organization, shaped by acquiing conditions, health and safety and environmental sitions, and a growing number of suppliers in low-cost management. countries, of which some perform manual labor, it is fair to Since Folksam began its dialogue with ASSA ABLOY say that the company’s supply chain has inherent risks. on these matters, ASSA ABLOY has communicated a ASSA ABLOY takes a systematic approach to assesspolicy on gender diversity as well as gender diversity ment, audits and actions. This is very much in line with targets (30 percent women by 2020) and shares best what we expect from ASSA ABLOY and we appreciate the practices within its organization. Obviously these information provided to us on this matter. However, we are very positive factors. Folksam expects that ASSA do see potential for further improvement. For example, ABLOY will continue to advance, that the Group will a wider scope of suppliers could be audited, and more offer more information on priorities, milestones, detailed communication on various parts of that entire specific actions, more results and information on process would be helpful. its future plans and direction. Folksam appreciates ASSA ABLOY’s large number of acquisitions offers that ASSA ABLOY addresses gender from a strategic opportunities; knowledge, synergies and access to new perspective, which gives the sense that the Group products, but also challenges; potential breaches of the considers this issue to be of importance to its business ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct, difficulties in implementperformance. ing the Code, the risk of inheriting suppliers that abide by ASSA ABLOY is open, interested in and responstandards other than those of ASSA ABLOY, and so on. It is sive to external feedback, and transparent about the therefore positive that ASSA ABLOY conducts third-party challenges it faces – all of which are important charaudits and communicates its Code throughout the orgaacteristics that will help the company make further nization. These measures contribute to raising awareness, progress.” which is a prerequisite before addressing local suppliers on the matter of sustainability management. It would be very useful for external stakeholders to learn more about the scope and results of those audits. ASSA ABLOY is accessible and responsive, which is something we regard as being very positive. This builds trust and will also contribute to the continued development of the company’s business. ASSA ABLOY is included in Swedbank Robur’s sustainability funds (Hållbarhetsfonder).” 36  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 The investment community is an important stakeholder ASSA ABLOY code of conduct within acquired companies; group that offers input on their expectations, including Need for in-depth information on third party audits in the best practice and risk management. Engaging in dialogue supply chain and within the Group’ s units as well as further provides an important opportunity for ASSA ABLOY to cominformation on the standard of suppliers; Resource efficiency municate our way of working. In 2011, ASSA ABLOY carried and the constant work to reduce the environmental impact out the annual round table discussions and several one on in sourcing and production. The opportunity perspective one meetings with this group. The dialogue process which continues to increase of importance. The investment comhas been ongoing for several years, has resulted in important munity wishes ASSA ABLOY to further elaborate on the input to ASSA ABLOY’s strategies and daily work as well opportunity side of sustainability related to our business and as to how we communicate on these matters. Example how we create customer value. We are committed to conof topics raised in 2011 are: Risks and risk management in tinue improving our communication and reporting to better sourcing; Management of risk of non-compliance with the meet the needs for information among our stakeholders. Third Swedish National Pension Fund (AP3): DNB NOR: Second Swedish National Christina Kusoffsky Hillesöy, Josefine Ekros, Pension Fund (AP2): Head of Communications & Sustainable Analyst – Responsible Investments Ulrika Danielsson, Investments Head of Communications and HR “We have followed ASSA ABLOY for several “DNB believes that ASSA ABLOY manages most “We believe that sustainability is a business years and seen its sustainability performance issues relevant to its industry. Overall, the comopportunity for ASSA ABLOY, and we believe evolve. The sustainability report clearly pany makes a clear connection between its that it has managed these opportunities well. shows that improvements have been made product portfolio and its sustainability strategy. The reduced environmental impact that the over time, and we see more progress each Meanwhile, it would be valuable to gain more company’s products generate, compared with year. Supply chain risks are still a concern for explicit information on the link between susother products on the market, is obviously a very us and more extensive information on the tainability-related questions and the company’s positive thing, and we see a growing demand for management process is appreciated. We business opportunities. such products. At the same time, the greatest would also like to address the importance ASSA ABLOY’s communication of issues impact from ASSA ABLOY’s products is conof linking sustainability aspects to customer regarding environmental awareness and mannected to the sourcing and production phases. value. Some of ASSA ABLOY’s products can agement is very thorough. We also commend Therefore, it is very positive that ASSA ABLOY contribute to savings for customers in terms the fact that ASSA ABLOY performs social comhas replaced brass with stainless steel in several of reduced energy consumption during pliance audits. However, we see an opportunity products. This switch will reduce the environuse, lower maintenance costs and longer to communicate more social data such as tarmental impact of these products significantly. product life. In addition to providing more gets and improvements on health and safety. Having suppliers and your own manufacturextensive and clearer communication on this ASSA ABLOY admits to challenges in its suping facilities in high-risk countries holds certain issue in the sustainability report, we believe ply chain, especially when it comes to the vast risks, all of which we believe are addressed in it is important to communicate the value number of smaller suppliers that often come the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. Third-party of sustainability to both customers and the with acquisitions. We would like to know more audits are very important in managing these financial community. This is an important about how the company intends to manage risks. We do believe that a greater number of part of the process of presenting the potenthese challenges and how it plans to ensure that suppliers could be included in these audits and tial of both the products and the company as its policies are implemented throughout the that the number of audits could increase. a whole. supply chain. Communication about ASSA ABLOY’s susASSA ABLOY has integrated sustainability Given ASSA ABLOY’s wide range of ­sourcing tainability performance has developed very well into its business – from product development markets, another relevant issue is how impleover the years; the company has been good at all the way through to after-sales activities – mentation efforts are adapted in different setting targets and reporting its performance. but it seldom communicates its integrated cultures and contexts with specific risks. For Constant progress has been made and ASSA approach to the mainstream financial m ­ arket. example, discrimination against women in the ABLOY addresses all of the issues that are relI therefore recommend that ASSA ABLOY workplace has been recognized as a problem evant to its industry and market presence. should talk about its sustainability perforin Mexico, and other labor rights issues such as There is one aspect where we continue to mance and its business case for sustainability excessive working hours are common in China. ask for more action and more information – on capital market days. We would like to gain a greater understanding diversity. Over the coming years, we expect We view this process as a common jourof how ASSA ABLOY works with the applicable ASSA ABLOY to offer more information on its ney – the better ASSA ABLOY performs, the parts of its Code of Conduct in these regions.” work to improve gender diversity throughout more we demand from it, and the higher the the Group.” level of transparency we expect.” ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 37 Engaging with stakeholders External recognition To ASSA ABLOY, external stakeholders are an important source of knowledge and important partners in advancing our business. Various ratings and indices have compared ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability performance to that of its peers, and we value such initiatives. Below are some examples of how we rated in 2011. FTSE4Good Index Carbon Disclosure Project FTSE is an independent company jointly owned by The ASSA ABLOY has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. It proProject (CDP) for five years. The CDP is an independent duces various indices. The FTSE4Good Index aims to not-for-profit organization working to drive greenhouse gas facilitate investments in companies that meet globally recemissions reductions and sustainable water use by busiognized corporate responsibility standards. ASSA ABLOY nesses and cities. The CDP is backed by 655 institutional is included in the FTSE4Good Index. The company meets investors holding USD 78 trillion in assets. Based on the the stringent social, ethical and environmental criteria of voluntary reports to the CDP, an assessment of companies’ the global index company FTSE Group, and is positioned to preparedness regarding risks and opportunities related to capitalize on the benefits of responsible business practice. climate change is presented annually. In the Nordic CDP report for 2011, ASSA ABLOY received a score of 41/100 Kempen & Co (36/100). Kempen is a Dutch merchant bank that provides investment funds, among other financial services. ASSA ABLOY has been included in the Kempen SNS SRI Universe that, since 2003, invests in European companies which adhere to strict sustainability criteria such as environmental, ethical and social standards. Folksam The Swedish insurance company Folksam conducts annual studies of how companies manage their social and environmental responsibilities. Folksam presents various reports and indices on corporate responsibility among Swedish companies listed on NASDAQ OMX Small, Mid and Large Cap. Corporate Responsibility Index In 2011 Folksam presented its Corporate R ­ esponsibility Index, which presents an analysis of how 245 Swedish companies voluntarily report their management of environmental and human rights issues. In the 2011 report, ASSA ABLOY was rated 42nd and received a score of 3.43. The maximum score is 7. In the 2009 report (there was no report in 2010), ASSA ABLOY was rated 36th with a score of 3.43. Folksam comments that the general improvement in corporate responsibility reporting resulted in a stricter evaluation in 2011. In turn, some companies received a lower score in 2011 compared with 2009. 38  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Memberships ASSA ABLOY’s long-standing commitment to sustainability work is reflected in its partnerships and memberships. ASSA ABLOY and the UN Global Compact ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global As a signatory, ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue a ComCompact since 2008. Our participation in the UN Global munication on Progress Report annually to the UN Global Compact means that we support and commit ourselves Compact. We fulfill this obligation by issuing an annual to actively promoting and respecting the 10 principles Sustainability Report, which is communicated to the UN on human rights, labor standards, environment and busiGlobal Compact. ness ethics in our operations and in relation to the various ASSA ABLOY stakeholders. Green building organizations Below are some examples of memberships that various companies in the ASSA ABLOY Group hold. The common denominator among these organizations is the objective to develop a more sustainable construction industry and bolster the supply of sustainable real estate. Move from the West Bank completed In 2008, ASSA ABLOY decided to relocate the Mul-T-Lock factory from Barkan in the West Bank. The decision was made due to criticism that the factory was located on occupied land. The move was completed in 2011 and the Barkan factory has been merged with the Yavne factory in Israel. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 39 Engaging with stakeholders Community outreach ASSA ABLOY has the opportunity to contribute and give back to the local ­communities in which we operate. It is an opportunity that brings meaning and joy to a great number of people, organizations and communities. ASSA ABLOY considers community outreach to be an different regions where the Group operates. Some of the important part of building trust in our organization, initiatives carried out during 2011 are outlined below. thereby making our employees feel proud to represent ASSA ABLOY is a politically neutral company that does ASSA ABLOY. It is also part of being a good corporate not engage in lobbying or contribute financial support to citizen. The need for community outreach varies in the political parties or representatives. Besam Toronto helps local food bank Staff at Besam Canada Inc., Toronto location, recently collected over 200 lbs of food for the Georgetown, Ontario Bread Basket Food Bank. The GBB was very low on supplies and Besam staff put their best foot forward and helped fill the shelves until the next major community food drive. There is always a need for everyday items but this fall the GBB was low on items for school children; drink boxes, peanut free snacks, cookies. With Besams efforts, GBB was able to help quite a few families get by until Thanksgiving. Guli employees stay active while ­helping the community For 14 consecutive years, Guli employees have participated in an annual 10,000-person charity run hosted by a local township government. All ­proceeds from this event are used to support children, education, families in need and disabled people, as well as to provide medical care. Those Guli employees who don’t participate in the actual race dress up in matching white uniforms, wave ASSA ABLOY-Guli flags and cheer to show their support for their colleagues. In this way, the race is a great opportunity to both build company spirit and give back to the local community. 40  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Employees donate blood Donating blood is an effective means of building up blood reserves that can be used in the event of an emergency or by patients who suffer from chronic diseases. In this way, blood donors save lives. Guli has hosted blood donation events once a year for the past four years. These events are vigorously promoted and supported by senior management and the company even dispatches blood-donation vehicles to Guli factories, so that everyone can contribute. About 320 employees have donated blood over the past four years, demonstrating that the company culture of supporting the community is alive and well. ASSA ABLOY renews pledge to Habitat for Humanity ASSA ABLOY’s involvement with Habitat for Humanity will be extended for an additional five years thanks to a renewed pledge to donate locksets from Yale Locks & Hardware worth USD 5 million. ASSA ABLOY South Africa marks The five-year commitment that commenced in January will result in the donation of interior and World AIDS Day 2011 exterior locks and keys for homes built with Habitat In 2011, the focus was on preventing HIV transmission by “Getting to Zero”: zero new for Humanity homeowner partners and volunteers. HIV infections, zero discrimination, zero AIDS-related deaths. To date, Yale has provided more than 550,000 locks, On World AIDS Day, ASSA ABLOY staff in South Africa gathered to pray and enjoy valued at more than USD 12 million, to Habitat for music by the ASSA ABLOY choir, as well as plays put on by the AIDS committee. Humanity affiliates – primarily in the United States, One of the plays was about the importance of using female condoms and how but also in Mexico and throughout the Asia Pacific ­important it is that women take the initiative to protect themselves and do not depend region. on their male partners to use condoms. This is because of excuses, attitudes and beliefs “Habitat for Humanity is honored to partner with around the use of the male condom. The other play focused on the advantages of Yale as we work with families to build safe, decent, ­circumcision; while it cannot prevent HIV infection, it does reduce STIs. affordable homes,” said Larry Gluth, vice president The World AIDS Day activities made the staff aware of the facts about how to protect of US and Canada for Habitat for Humanity Interthemselves and others from HIV, and addressed the stigma and discrimination faced by national. “We are pleased to provide Yale’s donated people living with HIV. It was an important reminder that HIV has not gone away – there ­products to Habitat affiliates throughout the US.” is still a need to increase awareness. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 41 + Governance + Code of conduct + Whistleblowing = Managing sustainability 42  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Governance The ASSA ABLOY Group applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, which forms part of the rules of the Stockholm Stock Exchange. The Code is based upon the principle of “comply or explain”, and primarily deals with the organization and working methods of the Annual General Meeting and the Board of directors, as well as the management of and interaction between these bodies. Sustainability governance and organization all divisions, handle sustainability issues related to their The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for areas. The divisions and their units are responsible for comidentifying and managing existing and emerging risks. pliance with ASSA ABLOY policies and programs and for The Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk reporting to Head Office as requested. management and decides on sustainability policy, Code A Code of Conduct compliance committee is chaired of Conduct and strategy. by the Group Senior Vice President of Human Resources, and its members include the person responsible for enviManaging the sustainability agenda ronmental sustainability at Group level and two employee In the ASSA ABLOY Group, sustainability issues are managed representatives. Among other things, the committee hanin a systematic and consistent way. The environmental susdles whistle-blowing cases. tainability coordinators at the Group and divisional levels The Group intranet includes two sites about sustainabilensure that the necessary policies, programs and tools for ity. One site offers general information for all employees, managing environmental issues exist and are implemented, while the other supports the sustainability managers and while the Human Resource functions at the Group and diviincludes tools, best practices, access to the reporting datasional levels are responsible for managing social and ethical base and all sustainability indicators. Statistical reports matters. and score cards enable all of the ASSA ABLOY companies Councils for Operations, Human Resources, Sourcing to monitor their performance and to compare themselves and Innovation, with representatives from the Group and with other companies in the Group. Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other certifiable management systems 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011¹ ISO 14001 39 37 39 47 55 Certifiable systems 29 26 23 22 20 Total 68 63 62 69 752 ¹ The change is due in part to the closing of units in the restructuring program, while some new units have been certified. 2 There are 85 entities with significant environmental impact. The remaining factories are mainly assembly and customization operations. SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIzATION Environmental Social & Ethical Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY Group Krister Eriksson, Head of HR Head of Environmental Sustainability Neil vann, Head of Operations EMEA Bill Harding, Head of HR jeff Mereschuk, CfO Americas jack dwyer, Head of HR Allen Wong, Head of Operations Asia Pacific Holly Li, Head of HR Lars Hansen, vP Supply Chain Entrance Systems Maria Ewerth, Head of HR Rodney Glass, Head of Quality and HID Global Michele deWitt, Head of HR Operations Lars Witteman, Head of Operations Hospitality dolores Shore, Head of HR ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 43 Organizational responsibility In ASSA ABLOY’s decentralized organization, the responsibility for implementing the Code of Conduct and other policies, such as the risk-management policy, as well as for identifying and managing sustainability risks, is delegated to each division, overseen by the Executive Team. Within the divisions, the operational responsibility is delegated to each factory or business. The responsibility is not limited to our own operations, pany’s reporting of the most material environmental risks but also includes the supply chain and supply chain audits. and actions to mitigate these risks. Each division is further responsible for ensuring that new Divisional board meetings address risks, compliance suppliers meet ASSA ABLOY’s requirements. and other sustainability-related matters. At Group level, performance is monitored via the sustainability reporting process, which includes each comOrganizational responsibility Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional boards Entrance EMEA Americas Asia Pacific HID Global Hospitality Systems Environmental Mapping Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sustainability Report process 44  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct covers business ethics, workers’ rights, human rights, consumer interests, community outreach, environment and health & safety, and provides the framework for ASSA ABLOY’s daily operations. Whistle-blowing The Code of Conduct was updated in 2011. The new mechanism Any issue related to the Code version further emphasizes conduct related to fair com­ petition and anti-trust legislation. ASSA ABLOY’s Code of of Conduct shall be dealt with at the local level whenThe Code of Conduct sets forth principles that apply globally to employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. Conduct covers the ever possible. Managers have the responsibility to ensure It is based on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and connected UN Conventions such ­following areas: compliance with the Code as the United Nations Global Compact, the Organization of Conduct and to foster a for Economic Co-operation and Development Guidelines Business ethics workplace culture in which for Multinational Enterprises, ILO Tripartite Declaration of • Fair competition and antitrust legislation any problem can be disPrinciples concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social • Bribery cussed openly and without Policy and the ISO 14001 environmental management • Fraud prejudice. standard. • Entertainment, gifts, gratuities and donations The Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct document is available in full in • Records and reports includes a mechanism for English, Spanish and Chinese, while a shortened version • Government investigations whistle-blowing, by which is available in 21 other languages at • Conflicts of interest any stakeholder, anonywww.assaabloy.com/code. mously or by name, can Workers’ rights, human rights, consumer report suspected violations. At the core of everything interests and community outreach During 2011 three cases The Code of Conduct represents the minimum level of • Child labor were reported, compared action required for responsible business practices and sus• Forced or bonded labor to six in 2010 and seven in tainable development. • Freedom of association and collective bargaining 2009. The three cases of The Code of Conduct is given to all managers and union • Workers’ contracts, working hours and non-compliance include representatives. It is communicated and made available compensation harassment, discrimination to all employees. New employees are required to read the • Diversity and gender balance and corruption. Following Code of Conduct and agree to abide by it and any related • Discrimination, harassment and equal thorough investigations, policies. opportunities appropriate measures are ASSA ABLOY monitors the implementation of the Code • Employee privacy taken. of Conduct. Any non-compliance is handled immediately. • Alcohol and drug abuse In order to ensure that the information about the Code • Human rights The Code of Conduct is of Conduct is given to the employees as expected, ASSA • Consumer interests ­available in 22 languages on ABLOY’s global employee survey includes questions that • Community outreach www.assaabloy.com/code. address various aspects of the Code of Conduct. Among • Environment, health and safety issues those, one question focuses on the process of managing • Environment and sustainability information related to non-compliance. • Health and safety ASSA ABLOY respects the laws of the countries in which it operates. The Code of Conduct does not replace legislation and if the two are in conflict, legislation takes precedence. If the Code of Conduct sets a higher standard than the existing legislation, the reverse applies. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 45 Acquisitions Acquisitions are intended to support ASSA ABLOY’s expansion into new geographic markets, strengthen the product offering, accelerate innovation and enable the Group to meet customer demand more rapidly. With a history of more than 150 acquisitions, ASSA ABLOY Recognized risks has developed an effective process for bringing new comASSA ABLOY has identified three main areas of potential panies into the Group. This includes review of sustainability risk related to acquisitions: issues and bringing the companies up to set sustainability • Significant environmental pollution of soil or ground standards. An effective integration of the acquired compawater that may have occurred in the past; nies is an important part of risk management. • The supplier base in low-cost countries; The Group-wide process for acquisitions is divided into • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous four phases: strategy, assessment, implementation and substances. integration. Each phase consists of pre-defined activities, decision points and documentation requirements. Recognizing these risks enables ASSA ABLOY to address them at an early stage of an acquisition and to take the needed actions. Megadoor, which provides solutions for customers with exceptional access needs, such as those in the aviation industry, became part of the ASSA ABLOY Entrance Systems division in 2011 when ASSA ABLOY acquired Cardo. Pictured here are the doors installed by Megadoor in one of the Continental Airlines hangars at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. 46  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ASSA ABLOY’S DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITIONS 2007–2011 2007 – Expansion in Asia 2008 – Wireless 2009 – Strong results 2010 – Acquisitions strengthen 2011 – Global leader in A new brand strategy is launched, technology launched despite weak market customer offering in Asia entrance automation with ASSA ABLOY as the master The new Aperio wireless Acquisition of the Ditec Group, Acquisition of Pan Pan, China’s Acquisition of Crawford Entrance brand. The Group acquires technology is launched, making a leading company in automatic largest manufacturer of highSolutions and FlexiForce, which iRevo in South Korea, a major it easy for customers to upgrade doors, industrial doors, highsecurity steel doors, King Door strengthen the customer player in digital door locks. their access control systems. speed doors and gate automation. Closers, South Korea’s leading offering in industrial doors, Other acquisitions: Aontec Other acquisitions: Beijing Other acquisitions: Portsystem manufacturer of door closers, docking solutions and garage (Republic of Ireland), Baodean Tianming and Shenfei (China), 2000 (Sweden), Maiman (USA) Paddock, the UK’s leading doors. An agreement was (China), Powershield (UK), Gardesa and Valli &Valli (Italy), and Cerracol (Colombia). manufacturer of multi-point locks, signed to acquire Albany Door Pyropanel (Australia), Pemko Copiax (Sweden), Cheil (South ActivIdentity, a leader in secure Systems, a global leader in Manufacturing Company and Korea) and Rockwood (USA). identity solutions (USA), Security automatic high-speed doors. La Force Associates (USA), Alba Metal Products (USA), LaserCard Other acquisitions: Swesafe (Israel), Esety (Italy), Integrated (USA), and Swesafe (Sweden). (Sweden), Portafeu (France), Engineering (Netherlands) Other acquisitions: Interest in Metalind (Croatia), Electronic and Portronik (Canada). Agta Record (Switzerland). Security Devices (USA), and Angel Metal (South Korea). In addition to the acquisitions listed here, ASSA ABLOY has acquired a number of smaller companies. Code of Conduct implementation in the acquisition process Q&A with Maria Ewerth, Which factors do you look at in the acquisition process? How do you manage best practices from new VP Human Resources Different factors are taken into consideration and analyzed as Group companies? ASSA ABLOY part of the due diligence process. Examples of Code of ConductIt is important that the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct take preEntrance Systems. related factors that are taken into account are bribery, child cedence over the rules of the previous organization. However, or forced labor, working conditions on the production site, we have taken best practices from acquired organizations into health and safety, and addiction problems. A formal checklist account when updating the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. is applied and prior to acquiring a company many meetings take place, allowing us to understand the management of a How do you put the ASSA ABLOY Code of conduct company, including getting a sense of potential weaknesses into a local context? and strengths. The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is addressed in The discussions mentioned above are an efficient way of the due diligence process, so the acquired company is aware of ­putting the Group Code of Conduct into the local business it from the start. and cultural context. Business is done differently around the world and in order to facilitate understanding of the Code and Can you describe the process of implementing compliance with the Code, it is important to break it down into the Code of Conduct after the acquisition? typical local examples and discuss what the Code actually says After the acquisition has been completed, ASSA ABLOY makes about various situations. sure that the Code of Conduct is communicated within the new organization, as all employees are expected to follow it. Do you focus particularly on newly acquired companies A mandatory discussion on the meaning of the Code to the when monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct? organization and the local context is an important tool. ASSA No, it is equally important across the entire Group. Given the ABLOY initiates this discussion from Group level with the local intensive work that follows an acquisition, and the constant management, but this issue is often raised by the acquired dialogue between the Group and the company, we believe company. It is important to ask difficult questions as this leads that significant issues would come to our attention. Also, we to understanding and implementation. believe in self-control and local discussion groups, as well as From 2012, an updated version of the Code of Conduct has the whistle-blowing function that all companies in the Group been implemented in the Group and all employees are required are aware of. to sign to indicate that they have read and will act in accordance with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. Are there any general challenges in implementing the Code of Conduct in a newly acquired company? Yes, making sure that the Code is distributed to all employees and ensuring that they are all familiar with its content. ASSA ABLOY always stresses that the Code is an important aspect of the acquisition process. It can never be treated as a secondary issue, regardless of any urgent matters that might come up. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 47 + Setting targets + Identifying KPIs + Follow-up = Reporting on progress 48  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Reporting the Group’s progress Reporting principles ASSA ABLOY is dedicated to improving its communication on sustainability in terms of transparency, scope, quality and the frequency of information. This is the Group’s sixth Sustainability Report. ASSA ABLOY reports on GRI application level C. In retrospect Communication Number of reporting units When ASSA ABLOY began Internally, the Group intranet and sustainability reportfocusing on sustainability, ing database are important tools for communication. it prioritized manufacturExternally, the Group web site www.assaabloy.com and 300 ing because of its impact on the annual Sustainability Report communicate to a wider the environment, as well as public. 250 health and safety. The Group also frequently presents its sustainabil200 In 2005, ASSA ABLOY ity approach to external audiences, such as analysts and 150 implemented its first formal investors. internal reporting system. 100 The system encompassed Changes in reporting management 50 several quantitative and In 2009, the Group moved from a reporting structure that 0 qualitative indicators and focused on geographical sites to one based on operational 07 08 09 10 11 covered the more significant units – also called base units. This means that the reporting operations from an environstructure and data are similar to those used for Group-level mental/health and safety financial reporting and therefore support the integration of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) perspective. sustainability into all areas of operations. This report covers the 2011 reporting year. It covers all In 2007, a separate Compared to 2010, the number of entities reporting ASSA ABLOY operations, as well as those of our suppliers. reporting database was on sustainability in 2011 has increased from 204 to 256 For the reporting of indicators, the scope of 256 units has developed and the scope of due to acquisitions. The reporting units include sales units been defined. Joint ventures are included if ASSA ABLOY reporting on sustainability and offices. The number of reporting units has also been holds a majority of the shares. Sustainability indicators are was expanded. affected by the reduction in the number of factories and reported by companies that have been part of the Group Between 2008 and increased outsourcing. since at least the end of the first quarter of 2011. Units 2009, the number of units with less than 10 employees do not report on sustainability reporting on sustainability Changes in calculation principles indicators. increased from 80 to 181 Reported normalized KPIs are based on currency-neutral The report has been developed with guidance from a – including sales units and monetary values and value added rather than sales, in order number of standards and with substantial input from invesoffices. to minimize the effect of currency fluctuations and the tors and available rating schemes, in particular the GRI Between 2009 and 2010, ongoing restructuring of the Group. By using value added Guidelines. ASSA ABLOY reports on level C of the GRI by the number of reporting as a measure, the normalized values are also not affected by self-declaration. (See cross-reference to the GRI on pages units increased from 181 to the outsourcing of manufacturing. We believe this provides 50–51). 204. In 2011 the number of a more accurate picture of what is going on in the Group. ASSA ABLOY reports its sustainability performance annureporting units increased to From 2010 ASSA ABLOY uses the same principle for calally. This is the sixth Sustainability Report. The most previous 256. The increase since 2009 culating CO2 emissions as in the annual Carbon Disclosure Sustainability Report, for 2010, was issued in April 2011. is related to acquisitions of Project-report. Previous reporting has been based on the new companies. same CO2 factor for all countries in the Group. The selected GRI audit ASSA ABLOY has further method gives a more relevant calculation on the actual CO2 ASSA ABLOY has not submitted the sustainability report for developed its reporting sysemissions since it takes into account how electricity is gen2011 to a third-party audit. KPMG Sweden has performed tem with improved analysis erated in different countries. an application check and confirms that ASSA ABLOY reports capabilities and consolidaon GRI level C. tion of data. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 49 GRI content index table ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Report 2011 applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, application level C. The table below indicates where information can be found; additional indicators that are applicable to ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Report (if nothing else is stated) or Annual operations. The colors of the symbols indicate if the Report (AR). The table covers all core indicators as well as respective indicators are fully, partially or not reported on. Page Page reference Degree reference Degree Profile 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members AR 69–72 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 29 1. Strategy & analysis recommendations to the board AR 66–68 1.1 CEO statement 4–5 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 68, 75, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 4–5, 7–15, 106–107 17–19, 21–27, 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board AR 69 45–46 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications AR 63–65 of board members AR 67–68 2. Organizational profile 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 2–5, 9, 45 2.1 Name of the organization Back cover AR 73 AR 61 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 43 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 2–3 AR 73 AR 12–17, 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance AR 67–68 38–39 Commitments to external initiatives 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 43–44 AR 38–39 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary principle is applied 39 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles or 38–39, 43 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 2–3, 17–19, 34 other initiatives AR 73 AR 12–17, 4.13 Memberships in associations 38–39 38–39,107 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Stakeholder engagement AR 66 2.7 Markets 2–3 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 36–41 AR 12–17, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 38–39 with whom to engage 36 2.8 Scale of the organization 2–3 4.16 Stakeholder engagement 28–29, 36–41 AR Folder, 1–5 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 46–47, 49 stakeholder engagement 28–29, 36–37 AR 61–62, 104–105 5. Economic indicators 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 38 Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 77, 81 3. Report parameters EC2 R  isks and opportunities for the organization due 4–5, 7, 9 Report profile to climate changes 11–15, 21–24, 3.1 Reporting period 49 36–37 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 49 EC3 C  overage of the organization’s defined benefit plan AR 65, 3.3 Reporting cycle ­obligations 101–102, 106 49 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside back cover Market presence Report scope & boundaries EC5 R  ange of ratios of standard entry level wage compared 3.5 Process for defining report content to local minimum wage 49 EC6 P  olicy, practices, and proportion of spending on 3.6 Boundary of the report 49 ­locally-based suppliers 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 49 EC7 L ocal hiring and proportion of senior management hired 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 49 from the local community 30 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation principles 49 Indirect economic impact 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of EC8 I nfrastructure investments and services provided for ­information provided in earlier reports 49 public purposes 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods EC9 S ignificant indirect economic impacts, including the regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 49 extent of impacts GRI content index 6. Environmental performance indicators 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Materials ­Disclosures in the report 50–51 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 27 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking ­external assurance for the report 49 EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials Energy 4. Governance, commitments & engagement EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source 21–22 Governance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 21–22 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 43–44 AR 66–73 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organization improvement 21–25 AR 67, 69 50  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported AR = Annual Report 2011 Page Page reference Degree reference Degree EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 4, 11–15, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women energy based products/services 17–19, 21–25 Human rights EN7 I nitiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Investment & procurement practices and results 11–15, 21–25 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights Water clauses 17–19, 47 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 23 HR2 Suppliers that have undergone screening on human Biodiversity rights, and actions taken 1, 17–19 EN11 L ocation/scope of land owned near protected HR3 Training and education of employees in human rights areas/areas of biodiversity value Non-discrimination EN12 Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Emissions, effluents & waste actions taken 45 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 21–22 Freedom of association & collective bargaining EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective 17–19, 33, EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 21–25 bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken 43–45 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Child labor EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk 17–19, 33, for incidents of child labor and actions taken 43–45 EN21 Total water discharge Forced & compulsory labor EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 23–24 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for EN23 Number and volume of significant spills ­incidents of forced or compulsory labor and 17–19, 33, Products & services actions taken 43–45 EN26 I nitiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 4, 11–15, Society of products and services 17–19, 21–27 Community EN27 P  roducts sold and their packaging materials that SO1 Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on are reclaimed communities Compliance Corruption Transport SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 33, 43–45 EN29 Environmental impact of transports 22 SO3 Employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 1, 45 7. Social performance indicators SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 45 Employment/ Employees Public policy LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 34 AR 107 SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 40 LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions 40 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees AR 92 Anti-competitive behavior Labor/management relations SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour No such cases LA4 Percentage of employees covered collective bargaining in 2011 agreements Compliance LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes SO8 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with No such cases Health & safety ­applicable laws in 2011 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Product responsibility management-worker health and safety committees 32 Customer health & safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work related fatalities 32 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed 11–14, 27 LA8 Education, training, prevention and risk-control ­programs in place Product & service labelling Training & education PR3 Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee information requirements LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, including that support employees’ career development 30–31 results of surveys 12 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career Marketing communications development reviews 29 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and Diversity & equal opportunity ­voluntary codes for marketing communications LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees 34 Compliance according to diversity indicators AR 69–72, 107 PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with ­regulations concerning the use of products and services ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 51 Glossary 5S principles Injury rate 5S is a key element of Lean and stands for Sort, Set in order, Measure of injuries per million hours worked. Shine, Standardize and Sustain. Injury lost day rate Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Measure of days lost due to injuries per million hours The Carbon Disclosure Project, or CDP, is an independent worked. non-profit organization compiling the world’s largest database of corporate climate change information. CDP ISO 14001 harmonizes climate change data from local organizations A global, certifiable standard for environmental managefrom around the world to assist in the development of ment systems created by the International Organization international carbon reporting standards. for Standardization. Carbon footprint KPI A CO2 measurement of the impact of human activities on Key Performance Indicator. the environment, in terms of the amount of greenhouse gases produced. Lean Lean production philosophy is about using as few resources CO2 as possible. The focus is on just-in-time production, which Carbon dioxide. means that materials, parts and products are in the right place at the right time. Striving for continuous improvement Direct energy is an integral part of the Lean philosophy. Energy generated and utilized on site from oil, gas, etc. LEED EBIT Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. Earnings before income and tax. NGO Energy conservation Non-governmental organization. The practice of decreasing the quantity of energy used, for example through efficient energy use. Organic solvents Perchloroethylene and trichloroethylene. Gateway process ASSA ABLOY’s product development is based on a strucPER tured Gateway process, which means all projects must Perchloroethylene. pass through six different stages from concept to installed product. RoHS European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances Global Compact Directive. A UN initiative that encourages companies to apply ­sustainable and socially responsible principles. SRI Socially Responsible Investment. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Global guidelines for sustainability reporting, version 3.0. TRI Trichloroethylene. Greenhouse gas missions Gases from the atmosphere that contribute to the Value added ­greenhouse effect, for example CO2 and methane. EBIT plus total cost for personnel. Indirect energy Electricity and heating. 52  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Contacts Environmental sustainability: Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY AB Director Production Processes and Environmental Sustainability stefan.tisell@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Social and ethical matters: Krister Eriksson, ASSA ABLOY AB Senior Vice President Human Resources krister.eriksson@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among others. Print: Elanders AB, Falköping, April 2012. ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, dedicated to satisfying ASSA ABLOY AB end-user needs for security, P.O. Box 70 340 safety and convenience SE-107 23 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Telephone +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 www.assaabloy.com Fax +46 (0) 8 506 485 85
