Communications on Progress The United Nations Global Compact Media Consulta International Holding AG Reporting Time: 2010/2011 Table of Contents Statement by CEO and Managing Director Harald Zulauf 3 1 Company Profile 4 1.1 About us Full-Service Agency 4 1.2 MC Headquarters 4 1.3 MC Global Network 4 1.4 Employees 5 1.5 MC Work with Responsible Clients 5 2 Corporate Social Responsibility at MEDIA CONSULTA 7 2.1 Millennium Goals 7 2.2 Schools for Africa 7 2.3 Global Forum on Responsible Management Education 8 2.1 Cooperation for Supporting of handicapped persons 8 3 Environment: Sustainable Agency according to Principles 7,8,9 9 3.1 Enviromental protection at MC 9 3.1.1 AtmosFair 9 3.1.2 Green Building of MC Headquarters 10 3.1.3 Flying Green 11 3.1.4 Eco-Friendly Technology 11 3.1.5 Printing: Recycling and Saving 12 3.1.6 We Turn Paper into Trees 12 3.2 Client campaigns 12 3.2.1 European Destinations of Excellence (EDEN) Awards 12 3.2.2 Rainett partnership with World Wide Fund for Nature 13 4 Labour Regulations according to principles 3,4,5 and 6 14 4.1 Fair Company 14 4.1 Diversity and Internationality 15 4.2 Financial Support of Sport and Healthcare Activities 15 4.3 Family Support 16 4.4 Pension Scheme 16 4.5 MC Academy: Training and Development 16 4.6 MC Brand Academy 17 4.7 MC Network Knowledge Exchange Programme 17 4.8 Long-Term Employee Motivation 17 4.9 Clients Campaigns 18 4.9.1 European Year of Equal Opportunities 18 4.9.2 Work for European Commission, Directorate-General Justice 18 4.9.3 European Institute for Gender Equality 18 4.9.4 Campaigns ‘Diversity Does Good’ and ‘Places of Diversity’ 19 5 Human Rights according to principles 1 and 2 20 5.1 Reporters without Boarders 20 5.2 Clients Campaigns 20 5.2.1 EU Agency for Fundamental Rights 20 5.2.2 Program ‘European Neighbourhood and Partnership’ 21 5.2.3 Work for EuropeAid 21 6 Embracing Anti-Corruption according to Principle 10 22 2 Statement by CEO and Managing Director Harald Zulauf ‘As the only German international agency with 68 network agencies all over the world and seven continental hubs on all five continents MEDIA CONSULTA understands the absolute necessity to align its strategy, procedures and objectives with the legal and environmental principles globally, as well as on a local level. This goes for human rights, equal opportunities, social responsibility and eco-standards of our company’s work, employees and people affected by our work worldwide. Currently these are paramount principles for us, since the company plans to expand its network to the Asia Pacific region and South America. Together with great benefits, this expansion on a transnational level brings more responsibility, encouraging the company’s adjustments to new business, political, cultural and social environments. In this sense the MEDIA CONSULTA headquarters in Berlin has set very high standards, which will be met by all of MEDIA CONSULTA’s 68 network agencies in different parts of the EU and worldwide. By applying such standards at head office, MEDIA CONSULTA shows the rest of the network the beneficial effects, which are then quickly picked up and applied in every hub. MEDIA CONSULTA’s participation in communication activities on various continents simultaneously also calls for the improvement in the monitoring of its activities. Our company’s membership of the United Nations Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative Global Compact means that MEDIA CONSULTA is deeply committed to complying with ethical standards. MEDIA CONSULTA strongly supports the UN Global Compact’s principles with our corporate culture. Not only as the CEO, but also as a member of the International Business Leaders Forum, I am convinced that the company stands a greater chance in succeeding in future through the continuous application of ethical strategies, based on internationally accepted moral concepts and judgements. 3 1 Company Profile Following MEDIA CONSULTA’s COP for the United Nations Global Compact the company presents its objectives focusing on working conditions at its headquarters in Berlin as a positive and productive example for all MEDIA CONSULTA network and partner agencies. 1.1 About us Full-Service Agency Since its establishment in 1993, MEDIA CONSULTA attempted to make communication more efficient by creating a holistic communications agency, which combines and integrates a variety of different communication disciplines under one roof. MEDIA CONSULTA is composed of various units and departments, which provide a full range of communication services, making the work of the agency most efficient. 1.2 MC Headquarters MEDIA CONSULTA’s two media centres in Berlin and Cologne integrate a network of expert agencies in the fields of Public Relations, Advertising, Media Planning, Corporate Publishing, Event Marketing, TV Production, Interactive as well as Sports and Entertainment. 1.3 MC Global Network Today, MEDIA CONSULTA is one of the biggest independent Public Relations and advertising agencies in Europe. Our pan-European network with agencies in all 27 EU member states and all EU candidate countries is our best asset for facing the challenges posed by globalisation. With 68 network agencies across the globe MEDIA CONSULTA is the only German-led international agency network. Thanks to its global focus MEDIA CONSULTA has become especially attractive for clients of pan-European and international campaigns. The most obvious benefit of maintaining such a large international network lays in our ability to tailor all our activities specifically to each country, ensuring that our campaigns are managed directly within the respective country. However, MEDIA CONSULTA plans to improve its capacities by adding mid-structure elements in its network. It will add continental hubs to direct all communication activities more efficiently. Such hubs will include Brussels (Europe), Doha (Far and Middle East), Moscow (CIS), Jakarta (Asia Pacific), Rio de Janeiro (South America), Johannesburg (South Africa) and New York (North America). These structural changes, ensuring a presence on each continent, will prepare MEDIA CONSULTA to face all future challenges of a globalised world and allow for a better and quicker exchange of knowledge and ideas and management and implementation of various tasks transnationally. 1.4 Employees MEDIA CONSULTA has 2132 specialists across the globe and 348 in Germany, each of whom is part of a team performing a whole range of modern communication services. All our consultants have specialist know-how of various PR and advertising instruments and sustain good contacts to editorial offices of national and international media. In order to maintain our services up-to-date and in line with the most specific communications needs MEDIA CONSULTA runs its own training MC Academy. With its regulated and inspirational training sessions MC Academy enhances further education of the employees, developing their know-how in the areas of strategic planning, creation, TV production, integrated campaigning, international communications, as well as software and language literacy. 1.5 MC Work with Responsible Clients MEDIA CONSULTA’s clients include institutional and private organisations. About fifty percent of all clients are public organisations including of political institutions such as the German government and numerous Ministries, the German Bundestag, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and various national governments and associations. Private clients –approximately 50 percent of all MC clients – include German and international companies such as Lidl, Vodafone, Dunlop and Generali. For MC, social ethics is not just empty words; they form the genuine basis for the corporate 5 conduct of our entire network. Thus, we realize communication campaigns for public clients, which are related to our socio-political aims. To name a few examples: We implemented a media relation and advertising campaign for the European Destinations of Excellence (EDEN) programme. One target of this programme is to support sustainable tourism. Another example is the European Commission’s, EU Ecolabel, which helps consumers to identify environmentally friendly products and services. At the same time, the label allows firms, which comply with these requirements, to use the EU Ecolabel logo in their marketing. In this way it encourages those companies to operate in a more eco-conscious war. Communication campaigns help to raise the public awareness for socio-political issues. Additionally, we generally decline business offers that conflict with these ideals. For example, we do not advertise or conduct PR campaigns for the tobacco industry or for environmentally harmful products and organisations: taking social responsibility seriously sometimes means passing on the opportunity for lucrative business. We try to increase the awareness about the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility and to secure that our private clients include important socio-political issues in their agenda. 6 2 Corporate Social Responsibility at MEDIA CONSULTA MC considers the economic, social and environmental aspects of all our activities very seriously, which means that we feel responsible not only for the economic consequences of our activities, but also for their social and environmental implications. All MEDIA CONSULTA’s network agencies are committed to Corporate Social Responsibility and fair trade principles to support social producers and promote sustainability. Corporate principles are one of the highest priorities for CEO Harald Zulauf. 2.1 Millennium Goals MEDIA CONSULTA insists on the following principles:  MEDIA CONSULTA assumes social responsibility and rejects assignments that contradict the corporate principles, e.g., campaigns for the tobacco industry or for products and companies polluting the environment  MEDIA CONSULTA advocates the payment of a fair price as well as social and environmental standards in areas related to the production of a wide variety of goods.  As a market leader in the field of political communication, MEDIA CONSULTA specifically supports democracy and human rights, e.g. the initiative ‘Reporters without Borders’. 2.2 Schools for Africa MEDIA CONSULTA developed a profound plan to achieve these principles, e.g. through direct funding activities (building each year a school in Africa on behalf of UNICEF and the Nelson Mandela Foundation, financing of the teachers’ pay and a daily warm meal, printing of the schoolbooks), indirect funding activities (supporting organisations such as the Human Rights Organisation ‘Reporters without Borders’), supporting various charters and initiatives (e.g. the Diversity Charter or the initiative ‘Fair Company’), and pro-active support of environmentally friendly working and procurement processes on a daily basis. 7 Apart from this, MC also worked with German Foreign Ministry and created a logo for the programme called Action Africa – Cultural and Educational Partner. Furthermore, we developed the whole Corporate Design of the initiative ‘Schools – Partners for the Future’, which reflects the central theme of this project. 2.3 Global Forum on Responsible Management Education Having already worked on both the 1st and 2nd Global Forum for Responsible Management Education for the UN/Global Compact Office, MC Event is now preparing the Third Forum, which will take place in June 2012 under a slogan ‘The Future We Want’. The slogan echoes objectives of our company – we have also relentlessly promoted development and education of our employees, who then become specialists in communicating such essential values in the globalised world. A large number of MEDIA CONSULTA’s clients dealing with issues such as the violation of human rights, pro-democracy conflicts, prevention of damage to people’s lives, health and the environment demonstrates that MEDIA CONSULTA is willing to bring more public and political attention to these issues. Therefore, MEDIA CONSULTA take on project after project to raise awareness worldwide with its campaigns. 2.1 Cooperation for Supporting of handicapped persons MEDIA CONSULTA works together with sheltered workshops, which employ handicapped people thus giving them an opportunity to work in a normal environment. The agency place orders for example for packaging and distribution through sheltered workshops. Also in waste disposal MC cooperates with sheltered workshops. Recently, in April 2011 MEDIA CONSULTA has begun its cooperation with the AfB (Arbeit für Menschen mit Behinderung gemeinnützige GmbH), a NGO that supports the integration of disabled people into the working market. MEDIA CONSULTA has been donating numerous hardware items (100 technical devices: computers, desktops, etc.) to the NGO, while AfB’s employees have been repairing, modernising and reselling these items. The majority of AfB employees have physical disabilities and by partaking in this cooperation they not only get work, but also the feeling of playing a role in the society as the people without disabilities. Because of these CSR activities, MC is able to support about 50 handicapped persons. 8 3 Environment: Sustainable Agency according to Principles 7,8,9 • Principle 7: MC supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: MC Undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: MC encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies As the one of the first communication agencies in Europe, MEDIA CONSULTA implements its own ECO audit. The ECO audit is based on the environmental management standards ISO14001EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) and consists of an environmental review. MC will establish an environmental management system and carry out an environmental audit assessing, in particular, the current management system and its conformity with the organisation’s policy and programme. The system will detail MC’s environmental performance and present the results achieved, as compared to the environmental objectives, and suggest future measures for the continuous improvement of the organisation’s environmental performance. 3.1 Environmental protection at MC 3.1.1 AtmosFair In order to even further reduce its carbon footprint and ensure that we also travel eco-friendly MEDIA CONSULTA have started a partnership with AtmosFair. Its customers use an emissions calculator to determine the amount of greenhouse gas emissions created by each flight they take as well as a monetary amount that the customers can pay to AtmosFair to offset their flights. This donation is used to finance projects that reduce an equivalent amount of green house gas emissions. The calculator also determines a monetary amount that can be voluntarily paid in order to compensate for the greenhouse gases that he or she created by flying. This money is invested in projects that provide people in developing nations with a means to carry out their daily activities in an energy-efficient and environmentally friendly way. For example, past AtmosFair projects include the development of solar power, hydropower, wind power, and power fuelled by biomass in places such as India, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Burkina Faso. These projects save greenhouse gas emissions in amounts comparable to airplane travel. 9 MEDIA CONSULTA cooperates closely with AtmosFair. In 2011, an architect from AtmosFair analyzed the energy use of MC’s headquarter and it’s balance of energy. On the other hand, MC is the PR agency of AtmosFair. 3.1.2 Green Building of MC Headquarters Although MC’s main office is a listed building in Berlin, with a special architectural and historic interest, we achieved significant reduction of an overall impact of the built environment on human health and the natural environment by: • Efficiently using energy, water and other resources • Protecting employee health, which significantly improved employee productivity • Reducing waste, pollution and environmental degradation. According to Agency’s 2011 Report on the Environmental Economy Germany has already made significant progress on the road to new, environmentally sound growth. Today, much less resources, land and energy are used, and fewer pollutants are emitted, than just ten years ago to obtain the same yield. In line with the report MEDIA CONSULTA implements green energy strategy. We achieve it through both innovation technology and staff training. Corridor lights are automatically turned off after 3 minutes, while office lights are controlled manually. Having divided the lighting into sections, we have lights only where we need them, instead of lighting up the entire premises. Each unit has rotas, which allocate staff members responsible for turning all electric devices off by the end of each day. This rota is maintained and updated regularly, ensuring its functionality. MEDIA CONSULTA does not use any sources of nuclear energy. Primarily, the agency gets electricity from sustainable energy sources: • We use sustainable energy sources, e.g. photovoltaic elements, for producing electricity and supporting the agency’s electricity supply. • We use solar-thermal and geothermal energy for producing heat. MEDIA CONSULTA’s long-term goal is to become a carbon neutral agency by using energy that does not release any CO2 at all. 10 Overview: Consumption and Emissions Unit Annual consumption CO2 Emissions (kg) Electricity 163.150 kWh (MC Cologne) 164.670 116.304 kWh (Wassergasse, MC Berlin) 70.000 kWh (Inselstraße, MC Berlin) 60.000 kWh (Rungestraße, MC Berlin) Heating 245.000 kWh 49.000 Energy Overall 291.670 Short-distance 100 15.000 flights Middle-distance 150 28.500 flights Long-distance 50 150.000 flights Flights Overall 193.500 Overall 485.170 kg CO² 3.1.3 Flying Green Since we have offices in almost every continent and work with clients from all continents MEDIA CONSULTA encourages safe and environmentally flying system. Our MEDIA CONSULTA Travel Unit prioritises airlines, which are known to support reduced air pollution. 3.1.4 Eco-Friendly Technology Green IT, which refers to environmentally sustainable computing and IT, becomes more and more important for MC. The agency is implementing a strategy of using new computers, screens and other modernised technology, requiring less time and energy. We use equipment from Dell, which plays an important role in Green IT. Each year MC distributes 50 new computers, equally allocating them to all units. This not only helps the environment, but also improves health conditions of MC’s employees. 11 3.1.5 Printing: Recycling and Saving MEDIA CONSULTA uses exclusively FSC-certified and recycled paper for all office purposes, working with Blue Angel, Eco-Seal Our offices are equipted with colour printers and staff is enouraged to do double-sided printing and re-use paper, when appropiate. Some printing devices have multiple paper-feeding trays, which allow an easy selection for used and new paper. Instead of recycling paper after the first print, we use it at least twice. Given that on average small units use six boxes of paper per months, we save three boxes monthly. For the production of paper-based material MEDIA CONSULTA also collaborates with printing companies employing handicapped people, e.g. GWN Neuss, USE Union Sozialer Einrichtungen gGmbH, etc. 3.1.6 We Turn Paper into Trees MEDIA CONSULTA supports renaturation and reforestation, for example by planting trees. To name only a few examples: MEDIA CONSULTA planted trees in Malta and Cyprus. 3.2 Client campaigns 3.2.1 European Destinations of Excellence (EDEN) Awards The program ‘EDEN – European Destinations of Excellence’ is a communication campaign of DG Enterprise and Industry (European Commission). Its aims at enhancing the visibility of European tourist destinations, making sustainable tourist development models known and promoting annual themes such as ‘Aquatic tourism’ and ‘Tourism and Regeneration of physical sites’. Additionally, another campaign objective is to position EDEN as a brand in the sustainable tourism sector. MEDIA CONSULTA implemented an online communication campaign as well as media relations and advertising campaigns for EDEN in 2010 and 2011. The agency produces and distributes audiovisual material to support sustainable tourism. 12 3.2.2 Rainett partnership with World Wide Fund for Nature In France, the company Werner & Mertz (W&M) was associated with WWF France to organise the prize for water protection 'Les Héros de l'Eau'. In 2011, this was the third edition of the prize, while W&M has been a long time partner for WWF France for more than 10 years. The ceremony, which MC organised for W&M took place at the National Assembly on 22 March 2011, under the patronage of the Ministry of Ecology. The prizes were awarded to four people or associations for their outstanding action for the preservation of river waters. In France all Rainett products are recommended by the WWF, whose logo is present on all packaging of Rainett product. 13 4 Labour Regulations according to principles 3,4,5 and 6 • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. MC is a highly selective agency and its employees go through various legal and professional selection procedures before they can start working in headquarters or in any of the network agencies. Together with their expertise MC is protecting and improving their working conditions, encouraging better work-life balance. For this the company created a few highly efficient schemes: pension, healthcare and childcare. MC promotes and realises in good faith the right of workers and employers to freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, works towards the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, effectively abolishes child labour and eliminates discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4.1 Fair Company Training and promoting the next generation are of the utmost importance for us at MC. Students and new graduates can experience life within an international public relations and advertising agency. Graduates have the chance to take their first steps in their chosen profession by completing an internship or traineeship with fair conditions. We offer them genuine prospects for the future and want to see an end to the practice of underpaying qualified newcomers to our professions. Besides being paid, interns can work at maximum of six months at MC. After this time, they have the chance to start a traineeship. Furthermore, interns are supported by a contact person in their units. In recognition of this policy, we were awarded the Fair Company seal of approval from the business magazine 'karriere'. In the last few years, MEDIA CONSULTA opened up additional apprenticeship positions. In the meantime, the agency has more than 10 apprentices and is helping them become qualified for management assistant professions in advertising, event organisation, office organisation, network administration and audio-visual media. In order to show his appreciation for these services, the incumbent Mayor of Berlin, Klaus Wowereit, has honoured MEDIA CONSULTA as a model company for trainees. 14 4.1 Diversity and Internationality MEDIA CONSULTA operated in offices in all 27 EU member states and all leading economic centres worldwide. We encourage multicultural acceptance and creativity through working with people from different countries, cultural backgrounds on a day-today basis. MC headquarters in Berlin has many employees from countries outside Germany: China, Columbia, France, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Nigeria, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Spain, Ukraine, United Kingdom, United States of America, Zambia, etc. MC is one of the German agencies with the most employees coming from different countries. Internationality plays an important role for MC. Since MC’s signature of the Charter of Diversity – Initiative by German Government, MEDIA CONSULTA has been showing its appreciation of differences between people working in the company, while benefiting from this diversity and producing variable and creative work. As a contribution to understanding among nations, MEDIA CONSULTA sponsored the German-Chinese art competition ‘Against Forgetting. 60 years after the Holocaust in Germany and the Massacre of Nanjing’, in which art students from both countries participated. The Chinese winners of the competition were invited to MEDIA CONSULTA in Germany for a three-month agency internship. MEDIA CONSULTA also demonstrated similar commitment: the agency was assigned by the federal government to organise a German-Israeli film contest for young directors on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel. 4.2 Financial Support of Sport and Healthcare Activities As part of its on-going efforts to support sport and healthy lifestyle of its employees, MEDIA CONSULTA pays out a subsidy for all expenses related to partaking in any kind of sport activity. This includes costs for gym and sport club membership, as well as expenses incurred through other health-related exercise activities, e.g. therapeutic back treatment. All MEDIA CONSULTA’s full-time employees can apply for this subsidy, i.e. those that have successfully completed their trial period and/or have been at our agency for at least six months. MC staff can also benefit from special 15 membership rates at certain fitness studios. Additionally, employees’ children and partners can become members at reduced prices. The agency offers first aid refreshment courses for its employees. MC’s News Café provides the staff with healthy and fresh food every day. 4.3 Family Support As part of its family support, MEDIA CONSULTA offers its employees a tax-exempt subsidy for childcare costs. This childcare cost subsidy can only be applied once per family each year. It is intended for children bellow school age, in need of childcare. MEDIA CONSULTA covers 50% of the care costs per month. The subsidy is intended to cover the costs of childcare incurred by parents, including accommodation and meals at day nurseries, kindergartens and similar institutions, day care facilities, child minders on a daily and weekly basis, and boarding schools, if these take on preschool children. The institution has to be suited to both housing and caring for the children. In cases where a full-time female employee’s contract expires during her pregnancy, she can get her contract renewed, go on maternity leave and then return to more flexible working conditions if required, for example she could combine part-time office work with parttime work from home. 4.4 Pension Scheme MEDIA CONSULTA offers its employees the option of a company pension scheme. Following demographic change, pensions are growing in importance. The company pension scheme is part of the second pillar of pension plans and is defined in Article 1 of the German Company Pension Act (BetrAVG). Apart from that MC contributes to private pension schemes. 4.5 MC Academy: Training and Development A special topic pursued by MEDIA CONSULTA is the education and training of qualified and motivated students and new graduates. The MEDIA CONSULTA Academy is the first panEuropean programme that was designed for advanced and continuing education for the entire MEDIA CONSULTA network, which covers all areas of integrated communication. More than 50 advanced educational events per year cover all fields of modern communication, from language courses to integrated campaigns. 16 4.6 MC Brand Academy MC’s top corporate and brand managers are provided a platform for further education and exchange of experience. We organize four panels per year for the exchange of all disciplines of brand communications and brand management and expert seminars and evening events with top politicians, as well as corporate trips (e. g. to Moscow and Brazil). Furthermore, one topic is the importance of CSR and CSR-strategies. 4.7 MC Network Knowledge Exchange Programme Together with MEDIA CONSULTA’s established global agencies network, the MEDIA CONSULTA Network Exchange Programme was developed, an active exchange programme for MEDIA CONSULTA’s employees, which promotes the international transfer of information. The MC Network Exchange Programme addresses junior staff and consultants as well as advanced trainees recommended. For the exchange, a network agency sends out an employee to another network agency. We envisage that each participant spends between three weeks and two months at a foreign network agency. During the exchange, participants are expected to work and participate fully in the foreign network agency. The MC Network Exchange Programme is an essential tool for effective knowledge, competence and experience sharing. MEDIA CONSULTA, as the only network represented in all 27 countries of the European Union, is very committed to European thought. Therefore, MEDIA CONSULTA was assigned by the European Commission with the implementation of the information campaign of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. 4.8 Long-Term Employee Motivation Our main asset is our employees, most of whom joined the company right after their graduation. Since MEDIA CONSULTA offers a lot of opportunities to working students, interns, trainees and volunteers and invests a lot into their development it encourages their desire to develop a career within the company. Apart from practical learning on the job MEDIA CONSULTA also runs additional courses, which ensures a smooth transition from a trainee level up the ladder to junior specialist, specialist, manager and head of a unit. In order to motivate employees MC is planning to incorporate development scheme taking into account not only the time each new employee spends in the company, but also their professional successes, which would help reduce their time in training. 17 4.9 Clients Campaigns 4.9.1 European Year of Equal Opportunities In 2011, MEDIA CONSULTA planned European Year of Equal Opportunities for All (EYEO). The campaign operated within all 27 EU member states to raise awareness of discrimination, as well as to promote the benefits of diversity. During the year, all forms of discrimination that are prohibited in the EU have been treated in a balanced way. The different ways in which women and men experience discrimination on the grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation have also been considered. The same year MEDIA CONSULTA worked on Lisbon Closing Conference on the European Year of Equal Opportunities, the overall aim of which was to improve the awareness of those with disabilities and the wider public about new rights and obligations to help combat discrimination and stigmatisation. The campaign ‘For Diversity. Against Discrimination.’ delivered detailed information to the public, and especially to people with a disability, about their rights to fight discrimination. MEDIA CONSULTA organised The European Parliament for Equal Opportunities for All Conference in Brussels as part of the European Year of Equal Opportunities campaign. Three hundred participants from EU institutions, national and regional authorities, civil society and universities met in order to discuss the future of EU non-discrimination policy. 4.9.2 Work for European Commission, Directorate-General Justice MC is implementing events for the third year in a row for Directorate General Justice on the topic of diversity management: Three times a year country representatives of the European Diversity Charta meet and discuss issues with the EC (2010: Brussels, Madrid, Paris, 2011: Brussels, Stockholm, Berlin, 2012; Brussels). Once a year there is a high-level event in Brussels, where in addition to these representatives, business representatives of companies who have already signed the Diversity Charta meet (2010, 2011 in Brussels). 4.9.3 European Institute for Gender Equality EIGE is a European agency which supports the EU and its member states in their efforts to promote gender equality, to fight discrimination based on sex and to raise awareness about gender equality issues. Its tasks are to collect and analyse comparable data on gender issues, to develop methodological tools, in particular for the integration of the gender dimension in all policy areas, to facilitate the exchange of best practices and dialogue among stakeholders and to raise awareness among EU citizens. In 2011, MC began working for this client and has meanwhile implemented several events for them, such as a “Networking meeting on gender-based violence (GBV)” in Barcelona and a 18 “Networking meeting with Social Partners’ in Brussels. The cooperation between MC and EIGE will continue until 2015. 4.9.4 Campaigns ‘Diversity Does Good’ and ‘Places of Diversity’ On the local level, for example in MC’s home country (Germany) it communicates on behalf of the German Government values of Diversity. Campaigns such as ‘Diversity Does Good’ (Vielfalt Tut Gut) and ‘Places of Diversity’ (Orte der Vielfalt) which MEDIA CONSULTA promoted nationwide for three years (2007-2010) have now stimulated positive treatment of international co-workers in various corporate environments across the country. The nationwide campaign ‘Places of Diversity’ was launched in 2010. Here, MC was responsible for the conception and implementation of numerous workshops, exhibitions, and other events. This included the production and distribution of publications and give-aways. The aim of the campaign was the promotion of an understanding for common values and cultural diversity. Respect for human dignity and the fight against extremism were the main focus. With its work MC supported these principles and created an educational and preventive campaign that facilitates a sustainable impact on children, teenagers, parents, teachers, migrants and other interest groups. 19 5 Human Rights according to principles 1 and 2 • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As a market leader in the area of political communication in Europe, MEDIA CONSULTA is an advocate for democratic principles as well as for freedom of the press and freedom of opinion worldwide. As one of Europe’s leading communications agency’s with focus on political communications MEDIA CONSULTA keeps a close watch of political situations in the regions in which it is considered established as well as in the regions in which it is only planning to develop its market. 5.1 Reporters without Boarders Our support for the international human rights organisation ‘Reporters without Borders’ is a good example for this commitment. ‘Reporters Without Borders’ (RWB) is a France-based international non-governmental organization that advocates freedom of the press and freedom of information. This organization has consultant status at the United Nations. Through our pro bono advertising efforts we have promoted the charity campaign ‘Starphoto – Pictures for the Freedom of the Press’, which was sponsored by Thomas Roth, Director of the ARD studios in Moscow. 5.2 Clients Campaigns 5.2.1 EU Agency for Fundamental Rights For a couple of years, MEDIA CONSULTA has been working for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (FRA). The topics of these events are mainly fundamental rights, tolerance, equal opportunities. One example was the “Diversity Day” in Vienna or the EQUINET/HRIs Communicators meeting in Vienna in October 2011 or a Stakeholder Meeting on Victim Support Services in the EU which was also held in Vienna, in November 2011. 20 5.2.2 Programme ‘European Neighbourhood and Partnership’ The program has the target to inform the audience in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Moldavia about ‘European Neighbourhood and Partnership’ (ENPI) from the European Commission. With high professional media instruments, it should presents information about the EU and its relations with its neighbours. Furthermore, these targets belong to the promotion of the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue by respecting the editorial freedom of media organizations. MEDIA CONSULTA established media partnerships, including the correspondence network of the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). Additionally, the agency drafted and produced for the East-European TV and radio program “Window to Europe”. 5.2.3 Work for EuropeAid Internationally, our Events Department organised a press conference titled ‘Experience with st the EU Food Facility’, (31 March 2012) for the Directorate-General Development and Cooperation – EuropeAid (DG DEVCO) and a seminar (29th March 2012) as part of the 3rd European Forum on Rural Development. The seminar was attended by 100 people, while several projects, financed by the EU were presented by various countries. Major objectives of these projects are to improve world’s food supplies. 21 6 Embracing Anti-Corruption according to Principle 10 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. FSG Social Impact Advisors advise leading corporations, foundations and nonprofits on how to increase social impact through strategy development and evaluation by researching and publishing innovative ideas and approaches for strategic CSR and by identifying long-term initiatives that address critical challenges and opportunities in the field. MEDIA CONSULTA sees corruption not only unethical and damaging, but also unprofitable flow. Corruption adds additional expense throughout the corporate value chain and can lead to costly operational disruptions. Current studies suggest that corruption adds more than 10 % to the cost of doing business in many countries, and that moving business from a country with low levels of corruption to a country with medium to high levels is equivalent to a 20 % tax. However, as a transparent international agency, MEDIA CONSULTA encourages anticorruption actions worldwide. Therefore, all of MC’s network agencies comply with strict rules to avoid corruption. 22
