SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Partners New Code of Conduct for suppliers Employees The number of employees increased by 23 percent Ray Mauritsson, President: ”We see sustainability as a long-term strategy for Axis and for our partners” Axis in one minute Axis is the market leader in network video and a driving force behind the shift from analog to digital video surveillance, which paves the way for a more secure, smarter and safer world. Axis offers network video solutions for professional installations featuring products and solutions that are based on innovative and open technical platforms. Axis Axis’ business model Distributors offers a local presence A cornerstone of Axis’ strategy is the indirect sales model which Resellers System integrators is based on loyalty and long-term cooperation. Axis works in partnership with distributors, system integrators and resellers End customers that reach the end customers. There are partners in 179 countries. Axis’ product portfolio Axis was the first company in the world to launch a network camera in 1996, initiating the shift from analog to digital technology. Axis’ sales are focused almost entirely on the Video product area which comprises network cameras, video encoders, accessories and application software. 45, 000 Employees in almost partners 40 countries Collaboration with partners in 1,127 179 countries Distributors in 70 countries employees 14 State-of-the-art surveillance contributes to a safer society 24 Study highlights the need for sustainable commuting 16 Axis as a workplace CONTENTS This report is intended to cover the most important sustainability issues for Axis based on their influence on business success and their importance to sustainable development. Axis in one minute 2 President’s comments 4 Axis’ corporate sustainability 6 Axis’ products and customers 8 Axis and society 12 20 Axis and its operations Case: City surveillance Axis as a workplace 14 16 Case: Growing with Axis 19 Axis and its operations 20 Case: Sustainable commuting 24 Case: Passionate about innovation 27 Reporting 28 GRI references 29 Axis’ Sustainability Report 2011 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. Further information may also be found in Axis’ Annual Report 2011 and Corporate Governance Report 2011, both of which are published in Swedish and English. These reports and additional information are available at www.axis.com 4 President’s comments Achieving sustainable growth Axis is recognized as the driving force and market leader in the field of network video surveillance products. This is a position that we are also set to maintain in the future through sustainable growth and continuous development. We believe that Axis makes an important contribution While growth is continually creating new opportunities to society through the way our products promote safety for Axis, it poses a major challenge from a sustainand security for people all over the world. We also see ability perspective. This relates in particular to the sustainability as a long-term strategy for Axis’ business environmental area where we are striving for continuous operations and for our partners. As our business model improvements in spite of the fact that our expanding means that most of the responsibility for production, business supplies more and more products to even more distribution and installation of Axis’ products lies with customers throughout the world. A major part of our our partners, we actively support our suppliers, distribuenvironmental efforts therefore are about developing tors, resellers and system integrators in their efforts to our operations and products so that we can reduce the follow good sustainability practice. environmental impact from production, transports and product use per unit supplied, per ton-km transportation The foundations for this business model are mutual or per employee even if the total environmental impact recognition of competence and long-term relations. may rise as a consequence of augmented sales. For example, when suppliers in Thailand and customers in Japan were affected by flooding and the tsunami in Continued improvements 2011, it came natural to us to assist them in different At Axis, we are working in many ways to broaden and ways in their efforts to resume normal operations. advance our sustainability efforts in order to achieve continuous improvements, During 2011, we introduced Our long-term view is also noticeable in our research a supplier Code of Conduct and intensified both the and development work which has resulted in our highly training and monitoring of our partners in sustaincompetitive product portfolio. Based on life cycle ability matters. Within product development we have analyses, we strive to reduce the environmental impact increased focus on the products’ environmental perforthroughout all the stages in the product life cycle, in mance and we have made efforts to reduce transports which the environmental impact of our products while and packaging. In the corporate governance area, we in use by end customers is a major factor. have strengthened our internal control and highlighted ethical issues through internal training programs. We One important feature of our products is remote monihave also taken initiatives which create more scope toring, for instance, which means that a customer for innovative employees to develop personally while can monitor operations remotely, thus minimizing the contributing to the development of the company. number of journeys to various locations and reducing the amount of carbon dioxide emissions. These and other successes are described in this our second sustainability report according to the UN Global The challenge of high growth Compact initiative. We observe a growing awareness During 2011, Axis continued to expand rapidly. Volume both at Axis and among our partners and during 2012 grew by 33 percent and the number of employees grew we will continue to develop our long-term efforts to by 23 percent. In my view, the market for network achieve sustainable growth for Axis. video products still has good growth potential. Even if the short-term market outlook is uncertain due to the current global economic problems, we will continue to pursue our growth strategy involving a high rate of recruitment of new employees and establishing busiRay Mauritsson nesses in additional countries. President and CEO President’s comments 5 We believe that Axis makes an important contribution to society through the way our products promote safety and security for people, says Axis’ CEO Ray Mauritsson. >> Volume grew by 33 percent in local currencies. >> The number of partners amounted to about 45,000 (35,000) at year-end. >> The number of employees increased to 1,127 (914) at year-end, corresponding to a net increase of 213. Axis in brief >> A Code of Conduct for suppliers was adopted including specific requirements 2011 imposed on suppliers. The development of a Code of Conduct for distributors was initiated. >> In addition to regular partner events, some 700 partner representatives participated in webinars arranged by Axis during the year, thus reducing travel and environmental impact. >> Competence groups focusing on environmental matters were formed in the electronics and mechanical engineering departments. >> The introduction program for all new employees was expanded. 6 Corporate sustainability UN Human Rights UN Global Compact Corporate governance Code of Conduct ILO Conventions report OECD Guidelines Policy Policy Policy Axis’ corporate sustainability Axis is the market leader in network video surveillance products. We see sustainable development as a long-term strategy for the company and we are committed to continuous improvements. Since the foundation of Axis, questions relating to susPolicies and organization tainability have been a natural part of the company’s In addition to the Code of Conduct, Axis has formuoperations within corporate governance, social responlated a set of policies for the sustainability work. As sibility and environment. a company listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic stock exchange Axis also applies the Swedish Code of CorAxis is a global company with its own employees in porate Governance. almost 40 countries and with partners in over 70 countries. Axis thereby influences the lives of many people We regard sustainability as an integrated part of our – including customers, employees, suppliers and others business strategy and our operations. In order to support in society. Axis intends to create value for its stakeholdcontinuous improvements at all levels we have created ers as well as build relations and take responsibility in the following organizational framework for corporate social and environmental-related matters. sustainability efforts: Code of Conduct >> The Sustainability Council has the overall responsiAxis’ Code of Conduct sets out the approach, values and bility for sustainability matters. Responsibilities guidelines that the company and its personnel shall apinclude the implementation of Axis’ Code of Conply in matters of business principles, business relations, duct and related policies as well as follow-up of human rights, workplace practices and environmental company activities. The council is mainly composed principles. The Code of Conduct is based on the followof representatives of the Corporate Management. ing international principles: >> The Sustainability Project Group comprises repre>> UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights sentatives from the Corporate functions for Com>> UN’s Global Compact initiative munications, Human Resources and Environment. >> The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and The group is responsible for the development of the Rights at Work. sustainability efforts in different areas and for extending the reporting to cover additional areas Axis became a member of the UN Global Compact within the framework of the UN Global Compact initiative in 2007 and has adopted its ten principles initiative. on human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We always strive to continously >> The Environmental Council is composed of repreimprove our efforts within the sustainability field. This sentatives from R&D, Product Management and report follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines Operations as well as from the Management team. level C. The Council works with general environmental issues and initiates projects aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental impact. Corporate sustainability 7 Sustainability goal fulfillment 2011 Sustainability is a long-term strategy for Axis and an integrated part of our business. Acting responsibly as a company throughout the life cycle of our products and solutions is very important for us. Axis is a global company and thereby influences the lives of many people – including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and others in society. Axis intends to create value for its stakeholders as well as build relations and take responsibility in social and environment-related matters. Updated sustainability goals Goals 2011 fulfillment >> Sustainability shall be taken into consideration throughDuring the year, sustainability issues have been a natural out the entire business process, by striving to minimize part of business processes and have been taken into conenvironmental impact, ensuring safe and sound work ensideration when doing global business. vironments and fighting corruption. >> Reducing the environmental impact in the development As of 2011, Axis has an overall transportation goal of reducphase as well as during transportation of the company’s ing CO2 emissions per ton-km. During the year, Axis was able network video products. to reduce total CO2 emissions per ton-km by 6 percent, from 364 g CO2 per ton-km to 343 g. This was due to well-planned logistics and increased transportation by boat. >> Axis’ partners shall have knowledge about and be aware of Axis’ position on sustainability issues has been a vital part the importance of sustainability. Axis’ partners shall comof the information given to partners at conferences and ply with applicable laws and legislation and act in accormeetings. dance with the United Nations’ Global Compact initiative. >> Axis shall influence and encourage suppliers and subconA Code of Conduct for suppliers has been developed and tractors to manufacture in line with the guidelines set by implemented. The implementation will continue the comAxis. ing year. >> All employees shall act in accordance with the Code of Sustainability has been an important element of the recruitConduct, encourage an attractive working environment ment process as well as during introductory courses. and promote diversity in the expansion of the company. >> Axis strives to use the best environmental option for busiAxis’ employees have been encouraged to consider the most ness travel. environmentally friendly option for business travel. 8 Axis’ products and customers Axis’ products and customers Axis is the global market leader in network video and offers high quality and innovative products. The products are used for security surveillance and remote monitoring, but also in installations where they help improve efficiency in customers’ business processes. Axis’ business mission is to be the driver of the shift to input data from the various stages in the life cycle are network video and to offer customers all the benefits of available, which rarely is the case in the early stage of complete intelligent network video solutions. The overall the development process. goal of the company is to strengthen its market-leading position in the network video market. The first product LCA performed in 2009/2010 provided Axis with a thorough analysis of one of our more Customers and markets complex products and facilitated development of an The market is being driven by increased prosperity and analytical tool for making life cycle analyses in a simpliurbanization as well as a general trend towards greater fied manner. These analyses are not full scale, but permit emphasis on public security. The customers are mainly calculation of the amount of CO2 emitted from a camera found within the security sector, but also in other sectors during its life cycle and create a reference index that where a need exists for remote monitoring and streamcan be used for internal comparisons. During 2011, Axis lining of business processes. Examples of such fields of conducted simplified LCAs on several products in Axis’ application for network video are inventory management product portfolio. and measurement of customer behavior in the retail sector and remote monitoring within health care. The LCA analyses show that a considerable part of the environmental impact during the life cycle of our Axis sells network video products, including surveilproducts, like for most electronic products, is related to lance cameras, to distributors, that in turn sell on to system integrators and resellers. In many transactions Raw material this means that we do not meet the end customer. The extraction legal responsibility for how systems and data are used and stored follows each country’s laws and regulations End of life and the responsibility therefore lies primarily with the user, i.e. the end customer. However, Axis works closely with its business partners to ensure that the company’s Transport Transport Code of Conduct is understood and followed. Material processing Environmental impact of Axis’ products Axis Q6032-E Axis’ ambition is that environmental consideration shall be applied in the entire value chain, from the selection Transport of materials and suppliers to the use of the final product Utilization Transport and its recycling. In order to develop a clear understanding of the environmental impact of our products during their entire life cycles, Axis conducts Life Cycle Transport Manufacturing Analyses (LCA) of both existing and new products on a Assembly, & assembly configuration, regular basis. However, the tool is best used when all packaging & distribution Axis’ products and customers 9 their energy consumption during use by end customers. This may result in an overriding focus on addressing energy concerns while downplaying the importance of addressing toxicity, design for disassembly, and design for recyclability. Axis, however, believes that all stages Lifetime = 27 days in a life cycle are worth addressing and has therefore energy consumption of energy consumption chosen to also evaluate the use and implementation of a “Green design tool” focusing on three major aspects of product design: material choice, manufacturing An average European consumes the same amount of energy in 27 days* as the AXIS methods, and recycling/disposal at the end of product Q6032-E camera does during its lifetime. The CO2 effect of the camera during its lifetime life. This tool enables environmental considerations to equals that of an average European in 24 days*. be incorporated at an early development stage. The amount of energy used by the camera during 10 years equals the amount of energy Control of material and substances consumed by a 60 W regular light-bulb during constant use for approximately 4.2 years*. Axis aims to use materials and components which may be recycled to a large extent such as aluminum, zinc For a smaller camera such as AXIS M31 the total amount of CO2 caused to be released by and plastic. 10 years of continuous use equals that caused by an average European in less than 7 days*. The main materials (weight-based) used in Axis prod*Axis’ LCA results are influenced by the tool itself, the assumptions made, the data used, and the boundaries ucts are: drawn. This needs to be taken into consideration when comparing the result of different life cycle assessments. >> Aluminum >> Zinc >> Steel Axis does not have complete information regarding >> Stainless steel the proportion of recycled material included in our >> PC/ABS (polycarbonate and acrylonitrile butadiene products, but knows that all plastic materials are made styrene polymer) from primary material. Some metal materials consist of >> PC (polycarbonate) recycled material but far from all and the exact figure is >> PA (polyamide polymer) unknown today. An objective to be taken into account >> PMMA in development of future products is to increase the >> Rubber proportion of recycled material. End customer segments >> At your school Where you shop Where you work Vandalism at schools has been shown to Network cameras in stores offer shop propriNetwork cameras are deployed to effectively decrease when surveillance cameras are etors a good overview of e.g. warehouses or monitor processes and assets in factories, at installed. Network cameras’ advantages, stores situated in other geographical locabuilding sites and in warehouses. The cameras such as scalability and easy installation suit tions. The cameras can also identify customshall be durable and capable of monitoring schools, universities and other educational er flows and customer behavior which may large areas, sometimes under difficult light organizations as the infrastructure is often be used to adapt the store and boost sales. conditions. Video is accessible on a computer already in place. regardless of geographical location. Education Retail Industry 10 Axis’ products and customers >> End customer segments As you get there When you carry out transactions In your city Network cameras are installed on buses, Network cameras at entrances and over counCamera surveillance helps to improve security on trains and in stations and contribute to ters increase security for staff in banks and for citizens in particularly vulnerable places boosting security for employees and pasexchange offices. Installations of network and video can facilitate the production of sengers. The cameras emit an alarm when cameras are becoming increasingly common evidence if a crime has been committed. an unexpected event occurs, e.g. if a person in the banking sector as the technological Network cameras are gaining more and more sets foot on an isolated area of track or if a benefits such as better image quality are helpfunctions that make it easier to identify and camera is subjected to vandalism. ing to outcompete existing analog systems. discover both people and objects. Transport Banks Public surveillance Axis has the ambition of reducing the use of surplus ther eliminate the number of dangerous and undesired materials and in 2011 the company investigated the substances in the products. possibility of removing one of the two domes made of polyacrylate that are included in the sales unit of Axis requests information about the contents of all the AXIS Q60 series, since the customer basically only products/materials to verify compliance with applicable uses one of them depending on the specific usage. By legislation and the above-mentioned list. removing one of the domes in the standard sales unit we will be able to reduce the use, transportation and CE marking and product non-compliance waste of polyacrylate by approximately 5 tons per year. Axis’ products are CE marked and no instances of noncompliance with regulations for product and service All electronic products have one or more PCBAs (printed information have been recorded. circuit board assemblies), consisting of a board featuring several electronic components. The board itself is Axis has not received any significant fines or nonmade of plastic and fiberglass. Besides the main plastic monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmaterial, printed circuit boards also contain smaller mental laws and regulations. Nor have any incidents of amounts of raw materials such as copper, gold, nickel, non-compliance related to health and safety impacts zinc, beryllium, tantalum, coltan and other metals. of products and services occurred. Axis collaborates with its component suppliers to ensure Packaging that all existing and future products meet the requireAxis’ packaging is mainly manufactured from recycled ments for elimination of environmentally hazardous material although for technical reasons certain parts components and substances. The company meets the of carton boxes, such as the outer linings, are made demands of the EU RoHS directive on restriction of from new fiber. There are two types of fittings, PET certain hazardous substances in electrical and elecplastic and PE foam. All PET fittings are made from tronic equipment, as well as the EU REACH directive on recycled PET, whereas the PE foam usually is made Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction from new materials. Both types of fittings can be of Chemicals. recycled. In addition to the legal requirements, Axis has its own Optimizing the size of the packaging of our products list of banned and restricted substances in order to furis part of the package design process and subject to Axis’ products and customers 11 continuous improvements. During 2011, several product In the end-of-life stage, the camera is disassembled packages were redesigned and improved. automatically (through grinding) and manually. In the first step, parts containing hazardous waste, such as -48 percent During 2011, we also conducted an investigation into PCBAs (printed circuit board assemblies), are separated Optimizing packaging areas of improvements as regards transportation packby hand for special treatment. The more bulky compoDuring 2011, Axis optimized the ages. Today Axis distributes a wide variety of product nents of the PCBA are then removed, the board is melted packaging of one of our most sold types, accessories, spare parts, documentation etc. To down and precious metals such as gold are recycled. and largest products, the AXIS Q-60 ensure high quality and minimize damages, packaged The grinder separates parts by using magnetism and series. By optimizing package design, products are never sent to customers unprotected and density. Aluminum, zinc, copper, steel and stainless steel changing the fitting material from are therefore either packed in transport boxes or on are melted down to be reused as raw materials. Plastics Stratocell foam to a more environpallets which are then wrapped in plastics etc. Because are either recycled to be reused in plastic products or mentally adapted type of plastic well of the varying dimensions of the product packages and are used to produce energy. and removing unnecessary accessothe number of items of packaging, each shipment must ries we were able to reduce the size be packed differently and the transport boxes are often In order to facilitate recycling, sufficiently large compoof the package by 48 percent. This has filled to varying degrees as a result. The investigation nents have a marking indicating their materials content. and will continue to result in shipping resulted in a number of improvement areas (see box to In general, Axis products are easy to dissemble having of smaller packaging volume and less the right) that will be implemented during 2012 and been designed to facilitate repairs. In order to evaluate weight which leads to more efficient will lead to more efficient and environmentally sound further improvements in product design for recyclabiland environmentally sound transport. transport. ity, a “Green Product Design” project was initiated in early 2012. Products in use Reducing the energy consumption of our products is Axis’ products are covered by the EU’s WEEE directive continually in focus not only from an environmental (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment), which perspective, but also from a performance perspective among other things, means that the manufacturer/ since the heat generated when energy consumption importer of electronics has a responsibility for ensuring is high may have an adverse impact on image quality. that waste can be collected separately. As manufacturer, Axis is responsible for marking its products with During the year, we reduced the energy consumption of a symbol that collection shall take place. our products by deploying several new technologies. For example, our outdoor cameras use high-grade industrial Non-compliance components which operate in temperatures down to No instances of non-compliance with regulations for -40°C, which means that the components do not need product and service information have been recorded. to be heated. In our most popular outdoor cameras, Nor have any incidents of non-compliance related to we use a double shell technology, whereby an outer health and safety impacts of products and services aluminum shell combined with an inner plastic shell occurred. serve as insulation in cold weather. In warm weather, a fan circulates air between the shells cooling down the camera. This dual shell technology is patented by Axis. Cameras with infrared (IR) illumination use the most modern and most efficient light-emitting diodes (LEDs), which are more energy efficient than older types. Another important factor in reducing energy consumption is to choose efficient power supplies and Axis expects that the company will progressively be able to reduce the products’ power consumption by a magnitude of 10 percent by choosing more efficient power supplies whenever possible. End of life Decommissioning refers to the end-of-life treatment and disposal of the cameras. Approximately 95 percent of the material in an Axis camera can be recycled or combusted, thus only 5 percent needs to be sent to landfill (according to Swedish standards). 12 Axis and society Resellers General Sub-suppliers CLCs Axis Distributors End users manufacturers System integrators Axis and society Axis is the driving force and competence leader as regards network video products. We are very much aware of the need to conduct all parts of our business in a sustainable and ethical way in order to gain the long-term support of customers, partners, employees, investors and society at large. Axis has adopted a business ethics policy for the purpose set of different partner programs, which include training of conducting business operations in a responsible manand information about sustainability issues as well as ner. Among other things, this policy states that Axis shall Axis’ Code of Conduct and relevant policies. not pursue business practices which are not in accordance with applicable local or international laws and regulaAxis’ network video products are based on an open tions or conduct business related to the use of products standard platform, enabling others to participate in the in weapon systems, the sex industry or in the promotion development of new products, solutions and application of drugs. We verify our ethical decisions with colleagues areas for Axis’ technology. and managers at a local level and promptly refer unclear or conflicting cases to our Business Ethics Council. Suppliers All production of Axis’ products is carried out by conOn the subject of anti-corruption, Axis’ Code of Conduct tract manufacturers. Axis designs and develops the states that the company shall compete fairly and in full products; selects, contracts and certifies component accordance with applicable laws. Corruption, bribery suppliers; supports the contract manufacturers in esand unfair anti-competitive actions are not accepted. All tablishing efficient production processes and monitors employees are expected to promote, contribute to and the performance of suppliers. The supplier model is uphold the company’s values, integrity and responsibility. based on close and long-term relationships, which also allows for a good insight into the supplier companies Axis has drawn up an Export Control Policy and has and full transparency regarding where and how our established an organization with the responsibility for products are manufactured. ensuring that export control rules and regulations are implemented and are dealt with in a consistent way. Axis can directly influence the first chain of subconEvery deal with countries which are subject to export tractors through a careful supplier selection process restrictions is assessed individually and stopped in and supplier contracts. Further back in the supplier cases where it obviously does not comply with the chain – i.e. supply of bulk components – it becomes rules in force. This is handled within Axis’ Operations increasingly difficult to exercise control apart from organization, which in doubtful cases, raises the matter component specifications. for determination by the company’s management team. In some production countries there is a lack of adequate Partners legislation in the areas of environment, chemicals, labor Axis has 45,000 partners worldwide and supports these rights, child labor etc. In other cases there are laws, through different partnership programs with the goal but enforcement and control are insufficient. Axis has that the company’s end customers should be at the cuttherefore adopted its own policy and requirements ting edge as regards their security installations. In this covering these critical areas – Axis Supplier Code of connection, Axis pursues close collaboration through a Conduct – which all suppliers are required to sign and Axis and society 13 follow. We continuously monitor suppliers to ensure Society at large that they comply with these requirements. We also Axis foremost contribution to society is that our prodperform supplier audits which include inspections at ucts promote safety and security for people all over the the factory (including dormitories) as well as interviews world. We base this statement on surveys* which show with management and workers. that surveillance cameras contribute to crime prevention and to solving criminal actions and also on the Today, we have screened about 50 percent of the fact that a majority of the public are positive towards suppliers that are considered crucial. Crucial supplisurveillance cameras. ers refers to suppliers located in risk countries based on The Business Social Compliance Initiative’s (BSCI) However, in line with the increasing number of surveildefinition. lance cameras in society, a discussion has arisen regarding how surveillance systems affect personal integrity. In February 2011 Axis held its first supplier conference Axis’ view on the matter is that a surveillance system at which environmental issues and Axis’ Supplier Code in itself cannot violate personal integrity and that the of Conduct were two of the focus areas. issue is rather about how systems are used and data protected and stored. Nevertheless, as with all kinds of Investors equipment, such systems can be misused. Axis thereAxis’ shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic, Mid Cap fore places great emphasis on the selection of partners segment and the number of shareholders at year-end and resellers in order to ensure that our products are was 16,597 (17,459). not misused. Other measures to avoid misuse include technological innovation, compliance with international As a listed company, Axis also applies the Swedish Code guidelines and voluntary best practices. of Corporate Governance. It is the company’s ambition to continually provide the financial market, owners and Local commitment other stakeholders with correct, consistent and relevant Axis is careful to conduct its operations in harmony with information with the aim of increasing understanding society generally and to maintain good relationships of the company and to comply with the regulations for with politicians, authorities and other social institutions. listed companies. Information about sustainability isThis also includes activities at a local level, mainly in sues is part of these communication activities. Lund, where Axis’ main operations are located, Among other things, Lund Municipality works towards national In the corporate governance area, we have strengthand local climate and energy targets. Axis participates in ened our internal control during the year and we have these efforts through Lund Climate Alliance, an associaemphasized different ethical issues in our training tion that includes a number of local companies and is * Report 2007:29 Camera surprograms including the handling and dissemination of veillance and crime prevenrun in cooperation with the International Environmental tion, The National Council for price sensitive information. Institute at Lund University and Lund Municipality. Crime Prevention in Sweden. The Breckland district in England is a good example of how network cameras from Axis are used to prevent crime and accidents. Case 15 City surveillance State-of-the-art surveillance contributes to a safer society The Breckland district in England is a good example of The cameras deliver high resolution image quality, how network cameras from Axis are used to prevent coupled with high frame rates which are very important crime and accidents. In addition, the cameras help when dealing with fast-moving objects such as cars and ensure that the resources of the community can be divarying light conditions. One of the biggest benefits is rected where they are needed most in order to maintain that in the event of an incident, the local police have the citizens’ security the opportunity to save time and resources by viewing images remotely, avoiding costly travel which impacts Covering an area of about 500 square miles, Breckland on the environment. is made up of the five market towns of Attleborough, Dereham, Swaffham, Thetford and Watton and also The Breckland approach is one of many examples ila number of industrial areas and rural communities. lustrating how Axis’ network cameras can contribute Having introduced a CCTV system in the mid-90s, the to a safer society. In addition to city surveillance, Axis Breckland District Council was keen to upgrade the cameras are also used in schools, universities, sport system to one that would make images taken across venues, banks, hospitals and in public transport systems the region easy to locate and share. They also wanted in countries all over the world. a system that was cost-effective and that offered flexible monitoring. The European Commission Standard Eurobarometer published in 2010 reported, among other things, that 17 The district council chose an IP-based surveillance percent of the population in the European Community system based on Axis cameras, which was seamlessly view reducing crime to be the most important issue at digital from the camera through to the transmission a national and personal level*. It is also worth noting network and the recording platform, using wireless that a number of studies in various countries in recent technology. The system also included a number of years show that crime has decreased at places which rapid deployment Axis megapixel cameras which can have been placed under surveillance**. be placed in ‘hot spot’ areas whenever required. ”The local police can save time and resources by viewing images remotely” * European Commission Standard Eurobarometer 73, 2010. ** One of these is Report 2007:29 Camera surveillance and crime prevention, The National Council for Crime Prevention in Sweden, based on surveys carried out in the US, Canada, Sweden and Norway. 16 Axis as a workplace Axis as a workplace Axis is a rapidly growing global company with local presence in close to 40 countries and partners in more than 179 countries. Our ability to offer an attractive workplace to the people we need and want to recruit is vital for our continued growth. So is our ability to make employees want to stay, prosper and perform well in order to meet the high expectations of our customers. The rapid increase in new employees of 23.3 percent values are an important topic during recruitment and during 2011 is a reflection of the overall growth and introduction of new employees. the demand for Axis’ products. Axis puts a lot of effort in finding the right people and successful recruitment Continuous rapid growth of new employees will continue to be of vital importance for our ability During 2011, the number of employees increased to to grow and develop as a company. Employee retention, 1,127 (914), representing a growth of 23.3 percent (18.1 the ability to offer an attractive workplace and keep percent). Of the employees, 74 percent are men and 26 employee turnover low, will become increasingly impercent are women. portant as competition for qualified people intensifies. Axis’ operations are divided into three different sales Fast and smooth introduction of new employees is regions and the company’s headquarters including R&D another area which Axis prioritizes in order to stay and all support functions are situated in Lund, Sweden. competitive. All new employees participate in an introThus, the majority of Axis’ employees are employed in duction course and more and more local and structured Sweden: 64 percent in 2011 (62). Although corporate introduction programs are being developed and implepolicies apply to Axis as a whole, specific practices mented in the regions. During 2012, we will also launch may vary between different countries due to national a web-based introduction program. legislation and other local conditions. Core values guide the way Employee turnover increased from 6.4 percent in 2010 Axis has three core values that guide decision-making to 7.2 percent in 2011. In order to maintain our success and behavior; “act as one”, “always open” and “think in growing the organization we need to further develop big”. The core values intend to keep employees focused our efforts in recruiting, developing and retaining our on reaching goals and on building an organization to people. We believe that informal top management, be proud of. increased focus on developing leadership support and more localized HR support will be some of the efforts Ensuring that the entire organization acts according required in order to create an even more innovative to Axis’ core values is a key factor which we believe and attractive corporate climate and thus contribute to is closely linked to our success. The company’s core employees staying with Axis for a longer period of time. Axis as a workplace 17 Axis’ core values Act as one! Always open! Think big! We are helpful, dedicated and responsible We embrace change, think outside the We are growing and need to plan for the in order to create an innovative work enbox and promote an open and transparent future in every decision we take. We need vironment, beneficial for our employees organization. This is fundamental to us in to be one step ahead at all times, we are and customers. order to be number one in a market that is the market leader and we shall drive the constantly evolving. development. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, abobtain fast and relevant information, improving crosssenteeism and the number of deceased are handled functional transparency, collaboration and knowledge locally in accordance with local regulations. All injuries, sharing. occupational diseases and fatalities connected to work/ working conditions are to be reported to corporate Training and development headquarters. Travel insurance and risk management In order to support the expansion of Axis and increase are handled on a global basis with central processes. our knowledge, we must develop and engage our employees. Our goal is that all Axis employees receive Informal leadership, openness and dialogue annual performance and career development reviews. The aim of building a corporate culture based on Axis’ core values is expressed in many different ways and During 2011, the follow-up of the performance and activities. Openness and transparency are the foundadevelopment process has been in particular focus tion for how Axis works. in order to obtain maximum quality. Managers have received support to be able to perform reviews with For instance, the introduction program for all new their employees in an optimal way. However, with 90 employees is continuously developed to meet current percent (88 percent) of our employees having received demands and needs. During the introduction program, a performance and development review during 2011, management and employees have the opportunity to results have not been as good as expected and we will meet and interact. Thus it is a good way for the mancontinue to follow up these efforts during 2012 in order Number of employees during agement to get to know new employees and collect to reach our goal. the last three years feedback on the introduction process and how the company is perceived. It also establishes an important Employee training and development is matched to platform for our way of building a flat organization with the employees’ needs and potential. An international 1,200 an open environment, promoting creativity. leadership program was run successfully and a new round has been initiated with new potential Axis lead1,000 During 2011, the program Innovation X was launched ers. The content is being developed and adapted to to stimulate creativity and increase speed in innovation suit the demands of Axis – and to reflect the feedback 800 (see page 27). Creative employees get an opportunity to from former participants. In addition to supporting the step out of their normal jobs to explore and develop their development of leadership skills among new managers, ideas. The program adds to the perception of Axis as an the program also expands their global network with a 600 open and creative environment where employees can view to improving cross-border collaboration. grow and contribute to the growth of the whole company. 400 Human Resources to support expansion In Sweden, where most of Axis’ employees are based, The Human Resources function in recent years has been 200 monthly meetings are held where employees get indeveloped into a global organization with the overall formation from top management and other key people purpose of supporting expansion in all Axis’ markets. in order to stay ahead of the competition and have All markets need to be able to handle recruitment, 0 2009 2010 2011 dialogues on important topics. training and the implementation of core values in a structured and uniform way, which means that the HR Over the past three years, Axis has increased the number of employees A new intranet is being introduced, which will gradually function is increasingly being adapted to support the from 774 to 1,127. give employees at all Axis sites new opportunities to local businesses. 18 Axis as a workplace Employee benefits Providing a good and safe environment in compliance Axis aims to offer a compensation package that is comwith local laws and regulations is important for Axis. petitive in the local market, enabling employees to feel Axis’ health and safety matters are regulated in formal motivated. Terms and conditions are generally handled agreements with trade unions in Sweden. on an individual basis between employer and employee. Code of Conduct All employees in Sweden are covered by the collective Axis’ Code of Conduct states that all employees are bargaining agreement (Teknikavtalet) setting the central to be treated with respect and dignity. The company standards, while at a global level 65 percent of the total shall promote diversity and not engage in or support workforce is covered by such agreements. The Swedish discrimination in matters of hiring, compensation, collective bargaining agreement along with Swedish law access to training, promotion, or termination based regulate employee/employer relations such as working on ethnic or national origin, caste, religion, sex, age, time, minimum notice period, employee influence and sexual orientation, physical disability, union affiliation regulations regarding employment and termination of or political opinion. employment etc. The Code of Conduct also states that a safe and healthy Full-time and part-time employees have an expanded working environment shall be provided for all employees health plan and are part of an annual bonus program. in compliance with international and national laws. A health and safety committee in Sweden covers 64 percent of the total global workforce. Case 19 Growing with Axis Axis has continued to grow rapidly over the last couple of years, both in terms of revenue and new employees. KEY FACTS Ensuring that new employees feel part of the company as quickly as possible and choose to stay and grow in Atul Rajput the company will become even more important in the Position: Business Development future as competition for talent increases. Manager Retail, Northern Europe Age: 40 Atul Rajput, a Business Development Manager who Location/country: United Kingdom joined Axis fourteen years ago, in 1997, is one of the Joined Axis: 1997 many employees who have stayed for quite some time. Career with Axis: Technical support, Technical sales manager, Key account “Axis was in a start-up phase in the UK when I joined manager, Retail business development the company, which offered new tasks and challenges, manager – Northern Europe, Manager but also demanded flexibility. I was willing to do many business development – Northern different tasks, embraced the opportunities and learnt Europe many things,” says Atul. Axis is a different company now compared to when Atul “I think we need to highlight the fact that Axis is still joined. He feels very excited about having been part of a a growing company to potential employees. And that real technical evolution – the shift from analog to digital. it is an exciting and interesting company to be part of which can offer great opportunities to grow as a person. “Axis has given me opportunities to grow and try new However, I also think we need to be honest about the things. The company is dynamic and innovative and I less positive aspects to ensure the right recruitments. have a high regard of what Axis does. Those are the main Sometimes working at Axis involves a heavy workload reasons why I have stayed for so long,” explains Atul. and lot of travel,” he explains. Axis’ core values have been important in defining the Atul also stresses the importance of good leadership. required behavior and in clarifying what is expected “We need to be aware of and identify our high performof employees. The values are the glue that holds the ers. Even if you cannot always offer a new career move, business and employees together. And it is more than you can have a dialogue with people. Recognize good just fancy words. results and make sure people feel valued,” says Atul. “I strongly believe in the core values of Axis,” says Atul. One of the areas that Atul thinks need to be improved, in “The lack of hierarchy, the freedom of expression and order to provide employees with better career support, that you can actually speak to the management – that is training. Axis offers mainly skills and product-related just would not happen in an American company. All of training, and also introduced a leadership program last this contributes to the innovative and dynamic climate year, which is by appointment and invitation only. that I enjoy so much at Axis,” Atul continues. “Leadership skills will become increasingly important However, Atul also acknowledges the challenges ahead. as Axis continues to grow. The new leadership program He thinks that better clarity in explaining why to choose is great, but I would like to see a wider program for a Axis as a workplace will be needed. He also emphasizes larger number of managers to meet the demands and the importance of integrating all the people that have stress the importance of this area. I think it represents started recently, and also those who will join the comthe key to staying competitive,” Atul points out. pany in the future. ”Leadership skills will become increasingly important as Axis continues to grow. ” Atul Rajput 20 Axis and its operations Axis and its operations Axis’ own operations have a limited environmental impact. This is related to the fact that all production of Axis’ products is carried out by contract manufacturers. The focus of the sustainability work in the operations area is on ways of reducing the carbon footprint of the company and on placing stringent demands on our suppliers. Axis’ first Carbon Footprint report was finalized in be noted that the US regional office has decreased its February 2011 and a new report was finalized in Februemissions by 30 % in 2011 compared to 2010. CLC 1 in ary 2012. The main purpose of the reports has been to Lund has the lowest emissions per employee. identify Axis’ emissions of greenhouse gases pertaining to different activities and areas and to provide a better Reducing Axis’ carbon footprint understanding of where to initially focus our efforts. During 2011, an action plan defining a program of action Other factors such as the influence and impact of Axis to reduce the company’s greenhouse gas emissions was in relation to Sweden’s Environmental Quality Objectives drawn up and adopted. In the case of outbound freight have also been analyzed and evaluated. transports, which cause the greatest environmental impact, a measurable target and action plan to reduce CO2 The 2012 Carbon Footprint report focuses on emissions emissions has been in place since 2009. For more derelated to facility energy consumption, company cars, tailed information see the Logistics and transportation business travel and paper consumption. The report is section. Although Axis has grown as a company, includbased on data from 2009, 2010 and 2011 collected ing considerable increases in the number of employees from the corporate headquarters, the Configuration and and product sales as well as the extension of facilities, Logistics Center (CLC) in Lund and Axis’ regional offices. the total footprint of Axis’ corporate operations only The report also includes emissions from all outbound increased by approximately 6 % from 10,366 tons CO2e * and inbound freights controlled by Axis. The choice of in 2010 to 10,946 tons CO2e in 2011. In 2010/2011 the system boundaries has an impact on the results of the increase was 28 %. Axis’ sales increased by 33 percent analysis, which needs to be taken into consideration during 2011, which indicates that the total amount of when comparing Axis’ results with those of other Caremissions relative to sales decreased compared to 2010. bon Footprint reports. Emissions per employee have decreased from 11 tons CO2e to 9.4 tons CO2e. In 2011, the largest source of emissions was outbound third-party deliveries, which represented 52 percent of * CO2e, carbon dioxide equivalents, is a measurement for describing how much global warming a given type and amount of greenhouse gas the total emissions. The US still has the highest emismay cause, using the functionally equivalent amount or concentration sions per employee, 8.9 tons CO2e. However it should of carbon dioxide (CO2) as the reference. Axis and its operations 21 Regional office reduces its carbon footprint by 30 percent Though the environmental impact from Axis’ headAnother example: During 2011 the Regional office for quarters and regional offices is quite limited, continued North Asia was able to reduce its carbon footprint Carbon efforts are being made to reduce this impact. related to paper and energy consumption by: Footprint In 2011 Axis’ office in Boston moved to a new building. It is a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental >> Recycling used paper and printing on both sides of the paper. Design) Silver certified facility which means that the >> Turning off electricity when no one was present. building has been designed in a sustainable way with >> Reducing the use of paper cups and disposable energy efficiency and other environmental factors in chopsticks. mind. This had a positive effect on the US office’s carbon footprint, CO2 emission have been reduced by 30 %. Emissions generated by our employees (i.e. all activities Logistics and transportation excluding emissions from freight transports) have also Products are sold via an indirect distribution model, decreased from 4.5 tons CO2e per employee to 2.8. whereby Axis’ sales take place in the first stage to distributors. They stock the products and supply them to During 2011, approximately 70 percent of the greensystem integrators and resellers who are the partners house gas emissions were caused by outbound freight that meet the end customers. All in all, Axis has some transports, thus such transports are the main contribu45,000 partners worldwide. tor to the emissions. Business travel is the second largest contributor, representing 22 percent of emissions. Axis has five Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC), Although personal meetings constitute an important one each in Hungary, Thailand, the US and Sweden and business activity at Axis, substantial efforts have been one in the Czech Republic which was established during made to limit travel by using webinars and other means 2011. Axis only manages the Swedish center while the of communication. Thus during 2011, video conferences others are operated by other companies. High volumes were held involving a total of 7,000 participants all over of products are bulk packed and shipped from contract the world, implying substantial reductions in the number manufacturers to Axis’ CLCs where software and acof business trips on behalf of both Axis and its partners. cessories are added before the products are individually packed and shipped to our customers. In 2012, Axis will invest in a new video conference system which is expected to further reduce business travel. The mode of transport is largely determined by the A target has also been set to increase the proportion of requirement for short lead times for deliveries. Inbound travel by train in relation to air travel on the domestic components mainly go by ship and road transport. Malmö/Lund–Stockholm route. tons CO2e per sales tons CO2e per employee (excl third-party deliveries) 25 5 20 4 15 3 10 2 5 1 0 0 2010 2011 2010 2011 tCO2e per 25 XX tCO2e per 4.4 2.8 USD 100 M employee Axis and its operations Outbound transports within Europe principally go by The CO2 emissions per unit in 2011 amounted to 9.3 road, while in the case of the US, they mainly go by air. kg per shipped unit. The increase in emissions from outbound third-party deliveries can be explained by As of 2011, Axis has an overall transportation goal of the fact that Axis expanded the scope of the reporting reducing CO2 emissions per ton-km. In the first instance, in 2011 to include transports related to our new CLC in this is a question of reducing CO2 emissions in connecthe Czech Republic and additional outbound air freight tion with the outbound and inbound transport of goods from the CLC in Hungary. Outbound air freight was only controlled by Axis itself. included for part of 2010 since these transports were not controlled by Axis. In 2011, Axis was able to reduce total CO2 emissions per ton-km by 6 %, from 364 g CO2 per ton-km to 343 g. Other factors that have a negative impact on the trend for CO2 emissions per shipped unit are air travel In order to obtain a more detailed picture and to distances and product weight. Axis’ product portfolio pinpoint areas where action is needed, Axis’ moniin 2011 included more heavy products which meant toring of CO2 emissions is divided into outbound and more CO2 per shipped unit. When it comes to travel disinbound transportation. Monitoring of CO2 emissions tances, other regions have grown faster than Europe, from outbound transports takes place as regards therefore the proportion of long distance transportagrams of CO2 per ton-km and of CO2 in relation to tion has also increased. CLC3 is the largest CLC and units shipped. has the highest level of air freight and long distance air freight. Since the scope of CLC3 has expanded and air freight is included for the full year 2011, this 2009 2010 2011 Emissions from outbound transports will have a negative effect on the CO2 emissions data kg CO2 per shipped unit 7.1 8.4 9.3 compared to 2010. g CO2 per ton-km 534 551 Emissions from inbound transports Emissions from inbound transports are based on CO2 g CO2 per ton-km 113 155 159 data supplied by our transport company. They are measured in grams of CO2 per ton-km since the number of In 2011, we reviewed the method for calculating CO2 shipped items is not available. related to outbound transportation. We found deficiencies in the previous calculation method and the method When reviewing the data from 2010, Axis found an error has been modified accordingly. We recalculated the in one of the reports from our transport companies and figures for 2010 and the correct figure should be 8.3 this resulted in an increase of CO2 emissions for 2010. kg per shipped unit instead of 7.8 kg. Emissions from inbound transports increased slightly Axis and its operations 23 Optimizing supply chain and packaging A new supply chain set-up was evaluated for some of our M-line products during 2011, resulting in a change of means of transportation from air freight to boat. This is expected to decrease the carbon footprint from those specific products by approximately > 90 percent After investigating the product packaging we were able to reduce the package size by up to 54 percent in 2011 compared to 2010. However, the increase was As Axis rents all its premises, major investments to insignificant bearing in mind that we faced some major reduce energy consumption must take place on the challenges in 2011, such as the flooding in Thailand, initiative of the landlord. However, during 2011 some where a lot of inbound transport which usually takes improvements were made to the facilities at Axis place by boat, had to take place by air. headquarters. One of which was to change chillers for server room cooling to a “free cooling system”, a Axis is continually working on minimizing emissions method based on reverse valuation principles of a heat from transportation and optimizing the logistics flow. pump system. The investment cost SEK 1.6 M and will One step towards reducing freight emissions was the inireduce the electricity consumption of the chillers by 30 tiation during 2011 of a project to examine how Axis can percent. Axis has also invested SEK 50,000 in replaceoptimize its product packaging and also to review the ment of traditional lighting with LED lighting and this logistics flow for a specifically selected product series. work will continue. The project will enable us to lower the environmental impact of our transports through improved logistics and Materials reduced packaging volumes. The environmental impact and consumption of materials by Axis’ own operations are mainly related to the use Energy consumption Lund of office supplies. However, since the usage of copying The facilities of Axis Communications where 64 perpaper is a part of our Carbon Footprint, a target for cent of all employees are located are supplied with reductions in usage per employee in Lund has been electricity from external companies and the energy set. In 2011, the Lund office implemented double-sided mix varies depending on the location. Axis purchases printing as a default setting on more or less all print“green electricity”, which means electricity produced ers, contributing to a reduction in the use of copying only from renewable energy sources such as biofuels, paper by 2.5 kg per employee from 10.6 kg in 2010 to solar, hydroelectric or wind power. Green electricity is 8.1 kg in 2011. considered to be CO2 neutral. Manufacturing The energy consumption of the facilities in Lund is also Axis currently collaborates with four contract manuincluded in our Carbon Footprint study. facturers and approximately 100 strategic component suppliers. Contract manufacturers operating in Thailand, The total energy consumption has increased slightly Poland, Slovakia, China and South Korea are responsible from 2010 to 2011, as a consequence of an increase for production of Axis’ PCBA (printed circuit board asin the number of employees and extension of the sembly) and the assembly of complete products. The strapremises. tegic component suppliers are located all over the world. 24 Case Study highlights the need for sustainable commuting During 2011, Axis conducted a study of the commuting ployee. This results in about 685 tons of CO2 per year habits of its employees in cooperation with Lund Muor about 1 ton per employee. nicipality. About half of the total number of employees work in Lund, which corresponds to almost 700 employThe study also included domestic business trips, and ees, and the response rate was 73 percent. indicated that use of train instead of flights is a potential area of improvement. The study showed that employees living in Lund to a large extent already use a sustainable method of comBased on the study, Axis has developed an action plan muting to work, such as walking or cycling. However, in order to achieve a reduction in car use, an increase in many of the employees live in neighboring areas and the use of train for business trips and to promote greater commuting by car is quite common among them. On the participation among employees in the environmental other hand, there is good potential for more sustainable efforts. Concrete actions in the plan are, among other commuting since as many as 18 percent of employees things, to facilitate the servicing of bikes at the company state that they want to reduce their present car use. facilities, to always present an alternative proposal for business trips based on the use of rail transport and to In total, employee commuting amounts to 5,610,000 install screens at the company premises showing current kilometers per year, or about 8,400 kilometers per emschedules for public transportation. ”As a result of the study, we developed an action plan in order to achieve a reduction in car use” Jenny Svensson, Environmental Engineer For many years, every new employee at Axis in Lund, Sweden, has received a bicycle in order to encourage the use of sustainable transportation. Axis and its operations 25 Die casting, plastic molding, sheet melting etc. require The total amount of water used has increased from use of energy, water and chemicals and generate emis2010 to 2011. Consumption per employee has also sions to air and water. Therefore there is a risk of polslightly increased. lution and waste of resources where production occurs as well as a work environmental risk in connection with Biodiversity the handling of hazardous chemicals. Axis does not own, rent or manage land. Nor does the company have any activities in places identified Axis therefore demands suppliers to control emissions, as protected areas of high biodiversity value outside energy use, handling of chemicals and waste and to protected areas. have necessary water and air purification systems in place. When inspecting suppliers’ factories, we check Chemicals and Waste compliance with these requirements. Axis requires that Waste from Axis’ facilities in Lund is collected by Lund all suppliers have knowledge of environmental issues, public cleansing department, which is responsible for waste have identified their environmental impact and that management in Lund Municipality. All waste management they are also working to reduce the impact in relation is executed in compliance with national legislation. to measurable and realistic targets. We also prohibit our suppliers from using harmful chemicals through Axis’ Although the amount of non-hazardous waste has List of Banned and Restricted Substances. increased at the headquarters in Lund, 36 percent of this waste was recycled during 2011 according to Lund Water public cleansing department, an increase of 3 percent. Data has only been collected for Axis’ facilities in Lund, 63 percent was incinerated and 1 percent was used where most of the employees are located. The facilities for land fill. The CLC has reduced both the amount of use municipal water supplied by Lund Municipality. The non-hazardous waste and hazardous waste (see chart water withdrawal sources are not designated as probelow). The portion of non-hazardous waste which was tected areas (nationally or internationally) and have no recycled also increased slightly from 76 percent in 2010 specific biodiversity value. Axis uses no process water, to 78 percent in 2011. 22 percent was incinerated and only water for housekeeping, drinking, toilets etc. Conno waste was used for land fill.* sequently, no water recycling takes place. Total amount of water used Amount of water used per employee m 3 m3 m /employee m3/employee 3 12,000 12,000 15 15 10,000 10,000 12 12 8,000 8,000 9 9 6,000 6,000 6 6 4,000 4,000 2,000 2,000 3 3 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2009 20112010 2011 2009 2010 2009 2011 2010 2011 CLC 800 CLC831 800799 831 799 CLC 12.3 CLC 10.9 12.3 9.4 10.9 9.4 HQ 6,400 HQ 10,5317,548 7,548 6,400 10,531 HQ 12.1 HQ 11.4 12.113.3 11.4 13.3 26 Axis and its operations The non-hazardous waste at Axis’ headquarters mainly consists of household waste. Non-hazardous waste at the CLC mainly consists of corrugated paper, which explains the difference between the amount of recycled waste at the CLC and at headquarters. Axis is a growing company and needs to continually work on reducing the amount of waste by increasing the awareness of our employees and improving management of resources. During 2011, recycling bins for metal and glass were placed on all floors to facilitate and increase recycling. Similar improvements have also been implemented in the main canteen. Non-compliance Axis has not received any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. *Data has only been collected for Axis’ facilities in Lund, where most of the employees are located. Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste tons tons 20 20 150 150 15 15 100 100 10 10 50 50 5 5 0 0 0 0 2009 20102009 2011 2010 2011 2009 2010 2009 2011 2010 2011 CLC 124CLC 123 124 97 123 97 CLC 10.9 7.7 10.9CLC 10.1 10.1 7.7 HQ 51.5HQ 54.3 51.5 58.7 54.3 58.7 HQ 6.3 HQ 5.96.3 6.3 5.9 6.3 Case 27 Passionate about innovation Axis’ products are at the technological cutting edge So how does it work? The innovator presents the idea within a number of areas, including image quality, to a panel of experts at Axis and if it is approved by network reliability, ease of installation and user-friendthe top management, he or she gets between one and liness. The process of developing a new product or six months to develop a proof of concept on something function normally starts with comprehensive business concrete and valuable. intelligence in order to identify future market needs. However, in order to promote innovation in a broad When the time is up, the innovator presents the prosense Axis has introduced a program which encourages posal at an internal meeting. If it passes the test and is all employees to contribute ideas. considered to be worth developing, a function of Axis will take ownership of it and make sure it happens and The new program is called Innovation X and it is inspired is integrated as part of normal operations. by other companies’ experiences of creating innovative environments and by experts assessing and evaluating Since Innovation X started one year ago there have been business ideas. The idea behind the initiative is that any some fifteen proposals. Two of them were approved employee should be given the opportunity to step out and were recently presented as proof of concepts. One of the normal job for a while and get time to develop of the ideas was an app consisting of a couple of web completely new ideas. tools, simplifying selection of the right type of camera for different uses, making life easier for both customers The initiative is promoting innovation in a broad sense, and partners of Axis. not just ideas that are product-related, and all employees can apply to participate. The other idea was an interactive introduction program for new employees to complement the existing intro“Creative coworkers get a chance to explore an idea, duction program which allows all new employees to even something that might be far from their ordinary visit the head office for training. The idea is that new job at Axis today. However, it must create value for employees should complete an interactive program Axis as a company or for Axis’ customers and constibefore visiting Lund for the first time in order to make tute a real change,” explains Peter Lindström, one of it possible to address other issues and have improved the initiators. discussions as participants will already have gained basic information about Axis before travelling to Lund. ”Innovation X is a win-win program for Axis and for the individual employee.” Peter Lindström 28 Reporting Reporting Axis AB, company registration number 556241-1065, is a Swedish company and parent company of Axis Communications AB. The headquarters is in Lund, Sweden. This sustainability report is focused on sustainability and complies with application level C under the GRI efforts at Axis Communications and is mainly based on standards. KPIs were not subject to third-party checks. the guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. The reporting follows the Global Reporting InitiaHistorical data is not available for all Key Performance tive guidelines level C. The report covers 2011 and has Indicators. Unless otherwise stated, the data refers to not been audited. the 2011 calendar year with comparative figures for previous years. Scope This report aims to present an accurate picture of the All figures are in SEK unless otherwise stated. group’s performance in areas relating to sustainability, safety, health and environment as well as business Corporate governance ethics. This is Axis’ second report and our ambition is As a company listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic stock to report annually. exchange, Axis follows the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act as well as the stock exchange rules for Boundaries listed companies in Sweden. Axis applies the Swedish Axis’ own operations mainly consist of functions such as Code of Corporate Governance. A separate corporate development, purchasing, marketing, service and technigovernance report for 2011 has been published in concal support as well as administration. Axis also works nection with the Annual Report. with product configuration and handles shipping at four Configuration & Logistics Centers (CLC) whereof only the Please visit www.axis.com for more information. Swedish center is operated by Axis. Other units are operated by other companies and all office premises are rented. All production of Axis’ products is carried out by contract manufacturers and the products are sold via an indirect distribution model, whereby Axis’ sales take place in the first stage to distributors. As a consequence of this business model, a great deal of the responsibility for production, distribution and specific installation of Axis’ products rests with the company’s business partners. However, Axis works closely with its partners to ensure that its Code of Conduct is understood and followed. Reporting standards and KPIs Contact for the report: The report conforms to the internationally recognized Margareta Lantz GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). Key Performance InIR & Corporate Communications Manager dicators (KPIs) used by Axis are selected from version Phone: +46 46 272 18 92 G3 of the GRI standards. The report is self-declared E-mail: margareta.lantz@axis.com GRI references 29 GRI references Axis’ Sustainability Report 2011 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. The following index shows where in the report and in the Annual Report 2011 (AR) – Corporate Governance Report – the information can be found. Only the GRI core indicators, and the additional indicators Axis has opted to report, are listed. GRI requirement Page GRI requirement Page PROFILE 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of 6 1. Strategy & analysis the highest governance body. 1.1 Statement from President and CEO Ray Mauritsson. 4 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 6 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4 the status of their implementation. 2. Organizational profile 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing sustainability per6 2.1 Name of the organization. 1 formance. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 6 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 26 particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 28 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 2 addressed by the organization. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 28 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, princip6 les, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 2.7 Markets served. 2 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy orga– 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2 nizations. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 7 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. – 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. – 3. Report scope and boundary 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement – 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 28 by type and by stakeholder group. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 28 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engage– 3.3 Reporting cycle. 28 ment. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 28 3.5 Process for defining report content, including 28 3.6 Boundary of the report. 28 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 28 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comparability from NA Indicator Description UNGC Page period to period and/or between organizations. Economic performance 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. NA Core EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 28 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information. NA Core EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 7 – 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, NA climate change. or measurement methods applied in the report. Core EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 28 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 29–30 Core EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the 28 Market presence report. ADD EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to – 4. Governance, commitments and engagement local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 6 CORE EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based – 4.2 Chairman’s position. AR suppliers. 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent AR CORE EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior manage6 16 and/or non-executive members. ment hired from the local community. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or AR Indirect economic impacts direction to the highest governance body. CORE EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and ser– 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, AR vices provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, senior managers, and executives, and the organization’s performance. in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of in6 CORE EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic im– terest are avoided. pacts, including the extent of impacts. 30 GRI references Indicator Description UNGC Page Indicator Description UNGC Page Environmental performance indicators Human rights performance indicators CORE EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8 10 CORE HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agree1–6 – CORE EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. – ments that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. CORE EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 23 CORE HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 1–6 – CORE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 20 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. CORE EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 8–9 20 ADD HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 1–6 – ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based 8–9 20 concerning aspects of human rights. products and services, and reductions in energy requirements. CORE HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 1, 2, 6 – ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reduc8–9 – CORE HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 1–3 – tions achieved. association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, CORE EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 8 25 and actions taken to support these rights. ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 8 25 CORE HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of 1, 2, 5 12 ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 25 child labor. Core EN11 Land owned, leased, managed in protected areas and areas of 25 CORE HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of 1, 3, 4 12 high biodiversity value. forced or compulsory labor. CORE EN12 Impact on biodiversity. – ADD HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s NA ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 25 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights. ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing im8 – ADD HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indi1–2 NA pacts on biodiversity. genous people and actions taken. ADD EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list – Society performance indicators species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of CORE SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of NA extinction risk. operations on communities. CORE EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 20 CORE SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks – CORE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 20 related to corruption. ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 7–9 20 CORE SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti10 – corruption policies and procedures. CORE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. 20 CORE SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 NA CORE EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions. – ADD SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 1–10 NA CORE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 8 25 development and lobbying. CORE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 25 ADD SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 10 NA CORE EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. – politicians, and related institutions. ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste de25 ADD SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antiNA emed hazardous. trust, and monopoly practices. ADD EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water – CORE SO8 Monetary value of fines and number of sanctions for non-comp– bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges liance with laws and regulations. of water and runoff. Product responsibility performance indicators CORE EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 7–9 21 CORE PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products 1 8 services. and services are assessed. CORE EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that – ADD PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary co– are reclaimed by category. des concerning health and safety impacts of products and serCORE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non11 vices. monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws CORE PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures. 8 and regulations. ADD PR4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 11 ADD EN29 Environmental impact of transports. 8 11 voluntary codes concerning product and service information ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments – and labeling. by type. ADD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. 12 Labor practices and decent work performance indicators CORE PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 28 CORE LA1 Total workforce. 16 related to marketing communications. CORE LA2 Employee turnover. 16 ADD PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and NA ADD LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees. – voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. CORE LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agre1, 3 – ADD PR8 Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of – ements. customer privacy and losses of customer data. CORE LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes. 17 CORE PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with laws and re– ADD LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint mana17 gulations concerning products and services. gement–worker health and safety committees. CORE LA7 Work-related accidents and diseases. AR CORE LA8 Action program relating to serious diseases. AR ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 1 AR trade unions. CORE LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee. 17 ADD LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 17 ADD LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and ca– reer development reviews. CORE LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employees per ca1, 6 AR tegory (gender, age group, minority group). CORE LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 1, 6 – UNGC: United Nations Global Compact principle Advisors: Aspekta Graphic design: Lönegård & Co, Pyramid Communication C ECOL A DI English revised by Word of Mouth Communications R BE NO L Photos: Lars Owesson, Kennet Ruona, Axis, Getty Images/James Whitaker, ©2012 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, Shutterstock/Tyler Olson, Antonio V. Oquias, iStockphoto/Kristian Sekulic, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products Andreas Vitting, Ralph Loesche, David Jones, Alex Nikada are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We Printing: Tryckfolket, 2012 341 425 reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice. About Axis Communications As the market leader in network video, Axis is leading the way to a smarter, safer, more secure world – driving the shift from analog to digital video surveillance. Offering network video solutions for professional installations, Axis’ products and solutions are based on an innovative, open technology platform. Axis has more than 1,000 dedicated employees in 40 locations around the world and cooperates with partners covering 179 countries. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Swedish-based IT company listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit www.axis.com Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund
