Managing sustainability Management structure In an overall sense, every leader within Bell has an explicit accountability for advancing our corporate responsibility agenda. That individual accountability is reinforced by a clear management structure to ensure we identify and properly address corporate responsibility issues and initiatives throughout the company. Specifically, the company’s corporate responsibility strategy is overseen by the Corporate Responsibility Oversight Committee, an officer-level committee chaired by the Chief Legal Officer. The committee’s role is to ensure that the company’s corporate responsibility strategy is well integrated and aligned across all parts of our business, with the intent of minimizing financial and reputational risks and maximizing business opportunities. At the Board level, responsibility for overseeing economic, environmental and social risks is divided among the Audit Committee, the Management Resources and Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee. Read more. Within our operations, corporate responsibility issues and opportunities are managed by experts in various areas of the business. The efforts to address, measure, improve and communicate policies and programs are coordinated by the Bell Sustainability Leadership Team. This director-level committee also has the mandate to evaluate our stakeholders’ expectations and ensure that their highest priority corporate responsibility issues and opportunities are properly addressed. 2011 04 30 PUBLIC Page 1 Stakeholder engagement Our key stakeholders The key to realizing our sustainability vision is a solid understanding of the things that matter to our Communities stakeholders because they are the cornerstone of our Customers success. Employees Governments On-going and open communication and information Investors sharing help us continuously learn and refine our Non-governmental organizations strategies. In our regular course of business, we make (NGOs) use of a number of tools that engage our stakeholders. Suppliers For instance: We survey customers every year in order to better meet their needs. All Bell employees have the opportunity to voice their opinions in a company-wide survey. We hold regular, open forums with employees and participate in joint management and union committees. Investors can provide their views at our Annual General Meeting or through a number of electronic feedback tools. We gauge the opinions of governments and community members through formal research and informal feedback. We also regularly conduct research specifically on our stakeholders' perception of corporate responsibility issues at Bell. These findings serve as a basis for developing our corporate responsibility objectives. We conduct periodic public telephone and internet surveys of Canadian consumers across Canada to assess the importance of various issues for them and get their perception on how Bell is addressing these issues. We also conduct in-depth, one-on-one interviews with corporate responsibility specialists from within our key stakeholder groups to obtain a deeper understanding of their expectations. Affiliations We also represent the interests of our stakeholders through active participation in industry and business associations Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GESI) We are a member of GeSI, an international organization created by Information and Communications Technology (ICT) service providers and suppliersto further sustainable development in the ICT sector. It informs the public of its members' voluntary actions to improve their sustainability performance and promotes technologies that foster sustainable development. Bell is an active member within the climate change, e-waste and supply chain working groups. Canadian Business for Social Responsibility (CBSR) We are a sustaining member of CBSR, a non-profit, business-led, national membership organization of Canadian companies that have made a commitment to operate in a socially, environmentally and financially responsible manner. Conference Board of Canada Business Council on Sustainability We are a member of the Conference Board of Canada’s Business Council on Sustainability. The role of this cross-industry council is to help discover, cutting-edge practices in environmental management and corporate sustainability. Canadian Wireless Telecommunications Association (CWTA) We are a member of the CWTA, an industry association representing a variety of wireless service providers. The CWTA leads the national Recycle My Cell initiative and has also implemented a nation-wide wireless AMBER Alerts Program providing the public with immediate and up-to-date information about a child's abduction. 2011 04 30 PUBLIC Page 2 Conseil patronal de l’environnement du Québec (CPEQ) Bell is a member of the CPEQ, a non-profit organization that groups together Québec’s key industry and business representatives, including sectoral business associations, whose activities may have environmental impacts and who are therefore concerned with environmental and sustainable development issues. Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC) We are a member of ITAC, whose mission is to identify and lead on issues that affect the ICT industry and to advocate initiatives which will enable its continued growth and development. Espace de concertation pour un approvisionnement responsable (ECPAR) We are a member and active participant of the ECPAR, an association of companies that favour the development of best practices in responsible procurement. 2011 04 30 PUBLIC Page 3
