HL Display Corporate Report 2010 Content 3 The year in brief 4 HL Display in brief 6 Statement from the CEO 8 HL Display’s strategies and goals 10 HL Display’s sales work and markets 14 HL Display’s offering 18 Product development 20 HL Display’s delivery organisation 22 Sustainability report 29 Income statement for the Group 29 Statement of comprehensive income for the Group 29 Statement of financial position for the Group 30 Risk and sensitivity analysis 31 Corporate governance of HL Display 35 Board of Directors 36 Senior Executives 37 Seven year summary 37 Definitions 38 History This corporate report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the translation, the former shall have precedence. 2/3 The year in brief • Net sales amounted to MSEK 1,617 1) (1,360). • Operating profit amounted to MSEK 64 1) (86). • Profit before tax was MSEK 29 1) (84). • On July 21, the listed private equity company Ratos acquired the Remius family’s shares in HL Display and, in conjunction with this, made an offer to all other shareholders in HL Display to acquire their shares. • On September 17 2010, HL Display’s shares were delisted from Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. 1) Key ratios 2010 2009 2008 Net sales for the Group, MSEK 1,617 1,360 1,536 Operating profit, MSEK 64 86 130 Profit before tax, MSEK 29 84 136 Profit after tax, MSEK 18 58 96 EBITA margin, % 4.1 6.4 8.5 Equity/assets ratio, % 50.6 44.4 57.3 2) Average number of employees 1,102 836 983 1) Pro forma 2) Excluding PPE, that was consolidated from 31 December, 2009 Significant events during the year First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter After a slow start to the year, HL Display announces plans to The scenario of a long-term The sales recovery is now more HL Display experiences increased establish a new production recovery­is confirmed during the emphatic. Both the food and noncustomer activity. Factory staffing facility in Poland together with quarter. A new, more positive food retail sectors show growth levels have been reduced consida regional logistics centre. mood is noted among customers, compared with 2010 and the erably and the global sales force HL Display’s UK sales company­ with increasing order volumes. previous quarter. Most regions has also been adjusted. Rising and manufacturing­unit is The acquisition of the Remius experience a rise in demand, production needs are covered integrated­with PPE. 3eBins™ family’s shares by Ratos is mainly because investments initially with temporary personnel. is launched – HL Display’s completed­on 21 July. HL Display previously put on hold are now The integration of PPE, acquired in own series of merchandising is delisted from Nasdaq OMX being made, but also as a result December 2009, begins. solutions­for loose goods. Test Stockholm on 17 September. of increased market shares. digital signage installations are implemented. HL Display in brief HL Display is Europe’s leading merchandising company. With a track record­ stretching back more than 50 years, HL Display is an expert in creating attractive­and selling in-store environments that strengthen the customer’s shopping experience. HL Display has just over 1,000 employees and has been owned by the publicly listed private-equity company Ratos since 2010. HL Display’s markets Optishop™ – HL Display’s range for the food and non-food retail sectors HL Display is an international company with operations in 47 Optishop™ consists of products and solutions for merchandising markets­in Western and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and and in-store communication. These help customers to increase Asia. 36 of these markets are serviced by the Company’s own sales and create a more efficiently functioning store. sales companies, while the other 11 are serviced by selected distributors.­The Company’s five largest markets are the United Brandman™– HL Display’s range for brand manufacturers Kingdom, France, Russia, Sweden and Norway. Brandman™ consists of products and solutions for product placement­on the shelf and campaign placement in other parts HL Display’s customers of the store. These help customers to optimise brand-building and ensure their products have visibility in the store, resulting in HL Display’s customers are found in three primary customer increased sales. segments­– the food and non-food retail sectors, and brand manufacturers­, which produce the products sold in stores. Most Production and delivery of the world’s leading food chains and brand manufacturers number­among the Company’s customers. Most of the products sold by HL Display are manufactured in the Company’s own factories. HL Display has 5 production plants: HL Display’s offering Falun, Karlskoga and Sundsvall (Sweden), Suzhou (China) and Harlow (UK). Production at the Karlskoga factory will be moved HL Display offers products and solutions that help customers­ to the newly built factory in the Polish city of Gliwice in 2011. create­attractive and effective in-store environments. With a The introduction of more efficient logistics operations, based on product­development­investment level that is unique in the sector, regional logistics centres at selected sites around the world, will HL Display aspires to create new products and solutions with the allow customers to benefit from a high service level and short potential to become an established standard in retailing. lead times. Sales per customer segment % Retail food 39 Brand manufacturers 26 Retail non-food 13 Shop-fitters 9 HL Display targets three prioritised Distributors 5 Other 8 customer segments – food retail, nonfood retail and brand manufacturers, which supply the products that can be bought in stores. 4/5 HL Display’s operations around the world own sales companies Australia/ France Poland Sweden New Zealand Germany Romania Switzerland Austria Hungary Russia Taiwan Belgium India Serbia Thailand Bulgaria Indonesia Singapore The Czech China (Hong Kong) Latvia/Lithuania Slovakia Republic China (Shanghai) Malaysia Slovenia Turkey Dubai Netherlands South Korea Ukraine Finland Norway Spain United Kingdom distributors Canada Greece Israel Portugal Denmark Iceland Italy United States Estonia Ireland Kazakhstan FACTORIES China (Suzhou) Sweden (Falun, Karlskoga, Sundsvall) Poland (Gliwice) United Kingdom (Harlow) LOGISTICS CENTRES France (Tours) Russia Sweden (Falkenberg) Hungary (Györ) (Moscow) The United Arab Emirates Poland (Gliwice) Singapore (Dubai) Statement from the CEO 2010 was an exciting and eventful year for HL Display. We have a new principal owner in the listed private equity company Ratos, which resulted in HL Display being delisted from the stock exchange. During the year, we successfully worked to integrate our largest acquisition ever, PPE. We also launched 3eBins™ – HL Display’s largest product development initiative to date. After five successive quarters dominated by the global crisis, 2010 Lower earnings than expected proved to be the year of market stabilisation that we had expected. EBITA for 2010 was SEK 66 million, which is lower than expected. While it could hardly be described as a fantastic year, we saw However, it is important to note that earnings were adversely clear signs of a more stable market climate during the first three affected by unusually high non-recurring costs, particularly relating quarters­in virtually all the markets in which we have a presence. In to restructuring decisions. These costs amounted to SEK 27 million­ the fourth quarter, we also saw clear evidence of market growth. during the year, while currency effects had a negative effect of SEK This was also reflected in our sales, which increased by 19 19 million on earnings. Against this backdrop, earnings were at an percent. Disregarding the acquired operations in PPE, and at acceptable level. comparable­exchange rates, sales increased by 5 percent. It is particularly­heartening to note that we increased sales even more New principal owner Ratos in a number of markets. One such market was France, where we The largest single event of the year was, of course, that HL Display recovered market shares that had been lost in recent years. This is got a new majority shareholder in the publicly traded private equity a clear sign that our focus on quality and a high level of service to company Ratos, which acquired the Remius family’s holding in customers is the right way forward. HL Display and then made a public offer to the other shareholders.­ On 17 September, HL Display was delisted from Nasdax OMX Stockholm. When the acquisition was made, we were already well acquainted with Ratos. They have been a major owner since 2001 and their representation on the Board has involved them in the shaping of our future business strategies. Ratos is a good owner, with much to contribute, particularly in terms of financial expertise and knowhow. They also share HL Display’s goal – to build value in a longterm perspective by developing the company and creating growth. Stepping up initiatives in selected markets As I said in my introductory remarks, we are seeing signs of a recovery in most of our markets. The signs are clearest in Eastern Europe. In fact, we are not far behind the sales volumes we saw prior to the economic downturn. There are also clear signs of recovery in northern and southern Europe as well as in Asia. However, the trend is a little weaker in Switzerland, Germany and Austria. Having said that, these are markets where we noted a smaller decline than our other markets when the crisis was at its worst. At present, we are engaged in the process of developing our market­initiatives. We have identified a number of countries where we can make a more aggressive push. One example is China, where we have decided to strengthen our sales organisation in order to maximise the market potential there. Other efforts are directed towards evaluating interesting markets where we do not currently have a presence. At the same time, we may reduce our commitment to markets we consider to have insufficient development potential. In 2010, we established the company’s first sales subsidiary in the Middle East. Located in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, the Statement from the CEO 6/7 sales company will handle all sales to customers in the Middle East region. Successful integration of PPE The acquisition of PPE provided a positive conclusion to an otherwise difficult 2009. For several years we have been on the lookout for a suitable acquisition candidate capable of strengthening our expertise in tailored display solutions and multi-material production and enabling us to expand our offering to brand manufacturers. PPE fulfilled all these requirements. In 2010, we and PPE’s employees worked together to ensure the company’s operations were integrated with HL Display as quickly and smoothly as possible. With the initial integration phase now behind us, I am happy to say that it went extremely well. The excellent cooperation with PPE’s employees and the commitment they showed has been instrumental in allowing us to achieve everything inventory management and freight handling with regional logistics we set out to do during the year. centres, which not only reduces costs but also increases the level We also exploited the resulting synergies by combining of service to our customers. HL Display’s UK operations with PPE to create HL UK. This involved The production facility will be fully operational in the third moving production at our Shipley facility to PPE, so that all operaquarter­of 2011 and will take over the labour-intensive parts of tions are now under the same roof. The acquisition emphatically the Karlskoga production. The automated part of Karlskoga’s strengthened our market position in the United Kingdom where we production­has been moved to the Sundsvall factory, and the are currently a market-leading supplier. Karlskoga factory will be closed down. As would be expected, there is still much work to do. In 2010, we entered the second phase of the integration programme, which Continuing commitment to sustainability is largely about streamlining the operations in the former PPE. Over During the year, we continued our efforts to strengthen the next few years, we shall gradually start to offer PPE’s prodcommunication­about all the measures we take with regard to ucts outside the UK, thereby enabling us to harness the existing economic,­social and environmental sustainability. At HL Display, demand for this type of solution around the world. we have a strong tradition of taking responsibility for our impacts, while also operating an economically successful business. We Launch of 3eBins™ engage in continuous improvement work associated with these During the year, we launched 3eBins™, which is our new series areas. Our efforts in 2010 included defining common methods for of merchandising solutions for loose goods such as nuts and our production facilities to report environmental key figures. This grain. We had previously offered an externally produced solution will enable us to report our impacts in a number of relevant areas and during­that time had noted very strong demand in this area, and compare the results from year to year. In 2010, we also joined particularly­in the European market. the UN Global Compact, actively supporting its declarations on 3eBins™ is one of our largest product development initiatives human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. ever and means we are now able to offer the European market products­with improved functionality. The post-launch response Growth in focus from customers­has been very good and we can already say that Although we noted a recovery in terms of sales during the year, we are the market-leading supplier for this type of merchandising we have clearly been affected by the recent years of recession. If solutions in Europe. we make a comparison with 2007, HL Display’s sales in 2010 are Our stated strategy has been to maintain our investment levels­in approx. 10 percent below the 2007 level, not including the PPE product development, despite the recent years of economic slowdown, operations. Our promptness in taking necessary action has enain particular to allow us to maximise the many exciting opportunities bled us to produce acceptable results figures during the recession. in the area we know as New Technology. At present, we are working However, it is patently clear that our main task is to create the on several projects related to digital signage on store shelves. right environment for increased growth. This is also the main focus of the measures and work we are carrying out at the company. Our Investments mean increased service to customers aim for 2011 is to recapture the sales volume we lost during the We continued to invest in our production during the year. In fact, recession. we made investments in all our factories and production processes In conclusion, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all in order to enable us to increase service to customers and reduce our employees for their efforts during the year. The large-scale our production costs. We now have increasingly efficient producchanges, with all the challenges they entail, would not have been tion, with lower environmental impacts, which is able to provide possible without their expertise and huge commitment. customers­with faster deliveries. One of HL Display’s largest projects during the year was the conNacka Strand, March 2011 struction start-up of our combined production facility and logistics centre at Gliwice in Poland. The new logistics centre will be up and Gérard Dubuy running in April 2011. This is part of our stated strategy to place all CEO HL Display’s strategies and goals The foundation of HL Display’s business is reflected in the Company’s mission – to create an attractive and selling in-store environment that strengthens the consumer’s shopping experience. Control and development of the Company’s business operations is clearly focused on creating increased customer value, which in turn creates value for the company’s owner and other stakeholders. HL Display’s business concept HL Display’s core values HL Display’s business concept is to increase its customers’ Customer focus – Our customers are behind HL Display’s growth and profitability­by offering the retail sector and brand manufacturers success. This is why it is only natural for the Company to place a clear cost-efficient­products and solutions for in-store communication focus on creating customer value and increased profitability­for cusand merchandising. The focus is on making products and solutions tomers. HL Display is a reliable and committed company, with all its adaptable to customers’ specific needs. efforts aimed at increasing customer satisfaction and forging strong relationships. HL Display strives for direct contact with customers HL Display’s financial targets without any intermediaries. HL Display has a clear focus on profitable growth. The Company’s Expertise – HL Display is an expert in its field. The company has infinancial targets will strengthen its leading position in the sector depth knowledge about its customers’ business, and offers extensive­ and contribute towards a good return for its owner. HL Display has experience, both as a problem-solver and a supplier of innovative prodtwo financial targets – a growth target and a profit target. ucts and solutions. HL Display’s sales force is made up of talented – Annual organic growth of 5-10% and qualified employees who are able to work at all levels in the cus– EBITA margin of at least 12%. tomers’ organisations. HL Display’s strategies Innovation – HL Display anticipates and utilises change, challenges­the status quo and has a high regard for entrepreneurship. The Company’s HL Display employs the following four main strategies to achieve product development constantly develops solutions to problems – the Company’s targets: both old and new. HL Display’s investment in product­development is 1. Focusing on three primary customer segments – food retail, un­paralleled in the sector and the Company’s product­range is develnon-food retail and brand manufacturers. oped in order to meet customers’ present and future needs. 2. Prioritising design and innovation for the purpose of setting­ new standards. Ensuring that product development is Quality – HL Display’s organisation bears the hallmark of customer-driven. professionalism,­and customers can put their trust in the Company. 3. Streamlining and adapting the organisation to market Each delivery must be a recommendation for a new order. Constant requirements­and needs. improvement of business operations and offering creates clear 4. Strengthening the market position and product range by means customer­value, which in turn means satisfied customers and good of acquisitions. customer relationships. The quality of HL Display’s products and solutions­is beyond question. EBITA margin % Growth % Goal 12% 19 10.3 13 8.5 7.4 8 6.4 4.1 -2 Organic growth Goal for organic growth 5-10% Acquisition -11 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 8/9 HL Display’s business processes Management processes Business Perfomance planning Management Core processes Order Sales Quotation Customer Customer Sales Fulfillment Customer Need Need Request Order Fulfillment Support processes Product & Finance & Global Marketing Production Business HR IT Sourcing Development Control Focus on customer value throughout the business In 2010, HL Display conducted a review of the Company’s business­ processes. The aim was to achieve more efficient operation, concentrating­on the areas that create value for customers. HL Display’s core processes comprise sales, quotation and order fulfilment. HL Display’s sales are characterised by a strong local presence,­ with separate sales companies in most markets in which the Company is active. HL Display’s sales staff undergo continuous training in order to ensure the Company is able to offer a marketleading level of expertise and provide customers with the best possible­help in creating attractive in-store environments. The quotation process includes all the work associated with offering and producing customised solutions. HL Display’s product­ development department is involved in this phase, to ensure solutions are adapted or tailored to customers’ specific requirements. This business process is not involved in sales of standard products,­such as datastrips, for which customer orders go straight to order fulfilment. Order fulfilment covers production and logistics. HL Display works constantly to streamline business operations, minimise environmental­impacts and shorten order execution lead times in order to offer customers a high level of service. The core processes are supplemented by management and support­processes. The management processes involve controlling­ the focus of the work in accordance with the business plan adopted by HL Display’s Board and ensuring relevant follow-up of the results. The support processes are business-support processes that allow effective implementation of the core processes, and include areas such as marketing, IT systems, strategic purchasing and product development. HL Display’s sales work and markets HL Display is characterised by a strong local presence in most markets in which the Company is active. For HL Display, this is a way of ensuring a consistently high level of service to customers, whatever their location in the world. 36 markets are serviced via HL Display’s own sales companies, while in another 11 markets, customers have access to HL Display’s products and solutions through the Company’s distributors. HL Display of today is an international company. Its operations are divided into six geographical regions: North Europe, South Europe, East Europe, the UK, the Middle East and Asia. HL Display’s HL Display’s biggest customers operations­are largely based on direct sales to its customers, within each customer segment which ensure a consistently high level of service in every country.­ Direct sales is also an important success factor for HL Display from Food retail non-food retail another perspective. The direct approach allows the development­ Ahold (incl ICA) Baumax of a strong and close cooperation with customers – a cooperation­ Auchan Decathlon that can generate ideas about new products and concepts to Carrefour DSG Retail Ltd. consolidate­HL Display’s position as market leader. Casino Intergamma Champion Müller Intermarché HL Display’s customers Metro Système U HL Display targets three prioritised customer segments – the food Tesco and non-food retail sectors and the brand manufacturers that Wal-Mart (ASDA) produce­the goods that are bought in the stores. The food retail Brand manufacturers sector is the largest customer segment, representing 39 perBAT cent of HL Display’s sales, followed by brand manufacturers with Colgate 26 percent and the non-food retail sector with 13 percent. Other Danone customers­include distributors and shop fitters. Kraft The majority of the world’s leading retail companies and brand L’Oréal manufacturers number among HL Display’s customers. Masterfoods Nestlé Philip Morris HL Display’s sales work Procter & Gamble Unilever HL Display’s sales work is structured according to the specific needs and requirements of the Company’s prioritised customer segments. Consequently, the Company has specialised sales staff for the food retail sector, the non-food retail sector and HL Display’s sales work and markets 10/11 brand manufacturers. In 2010, HL Display placed a clear focus on strengthening its sales work. An important part of this work involves skills-enhancing measures such as sales courses and practical sales training, with the aim of ensuring that customers are given the best possible help in their efforts to create attractive and effective in-store environments. HL Display’s sales personnel work at many different levels in the customers’ companies – from the chain stores’ central purchasing departments and category management to the local store’s category and store managers. – The food retail sector Sales to the food retail sector take place largely at the local market­level. In some cases, the large chains sign regional supply­ agreements,­although there is a large degree of scope for local initiatives­in the framework of these agreements. This is why HL Display’s strong local presence is the key to success and creates­good contacts­with customers in the local market. Concept sales represents an important part of sales to the food retail sector. This represents an important challenge for HL Display’s sales staff, who must work with the customer to identify areas of improvement in the stores and suggest solutions that generate a good return on investment for the customer. – The non-food retail sector Sales to the non-food retail sector take place largely at the local market level, although with a larger degree of central coordination­ within HL Display. HL Display has global agreements with a number­ of large chains for defined parts of its product range. The local sales companies are then responsible for local customer contact and can build further on the global cooperation agreement and generate­extra sales. The non-food retail sector is more fragmented than the food retail sector, with everything from pharmacies to sports stores and doit-yourself stores. An important part of HL Display’s work involves producing specialised concepts for the different store segments. These state-of-the-art concepts reinforces HL Display’s position as an expert in the area. One example is CosmeLine™, which is a complete concept for merchandising in pharmacies and beauty stores. – Brand manufacturers HL Display’s sales to brand manufacturers take place at global, regional and local levels. The Company has very well-developed sales work with regard to the largest key customers and works at all levels in their organisations. The global key account managers work with global contracts and have contact with the customer’s head office, while the regional sales personnel are responsible for The majority of the world’s leading retail companies and brand manufacturers number among HL Display’s customers. Svenska Apoteksbolaget AB (Swedish Pharmacy Company) was the first to introduce the Optimal system in stores. HL Display’s sales work and markets contracts in their own region – the Nordic countries, for example. This is supplemented by sales personnel who work together with HL Display’s market position any local companies the customer has. The strong central coordination of sales work is an important success factor, as the brand Own sales manufacturers often award contracts for a large number of counRegion companies Distributors Market position tries at the same time. Northern Czech Denmark HL Display is the Sales to brand manufacturers are normally focused on tailored Europe Republic Iceland market-leading player solutions. Customer-specific requirements regarding design and Finland in many of the region’s materials are common, and HL Display’s sales personnel have an Germany countries. HL Display’s Norway market position is not important role in helping customers to realise their ideas, based on Poland as strong in Germany. defined requirements and needs. Sweden Switzerland HL Display’s market UK United Ireland HL Display’s position­ Kingdom in the UK market HL Display’s market conditions differ considerably from region to has strengthened region. The main differences are associated with market maturity. considerably­ following Northern and Southern Europe may be said to consist of mature the acquisition of PPE. markets which are characterised by a consolidated retail sector. In HL Display is currently a general, the five largest players in each country have a total market market-leading supplier­ to brand manufacturers­ share of at least 50 percent. In certain countries, the concentration and has a strong of large players is considerably higher. It is not unusual to find the position­as a supplier largest chains in the food retail sector having a total market share to the retail sector. of up to 80 percent in Western Europe. Southern Belgium Greece HL Display is a marketThe retail sector is also very well developed in mature markets, Europe France Italy leading supplier in most which means the number of new store openings is low. On the other Netherlands Malta of the region’s countries. hand, the chains make regular investments in implementing­new Spain Portugal store concepts, or developing existing ones, which are necessary­ Eastern Austria Estonia HL Display has a strong tools in the battle for consumers. This means that most stores are Europe Bulgaria Kazakhstan position as supplier to renovated every four to six years. Hungary Israel both the retail sector­and In the countries of Eastern Europe and Asia the situation is often Latvia/ brand manufacturers.­ the reverse. The markets are relatively fragmented and the total Lithuania This is largely because market shares for the five largest retail chains in each country is Romania HL Display established below 50 percent. In certain markets, in particular in Asia, it is not Russia itself at an early stage Serbia in many of the region’s unusual to find the five largest chains having a total market share Slovakia countries. of around 10 percent. However the situation can change, as the Slovenia international chains have a high rate of establishments in these Turkey emerging countries. To them, the fragmented market represents an Ukraine opportunity, which is further supported by a fast-growing middleMiddle United Arab HL Display is a new class seeking new products and popular global brands. East Emirates player in this market.­ As a result of rapidly expanding food retail chains – both foreign and Its operations are domestic – the rate of new store openings in these regions is high. currently­based on The different market conditions affect HL Display’s work in sales to brand manueach region. In the mature markets, HL Display generally has a facturers. However, the region’s retail market­ small number of large customers, while the emerging markets are is showing a strong characterised­by a larger number of small customers. upward trend, creating HL Display’s sales to emerging markets have a larger proportion­ good scope for future of the basic products and solutions required for new store development. establishments­than in its sales to mature markets. In the mature Asia Australia When HL Display markets, sales are more focused on large concepts and new inno/New Zealand established­its own vations, which may help the retail sector to increase sales and China production­for the rationalise the functioning of the store. At the same time, it should (Shanghai and Asian market in 2006, be said that market maturity in many emerging countries is steadily Hong Kong) this gave the Company India a much sharper growing, which translates into increased demand for HL Display’s Indonesia competitive edge. concept solutions. Malaysia HL Display currently Singapore has a strong market Market performance in 2010 South Korea Taiwan position in Asia, both as supplier to the retail The market for HL Display’s products and solutions is very much Thailand sector and to brand manufacturers. affected by developments in the retail sector both globally and HL Display’s sales work and markets 12/13 regionally. When retail trade is healthy, HL Display normally markets­represents­an attractive alternative for creating future experiences­strong demand for its products and solutions, and growth. The expanding retail trade has had its sights set on China vice versa. and India for a number of years. These countries continue to offer During 2010, the economy in Europe as a whole started to major potential, which means that the rate of expansion is high in recover, although with local variations. In the retail trade, a somethese markets. what higher level of sales was noted during 2010 compared with 2009, particularly in the second half of the year. According to Sales trends during the year Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, the volume of retail trade in the EU (EU27) was approximately 1.5 percent higher The recession which dominated 2008 and 2009 affected all in the autumn months than in the same period in 2009. In the HL Display’s markets and customer segments, although some early months of the year there was a tendency for more fluctuation were hit harder than others. 2010 had been generally hailed as a (both declines and increases). However, the development­varied year in which the global markets would start to recover. For largely from country to country. In HL Display’s largest market,­the HL Display, this was true and 2010 can be described as a year UK, growth was positive, albeit cautious in 2010. In HL Display’s characterised by cautious recovery, despite the fact that many second­-largest­­market, France, the retail trade showed stable and customers remained restrained in their approach to investments positive growth in 2010. The same trend was also noted in Sweden during the first two quarters of the year. and Norway. However, in the second half of 2010, a change in customSome countries continue to show negative growth according er’s attitudes became apparent, and HL Display noted increased to Eurostat’s figures. The volume of retail trade in Greece and demand in most regions and customer segments. This meant that Spain, for example, showed marked declines compared with the HL Display ended the year with sales growth in all its regions and corresponding­months in the previous year. all its customer segments. Growth in Eastern Europe, the region In many emerging markets, particularly in Asia, the retail trade which suffered most from the recession, has been particularly recovered quickly after the recession. The retail trade in China, positive.­HL Display has also experienced success in the UK. The for example, has been fairly unaffected during recent years and UK company, bolstered by the acquisition of PPE, has seen its showed growth of over 8 percent even in 2009. The rapid change sales increase by 18 percent measured in comparative units. which the retail trade has undergone in many emerging countries­ in recent years continued during 2010. When the domestic markets­for the large chains in Western countries offer limited­ opportunities­for growth, expansion into fast-growing emerging HL Display’s offering HL Display has a customer offering that is unique to the sector and is based on the combination of a broad product range and top-level retailing know-how. The products are divided into two main product families – Optishop™ and Brandman™. Optishop™ comprises products and solutions for the food and non-food retail sectors, while Brandman™ encompasses products and solutions specially developed for brand manufacturers. 14/15 Food retail and Brand non-food retail sectors manufacturers In-store communication Merchandising Product placement on the shelf Campaign placement Standard products Concept Tailored solutions HL Display’s standard products fulfil the HL Display’s concept is based on the HL Display’s tailored solutions are already well-established needs of stores,­ Company’s broad product range and inspecially­adapted to the customer’s and often take the form of non-durable depth­knowledge of the retail trade. With requirements and needs. Customers have goods. One good example is the datastrip, a track record stretching back more a clear description of what they want to which shows price information on the than 50 years, HL Display is an expert have and to achieve. This is where shelf edge. When HL Display launched it in displaying­products in stores. The HL Display comes into its own, by working­ in 1975, it made a major breakthrough Company’s conceptual solutions help on the basis of this description to produce­ in retailing and quickly became an customers­to resolve problems and a solution with an attractive design and established standard for supermarkets. achieve defined targets. These may, for the right functionality.­This calls for a This is still the case, although in more example, relate to increasing sales within high level of design expertise and flexible­ modern versions. a certain product category, achieving­ production,­as products often contain a more efficiently functioning store or several­different­materials. reducing­the costs of wastage when products­are retired. HL Display puts together complete merchandising solutions to support this process and help customers achieve their business goals. HL Display’s offering Optishop™ In-store communication The food and non-food retail sectors demand solutions that help HL Display’s products and solutions for in-store increase stores’ profitability. This may be achieved with salescommunication­concern two main areas. The first is about increasing solutions and solutions that rationalise the functioning supporting clear overall information in the store – signs of the store, thereby reducing costs. A priority area for HL Display on ceilings and in aisles, for example – which enable is return on investment, i.e. when customers can expect their customers­to quickly locate the products they are looking investment­in an HL Display solution to pay for itself. for. The second­is about products and solutions that provide­ customers­with all the information they need to make a purchasing­decision right where the product is. This means providing basic price information, as well as more detailed information such as product campaigns and environmental­ labelling. Strengthening TV advertising with in-store communication­provides highly effective leverage. Merchandising Merchandising is essentially about presenting merchandise­ to the consumer in an attractive way. This makes the products­stand out and encourages purchasing. However, there are other aspects which are also important to the stores. A well organised merchandising solution makes optimal­use of shelf space, resulting in a more efficiently functioning store. Flexible merchandising solutions make it easier to make changes to the store’s planogram, i.e. whereabouts in the store the different products are to be placed. HL Display’s offering 16/17 Product placement on the shelf HL Display’s solutions for product placement on the shelf have been produced in response to two important needs of brand manufacturers. The first is to exploit the allocated­ shelf space in the store in the best possible way. The second­is to present the goods in an attractive way that tempts shoppers to make a purchase. There are also different­accessories that provide customers with relevant product information or special solutions to support brand manufacturers’­new product launches. Brandman™ Like the food and non-food retail sectors, brand manufacturers Campaign placement also require solutions that help them increase sales. Attractive Campaign placement comprises solutions that enable merchandising is important in this respect, as it ensures their brand manufacturers to display their goods elsewhere in own particular goods are visible among the store’s large range the store, rather than just on the shelf. These include floor of products.­For the brand manufacturers, it is also important stands which can be placed in aisles or at check-outs and that merchandising supports more long-term brand building and cross merchandising solutions. Cross merchandising means creates­recognition.­With this in mind, it is essential for HL Display displaying­products with a close association (such as pasta to be able to offer products and solutions that are tailored to the and pasta sauce) together in order to generate extra sales. individual­brand manufacturers’ requirements and needs, whether we are talking about design or material choice. Product development Customer-driven product development is a key concept at HL Display. It means that all product development is based on an understanding of customers’ needs and how they use the products. This ensures the Company develops products that create clear added value for customers. Product development is one of the areas that makes HL Display Focus on two areas unique in its sector. No other company invests as much in its product development as HL Display. The ambition level is also high. It is HL Display placed particular emphasis on two development areas HL Display’s aspiration to be the company that brings the sector in 2010. The first was 3eBins™, display solutions for loose goods, fresh products and solutions with the potential to become an estabwhich were launched in June 2010. The second was development lished standard in retailing. Development work is based on customer in new technology. value. HL Display will develop products that allow customers­to 3eBins™ represent one of HL Display’s largest and most important­ obtain an attractive payback period for their investment. development projects in recent years. The food retail sector has experienced a surge of interest in goods sold loose – particularly Ideas born in cooperation with as this form of display fulfils consumers’ increasing requirements for more sustainable alternatives in their store, while also allowing the customer a lower price. With the launch of 3eBins™, HL Display is now able to offer the food retail sector complete solutions for displaying loose It is HL Display’s stated ambition to develop products in close goods. Not only do they create an attractive product presentation, cooperation­with its customers. Ideas for new products and further their simple handling also contributes to store efficiency. Even at development of existing products often arise during the cooperathis initial stage, the response from customers is positive. tion between customer, sales company and product manager. The product managers also have primary responsibility for the project throughout its development phase. They are supported by skilled Exciting opportunities in new technology constructors and designers who transform the ideas into finished New technology is the second focus area in product development products. HL Display’s production managers are also a natural part – a focus which even as early as last year gave results in the of the development group. They help ensure production economy form of PowerTrack™, a flexible infrastructure that brings low and a prompt production start-up on completion of the product voltage power to shelves, and Ad’Lite™, a solution providing development phase. shelves with ambience lighting. Efforts were concentrated on new applications­ for the PowerTrack™ infrastructure during the year. HL Display leads the field in areas such as development of digital­signage on the shelf and several tests are currently being conducted­in cooperation with selected supermarkets. Several exciting launches are planned for 2011. Environmental work starts in the development phase HL Display’s environmental work starts as early as the product development phase. Even in this early development phase, it is important to adapt the products so that they allow more effective­ production and transport, thereby saving energy. HL Display also works constantly on further and new development of materials contained­in the Company’s products, with the aim of achieving benefits such as an increased proportion of recycled materials in the products. 18/19 “It is HL Display’s aspiration to be the company that brings the sector fresh products and solutions with the potential to become an established standard in retailing.” HL Display’s product development process Concept Engineering Tooling Industrialisation Market launch – Product – Drawings – Tool order – Tooling – Launch  specification and technical – Tooling design validated material – Market analysis specifications approved – Product samples – Full scale – Project approval – Design review – Final acceptance produced launch – Tenders for of tooling – Production tooling invited parameters – Investment is validated approved Patent and design protection 2010 Selection of new products 2010 – 79 (78) registered patents. – 3eBins™ – attractive merchandising solution for goods sold loose. – 10 (20) pending patent applications. – Brandline – new generation image enhancing shelf merchandising – 3 (4) new patent applications in 2009. solutions for brand manufacturers. – 82 (80) registered protected designs. – Fender – complete solution for pallet merchandising. – Total cost of patents and design protection was MSEK 2 (2). HL Display’s delivery organisation The delivery organisation includes HL Display’s supply chain – from the purchasing of materials and products from suppliers, through production and warehousing, to delivery­to the customers. In every single part of these operations, HL Display works continuously to streamline processes, reduce environmental impacts and cut lead times.­These efforts are aimed at ensuring a high level of service to customers. Purchasing environmental impacts. HL Display strengthens further its central­ purchasing in 2011 by adding 2 lead buyers and making the At HL Display, strategic purchasing, such as framework agreements­ Purchasing­Director report directly to the CEO. relating to energy or production inputs, is centralised at the Company’s purchasing function. Small local purchases of products­ Production and services are managed by regional logistics centres around the world. This method of working enables the Company to reduce HL Display has three different types of production facility. These its total purchasing costs and provides a higher level of supplier­ are facilities for the production of standard products, modified monitoring. All suppliers have to sign a contract committing them standard products and customised products. The production to compliance with HL Display’s supplier policy, which imposes facilities­which produce standard and modified standard products requirements in important areas such as corruption and working­ are organised around three main production processes – extrusion, environment. One important goal for the purchasing­department­ injection moulding and plastic sheet processing (bending, cutting during the year was to increase the purchasing of recycled and printing). materials­as part of the Group’s ongoing programme to minimise HL Display’s stated ambition is to have indisputably world-quality Quality Quality HL Display engages in extensive work on quality, based on key figures with clearly defined targets. These key Lead times in days figures­are followed up every month. All the factories have Refers to average lead time from order to delivery quality­systems­which are based on the international ISO Production facility Target 2010 2009 9001 quality standard. The factories in Falun, Karlskoga, Falun 11.0 15.3 11.6 Sundsvall and Suzhou are all certified under ISO 9001. Karlskoga 8.0 14.0 9.0 In addition, injection moulding manufacturing at the Sundsvall 10.0 13.8 10.8 production facility in Harlow is certified under ISO 9001. Suzhou 7.0 8.4 7.0 Delivery performance (as a percentage) Defines the proportion delivered within the agreed delivery time Production facility Target 2010 2009 Falun 97.0 95.4 96.8 Karlskoga 98.0 94.2 97.3 Sundsvall 98.0 97.5 98.0 Suzhou 98.0 98.8 98.1 Proportions of complaints (as a percentage) Refers to the number of complaints in relation to the total number of orders Production facility Target 2010 2009 Falun 0.50 0.70 0.70 Karlskoga 0.30 0.40 0.30 Sundsvall 0.30 0.30 0.40 Suzhou 0.30 0.30 0.35 HL Display’s delivery organisation 20/21 HL Display’s production Type of production Locations Production methods Standard products Sundsvall Extrusion Products which are standard in nature, such Suzhou A method that involves molten plastic being forced through a as shelf dividers and datastrips. nozzle. The products are manufactured in strips which are cooled in a water bath. Injection moulding A production method that involves molten plastic being injected into a hollow mould which determines the product’s shape. Modified standard products Karlskoga Injection moulding Standard products with a certain amount of Gliwice (opening in 2011) Plastic sheet processing customisation, such as printing preferences. Falun Printing of plastic sheets which in many cases are further processed by means of punching. Customised solutions Harlow Multi-material Products which are adapted to customers’ Production process adapted to production with a high level of requirements and needs, both in terms of customisation and in several different materials. design and material selection and colour and printing. operations within these production processes. Production of products – Karlskoga will be closed in September 2011 – before customised­products is organised around a number of different adding more process capabilities through investment. production processes which are matched with the product being produced. This production method is characterised by flexibility Logistics and very short lead times. HL Display’s logistics structure encompasses regional logistics­ Integration of PPE centres around the world. The Company has logistics centres in The integration of PPE, which was acquired in December of 2009, Falkenberg (Sweden), Tours (France), Györ (Hungary), Moscow and its production facility at Harlow has been a very large-scale (Russia), Harlow (UK) and Singapore. A logistics centre in Dubai project at HL Display during 2010. The project has also involved (United Arab Emirates) was also opened during the year. In addition­ restructuring, with production at HL Display’s factory in Shipley to procurement, stock management and distribution, the logistics­ being moved to Harlow and the Shipley factory being closed down. centres also handle administration and provide added-value The integration work has been successful and will be concentrated services­for the sales companies in each region. Added-value on further streamlining of processes and working methods during services­include for example kitpacking and assembly according 2011. to the customer’s wishes. The Company is establishing a logistics­ All change work that HL Display conducts at its produccentre in Gliwice in Poland during 2011. This logistics centre will tion facilities­is based on lean manufacturing. In simple terms, handle logistics and service to sales companies in the Czech lean manufacturing is an approach aimed at optimal handling Republic, Poland and Germany. of resources. It is about identifying and eliminating factors in HL Display applies lean principles to its logistics function as the production­process which do not bring added value to the well as its production. Consequently, parts of the work that do not customer.­Change work based on the lean manufacturing principle generate value to the customer are eliminated as far as possible.­ was strengthened during 2010 and produced tangible results at Working on this basis, it is the Company’s aim to reduce logistics the factories in Falun and Suzhou. costs by 3 percent annually. This target was achieved in 2010. Continuing work on increasing automation at Sundsvall and Increased productivity also brings an increased level of service Falun has allowed working costs to be kept unchanged despite an and reduced lead times to customers. During 2010, the Company increased production volume. also initiated a new available-to-promise system, which will give customers­improved real-time information about the status of New factory in Poland their order. Construction of HL Display’s combined factory and logistics centre­ HL Display’s programme to obtain ISO certification for all its in the Polish city of Gliwice was started in 2010. Production is logistics centres continued during 2010. The Tours (ISO 9001) and expected to be fully up and running in the third quarter of 2011 and Falkenberg (ISO 9001 + ISO 14001) logistics centres were certified is aimed at strengthening HL Display’s capacity in both modified during the year. ISO certification is planned for the Györ, Singapore standard products and fully customised products for the European and Gliwice logistics centres during the next 2 years. market. The Gliwice factory will in a first step be filled by Karlskoga Sustainability report HL Display has a long track record in commitment to corporate responsibility issues. For many years, the Company has engaged in systematic efforts to reduce its environmental­ impacts. The largest production facilities were certified to the ISO 14001 environmental­ management standard in the late 1990s. During its rapid international expansion in the 1990s and the early years of the new millennium, the Company made it a priority to communicate a culture of good business ethics to its subsidiaries. HL Display worked to strengthen its corporate responsibility Purchasing Policy and the common operational policy for the communication­in 2010. HL Display is committed to carrying on the production­ facilities. tradition­of maintaining a high level of transparency in its corporate­ responsibility reporting, as it did in its financial communication and Stakeholder communication annual financial reporting when a publicly listed company. With this HL Display’s main stakeholders are its customers, employees,­ in mind, the Company started preparations for future sustainability­ owner and suppliers. The Company maintains continuous dialogue­ reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s guidewith these stakeholders in its day-to-day business, and this lines during the year. The GRI’s sustainability reporting guidelines­ dialogue­also includes matters related to sustainable development.­ represent the most established reporting framework available In addition to the more informal stakeholder dialogue which is today. HL Display is a participant in UN Global Compact, which constantly­in progress, HL Display initiated a stakeholder survey in means the Company actively supports the UN’s fundamental values­ 2010 for the purpose of obtaining a clear picture of what aspects and principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment­ of sustainability are important to stakeholders. In the initial stage, and anti-corruption. a selection of HL Display’s customers completed a questionnaire. Other types of stakeholders will also complete the survey, Management of the sustainability programme and the results will represent a parameter for the prioritising of HL Display’s sustainability programme is incorporated into the sustainability­ work. Board’s work, and the Board also makes decisions in this area. The sustainability programme has been initiated at Group Environmental responsibility management­level. The work is headed by the Company’s Product Development Director, who is supported by other members­ HL Display has three production facilities in Sweden, one in the of Group management.­­Much of the day-to-day sustainability­ UK and one in China. HL Display’s main environmental impacts in responsibility­lies with the local entities in the Group. In particular,­ its production are plastic waste, energy consumption and use of the production facilities have a high level of responsibility for plastic­raw materials. With sales companies and distributors­in 47 environmental­ issues. markets around the world, transport is also a source of indirect­ HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Policy, which was environmental­impacts. Operations at the factory in Falun are adopted by the Board in early 2010, is the Company’s central­ subject­to notification requirements because of solvent-use in the policy in this area. There are also other associated policies that screen-printing process. govern­corporate­responsibility work, including HL Display’s HL Display endeavours to promote a high level of awareness Code of Conduct, Environmental Policy, Work Environment Policy, about environmental impacts, not just in its production, but also in Sustainability report 22/23 daily business activity at the Company’s offices around the world. This means collecting and sorting paper, packaging material and used electronic equipment and ensuring they are sent for recycling. For many years, HL Display has been using telephone and video conferences as an alternative to travel between offices. The result is fewer environmental impacts and more efficient work. ISO 14001 certification Certification to the ISO 14001 environmental management standard­is an important part of HL Display’s environmental programme.­HL Display’s largest factories, situated in Sundsvall, Falun and Karlskoga, have been certified to ISO 14001 since the end of the 1990s. The factory in China and the logistics centre in Falkenberg were certified to ISO 14001 during 2010. It is HL Display’s goal that Materials usage metric ton all production facilities and regional logistics centres will have 7,821 environ­mental certification by 2012. At present, 67 percent of 6,866 HL Display’s production facilities are certified to ISO 14001. Use of raw materials HL Display’s main raw material is plastic, in particular PVC. Different plastics account for approximately 63 percent of the Group’s total raw material use. HL Display works constantly to develop methods that allow increased use of recycled materials in 2,172 the Company’s products, particularly in datastrips and shelf divider 793 systems. 452 267 HL Display complies with REACH, the EU’s chemicals legislation, PVC PET ABS Polycarbonate Polystyrene Aluminium, and this is taken into account when the Company approves new (PC) (PS) steel and wire materials. The Company now requires its raw materials suppliers­ Sustainability report to complete a special declaration form based on the REACH Energy consumption requirements. Substances classified as SVHC (Substances of Very High Electricity “green” (MWh)* 18,053 Concern) are prohibited, and the use of phase-out substances is Electricity (MWh) 6,005 also controlled. Gas (MWh) 5,520 Oil (m3) 75 Use of chemicals Water (m3) 399,322 Operations at HL Display’s production facility in Falun are subject * Electricity from renewable sources. to notification requirements because of solvent use in the screenprinting process. The solvent is used in the printing ink itself and 399,322 cubic metres of water were used at the Group’s to wash templates used in the printing process. production­facilities in 2010. Total solvent consumption in 2010 was 4,998 (3,639) litres. Use of solvents­per template has been reduced to 0.19 (0.24) litres/ Transport template. HL Display has been able to replace solvent-based inks HL Display has sales companies on several continents, which with UV inks to some extent. Unlike traditional solvent-based inks, means that transport represents a significant proportion of the UV inks are dried using UV radiation rather than by evaporation of Company’s environmental impacts. HL Display engages third-party the solvents. HL Display has also invested in a new digital printing suppliers for its transport and requires these suppliers to have line, which has reduced the use of screen printing. environmental programmes in place. HL Display also works with its logistics suppliers to route inward Plastic and other waste and outward transport flows from road transport to sea and rail The waste generated at HL Display’s production facilities is for transport wherever possible. the most part plastic. HL Display addresses the problem of waste HL Display introduced a global company car policy in 2010. The in production in two ways. The first is to reduce plastic waste policy, which only allows fuel-efficient diesel engines when cars generated­in production by fine-tuning the production processes are replaced, is designed to reduce the car fleet’s carbon dioxide where possible. emissions. The second is to recycle plastic and other waste as far as HL Display’s efforts to reduce these emissions also include possible.­HL Display’s goal is that all waste from production will strategies­to make its logistics more efficient. The Company eventually be recyclable. Total waste at the Company’s production constantly­endeavours to increase the number of products per facilities in 2010 was 2,879 tonnes and 82 percent of this was package­and reduce the size of packages. recycled. HL Display is currently working on preparations to measure and calculate the carbon dioxide emissions its operations generate. It is Energy consumption not possible­to report the extent of these emissions at present. HL Display’s direct electricity consumption in production was 24.1 (15.5) GWh in 2010. For comparable units, the electricity conEnvironmental requirements for suppliers sumption was 19.6 GWh. Various measures for reducing electricity­ HL Display requires its suppliers to comply with all current consumption­are being implemented at all the factories. These environmental­legislation. All new suppliers are required to sign range from heating the factories using waste heat from machinery HL Display’s purchasing policy, which defines the Company’s to installing time relays for lighting. requirements for its suppliers in this area. The actual conditions In early 2010, HL Display signed a new energy agreement at suppliers’ premises are observed during site visits. HL Display’s covering­all its Swedish factories. Under the agreement with the major suppliers are large Nordic producers of plastic raw materials­ electricity supplier, Vattenfall, all the Swedish factories and the which have their own environmental programmes in place. logistics centre in Falkenberg will run entirely on green electricity, i.e. electricity from renewable sources. Water consumption Water is used primarily for cooling in certain of HL Display’s production­processes, in particular the cooling of extruded plastic­ products in waterbaths. Several of HL Display’s factories use closed cooling water systems to minimise water consumption.­ Waste management metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal materials materials waste waste waste Composting – – – 1 – 1 – Re-use in own production 28 – – – – 28 – Recycled externally 1,207 397 165 231 – 2,000 19 Recycled for heating – – – 310 – 310 – Deposit – – – 128 388 516 5 24/25 Roller Track™, one of HL Display’s feed systems, creates an impressive product presentation. Sustainability report Social responsibility HL Display’s suppliers are expected to adhere to the same values.­They are required to sign a purchasing policy containing HL Display’s CR Policy defines the fundamental values that will requirements and information relating to human rights, labour and be adhered to throughout the Company. The policy clearly states anti-corruption. As with environmental issues, compliance is primarily that the Company shall offer all employees equal opportunities monitored by HL Display’s representatives visiting suppliers. regardless of background, gender, ethnicity or age. HL Display also respects employees’ rights to collective bargaining, and Skills development encourages­organisation into trade unions as this facilitates diaIt is HL Display’s stated ambition to provide its employees with logue with employees. 44 percent of the Group’s employees are the opportunity for further development and growth in their role covered by collective agreements. In its CR Policy, HL Display takes at the Company. The performance appraisal is an important tool a very firm stand against corruption. Corruption among employees­ in supporting­e ­ mployees in their development, and all HL Display will not be tolerated under any circumstances. This is also reiterated­ employees will be offered an annual appraisal. The appraisal in the Code of Conduct, which is signed by everyone at managerial includes direct feedback and discussion about how the individual­ level in the Company. goals have been achieved during the year and future development­ Employee facts 2010 2009 Number of employees as of December 31 1,109 1,114 Gender structure, % Male 64 64 Female 36 36 Education level, % University 33 29 Upper secondary school 39 44 Compulsory school 28 26 Investment in Total, KSEK 2 3 staff training Per employee, KSEK 1 2 Costs related to health Per employee, KSEK 2 2 promotion activities Reported incidents Minor 85 17 Serious 5 2 Number of employees Age distribution Women Men Sweden Other Europe Asia 65 236 10 229 98 142 59 2 369 2 265 145 68 5 70 12 2 134 139 18 74 0 48 30 Sweden Other Asia <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 <60 Europe 26/27 CosmeLine™ – a complete concept for displaying products within cosmetics and Health & Beauty. Sustainability report opportunities. The aim is also to clarify the link between the Health and safety Group’s and the local company’s targets and the employee’s indiThe fundamental principle of HL Display’s health-promoting vidual goals. This helps employees appreciate that their own work initiatives­is early prevention of ill health. One important element is important to the business as a whole and that their individual involves offering employees regular health checks and individually goals are linked to the Company’s ability to achieve its targets. designed plans to prevent ill health. Health work has come furthest In 2010, HL Display implemented a large-scale skills in Sweden. An important reason is that health problems have been development­programme for its sales personnel, with the aim of historically higher among employees at the factories than elsestrengthening their expertise in conceptual sales. The programme where in the Company and that most of the factory employees are will continue during 2011. The Company has also implemented a in Sweden. skills development programme for management and key personThe Company aims to eventually have an equally well-developed­ nel in HL Display’s production organisation, in order to strengthen programme in place for all employees around the world. An example efforts to achieve lean production. of preventive work in 2010 was the opportunity for the Stockholm office employees to undergo physical tests to measure their Salary models body’s biological age. The initiative was carried out in cooperation­ It is HL Display’s aim to have a remuneration system that with SATS, the Nordic region’s leading fitness company. This was encourages­and rewards positive efforts and good performance. followed­up by personal exercise and diet action plans. Employees must be able to see a link between their own perforHealth risks at HL Display are mainly associated with production.­ mance and their pay growth. This helps ensure the right expertise Preventive work is aimed at ensuring safe workplaces with a remains in the Company and encourages employees to develop good working environment. HL Display regularly updates its safety their skills and performance. This type of system ultimately procedures­and examines different risk factors. 85 (17) non-serious­ strengthens the productivity, profitability and competitiveness of incidents and 5 (2) serious incidents were reported in 2010. The the Group’s companies. increase is primarily due to a larger production operation through HL Display has gradually started to offer new employees in the the acquisition of PPE. sales organisation a new salary model. The new model contains a somewhat lower guaranteed salary, with a more aggressive bonus Financial responsibility model for the variable portion of the salary, which can generate considerable­added value. The variable portion is monitored against HL Display endeavours to achieve long-term profitable growth by objectively defined and agreed key figures. conducting business that is grounded in good ethics and sustainThe same salary model will also be offered to existing employees­ able development. This creates long-term value for the Company’s in the sales organisation in the future. owners and other stakeholders. The basic principle of this salary model has also been applied The majority of the economic value generated by HL Display’s in areas other than sales. In the new production plant in Gliwice business operations is distributed to the Company’s stakeholders, in Poland, production employees are offered a salary model which include suppliers, employees, owners and lenders. The taxes with a variable portion, which is linked to clear and pre-agreed the Company pays have a beneficial impact on society. In 2010, key figures. SEK 593 million was distributed to different stakeholders as shown in the diagram Distribution of economic value below. Skills supply HL Display appreciates the importance of creating a strong base Distributed financial value % of proficient employees able to move up the organisation. The Company works systematically to identify managers who have the potential to assume a more important role than their present one. HL Display has identified what are referred to as career positions. People are recruited to these positions if they have the capacity to gradually take on roles with more responsibility. HL Display initiated a structured programme to ensure skills supply­at managerial level during the year. For all managers in key positions, the Company has implemented an audit process aimed at Employees 69% identifying replacements for these positions also in the short-term. Taxes and fees 18% Shareholders and other providers of capital 13% Employee survey HL Display conducts a regular employee survey entitled HL Dialog. It is the aim that all companies in the Group will implement the survey­once every two years. The survey, which takes the form of a questionnaire,­is voluntary and completely anonymous. HL Dialog was completed by 200 employees in 8 countries in 2010. The results of the survey are followed up carefully and each manager­covered by the survey must produce an action plan addressing the specific areas for improvement identified in the evaluation. 28/29 Income statement and balance sheet Income statement for the Group Statement of financial position for the Group 2010 2009 KSEK, 1 January 31 December (pro forma) KSEK 31-12-2010 31-12-2009 Net sales 1,617,289 1,360,416 Assets Cost of goods/services sold -901,507 -693,151 Intangible assets 1,187,476 243,612 Gross profit 715,782 667,265 Property, plant and equipment 213,627 223,469 Participations in associated companies Selling expenses -461,045 -425,245 and joint ventures 3,074 3,000 Administrative expenses -147,764 -123,460 Financial investments 6,668 – Research and development expenses -26,232 -26,984 Non-current receivables 13,124 2,316 Other operating income 11,435 11,206 Deferred tax asset 14,097 15,571 Other operating expenses -27,731 -16,567 Total non-current assets 1,438,066 487,968 Operating profit 64,445 86,215 Inventories 194,936 179,718 Financial income 8,291 2,817 Tax assets 0 24,900 Financial expenses -43,998 -4,889 Trade and other receivables 297,963 255,997 Net financial items -35,707 -2,072 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 35,555 30,158 Other current assets 47,892 49,465 Profit before taxes 28,738 84,143 Cash and cash equivalents 206,309 213,427 Total current assets 782,655 753,665 Income tax expense -10,538 -25,935 Net profit for the year 18,200 58,208 Total assets 2,220,721 1,241,633 Attributable to: Equity The parent company’s shareholders 18,200 58,208 Share capital 147 38,674 Non-controlling interest 0 – Other capital contributions 1,141,283 – 18,200 58,208 Reserves -4,816 9,266 Retained earnings including net profit for the year -16,483 503,175 Earnings per share Equity attributable to the before dilution (SEK) – 1.88 parent company’s shareholders 1,120,131 551,115 after dilution (SEK) – 1.88 Non-controlling interest 2,855 – Total equity 1,122,986 551,115 Statement of comprehensive income for the Group Liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 611,881 261,077 2010 2009 Other non-current liabilities 16,935 25,380 KSEK, 1 January 31 December (pro forma) Pension provisions 4,444 5,116 Other provisions 1,929 – Net profit for the year 18 200 58 208 Deferred tax liability 21,943 23,955 Total non-current liabilities 657,132 315,528 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on Current interest-bearing liabilities 93,445 91,087 translation of foreign operations -18 352 -14 998 Trade and other payables 165,193 101,944 Net change in fair value of Tax liabilities 7,816 12,302 cash flow hedges -962 11 486 Other current liabilities 39,786 29,554 Other comprehensive income Accrued expenses and for the year -19 314 -3 512 prepaid income 134,363 140,103 Total current liabilities 440,603 374,990 Comprehensive income for the year -1 114 54 696 Total liabilities 1,097,735 690,518 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Total equity and liabilities 2,220,721 1,241,633 The parent company’s shareholders -1 114 54 696 Non-controlling interest – – Comprehensive income for the year -1 114 54 696 The financial information for 2010 refers to the HL Display Holding Group. The financial information has been restated as if the acquisition of HL Display with related refinancing had instead been made at the beginning of 2010. This means that the presented financial information for 2010 refers to the actual outcome for twelve months for the HL Display Group, with the addition that financial costs have been increased by an extrapolated interest charge. Comparative data for 2009 refers to those previously reported by the former group, HL Display AB (publ). HL Display applies IFRS. This corporate report has not been prepared in accordance with IFRS and has not been reviewed by the auditor. Risk and sensivity analysis Sensitivity analysis Effect on net are invoiced in Swedish kronor. The currency effects that have Factor Change earnings, SEK million an impact on the company’s earnings are transaction flows in Net sales 1% volume 7.2 different­currencies (transaction exposure) and translation of Decline on largest market -1% -1.6 foreign­subsidiaries’­income statements and balance (translation Price of PVC 1% 1.0 exposure). Price of PET 1% 0.3 Personnel expenses 1% 5.0 Transaction exposure Market rate 1 percentage point 5.0 Transaction exposure arises partly from foreign currency invoicing­ and partly from foreign currency purchases or purchases for Depreciation 1% 0.4 which the price is regulated by a currency clause. 30 percent of Euro rate 10 öre 2.0 HL Display’s sales are invoiced in euros, 22 percent in sterling and 13 percent in Swedish kronor. The remainder is spread among Raw material sensitivity the other currencies, led by Russian roubles and Noregian kroner, Plastic raw materials accounted for 63 percent of the Group’s total with 6 percent each. The Swedish krona strengthened significantly raw material purchases. The main raw material, PVC, accounted against HL Display’s main trading currencies in 2010. On average, for 32 percent of the Group’s total raw materials costs. The price the Swedish currency strengthened by 10 percent against the euro, of crude PVC reached record levels in the second half of the year, and as we entered 2011 it had strengthened by 13 percent against with the 2010 average price 22 percent higher than in 2009. Price the euro. The Swedish krona strengthened on average by 7 percent levels­for PVC at the end of 2010 showed a continuing upward against the pound sterling. Revenue currency exposure is offset trend. Customer agreements are normally renegotiated annually­ by purchases in the corresponding currencies, in particular the forand price change clauses relating to commodity price fluctuations­ eign sales companies’ expenses, but also by purchasing materials are uncommon in the industry. A one-percent increase in the costs with prices regulated by currency clauses. HL Display hedges future of PVC purchases in 2010 would have had a negative impact cash flows in the major currencies. HL Display’s total currency of SEK 1.0 million on pre-tax profit. HL Display purchases raw exposure had a negative effect of SEK 19.0 million on pre-tax profit materials­under long-term contracts, often with foreign exchange for 2010 compared with 2009, as illustrated in the table below. clauses. In order to reduce commodity price sensitivity, HL Display is successfully working to develop methods for using alternative Effect of exchange differences on operating profit materials. However, the trend of sharply rising commodity prices is (compared with average rate in 2009, SEK millions) common to all inputs at present. Net sales -82.9 Costs goods/services sold incl. freight 41.8 Currency risk Distribution costs 20.1 HL Display’s main markets are in the eurozone and the UK. Administrative expenses 5.4 HL Display is exposed to currency movements, as most production­ takes place in Sweden, while most invoicing is abroad. Sales Development costs 0.3 to subsidiaries are conducted in their local currency in order to Other operating income/expenses -3.7 concentrate­the Group’s currency exposure to Sweden, where it Total effect of exchange differences is managed by a central treasury function. External distributors on operating profit -19.0 Price of crude PVC EURO/TONNE Exchange rate EURO/SEK Raw materials and input goods 2010 % 1,500 11.5 11.0 1,300 10.5 1,100 10.0 900 9.5 PVC 32 Semi manufactured articles 13 700 9.0 PET 9 Packaging 8 ABS 4 Aluminium, steel and wire 6 500 8.5 Polycarbonate (PC) 2 Tape 6 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Polystyrene (PS) 2 Other raw materials 5 Other plastic Source: ICIS-LOR Source: NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB raw materials 13 30/31 Corporate governance of HL Display On 21 July 2010, private equity company Ratos acquired the statement, balance sheet and distribution of the Company’s profit, Remius family’s holding in HL Display and then made a public offer decides on discharge from liability for the Board members and to all other shareholders to acquire their shares. CEO and fixes Board fees. HL Display was delisted from Nasdaq OMX Stockholm on 17 September 2010. A compulsory redemption process was initiated Extraordinary general meeting and an arbitration committee was formed on 1 December. On 8 If there is reason to hold a general meeting before the next AGM, March, the arbitration committee granted Ratos/HL Display Holding an extraordinary general meeting is convened. early access to the minority shares. HL Display AB (publ) convened one (1) extraordinary general The next pages provide an overall picture of HL Display’s meeting in 2010 to consider the new ownership structure following governance­following the Company’s stock exchange delisting. the acquisition of HL Display by Ratos. The meeting was held on 23 HL Display’s operations are conducted in HL Display AB and its September 2010. It was decided that HL Display would have five subsidiaries. The sole business of the owner company HL Display AGM-elected Board members, without any deputies. Gérard Dubuy, Holding AB is the ownership and administration of the wholly-owned Stig Karlsson, Susanna Campbell, Mats-Olof Ljungquist and subsidiary HL Display AB. HL Display Holding AB is a subsidiary in Lars-Åke Rydh were elected to the Board. Stig Karlsson was the Ratos Group. elected as Chairman of the Board. The meeting also decided to revoke the annual general meeting’s­ General meeting decision about the nomination committee in view of the new owner­ ship structure and delisting from Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. The The general meeting (annual or extraordinary) is HL Display’s decision was also made to terminate the mandate of the nomination highest­decision-making body. As the Company’s owner, Ratos committee elected at the 2010 annual general meeting. exercises­formal shareholder influence over the Company. On 7 October 2010, an extraordinary general meeting of The annual general meeting is held in Nacka or Stockholm, HL Display Förvaltnings AB was held, at which the change of name normally­in April. The annual general meeting elects the Board to HL Display Holding AB was adopted. members and Chairman, appoints the auditor, adopts the income How HL Display is managed External control instruments Shareholders’ The external control instruments that Auditor affect the management of HL Display’s General Meeting parent company consist primarily­of the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Audit Committee Annual Accounts Act. The subsidiaries Board of Directors are also affected by local legislation. Remuneration Committee Internal control instruments The internal control instruments that affect the management of HL Display consist primarily­of the Articles of CEO Association, which are defined by the shareholders’ general meeting, and the Group management control documents that are defined by the Board of Directors. These include Internal control the Rules of Procedure for the Board, Area Managers environment Instructions for the CEO, Instructions for Committees Appointed by the Board (Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee), Finance Policy, Code of Subsidiaries Conduct, Equal Opportunity Policy, Subsidiary Guide Book etc. Corporate Governance of HL Display 3eBins™ – attractive merchandising solution for goods sold loose. Board of directors HL Display’s Board has ultimate responsibility for governance of the Company’s affairs between annual general meetings. The Board appoints the CEO and makes decisions on issues concerning­ the strategic direction of the business and the Company’s overall organisation. Members of the Board are appointed by the owner at the annual general meeting for a one-year term until the end of the following AGM. The only AGM-elected Board member who is an employee of HL Display is CEO Gérard Dubuy. All other AGM-elected members are considered to be independent of the Company. Stig Karlsson (Industrial Advisor to Ratos) and Susanna Campbell (Ratos) are not independent of the Company’s owner. Other AGM-elected members – Mats-Olof Ljungquist and Lars-Åke Rydh – are considered to be independent. Further information about the Board members can be coming calendar year at the October Board meeting. Some Board found on page 35. meetings are planned to coincide with interim and annual reports. The Board’s work follows an annual presentation plan with Work of the Board of HL Display special topics and fixed decision-making points. Board meeting agendas normally include the following items: The Chairman of the Board, Stig Karlsson, organises and leads – Review of the previous meeting’s minutes and action list. the work of the Board. The Chairman of the Board monitors – CEO’s status report. the business­on an ongoing basis in dialogue with the CEO and – Financial overview. ensures the Board receives the information and documentation it – Reporting from committees. requires to perform its work. The Chairman is also responsible for – Any other business. ensuring the Board’s work is evaluated every year. The Board’s work is regulated by a set of specially drawn up The CEO attends all Board meetings, except where there is a rules of procedure. The rules of procedure essentially mean conflict­of interest. This would arise, for example, if the CEO’s that the Board is responsible for the Company’s strategy and remuneration was being decided or his work was being assessed. organisation,­as well as the administration of its affairs. The It is the express wish of the Board to invite members of HL Display’s Board regularly assesses the Company’s and the Group’s finanmanagement group or other areas of the organisation to attend cial position.­Information is reported on a monthly basis to allow Board meetings in order to provide the Board with in-depth the Board to perform its duty of evaluation pursuant to current information­about their specific area. In 2010, the Board received legislation­and good board practice. information in areas which included IT, product development and The Board deals with matters of significant importance to the sustainable development. HL Display’s auditors normally attend at Group, which include: least one Board meeting during the year. – Strategic plans. Important matters dealt with in 2010 included: – Budgets and forecasts. – Investment decisions, including a new IT structure. – The acquisition, sale and closure of companies or operations. – Organisational decisions, including establishment of the new – Purchases, sales and write-downs of other significant assets. production and logistics unit in Poland. – Updating of the Group’s instructions and policies. After the EGM on 23 of September 2010, the new Board of – Monitoring and follow-up of cost control and investments. HL Display held three meetings during the remainder of the 2010 financial year. The Board normally sets the meeting dates for the Corporate Governance of HL Display 32/33 Board committee work estimates. It is also the audit committee’s task to maintain The Board has established committees which, in accordance with dialogue with the auditors about the audit. the Board’s instructions, deal with certain defined matters and prepare­these for Board decisions. The Board currently has two Chief executive officer committees: the remuneration committee and the audit committee. HL Display’s Chief Executive Officer, Gérard Dubuy, is in charge Remuneration committee of day-to-day, operational business. A written set of instructions It is the remuneration committee’s task to examine and prepare defines the division of responsibilities between Board and CEO. The matters relating to remuneration and terms of employment for CEO reports to the Board and presents a special CEO’s report at company­management, and to make proposals for guidelines on each Board meeting, with information about how the business is remuneration of the CEO and senior executives. performing on the basis of defined strategies and Board decisions. The CEO’s remuneration is decided by the Board. Remuneration Further information about the CEO can be found on page 35. of other senior executives is decided by the CEO in consultation with the remuneration committee. Group management The remuneration committee consists of Stig Karlsson, Susanna Campbell and Mats-Olof Ljungquist. Stig Karlsson is the chairman HL Display’s Group management consists of eight members who of the remuneration committee. have day-to-day responsibility for different parts of the business. Group management has at least seven scheduled meetings during Audit committee a year. More information about the members of Group management The audit committee consists of all the Board members with the can be found on page 36. exception of Gérard Dubuy, who is also HL Display’s CEO. Mats-Olof Ljungquist is the chairman of the audit committee. It is the audit Management of subsidiaries committee’s task to support the Board in its efforts to achieve HL Display has five Area Managers, who report directly to the CEO high quality in three primary areas: internal controls, financial Gérard Dubuy. The Area Managers are fully accountable for results reporting­and external auditing. The committee ensures effective and sales in their own region. This accountability also includes the internal control systems are in place and a correct assessment of sales companies and logistics centre in each region. the company’s financial position has been made. The committee The division of responsibilities between the Area Managers also reviews interim and year-end reports and deals with all and the Country Managers who are responsible for the day-to-day critical­accounting matters, such as measurement and accounting activities­in the sales companies is regulated in the framework of the Corporate Governance of HL Display internal Subsidiary Guide Book, which contains guidelines on all aspects of the subsidiaries’ business. The Director of Operations, Xavier Volpato, is in charge of the Group’s production units. Remuneration of the Board and senior executives Remuneration of the Board The extraordinary general meeting held on 23 September 2010 adopted maximum Board fees of SEK 450,000, with 150,000 SEK payable to each Board member not employed in the Company or the Ratos Group. There is no compensation for committee work. Guidelines on remuneration of senior executives Attracting and retaining key management personnel is an important­ part of HL Display’s strategy. The compensation the Company offers its senior management plays a key role in this strategy. It is the Board’s opinion that the combination of a fixed salary and variable performance-based pay is an effective tool for attracting­ employees and steering performance towards the objectives defined by the Board. By also offering long-term participation in the Company, the Board is keen to promote a long-term commitment which will help the Company retain its key management personnel. – The fixed salary reflects the employee’s area of responsibility and the complexity of the position. – Variable performance-based pay is always linked to measurable­ targets. The CEO can receive up to 50 percent of his fixed annual salary in variable pay during 2011, and other members­of senior management up to 25 percent of their fixed annual salary. – Long-term management participation allows a share in HL Display’s value creation. Ensuring that management, Board and owner have common and shared goals and interests is a cornerstone of the Ratos investment philosophy. This type of participation scheme has now been offered to HL Display’s management. The auditor The annual general meeting elects the auditor following a proposal­ by the Board. KPMG AB will act as the Company’s auditor until the 2012 annual general meeting. The auditor in charge is Åsa Wirén-Linder­(authorised public accountant). Further information­ about the auditor can be found on page 36. It is the auditor’s task, on behalf of the owner, to audit HL Display’s annual accounts and bookkeeping methods, as well as the Board’s and the CEO’s administration of the company. The chief auditor also submits an audit report to the annual general meeting. HL Display provides holders for all electronic shelf labelling solutions on the market. 34/35 Board of Directors Stig Karlsson Gérard Dubuy Mats-Olof Ljungquist Lars-Åke Rydh Born: 1952. Born: 1961. Born 1951. Born: 1953. Chariman of the Board. CEO of HL Display AB. Member of the Board since 2007. Member of the Board since 2008. Member of the Board since 2001, Chairman Member of the Board since 2006. Education: Master of Science in Economics Education: Master of Engineering. since 2010. Education: Master of Science in and Business administration. Other appointments: Chairman of the Board Position: Industrial Advisor Ratos AB. Economics and Business administration. Other appointments: Chairman of the Board in in Nefab AB, San Sac AB, Plastprint AB, Education: Master of Science in Economics Not independent in relation to the company. Brunnberg & Forshed, Hermods AB and Schuchardt Maskin AB, CombiQ AB and and Business administration. Twentyfourseven AB. Member of the Board in OEM International AB. Member of the board in Other appointments: Chairman of the Board SBC Sveriges Bostadsrätts Centrum AB, Svegro Nolato AB, Arla Plast AB and Handelsbanken in Diab AB and Hafa Bathroom Group. AB, Swedsec AB, Fortigo Fastigheter AB and region east Sweden. Member of the Board in Lindab AB and JLT Risk Solutions AB. Independent member. Lagerstedt och Krantz AB. Independent member. Not independant in relation to major owners. Susanna Campbell Henrik Smedlund Kent Mossberg Magnus Jonsson Born: 1973. Born: 1976. Born: 1957. Born: 1969. Member of the Board since 2009. Employee representative. Employee representative. Employee representative. Position: Investment Director Ratos AB. Deputy member. Member of the Board since 1995. Member of the Board since 1998. Education: Master of Science in Economics Position: Machine operator. Position: Property Manager. Position: Machine operator. and Business administration. Education: Financial qualification. Education: Engineering qualification. Education: Structural Engineering qualification. Other appointments: Member of the board in Arcus-Gruppen A/S and VinGruppen i Norden AB. Not independent in relation to major owners. Senior Executives Gérard Dubuy Yvonne Cedergren Xavier Volpato Håkan Eriksson Managing Director (CEO) Information Manager and Director for Operations Marketing and Business Development Director Born: 1961. acting Finance Director (CFO) Born: 1969. Born: 1966. Employed since: 1995. Born: 1966. Employed since: 2007. Employed since: 1992. Education: M. Sc. Economics. Employed since: 1994. Education: M. Sc. Economics. and MBA. Education: M. Sc. Engineering. Education: M. Sc. Economics. Staffan Forslund Birger Nilsson Julien Wagner Marc Hoeschen Human Resources Director Development Director Purchasing Director (CPO) Group Supply Chain Manager Born: 1949. Born: 1961. Born: 1975. Born: 1967. Employed since: 2000. Employed since: 1999. Employed since: 2008. Employed since: 2009. Education: B. Sc. Economics. Education: M. Sc. Economics. Education: MSc Engineering & Executive MBA. Education: M. Eng. and MBA. Fredrik Birkhammar Åsa Wirén Linder Group IT Manager (CIO) Auditor in charge and authorised Auditor Born: 1964. public accountant (Far) KPMG AB Stockholm. Employed since: 2010. Born: 1968. Auditors since 2004. Education: B. Sc. Economics. Other assignments: Auditor in charge Re-elected at the AGM 2008 in IBS AB, Pricer AB and Seco Tools. for the next four-year period. Member of the board in Far. 36/37 Seven year summary 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Income statement (KSEK) (pro forma) Net sales 1,617,289 1,360,416 1,535,639 1,571,181 1,448,138 1,284,824 1,249,029 Operating profit 64,445 86,215 130,258 160,540 106,727 62,727 107,753 Depreciation and amortisation 38,587 35,581 36,123 39,515 44,379 46,798 46,460 Profit before taxes 28,738 84,143 136,157 154,688 92,254 61,720 92,837 Loss from discontinued operations – – – – – -7,709 -15,950 Net profit for the year 18,200 58,208 96,317 108,236 61,874 34,745 46,621 Balance sheet (KSEK) Non-current assets 1,438,066 390,094 202,233 195,644 233,793 241,993 247,637 Current assets 782,655 667,124 744,064 696,053 642,768 518,478 519,778 Total assets 2,220,721 1,057,218 946,297 891,697 876,561 760,471 767,415 Shareholders’ equity 1,122,986 433,113 541,853 474,865 387,756 342,329 328,293 Non-current liabilities 657,132 295,217 88,780 111,444 129,540 123,083 138,807 Current liabilities 440,603 328,889 315,664 305,388 359,265 295,059 300,315 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 2,220,721 1,057,218 946,297 891,697 876,561 760,471 767,415 Key ratios EBITDA, KSEK 104,832 121,797 166,381 200,055 151,106 109,525 154,213 EBITA, KSEK 66,245 86,679 130,652 161,630 106,727 62,727 107,753 EBITA margin, % 4.1 6.4 8.5 10.3 7.4 4.9 8.6 EBT margin, % 1.8 6.2 8.9 9.8 6.4 4.8 7.4 Return on equity after tax, % 3.4 13.6 1) 19.1 25.2 16.6 10.4 15.0 Return on capital employed, % 5.3 12.8 1) 23.0 27.6 19.0 13.5 20.8 Return on total capital, % 4.2 8.9 1) 15.6 18.6 13.0 9.5 14.9 Equity/assets ratio, % 50.6 44.4 57.3 53.3 44.2 45.0 42.8 Net interest-bearing debt, KSEK 490,336 143,251 -119,693 -69,444 -24,028 -107,569 -95,224 Debt/equity ratio, times 0.63 0.64 0.19 0.27 0.52 0.55 0.63 Interest coverage ratio, times 1.7 20.9 20.7 16.5 7.4 6.6 6.5 Net investments, KSEK 39,613 330,056 31,749 70,179 31,662 39,506 64,999 Cash and cash equivalents, KSEK 206,309 205,892 220,773 177,079 163,244 81,131 112,013 Goodwill, KSEK 1,180,343 230,754 33,270 23,411 – – – Revenue per employee, KSEK 1,468 1,627 1) 1,562 1,623 1,521 1,377 1,292 Development expenses, KSEK 26,232 26,984 28,000 37,545 39,070 40,378 42,142 Average number of employees 1,102 836 1) 983 968 952 933 967 1) Average figures for 2009 excluding PPE, that was consolidated from 31 December, 2009. The financial information for 2010 refers to the HL Display Holding Group. The financial information has been restated as if the acquisition of HL Display with related refinancing had instead been made at the beginning of 2010. This means that the presented financial information for 2010 refers to the actual outcome for twelve months for the HL Display Group, with the addition that financial costs have been increased by an extrapolated interest charge. Comparative data for 2009 refers to those previously reported by the former group, HL Display AB (publ). HL Display applies IFRS. This corporate report has not been prepared in accordance with IFRS and has not been reviewed by the auditor. Definitions Development expenses EBT margin Return on equity after tax Development expenses are expenses for production, materials Earnings before taxes. Profit before taxes in relation to net sales. Profit after tax in relation to average equity. Minority shares have and product development. been excluded from both profit and capital. Equity/assets ratio Debt/equity ratio Equity including minority share in relation to balance sheet total. Return on total capital Interest-bearing liabilities in relation to total equity. Profit before taxes plus financial expenses in relation to average Interest-bearing net liability/receivable balance sheet total. EBITA margin Interest-bearing liabilities less interest-bearing assets. Earnings before interest, taxes and amortisations. Operating Working capital profit added for amortisation and impairment of goodwill on Interest coverage ratio Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents less non consolidation, in relation to net sales. Profit before taxes plus financial expenses in relation to financial interest-bearing current liabilities. expenses. EBITDA Operating profit added for depreciation amortisation and Return on capital employed impairments. Profit after financial items plus financial expenses in relation to average capital employed. Capital employed is the balance sheet total less non interest-bearing liabilities. History HL Display’s history started in Borlänge, Sweden, in 1954 by Harry In 2000 and 2001 the number of sales companies in Eastern Lundvall. His first product for shops was a plate stand made of Europe was augmented with new ones in Ukraine, Slovenia and shaped metal wire. In due course, by hotbending plastic he also Slovakia. During 2000 HL Display also began to look further to the produced an item for displaying the price next to the product. east, towards Southeast Asia. Many of the company’s c­ ustomers, such as Carrefour, already had a presence in several major Asian In 1969 Harry’s son Åke Westberg took over the business, which markets. It was therefore natural for HL Display to have its own was at the time turning over about SEK two million and had five presence in these markets. The first Asian company was launched employees. in 2000 in Singapore, and it now serves as the hub of HL Display’s activities in the region. Ratos becomes a minority shareholder in In 1975 Åke Westberg obtained a patent for the shelf edge strip 2001. that he had developed. The HL Datastrip is the product for which HL Display is still best known, and it remains an important part of In 2002 and 2003 expansion continued­apace in Asia, with new the product range. The patent was the breakthrough for HL Display. companies being established in Hong Kong, Malaysia, Taiwan, The largest Swedish retail chains recognised the benefits of Åke’s Thailand and China. solution,­and they soon became major customers. In 2005 HL Display was awarded the title Public Company of the In 1977 Åke Westberg’s daughter Lis Remius and her husband year by the financial newspaper Dagens Industri and the Swedish Anders Remius started a sales company that mainly sold products Shareholders’ Association. from HL Display’s product range. At the 2006 Annual General Meeting Anders Remius was In 1986 Lis and Anders Remius bought HL Display from the succeeded­by Gèrard Dubuy as CEO of HL Display. Anders Remius’ investment­company Parcon, which had acquired the company commitment­to the company continues, now as the Chairman of from Åke Westberg in 1982. They recognised a potential in the Board. HL Display­that they wanted to develop themselves, including In 2006 production started up at HL Display’s factory in China, the establishment­of sales companies in other countries. situated in Suzhou, to the northwest of Shanghai. Local production is a very important step to increase competitiveness in the region. International expansion began in 1987. Sales abroad had previously­been channelled through direct sales and distributors, During 2007 HL Display made two acquisitions in Finland; but now HL Display set up its own sales companies in Belgium Display Team, a leading supplier of merchandising solutions to and the UK. Sales companies were then set up in Germany in brand manufacturers, and Sooni, HL Display’s previous distributor 1989, and in Norway and France in 1990. in Finland. At the turn of the year 92/93 the company completed its first In 2008, HL Display acquired its Bulgarian distributor. The 2007 company acquisition, with the purchase of Jegab Display. Since Annual Report won the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm’s competition for then HL Display has acquired a number of smaller companies, the best annual report, Small Cap company class. which have strengthened the product range or added expertise within a specific field of production technology. In 2009 the British company PPE Ltd. was acquired, which is HL Display’s biggest acquisition so far. A sales company was In 1993 HL Display was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. started in Dubai as a first entry into the Middle East market. A regional logistics centre was opened in Hungary. From the mid-1990s international expansion continued in line with the rapid growth of the retail trade. Sales companies were In July of 2010, the publicly traded private equity company Ratos established in Poland, Austria, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Russia acquired the Remius family’s holding in HL Display and then made and Turkey. In 1996 a partnership was set up with Trion Industries a public offer to all other shareholders to acquire their shares. as a means of entry into the American market. International HL Display was delisted from Nasdaq OMX Stockholm on 17 ­expansion continued in line with the rapid growth of the retail trade. September 2010. 38/39 Produced by IR Stockholm and HL Display Design: John Blomqvist Photography: Magnus Fond Printing: Wassberg+Skotte Tr yckeri HL DISPLAY • P.O. BOX 1118 • CYLINDERVÄGEN 18 • 131 26 NACKA STRAND • SWEDEN • TEL +46 8 683 73 00 • FAX +46 8 683 73 01 www.hl-display.com
