REPORT 2011 Annual Sustainability Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 1.0 Message from our C.E.O. 4 2.0 Company Profile 7 2.1 Business Activities 7 2.2 Company History 8 2.3 Shareholder Structure 9 2.4 Organisational Structure 9 2.5 Operating and Financial Data 10 2.6 Significant Changes in Operations during 2011 11 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes 12 3.0 ReportParameters 14 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 14 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report 16 4.0 Corporate Governance 18 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 22 5.1 Significant Issues and Management Strategy 22 5.2 Overview of Principal Mitigation Measures 25 5.2.1 Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion 25 5.2.2 Energy Efficiency 27 5.2.3 Water Management 28 5.2.4 Waste Management 30 5.2.5 Fuel Consumption 31 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 5.3 Environmental Management System 32 5.4 Environmental Certification 36 6.0 Quality of Life forEmployees 38 6.1 Description of Workforce 41 6.2 Safety in the Workplace 43 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 45 7.1 Direct Economic Benefits 46 7.2 Community Involvement 48 7.3 Anticorruption Measures 50 8.0 Commitment toRights 52 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 55 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 58 Appendices Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives 67 ____ and Performance, 2011 Appendix B Environmental Performance Indicators, 2011 72 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability 1.0 Message from. Our C.E.O. 1.0 Welcome to ASUR’s 2011 Annual Sustainability Report. In recent years, at ASUR we have worked hard to make sustainability an integral part of what we do. We realise that acting as a responsible corporate citizen, not only focusing on financial profits but also caring for the environment and local communities, is not just defensible from an ethical viewpoint: it is one of the key elements in ensuring that our business can continue to operate successfully in the future. We have identified a range of sustainability issues that are relevant to the way that we do business. Environmental concerns are at the top of most people’s list of significant issues nowadays, and as an airport operator that is largely dependent on the tourist industry, we realise that it is in our interest to assist in the conservation of the natural beauty of the destinations where we operate. We also take very seriously our duty to build positive relations with the local communities in the areas where we operate, and to ensure that our business activities are of mutual benefit to both our shareholders and other stakeholders. It is our belief that the significant social impacts of ASUR’s operations are chiefly positive: in addition to providing stable sources of employment in safe conditions and with better-than-average compensation and 1.0 Message from our CEO 4 benefits, the company provides transport services that are an essential element for economic development at the regional level. However, we do recognise that our operations have a series of environmental impacts that we have a duty to reduce and to mitigate. In particular, any large-scale expansion of the infrastructure of our airports may have consequences for natural habitats and therefore local biodiversity. The issue of climate change in particular has been identified as one that has potentially serious impacts for the company in the long term: any rise in sea levels or increase in extreme weather events, among other predic“ From a financial and operations viewpoint, the year 2011 has been one of notable recovery for ASUR ” ted effects of a rise in global temperature, could eliminate a great deal of the value of the company, which at present is dependent on the beachdestination tourist industry for most of its passenger traffic. From a financial and operations viewpoint, the year 2011 has been one of notable recovery for ASUR. Despite ongoing problems in many economies around the world, our total passenger figures increased by almost 5% from 2010 to 2011, and net income rose by almost 25% over the same period. This has strengthened our resolve to continue to pursue our sustainability goals, in order to lay the foundations for the success of the company in the future. During 2011, our focus on reducing and recycling the refuse produced in our airports began to pay dividends: the amount of non-hazardous waste sent to landfill was down 3.4% in overall terms and decreased by 7.4% when measured on a per-passenger basis. Following our success in previous years in reducing our electricity consumption, which is one of our major strategies to reduce the company’s indirect generation of greenhouse gases, in 2011 overall consumption for all nine airports rose 1.0 Message from our CEO 5 by 2.6%. This was largely due to a more intensive use of our facilities, caused by the increase in passenger numbers; when measured on a per-passenger basis, electricity consumption actually decreased by 1.6%. Total water consumption at our airports increased by 7.2% during the year, mainly due to dry climatic conditions at several locations around the country. “ During 2010, ASUR continued to play an active role in supporting and promoting the United Nations Global Compact ” Our key challenges in the short term will be to reign in our consumption of water, to reduce and recycle more of the refuse generated in our airports, to keep our electricity consumption within appropriate levels, and to achieve closer, more cooperative relations with our stakeholders in local communities. In the medium-to-long term, we will need to look for new ways to take further steps toward carbon neutrality in our operations, to promote the protection of natural habitats and biodiversity, and to reduce or mitigate other environmental impacts. With these goals in mind, at ASUR we will continue to make every effort to reduce the negative impacts and to promote the positive impacts of our operations, to the benefit of our shareholders, employees and local communities. Adolfo Castro Rivas Chief Executive Officer of ASUR 1.0 Message from our CEO 6 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability Company Profile 2.0 2.0 Company Profile Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in Mexico City. It has no operations outside of Mexico. 2.1 Business Activities The company’s core activity is to administer and maintain the infrastructure of its airports to ensure sufficient capacity for safe, efficient operations and a high standard of service. Basic infrastructure includes that required for aircraft takeoff and landing operations and for arriving and departing passenger flows, as well as facilities for the authorities involved in airport operations (air traffic controllers, customs, immigration, etc.). 0.2 COMPANY PROFILE 7 “ The company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities represent its three revenue streams ” In addition to the above, the company enters into agreements with external providers for a range of additional services, including complementary services for aircraft (such as baggage handling and ramp services) and commercial services for passengers (such as restaurants, shops and car rental, among other business lines). The company’s aeronautical, complementary and commercial activities represent its three revenue streams. 2.2 Company History ASUR’s nine airports are operated under 50-year concessions that were granted to the company in 1998, as part of the Mexican government’s plan to open up the country’s state-owned airport sector to private investment. Under the privatisation scheme, an initial stake of 15% in the company’s capital stock (the BB series shares) was sold to a strategic partner, Inversiones y Técnicas Aeroportuarias, S.A. de C.V. (ITA), with expertise in Mexican business operations and in the international airport industry. The remaining 85% of the company’s shares (the B series) began trading on the stock exchanges of Mexico City and New York in two public offers in September 2000 and March 2005. 2.0 Company Profile 8 2.3 Shareholder Structure In June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduced its shareholding in the company from 15% to 7.65%. As of the 31st of December 2011, ITA is wholly owned by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican investor. The 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held by ITA are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa (BMV: ASUR). 2.4 Organisational Structure Structure, Holding Company and Subsidiaries As of the 31st of December 2011, ASUR Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, employs a total of 885 people. Our orS.A.B. de C.V. ganisational structure may be summarised as follows: each of the nine airports Aeropuerto de Cancún, S.A. de C.V. of ASUR is a subsidiary of the holding Aeropuerto de Cozumel, S.A. de C.V. company, Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. In addition, there Aeropuerto de huatulco, S.A. de C.V. are two subsidiary service companies, Aeropuerto de mérida, S.A. de C.V. one that directly employs the Group’s Aeropuerto de minatitlán, S.A. de C.V. unionised staff (RH ASUR, S.A. de C.V.) and another that directly employs all the Aeropuerto de oaxaca, S.A. de C.V. Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicios Aeropuerto de tapachula, S.A. de C.V. Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de Aeropuerto de veracruz, S.A. de C.V. C.V.). Aeropuerto de villahermosa, S.A. de C.V. “ As of the 31st of December 2011, ASUR employs a total of rh asur, S.A. de C.V. Servicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de C.V. 885 people ” 11 subsidiaries Figure 1 Organisational Structure 2.0 Company Profile 9 2.5 Operating and Financial Data In 2011, a total of 17,539,841 passengers passed through ASUR’s terminals (not including private aviation or transit passengers), of which 10,082,848 (57%) were international and 7,456,993 (43%) were domestic passengers. Domestic International The total passenger figure for 2011 increased by 824,703 (4.9%) compared to the year 2010. The company’s largest airport is the one located at Cancún, which accounted for 74% of total passenger traffic in 2011 (the same percentage as in 2010). Figure 2 Breakdown of International and Domestic Passenger Traffic, 2010 vs. 2011 (Not including general aviation and transit passengers) Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve passengers arriving from every continent, although a considerable majority of passengers arrive from North American destinations: in 2011, passengers from the United States of America and Canada accounted for 78% of international passengers. In 2011, the net income of the company was 1.6 billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to approximately 128 million US dollars). The company ended the year with total assets worth 18.7 billion pesos (approximately 1.5 billion US dollars), total liabilities of 3.2 billion pesos 2.0 Company Profile 10 (approximately 260 million US dollars) and total equity of 15.5 billion pesos (approximately 1.2 billion US dollars).* * Figures in US dollars calculated at an exchange rate of 12.43 Mexican pesos per dollar (2011 average). Financial summary 2011 2010 Assets 18,715 18,214 Liabilities 3,227 3,418 Equity 15,488 14,795 Revenues 4,573 4,235 Operating costs 2,479 2,511 Net income 1,592 1,275 Figure 3 Summary of P&L and Balance Sheet (Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos) 2.6 Significant Changes in Operations during 2011 During 2011, there were no significant changes regarding the size, structure or ownership of the company, including the location of its airports and the opening, closing or expansion of the facilities it operates. Similarly, there were no major changes in the structure of the company’s share capital. 2.0 Company Profile 11 Although several infrastructure expansion projects were undertaken in the year 2011, mostly these did not involve major extensions to the built-up surface areas or “footprints” of the airports. The necessary capacity increases were mostly achieved by remodelling and optimising existing buildings and facilities, notably in the airports of Huatulco, Mérida and Oaxaca. For a more detailed discussions of mitigations measures for infrastructure expansion, please refer to section 5.2.1 of this report. 2.7 Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes During 2011, ASUR maintained its status as an active signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by complying with the UNGC’s reporting “ Additionally, for the fourth year running, we were awarded requirements. The Global Compact is recognition as a Socially an initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social Responsible Company by the responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. Mexican Centre for Philanthropy ” Additionally, for the fourth year running, we were awarded recognition as a Socially Responsible Company by the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy, known by its Spanish initials CEMEFI. CEMEFI bases its awards on self-assessments of internal practices and programmes carried out by the companies themselves, which are required to submit adequate documentation of the corresponding activities. The assessments monitor performance in four key areas: quality of life for company employees; business ethics and anti-corruption practices; community support and relations; and environmental protection. 2.0 Company Profile 12 In the reporting period, ASUR received Environmental Quality Assurance certificates for four of its airports from the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency, Profepa. The certification in question represents official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. The airports certified were Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz. Certificates are valid for a period of two years; the remaining airports in the Group – Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa – are due for recertification in 2012. “Cancún in 2011 for the third year running Airport was ranked “Best Airport” in the Latin America and Caribbean ” As of the 31st of December 2011, the environmental management systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certification. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca are due for recertification in 2012, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa in 2013. Finally, with regard to ASUR’s passenger service standards, in 2011 for the third year running Cancún Airport was ranked “Best Airport” in the Latin America and Caribbean region in the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey programme organised by Airports Council International. In ASQ surveys, passengers are asked to rate their degree of overall satisfaction with airports’ service levels, as well as performance in a wide range of specific areas, from efficiency and the standard of facilities to cleanliness and staff courtesy. 2.0 Company Profile 13 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability PARAMETERS REPORT 3.0 3.0 Report Parameters This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2011, and follows on from ASUR’s 2010 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content Based on internal analysis and management assessments, we have determined the main stakeholders of the company and the aspects of our business that are of particular interest to them. In general terms, ASUR’s stakeholders can be divided into internal and external stakeholders. The former include the company’s employees, shareholders and the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance committees. ASUR’s external stakeholders can be further subdivided into two main categories: those that have a relation with the region where the company’s airports are located, including 3.0 Report Parameters 14 “ ASUR is doing to reduce its environmental impacts, is one of the primary concerns of all our internal and external stakeholders ” local residents, local authorities and the local business communities; and those that are involved in the company’s aeronautical activities, including airlines, passengers and national and international aviation authorities. This report is conceived primarily as a tool for the stakeholders of ASUR; it has the aim of creating a greater degree of transparency concerning the company’s operations and providing information of interest on the company’s response to stakeholders’ specific concerns. Priority has been given to those topics considered of greatest interest to our stakeholders and in which our operations are assessed to have the most material impacts. We believe that the working conditions we provide for our employees, the benefits we bring to local communities and wider issues such as ASUR’s record with regard to respect for human rights and the measures we have implemented to prevent corruption, are of particular interest to our most important stakeholders. However, it is our firm belief that the environment, and specifically what ASUR is doing to reduce its environmental impacts, is one of the primary concerns of all our internal and external stakeholders. Consequently, in addition to social and economic considerations, we place particular emphasis in this report on the most important environmental issues that affect and are affected by the company’s activities. 3.0 Report Parameters 15 In selecting the information to be included in this report, ASUR has applied the four principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and Completeness established by the Global Reporting Initiative for defining report content. The data that serve as input for the key performance indicators mentioned in this report were collected and calculated based on the various methodologies described in the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 3.2 Scope and Limitations of Report This report is intended to complement ASUR’s Annual Financial Statements for 2011, which contain in-depth information on the financial performance of ASUR during the period in question. It will therefore focus in particular on social and environmental matters without including detailed financial data, except insofar as they relate to the standard disclosures contained in the company profile (Section 2) and to economic performance indicators (Section 7). “ ASUR’s Annual Financial Statements for 2011, which contain in-depth information on the financial performance of ASUR during the period in question ” The environmental performance indicators mentioned in Section 5 include data from the nine airports in the Group only, as these are considered to be the most relevant due to the nature of the company’s activities. All other indicators refer to the nine airports, the company’s head offices in Mexico City and other company subsidiaries, as described in Section 2.4. 3.0 Report Parameters 16 The report covers operations performed directly by the companies that form part of the ASUR business group. At this time, mechanisms are not in place to include the activities of clients, suppliers or subcontractors within the parameters of this report, unless otherwise stated. “ The report covers operations performed directly by the companies that form part of the ASUR business group ” This report has been prepared on a consistent basis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report for 2010 in terms of scope, boundary and measurement methods, and contains no restatements or reinterpretations of data contained in that report. At this time, it is not company policy to seek external assurance of our Annual Sustainability Report. Any queries relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair McCreadie +52 (55) 5284.0488 amccreadie@asur.com.mx. 3.0 Report Parameters 17 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability GOVERNANCE CORPORATE 4.0 4.0 Corporate Governance As a company that is publicly traded on the stock markets of both Mexico City and New York, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporate governance practices. Our Board of Directors is made up of a majority of independent members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other corporate governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent oversight. The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market Law, and excludes any persons who are executive or non-executive employees of the company or its subsidiaries; shareholders that own a controlling share in the company; the company’s clients, service providers, suppliers, debtors, creditors and business partners, and their board members or employees; in general, any individuals who exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. 4.0 Corporate Governance 18 Company Shareholders Ultimate authority at the company Responsible for: decision-making at the highest level Due representation of minority shareholders Board of Directors Responsible for: strategic decision-making Number of members: 9 Independent members: 5 Nominations and Audit Committee Compensations Committee Responsible for: oversight of Responsible for: proposals for operations to ensure appropriate appointment of board members; standard of business ethics approval of executive pay Number of members: 3 Number of members: 3 Independent members: 3 Independent members: 1 Acquisitions and Operations Committee Contracts Committee Responsible for: compliance Responsible for: oversight of acwith investment commitments; quisitions to ensure appropriate proposals to Board for dividends, ethical standards budget, business plan, etc. Number of members: 3 Number of members: 4 Independent members: 1 Independent members: 2 Figure 4: Overview of Corporate Governance Structure of ASUR In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s shareholders represent the highest authority in the company. Shareholders’ meetings are held on at least an annual basis, in order to vote on the most important issues such as dividend payments and other matters that require shareholder approval by law. In addition, according to the company’s bylaws, 4.0 Corporate Governance 19 any shareholder or group of shareholders representing at least 10% of the company’s capital stock has the right to convene a shareholders’ meeting at any time. “ On a yearly basis, the Board submits a report regarding its own activities and performance for the evaluation of the company shareholders ” The members of the company’s Board of Directors are appointed in accordance with proposals presented by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, whose job it is to identify potential candidates, analyse their qualifications and expertise in the relevant strategic areas, and verify that they do not have any conflicts of interest with the company. Once a possible candidate has been identified for each vacant position on the Board, and has expressed his or her agreement to be appointed, the proposal is submitted for approval by the company shareholders. The Board of Directors holds sessions on at least a quarterly basis, at which it receives reports from the company’s top management and corporate governance committees regarding such matters as the company’s financial performance, passenger figures, operations, compliance with investment commitments, and other matters of strategic importance. On a yearly basis, the Board submits a report regarding its own activities and performance for the evaluation of the company shareholders. All Board and Committee members are paid a fixed fee for each session they attend, which is proposed each year by the Nominations and Compensations Committee in line with market standards and is submitted for the approval of the company shareholders. Compensation payable to the company’s executive officers is analysed and approved by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, subject to ratification by the independent Audit Committee. This includes both base 4.0 Corporate Governance 20 salary and the annual performance bonus, which is linked to a series of performance indicators, also determined annually by the Nominations and Compensations Committee. Among the duties of the company’s Audit Committee is the approval of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which is developed internally, is applicable to all activities in all areas of all of the company’s subsidiaries, and is communicated to all staff members on a regular basis. Pursuant to the Code of Ethics, ASUR has an internal reporting system that may be used by anyone within the company to flag instances of abuse or corruption, or to report grievances relating to workplace matters. The system’s users have the option to submit reports anonymously or to confirm their identity. All such reports are completely confidential and are received directly by the Internal Auditing Department, which has the duty to investigate them and to report to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee ultimately reports to the Board of Directors and the company shareholders regarding the reports received and how the matters raised were resolved. “ ASUR has an internal reporting system that may be used by anyone within the company to flag instances of abuse ” The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing the company’s risk management activities. On a regular basis risk mapping activities are carried out, covering aspects such as risks relating to financial information, areas of the company that may be vulnerable to fraud or other acts of corruption, information technology, and environmental and social issues. Once the company’s risks have been mapped in detail, courses of action are determined for them to be managed and the information is presented to the Audit Committee for discussion. Specifically in relation to infrastructure expansion projects in the company’s airports, environmental impact assessments are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Mexican environmental protection authorities, and the appropriate mitigation measures are determined when necessary. 4.0 Corporate Governance 21 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability Responsibility Environmental 5.0 5.1 Significant Issues and Management Strategy Among the most significant environmental issues identified by the company with the potential to impact our operations negatively are climate change, and the loss of natural habitats and biodiversity. ASUR is a company whose business depends largely on the tourism industry: our airports at Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco serve primarily tourist markets, and significant numbers of tourists also travel through our airports at Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz and Villahermosa. Together, these airports accounted for over 98% of our passenger traffic in 2011. Therefore, it is clearly in the interests of the company to contribute as much as it can to the preservation of the natural beauty of these areas, in order for them to continue to be attractive to visitors. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 22 “ to ensure that the waste water discharged and storm water runoff do not constitute a source of pollution for local bodies of water ” Any combination of the predicted effects of climate change, such as those cited by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change,1 including rises in sea levels with the corresponding loss of beaches, an increased risk of extreme weather events such as hurricanes and flooding, and the disappearance of land and marine habitats such as mangroves and coral reefs, has the potential to significantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group located in beach destinations (Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco), as well as those serving low-lying or flood-prone areas (Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa). In the interests of lowering its carbon footprint and reducing its operations’ other environmental impacts, the company has instituted programmes with the following general aims: to decrease the amount of electricity consumed in the airports, thereby reducing indirect emissions of greenhouse gases; to ensure that the airports’ water consumption does not put excessive pressure on the water supplies for local habitats and populations; to protect and promote plant and animal biodiversity in the undeveloped areas surrounding the airports; and to ensure that the waste water discharged and storm water runoff do not constitute a source of pollution for local bodies of water. 1 | Sources: Nicholls, R.J., P.P. Wong, V.R. Burkett, J.O. Codignotto, J.E. Hay, R.F. McLean, S. Ragoonaden and C.D. Woodroffe, 2007: Coastal systems and low-lying areas. Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, M.L. Parry, O.F. Canziani, J.P. Palutikof, P.J. van der Linden and C.E. Hanson, Eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 315-356; and Magrin, G., C. Gay García, D. Cruz Choque, J.C. Giménez, A.R. Moreno, G.J. Nagy, C. Nobre and A. Villamizar, 2007: Latin America. Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, M.L. Parry, O.F. Canziani, J.P. Palutikof, P.J. van der Linden and C.E. Hanson, Eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 581-615. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 23 Since ASUR’s business activities do not involve the manufacture or creation of any kind of physical product, the company’s consumption of materials is relatively insignificant. The principal consumable required on a consistent basis for our airports’ day-to-day operations is fuel, which is discussed in greater detail in section 5.2.5 of this report. Similarly, due to the nature of ASUR’s operations, the environmental aspects relating to products, services and transport are considered immaterial for the purposes of this report. Within the company’s overall strategic approach to environmental matters, each of the nine airports in the Group establishes its own specific goals in accordance with local conditions. “storm To ensure that the waste water discharged and water runoff do not constitute a source of pollution for local bodies of water ” ASUR has a written policy that expressly and formally sets forth the commitment of the company and its subsidiaries to take positive action in relation to the environment. This policy contains the stated goals of reducing the negative environmental effects of the company’s operations and promoting environmental protection and the economical use of natural resources. Responsibility for environmental issues within the organisation ultimately lies with our Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Officer, one of the six executive officers at the top level of management in the company. This position has responsibility for the oversight of infrastructure management (including infrastructure expansion), as well as all matters relating to the company’s compliance with the various regulations it is subject to. ASUR’s Operational and Safety Compliance Manager works below the Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Officer and coordinates a team of environmental coordinators, with members based in each of the airports in the Group. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 24 All of ASUR’s airports have Environmental Management Systems that establish detailed guidelines and procedures for aspects such as training, monitoring, emergency response, and the environmental requirements for projects and contractors. Each airport’s Environmental Management System is currently certified under the ISO 14001 programme. In addition to ISO 14001 certification, ASUR’s airports have consistently been awarded Environmental Quality Assurance certification, which represents official confirmation by the Mexican environmental authorities that the recipient has complied in full with all observations resulting from the audits conducted by the authorities to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. “ ASUR’s airports have consistently been awarded Environmental Quality Assurance certification ” For additional information relating to key environmental issues, such as performance against environmental objectives, specific risks and systems, and targeted strategies and procedures, please see the information contained in section 5.2 of this report. 5.2 Overview of Principal Mitigation Measures 5.2.1 Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion Large-scale infrastructure expansion at any of ASUR’s airports, which tend to be surrounded by undeveloped land, often necessitates the modification or destruction of natural habitats. For this reason, projects of this type are only undertaken following careful consideration and analysis of the mitigation measures that can be applied, and when it is determined that there is ample justification, usually to eliminate 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 25 operational hazards or serious capacity constraints, which in turn may have negative consequences for both local economies and the environment. “ In 2011, expansion projects were undertaken in three of ASUR’s airports, all of which are planned for completion during 2012 ” In 2011, expansion projects were undertaken in three of ASUR’s airports, all of which are planned for completion during 2012. At Huatulco International Airport, the terminal building is currently being expanded by 4,468 square metres; at Mérida International Airport, various areas of the airport are being expanded by 4,330 square metres; and at Oaxaca International Airport, the terminal building and other facilities are being expanded by 4,530 square metres. In all cases, the required environmental impact assessments have been carried out. Where possible, the expansion projects are being carried out in such a way that they do not expand the footprint of the airports’ infrastructure, for example by repurposing areas that had previously been built on; where this is not possible, the environmental impact mitigation measures established by the Mexican authorities will be adhered to. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 26 5.2.2 Energy Efficiency For the last several years, the most important front that we have been working on in our airports to reduce the company’s carbon footprint is to moderate the amount of electricity we consume. Beginning in 2008, the company has achieved notable success in its energy efficiency programme: from 2008 to 2009, total electricity consumption in the nine airports of the Group was reduced by 28.9%, and from 2009 to 2010 another reduction of 3.7% in overall consumption was achieved. “ For the last several years, the most important front that we have been working on in our airports to reduce the company’s carbon footprint is to moderate the amount of electricity we consume ” Our focus in 2011 was to maintain the progress made on reducing electricity consumption in previous years. Decreases in total consumption levels in Huatulco, Tapachula and Veracruz were cancelled out by increases in the other airports: during the period, total annual electricity consumption in the nine airports in the Group rose by 2.6% from 60,584,421 to 62,167,261 kilowatt-hours (equivalent to an increase from 218,104 to 223,802 gigajoules). However, over the same period there was a 4.3% increase in passenger numbers, so when consumption is measured on a per-passenger basis to provide a more comparable parameter from year to year, there was a saving of 1.6%. 2 2 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 27 “ ASUR does not produce any of the electricity it consumes; one hundred percent of the company’s electricity requirements are covered by purchasing from the Federal Electricity Commission ” These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy from primary sources consumed in order to produce this electricity. ASUR does not produce any of the electricity it consumes; one hundred percent of the company’s electricity requirements are covered by purchasing from the Federal Electricity Commission. According to figures published by the International Energy Agency, in 2009 (the most recent data available), 86% of the electricity generated in Mexico was produced from non-renewable sources (natural gas, oil, coal and nuclear energy) and 14% was produced from renewable sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass and wind power). 3 5.2.3 Water Management In addition to reducing the company’s carbon footprint through energy efficiency, ASUR has also been working hard to improve its systems for managing both our water consumption and waste water and other effluents produced in the airports. A major issue in many airports is the potential for pollution of local water sources caused by the de-icing and anti-icing fluids sprayed onto aircraft to make them safe to fly. Average temperatures year-round in all nine locations where ASUR has airports are approximately 3 | Source: International Energy Agency website, at: http://www.iea.org/stats/electricitydata.asp?COUNTRY_ CODE=MX 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 28 25° C (77° F), so anti-icing and de-icing measures are not used by the company. However, we do have equipment in place in all of our airports to ensure that any spills of liquids such as fuels or oil are appropriately eliminated before they can be flushed into local water sources by storm water runoff. “ Any water that cannot be stored and used for this purpose is released into either the subsoil or into local wetlands ” Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped with treatment plants that receive all waste water from terminals and administrative buildings. In the case of Cozumel Airport, waste water is sent to the municipal drainage system and is treated at the municipal plant. The airports’ plants use biological, mechanical and chemical treatment processes to purify waste water to a standard where it is clean enough to be either reused or discharged without presenting a risk to other water sources. The water that is recycled is mainly used for watering green areas, which helps to reduce the demands placed by the airports on local resources. Any water that cannot be stored and used for this purpose is released into either the subsoil or into local wetlands, in accordance with the permits issued by Mexico’s National Water Commission (CONAGUA). Overall, in 2011 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine airports increased by 7.2% from 555,939 to 596,197 cubic metres (m3). Water consumption on a per-passenger basis (measured in litres per passenger) increased by 2.9%.4 The amount of metered discharge decreased by 21.2% in absolute terms (from 403,864 to 318,093 m3), and by 24.5% in litres per passenger. 5 4 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 5 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 29 “ Consequently, each airport has waste management facilities for hazardous and non-hazardous waste ” 5.2.4 Waste Management An important aspect in ensuring that our operations do not represent a risk for local environments and ecosystems is to make sure that all the waste materials generated in our airports are appropriately disposed of. Consequently, each airport has waste management facilities for hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The waste materials that are classified as hazardous under Mexican legislation include a series of toxic, inflammable and corrosive substances, as well as items of equipment that have come into contact and are contaminated with these materials. In our airports, all substances and articles of this kind are safely stored, appropriately labelled and eventually handed over to specialist waste disposal companies, in strict adherence to the applicable regulations. The waste disposal companies, which are required to be licenced by the Mexican authorities, eliminate the hazardous waste using methods that avoid pollution and provide ASUR with waste disposal certificates stating the methods used. Non-hazardous waste is handled in separate facilities at ASUR’s airports. It is sorted into organic waste (used for compost) and non-organic waste (materials such as glass, paper, cardboard and aluminium) before being collected by the local municipal refuse disposal service. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 30 “ In 2011 the total amount of non-hazardous waste produced decreased by 3.4% ” As well as attempting to reduce the amount of waste produced, at several of our airports we have set ourselves the goal of reusing or recycling some or all of the non-hazardous, non-organic waste produced, to keep it from being disposed of in local landfills (see Appendices A and B for more information). In 2011 the total amount of non-hazardous waste produced decreased by 3.4% from 4,465 to 4,312 tonnes (a drop of 7.4% measured on a per-passenger basis), while the total amount of hazardous waste fell by 12.3% from 20.3 to 17.8 tonnes (a drop of 15.8% measured on a per-passenger basis). 6 5.2.5 Fuel Consumption Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consumed to operate a wide range of support vehicles, including shuttle buses for transporting passengers to various parts of the airports, utility vehicles, and so on. Natural gas (liquefied petroleum gas) is used mainly in the airport’s kitchens, which supply staff restaurants and food and beverage outlets for passengers. The total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports increased slightly from 2010 to 2011 by 0.9%, from 455,712 to 459,837 litres. However, due to the rise in passenger numbers over the same period, 7 on a per-passenger basis this represented a decrease of 3.2%. 6 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 7 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 5.3 Environmental Management System. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 31 “ The total amount of fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports increased slightly from 2010 to 2011 by 0.9% ” The measurements of fuel consumption in ASUR’s airports include only the fuel used in the facilities and the vehicles that are the property of the airport company. They do not take into account fuel consumed by the airports’ subcontractors, or that consumed by aircraft for takeoff and landing procedures. While ASUR recognises that this information may be of interest to our stakeholders, at this time no systems are in place for us to obtain these data. 5.3 Environmental Management System ASUR has an Environmental Management System that is applied in all nine of the airports the company operates. The purpose of the system is to establish environmental objectives for each airport, as well as a framework for the achievement of those objectives. The system creates a series of parameters that can be used to monitor and assess each airport’s performance in relation to the environmental objectives established, providing the company management with valuable information for the decision-making process. Environmental objectives are determined by each airport on an ad hoc basis, in order to ensure that local conditions are taken into consideration in ASUR’s environmental protection programme. The full details of the environmental objectives established in 2011 for the nine airports in the Group, as well as performance against those objectives, can be consulted in Appendix A. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 32 “ The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO 14001 ” The Environmental Management Systems in each of ASUR’s airports are certified according to ISO 14001. The following tables provide an overview of the performance in all nine of ASUR’s airports with regard to some of the most relevant environmental parameters established by the System: Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 569,624 555,939 596,197 7.2% Total water discharged m 3 380,845 403,864 318,093 -21.2% Total electricity kWh 62,938, 597 60,584,421 62,167,26 2.6% consumption Gj 226,579 218,104 223,802 2.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 19,380 20,274 17,788 -12.3% Total non-hazardous t 4,114.3 4,465.0 4,311.5 -3.4% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 446,361 455,712 459,837 0.9% Figure 5 Summary of Environmental Performance Indicators for All Airports 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 33 Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 35.9 32.7 33.6 2.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 24.0 23.7 17.9 -24.5% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.0 3.6 3.5 -1.6% per passenger Mj/pax 14.3 12.8 12.6 -1.6% Hazardous waste produced g/pax 1.2 1.2 1.0 -15.8% per passenger Non-hazardous waste produced kg/pax 0.26 0.26 0.24 -7.4% per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 28.2 26.8 25.9 -3.2% Figure 5 Summary of Environmental Performance Indicators for All Airports For a breakdown of these performance indicators for each of the nine airports operated by ASUR, please refer to Appendix B. The parameters measured are described in more detail below: 1. Water Consumption This parameter refers to the total amount of water consumed by the airports during the year, whether taken from the municipal water supply or extracted from underground aquifers. Water recycled from treatment plants is not included in this figure. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in cubic metres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 34 2. Water Discharged: This parameter refers to the total amount of waste water discharged by the airports during the year, in accordance with the permits obtained from the local authorities, following the required treatment processes. Data are provided on total discharge (stated in cubic metres), as well as discharge on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 3. Electricity Consumption This parameter refers to the total amount of electricity consumed by the airports from the national grid during the year. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in kilowatt hours and the equivalent in gigajoules), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (kilowatt hours and megajoules per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation of the amount of direct energy consumed in order to produce the electricity. 4. Hazardous Waste Produced This parameter refers to the total amount of waste classified as hazardous under Mexican law, which is produced by the airports and appropriately disposed of during the year. Data are provided on total production (stated in kilograms), as well as production on a perpassenger basis (milligrams per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 35 5. Non-hazardous Waste Produced This parameter refers to the total amount of waste classified as nonhazardous under Mexican law, which is produced by the airports and disposed of in municipal landfills during the year. Recycled waste is not included in this figure. Data are provided on total production (stated in tonnes), as well as production on a per-passenger basis (kilograms per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from on airport to another and from one year to another. 6. Fuel Consumption This parameter refers to the total amount of petrol (gasoline) and diesel consumed by the airports during the year, for example in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to transport passengers for boarding. Data are provided on total consumption (stated in litres), as well as consumption on a per-passenger basis (millilitres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. 5.4 Environmental Certification As of the 31st of December 2011, the environmental management systems in place in all of ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certification. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca are due for recertification in 2012, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa in 2013. Mexico’s Environmental Protection Agency (Profepa) also performs audits once every two years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are in full compliance with the country’s environmental legislation. Following the inspection procedure, provided that no violations of environmental legislation are 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 36 “ Mexico’s Environmental Protection Agency (Profepa) also performs audits once every two years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are in full compliance with the country’s environmental legislation ” identified, the individual airports are issued certificates confirming their compliance with the law. All nine of ASUR’s airports currently have valid environmental compliance certification: the airports at Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz were recertified during 2011, and those at Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa are due to be audited during 2012. To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, including fines or nonmonetary penalties, have been imposed on the company for failure to comply with national, international or local environmental laws or regulations. 5.0 Environmental Responsibility 37 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees At ASUR we are fully aware that a company’s human resources are among its most valuable assets. We are also firmly convinced that a happy workforce is a more productive one. In the same way that we invest in our airports to upgrade our infrastructure and facilities over time, we also invest in our employees to develop and diversify the skills that they can bring to bear in their professional activities. As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all the subsidiaries that form part of the Group. The company’s most fundamental goal in relation to human resources is to ensure that our airports constitute a reliable source of safe employment for local populations, and we have had a degree of success in this regard: there have been no redundancies in our workforce in recent years, despite a generally unfavourable economic climate, and we have achieved both a low level of staff turnover and an excellent occupational health and safety record. Further information on these aspects is available in sections 6.1 and 6.2 of this report. 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 38 Positive relations between the company’s employees and management are also a priority for ASUR. Four in ten of the company’s employees are unionised, and the company enjoys a good working relationship with the union. The company has a written “open-doors” communication policy, according to which all staff members are free to approach any member of management with consultations or complaints at any time. Employees are also given the option of submitting any grievances they have via the company’s internal reporting system; these reports are investigated confidentially by the Internal Auditing Department to identify any instances of inappropriate behaviour on the part of those involved and to reach amicable solutions whenever possible. “ The company has a written “open-doors” communication policy, according to which all staff members are free to approach ” The company has a permanent training programme for employees in all ten locations where we have operations (the head offices in Mexico City and the nine airports). During 2011, training was provided to staff members in a wide range of areas, covering topics such as technical systems training, aviation security, fire safety and first aid. A total of 74,023 hours of training was provided for the company’s 885 employees during the year. 1 We also provide support to employees and their families for the completion of their basic education: for the 20102011 academic year the company distributed a total of 101 scholarships among its staff of 885 workers, with a value of $539,280 pesos. 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 39 In addition to the professional development of staff members, the company plans a series of activities, to provide an opportunity for employees to socialise and to support local cultural traditions. Among the events organised in 2011 were sporting events, as well as celebrations of Children’s Day, Mothers’ Day, Father’s Day, Christmas and the traditional Mexican festivities of the Epiphany (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the Dead (Día de Muertos). In Oaxaca, a local celebration was held for the Day of the Samaritan (Día de la Samaritana). “ Regular internal campaigns are carried out to ensure that all company employees are aware of these policies ” The company has a series of written policies covering different aspects that relate to its human resources, such as recruitment practices, holiday entitlements, work-life balance and occupational health and safety. Additionally, company policy mandates the protection of employees’ human rights, such as the right to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, the right to personal and physical integrity and the right to exercise fundamental liberties, including freedom of association. Regular internal campaigns are carried out to ensure that all company employees are aware of these policies, as well as the provisions of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which include information on the internal reporting system for grievances. On a day-to-day basis, labour issues within the organisation are the responsibility of the company’s Human Resources Manager, who is based at the company’s headquarters in Mexico City and oversees the human resources team in each of the airports. Certain labour relations issues, such as the renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement with the union, are handled directly by the Chief Executive Officer. 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 40 6.1 Description of Workforce As of the 31st of December 2011, the majority of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a permanent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of 1,011 people, 885 (88%) had indefinite, written labour contracts for full-time employment. Among full-time employees, a staff rotation rate of 10.3% was achieved during the year; this is calculated on the basis of the number of people who left the company for whatever reason, including retirements, resignations and dismissals, as a percentage of total employees. The following table shows a breakdown of the 885 permanent employees of the company according to the location where they work: No. of Non% City State employees Unionised % unionised Cancún Quintana Roo 402 120 30% 282 70% Mérida Yucatán 94 45 48% 49 52% Cozumel Quintana Roo 62 36 58% 26 42% Veracruz Veracruz 59 27 46% 32 54% Villahermosa Tabasco 59 30 51% 29 49% Tapachula Chiapas 46 24 52% 22 48% Ciudad de México D.F. 44 0 0% 44 100% Oaxaca Oaxaca 44 22 50% 22 50% Huatulco Oaxaca 40 20 50% 20 50% Minatitlán Veracruz 35 17 49% 18 51% TOTAL 885 341 39% 544 61% Figure 6 Breakdown of ASUR Workforce (Permanent Employees) on Geographic Basis 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 41 The remaining 126 workers (12% of total workforce) were employed on a temporary basis via an employment agency, to cover nonpermanent absences such as maternity leave or for interim positions. These temporary workers are distributed among the airports on an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the 31st of December 2011, the geographic distribution of ASUR’s 126 temporary workers was as follows: 97 at Cancún Airport; 7 at Veracruz Airport; 7 at Villahermosa Airport; 5 at Mérida Airport; 4 at Cozumel Airport; 2 at Huatulco Airport; 2 at Minatitlán Airport; and 2 at Oaxaca Airport. “ ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the National Airport Industry Workers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria Aeroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Conexos de la Republica Mexicana) ” ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the National Airport Industry Workers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria Aeroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Conexos de la Republica Mexicana). Once every two years, the company management and the union undertake a collective bargaining procedure to determine employment conditions for unionised employees and the benefits that they are entitled to. The agreements reached in this negotiation are formalised in a written collective labour agreement that is signed by the representatives of the company and the union. The renegotiation process was undertaken during 2010, so the current collective bargaining agreement will be valid until 2012. The company’s non-unionised workers are offered a series of employment benefits, such as health and life insurance, holiday entitlements, Christmas bonuses, matching-funds savings accounts and, in some cases, performance bonuses, that are in excess of the minimum benefits required under Mexican labour legislation. 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 42 In addition to those employees mentioned above, there are significant numbers of workers based at each of the company’s airports who are not directly employed by the company. “ The right to physical integrity, and therefore a safe workplace that does not expose employees to unnecessary risks ” They may be broken down into a number of different categories, including: government employees, such as those working for the air-trafficcontrol, immigration and customs services; the employees of ASUR’s commercial concession holders, such as food and beverage or retail outlets and car rental offices; the employees of other businesses with a permanent base at the airport, such as ramp service providers and the airlines; and the employees of those companies subcontracted by ASUR to provide specific services in the airports. In the latter case, the most significant services subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airports are cleaning services for terminal buildings, administrative offices, and so on; and security services, including general surveillance staff and the personnel manning security filters and passenger inspection points. At this time, data are not available in relation to employment types, contract types or collective bargaining agreements for the aforementioned workers. 6.2 Safety in the Workplace The right to physical integrity, and therefore a safe workplace that does not expose employees to unnecessary risks, is included in the company’s written policies During 2011, the 885 permanent employees of ASUR worked a total of 2,540,992 hours, equivalent to 317,624 days (eight-hour shifts). In the period in question, there were 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 43 in total fifteen cases of accidents in the workplace, affecting 1.71% of staff members, with no cases of occupational disease and no fatalities. During the year, the total number of lost days resulting from these accidents was 411, equivalent to 0.13% of total days worked. “ During the year, the total number of lost days resulting from these accidents was 411, equivalent to 0.13% of total days worked ” In accordance with the system used by the Mexican Social Security Institute, accidents in the workplace are defined as incidents leading to an injury that requires the staff member in question to miss one or more days of work. The total number of lost days includes all calendar days between the initial accident and the date on which the employee returns to work, even when these days are not working days. The date on which the accident occurs is counted as day one for this purpose. Minor accidents requiring first-aid treatment only are not included in the number of accidents in the workplace. In the same period, the absentee rate (defined as the total number of days that employees were absent from work due to general, nonwork-related illness or when no justification was presented for the absence) corresponded to a total of 1,794 days, or 0.56% of total days worked. These data refer exclusively to the 885 direct, full-time employees of ASUR as of the 31st of December 2011. At this time, there are no systems in place that require subcontractors, service providers or other parties with employees working at the airport to provide ASUR with accident, injury and absenteeism data. 6.0 Quality of Life for Employees 44 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability Community Involvement and Support 7.0 7.0 Community Involvement and Support The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards for its employees and their families is undoubtedly one of the most important ways in which the company provides support for local communities. The basis for this is the financial success of our business, and we are therefore constantly seeking ways in which we can increase value for both our shareholders and other stakeholders. We are also aware that the airports we operate play a significant role in facilitating business for other companies and individuals in the regions where they are located; our airports form a key part of local transport networks, and are therefore important for the promotion of regional economic development. As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a series of activities intended to raise the profile of the destinations where we operate. We have a dedicated Route Development team, whose job it is to promote our destinations with the world’s airlines. The goal of this is to bring in more flights to our destinations, and more visitors mean increased 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 45 revenues for local businesses as well as our airports. We also participate in networking conventions and congresses around the world relating to the airport and tourism industries, often in coordination with the Mexican federal and state tourism authorities and local business groups. “ we recognise that the success of our business also depends on establishing good relations with our local communities ” In addition to any direct or indirect economic impacts created by our operations, however, we recognise that the success of our business also depends on establishing good relations with our local communities, and on ensuring that our operations are of mutual benefit to both the company and all its stakeholders. To this end, each of our airports provides support at the local level for a wide range of community projects. Our corporate policies also include stated commitments to run our business ethically and to avoid practices that promote corruption or are harmful to fair trade. Sections 7.2 and 7.3 of this report contain more detailed information on ASUR’s community involvement and anti-corruption measures. 7.1 Direct Economic Benefits The table below provides a breakdown of the economic value generated, distributed and retained by ASUR in 2011. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 46 Economic value generated Total economic value generated 4,573.3 Economic value distributed Operating costs 1,764.8 Employee wages & benefits 396.5 Payments to providers of capital 966.7 Payments to governments 553.1 Community investments 4.5 Total economic value distributed 3,685.6 Figure 7: Economic value retained Economic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained Total economic value retained 887.7 (Figures stated in millions of Mexican pesos) As per the methodology established in the Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability reporting guidelines, the figures in this table are based on ASUR’s audited financial statements for the year 2011, which are prepared in accordance with Mexican financial reporting standards. The item “Total economic value generated” corresponds to the company’s revenues. Under “Economic value distributed”, the item of “Payments to providers of capital” includes interests on loans and dividends paid to shareholders. “Payments to governments” correspond to taxes, and the figure for community investments includes all cash donations, as well as the estimated values of donations in kind and man hours used for volunteer projects. During the year 2011, ASUR did not receive any financial assistance from the Mexican government. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 47 7.2 Community Involvement The nine airports of ASUR are involved in various community projects at the local level. These projects are selected and administered by each airport individually, to respond to local needs and to promote a sense of ownership and greater commitment. Support is provided monetarily and in the form of donations of goods and services, as well as volunteering. The total value of cash donations, donations in kind and man hours in 2011 is estimated at approximately $4.5 million pesos. During the period, the projects supported fell under four main categories: public health services, care for people with disabilities, education and public services, and the environment. “ The total value of cash donations, donations in kind and man hours in 2011 is estimated at approximately $4.5 million pesos ” The organisations that received support from ASUR in the healthcare sector included the Mexican Red Cross. For the third year running, a fundraising marathon was organised at Cancún Airport, and the proceeds were donated to a local charity that raises awareness and provides support for sufferers of breast cancer. In Tapachula, airport workers participated in a public health awareness drive organised by the Mexican Social Security Institute. In the field of assistance for people with disabilities, a programme remains in place at Veracruz Airport whereby lost objects or articles confiscated at the airport’s security filters (i.e., items that are prohibited in hand luggage) are donated to an organisation that provides support for the blind, provided the items remain unclaimed by their owners for a certain period. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 48 “ In keeping with the company’s focus on environmental matters, several of ASUR’s airports participated in different ways to support environmental initiatives in their local communities ” In relation to education and public services, donations were made of construction materials for a school in Veracruz and of sports equipment for a series of municipal facilities in Lázaro Cárdenas, close to Cancún. An agreement was also signed with an adult education institution in Tapachula to allow several members of the airport’s subcontracted cleaning staff to finish their basic education. In keeping with the company’s focus on environmental matters, several of ASUR’s airports participated in different ways to support environmental initiatives in their local communities. Among the projects were the donation of advertising spaces in several of the airports of the Group for a campaign on protected natural areas; outreach with local schools and universities to raise awareness of environmental issues; a volunteer programme in Huatulco to clean local beaches; and donations to the Huatulco National Park, which is a protected natural habitat. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 49 7.3 Anticorruption Measures ASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets forth the ethical standards the company expects its employees, executives and corporate governance officials to adhere to. This Code of Ethics is provided to each new employee as part of the company’s induction procedures. On an annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried out for all employees and the members of the company’s Board of Directors and corporate governance committees are required to certify that they have not incurred any violations of the Code. “ Employees are encouraged to use this system to report instances of corruption or abuse, and they may choose to submit reports anonymously or not ” The company also has an internal reporting system through which reports or complaints may be submitted directly to the Internal Auditing Department for investigation, by email or voicemail. Employees are encouraged to use this system to report instances of corruption or abuse, and they may choose to submit reports anonymously or not. In the event that they do confirm their identity, it is guaranteed that they will not be penalised in any way, even if the reports submitted prove to be baseless. The Internal Auditing Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is composed entirely of independent members (that is, people who are not shareholders or executive officers in the company, or their related parties) As well as investigating all reports received via the company’s internal system, the Internal Auditing Department establishes a quarterly programme of audits to be carried out in different business units. The Audit Committee approves the work programme of the Internal Auditing Department and is informed of the results of the audits performed. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 50 During 2011, 100% of the company’s employees were provided with training relating to the Code of Ethics. ASUR’s Internal Auditing Department carried out audits in all nine airports in the Group, as well as one of the commercial concession holders operating at the airports. These audits resulted in a total of 32 relevant observations. A total of 21 reports were submitted via the internal reporting system during the year, of which 5 were considered to be of critical importance, 7 were of medium importance and 9 were of minor importance. “ A total of 21 reports were submitted via the internal reporting system during the year, of which 5 were considered to be of critical importance, 7 were of medium importance and 9 were of minor importance ” Of the critical matters that came to the attention of the Internal Auditing Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural concerns and no disciplinary action was taken. In those cases where the investigations carried out by the Internal Auditors detected unethical behaviour by company employees, disciplinary or dismissal proceedings were initiated. 7.0 Community Involvement and Support 51 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability Human Rights Commitment to 8.0 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights The goal of ASUR’s management in relation to human rights is to ensure that the company and its employees do not incur any human rights violations. In those cases where possible abuses are detected, the corresponding steps should be taken to resolve them quickly, efficiently and transparently. The Internal Auditing Department is entrusted with investigating any potential human rights abuses. The head of this Department reports directly to the Audit Committee, which is ultimately responsible for enforcement of the company’s policies on human rights. Internal campaigns are carried out on at least an annual basis, in which employees are encouraged to use the company’s reporting system to notify the Internal Auditing Department of any rights abuses. ASUR has a written policy in which the company formally sets forth its commitment to upholding and promoting human rights. This policy expressly states that the company will guarantee its employees the 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights 52 right to personal integrity, which means that workers may not be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal abuse of any nature, and that sexual harassment of any kind is strictly forbidden. The policy also contains a non-discrimination clause that prohibits discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. “ During 2011, no threats were identified to the freedom of association or collective bargaining rights of the company’s employees ” The only complaint of this kind filed during 2011 was in connection with an employee of Cancún Airport in a supervisory position, who was accused of issuing verbal threats of dismissal to subordinate staff members. The matter was investigated by the Internal Auditing Department, the claims were found to be justified and the person in question was cautioned and asked to adhere to the company’s standards regarding respect for co-workers. No further complaints have been received. The company has also assumed the obligation to protect its employees’ right to freedom of association. As mentioned in section 6.1 of this report, the company management and the airport workers’ union adhere to a regular collective bargaining procedure to establish employment conditions and benefits for unionised employees. During 2011, no threats were identified to the freedom of association or collective bargaining rights of the company’s employees. 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights 53 According to the company’s policy on human rights, ASUR does not use or benefit from forced labour or child labour of any kind. All working agreements are governed by consensual, written employment contracts, and the company’s policy is not to employ anyone who is under 15 years of age. Currently, no one under the age of 18 is employed by ASUR and no situations involving forced labour have been identified. “ The company has the obligation to avoid any situations in which it might be complicit in human rights abuses ” Finally, the company has the obligation to avoid any situations in which it might be complicit in human rights abuses; in practical terms this means that no investments should be made in, or products and services procured from, other companies that incur human-rights violations. During the period, no instances of human rights violations have been identified in the company’s supply chain. 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights 54 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability Global Compact United Nations 9.0 9.0 United Nations Global Compact ”At ASUR, we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and are committed to finding new ways to improve our implementation of the 10 Principles. We believe that the Global Compact is a tool that helps us to improve our standards of ethical business practice, in the long run contributing to the success and sustainability of our company.” Lic. Fernando Chico Pardo Chairman of the Board of Directors 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 55 The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative established by the United Nations to promote the values of social responsibility and respect for human rights in businesses around the world. ASUR became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005, and the Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Directors, Fernando Chico Pardo, was appointed as a member of the UNGC’s Board of Directors on the 11th of March 2009. “ ASUR currently is a partner of the Regional Support Centre for Latin America and the Caribbean of the UNGC ” ASUR currently is a partner of the Regional Support Centre for Latin America and the Caribbean of the UNGC, which is based in Bogotá, Colombia, and has a representative on the Steering Committee of the local network of the UNGC in Mexico. The company provides funding for the activities of the UNGC at both national and regional levels. The UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption; these core values are the Ten Principles. Below is a table that states what the Ten Principles are and where they are addressed in the text of this report. 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 56 PRINCIPIO REFERIRSE A I. Businesses should support and respect the SecTIOn 8.0 protection of internationally proclaimed huCommitment to Human Rights man rights II. Businesses should make sure that they are SecTIOn 8.0 not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment to Human Rights SecTIOn 6.1 III. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Description of Workforce association and the effective recognition of SecTIOn 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights the right to collective bargaining IV. Businesses should uphold the elimination Section 8.0 Commitment to Human Rights of all forms of forced and compulsory labour V. Businesses should uphold the effective Section 8.0 abolition of child labour Commitment to Human Rights VI. Businesses should uphold the elimination SecTIOn 8.0 of discrimination in respect of employment Commitment to Human Rights and occupation VII. Businesses should support a precautionSection 5.0 Environmental Responsibility ary approach to environmental challenges VIII. Businesses should undertake initiatives SecTIOn 5.0 to promote greater environmental responsiEnvironmental Responsibility bility IX. Businesses should encourage the develSecTIOn 5.0 opment and diffusion of environmentally Environmental Responsibility friendly technologies X. Businesses should work against corruption SecTIOn 7.3 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ANTICORRUPTION Measures Figure 8 United Nations Global Compact Principles 9.0 United Nations Global Compact 57 REPORT2011 Annual Sustainability GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 10.0 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators This report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and is intended as a Level B report under that system. The Global Reporting Initiative is a network based organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 58 Figure 9 : Index of GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators Standard Disclosures GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionSection 1.0: Message from our C.E.O. maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opSection 1.0: Message from our C.E.O. portunities 2.1 Name of the organization Section 2.0: Company Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Section 2.1: Business Activities 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Section 2.4: Organisational Structure 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Section 2.0: Company Profile 2.5 Number and names of countries where the Section 2.0: Company Profile organization operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Section 2.3: Shareholder Structure 2.7 Markets served Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 59 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Section 2.4: Organisational Structure Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting peSection 2.6: Significant Changes in riod regarding size, structure, or ownership Operations during 2011 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Section 2.7: Social Responsibility Awards and External Programmes 3.1 Reporting period Section 3.0: Report Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Section 3.0: Report Parameters 3.3 Reporting cycle Section 3.0: Report Parameters 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of report or its contents Report 3.5 Process for defining report content Section 3.1: Stakeholder Analysis and Report Content 3.6 Boundary of the report Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of Report 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or bounSection 3.2: Scope and Limitations of dary of the report Report 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 60 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsiSection 3.2: Scope and Limitations of diaries, leased facilities, outsourced operaReport tions 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the Section 3.1 Stakeholder Analysis and bases of calculations Report Content 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of earlier reports Report 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of periods in scope, boundary or measureReport ment methods 3.12 Table identifying the location of the StanSection 10.0: GRI Standard Disclosudard Disclosures in the report res and Performance Indicators 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations of seeking external assurance for the report Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Section 4.0: Corporate Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Section 4.0: Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 61 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter 4.3 Number of members of the highest goverSection 4.0: Corporate Governance nance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and emploSection 4.0: Corporate Governance yees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation Section 4.0: Corporate Governance and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest goverSection 4.0: Corporate Governance nance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Section 4.0: Corporate Governance and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Section 4.0: Corporate Governance or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Section 4.0: Corporate Governance for overseeing the identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 62 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest goverSection 4.0: Corporate Governance nance body’s own performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the preSection 4.0: Corporate Governance cautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environSection 9.0: United Nations Global mental, and social charters, principles, or Compact other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Section 9.0: United Nations Global industry associations) and/or national/interCompact national advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Section 3.1: Stakeholder Analysis and organization Report Content 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Section 3.1: Stakeholder Analysis and stakeholders with whom to engage Report Content 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Section 3.1: Stakeholder Analysis and including frequency of engagement by type Report Content and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through Section 3.1: Stakeholder Analysis and stakeholder engagement, and how the orReport Content ganization has responded to them 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 63 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Disclosures on Management Approach DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; EnviSection 5.1: Significant Issues and Maronment nagement Strategy DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Section 6.0: Quality of Life for EmploLabour yees DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; EcoSection 7.0: Community Involvement nomic and Support DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; SoSection 7.0: Community Involvement ciety and Support DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; HuSection 8.0: Commitment to Human man Rights Rights Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Section 5.2.5: Fuel Consumption EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recySection 5.2.5: Fuel Consumption cled input materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary enerSection 5.2.5: Fuel Consumption gy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Section 5.2.2: Energy Efficiency source 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 64 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Section 5.2.3: Water Efficiency EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Section 5.2.4: Waste Management method EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Section 2.6 Significant Changes in Opeof products and services, and extent of rations during 2011 impact mitigation Section 5.2.1: Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Section 5.4: Environmental Certification number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations LA1 Total workforce by employment type, emSection 6.1: Description of Workforce ployment contract, and region LA4 Percentage of employees covered by coSection 6.1: Description of Workforce llective bargaining agreements LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Section 6.2: Safety in the Workplace days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region EC1 Direct economic value generated and distriSection 7.1: Direct Economic Benefits buted EC4 Significant financial assistance received Section 7.1: Direct Economic Benefits from government 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 65 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter SO2 Percentage and total number of busiSection 7.3: Anticorruption Measures ness units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Section 7.3: Anticorruption Measures organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Section 7.3: Anticorruption Measures corruption HR4 Total number of incidents of discriminaSection 8.0: Commitment to Human tion and actions taken Rights HR5 Operations identified in which the right Section 8.0: Commitment to Human to exercise freedom of association and Rights collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having signiSection 8.0: Commitment to Human ficant risk for incidents of child labour, Rights and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour HR7 Operations identified as having sigSection 8.0: Commitment to Human nificant risk for incidents of forced or Rights compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour 10.0 GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators 66 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2011 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Preview / parameter Results Reduce amount of non-haReuse or recycling of materials, Compliance with Cancún zardous waste disposed including plastics, paper, glass, reduction percentage 80% of in landfill sites by 20% aluminium, etc. goal Promote protection of sites Programme for reforestation of 10 Percentage of target of special natural value in Cancún hectares of mangrove area reforested state of Quintana Roo 100% Improve quality of sewage sludge from treatment plants, for use as Encourage growth of fertiliser on green areas Number of items of equiCancún vegetation without using 2 surrounding airport; installation of pment installed chemical fertilisers two dry-press filters for sludge Replacement of incandescent Number of Reduce consumption of lighting fixtures with energy-saving COZUMEL incandescent lighting 43 electricity lighting systems (fluorescent and fixtures replaced LEDs) Implementation of smart Reduce consumption of automation system for Percent progress in Cozumel electricity electromechanical installations to installation 50% optimise electricity consumption Replacement of battery-operated Reduce production of Number of Cozumel flushometers with equipment 6 hazardous waste flushometers replaced operating on mains electricity Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2011 67 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Preview / parameter Results Reduce amount of paper / Separation of paper/ cardboard Percentage of total Huatulco cardboard waste disposed waste; disposal with recycling 100% waste recycled of in landfill sites facility Reduce amount of PET Separation of PET plastic waste; Percentage of total Huatulco plastic waste disposed of in 100% disposal with recycling facility waste recycled landfill sites Redesign and upgrades in Optimise handling of nonPercent progress in Huatulco non-hazardous waste 100% hazardous waste works handling plant Maintain consumption of Implementation of series of enerelectricity per person within Consumption compared Mérida gy saving measures in different -3.9% range of ± 15% compared to to previous year areas of the airport previous year Maintain consumption of Implementation of series of water Change in consumption water per person within Mérida saving measures in different areas compared to previous 17.3% range of ± 10% compared to of the airport year previous year nt of toxic refrigerating gases with Number of items of Mérida Reduce air pollution hazards harmless gases in various airport 35 equipment upgraded cooling units Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2011 68 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Preview / parameter Results Reduce extraction from Change in Implementation of series of water sources by 2%, consumption Minatitlán water conservation measures 29.3% measured on a compared to in different areas of the airport per-passenger basisW previous year Change in Implementation of series of Reduce total electricity consumption Minatitlán energy saving measures in 1% consumption by 1% compared to different areas of the airport previous year Training for airport apron workers on procedure and Prevent soil pollution due to practice to prevent / mitigaNumber of apron worMinatitlán 100% spills of toxic substances te soil pollution from spills of kers receiving training fuels, oils, hydraulic liquids, hypochlorites, etc. Mitigate environmental Plant and maintain 200 trees Number of trees alive OAXACA effects of terminal expan216 on airport grounds at yearend sion projects Ensure vehicles used by airport community have complied with Reduce / contain vehicle mandatory emissions testing; OAXACA Completion of project 100% emissions require emissions testing certificate for free access to airport car park Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2011 69 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Preview / parameter Results Change in Implementation of series of Reduce total electricity consumption Tapachula energy saving measures in -1.8% consumption by 2% compared to different areas of the airport previous year Reuse or recycling of materials, Recycle 21% of non-hazardous Percentage of total Veracruz including plastics, paper, glass, 25% waste produced in the airport waste recycled aluminium, etc. Limit total annual Implementation of series of Actual electricity consumption to Veracruz energy saving measures in consumption during 2,030,760 maximum amount of different areas of the airport the year (kWh) 2,150,460 kWh Limit total annual water Implementation of series of Actual consumption Veracruz consumption to maximum water saving measures in 25,093 during the year (m3) amount of 24,077 m3 different areas of the airport Limit total annual consumption Implementation of series of Actual consumption of paper in administrative Veracruz paper saving measures in compared to 98,000 offices to maximum airport administrative offices maximum limit amount of 100,000 sheets Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2011 70 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Airport Objective Activities Measurement Preview / parameter Results Plant 150 trees in areas suNumber of trees Villahermosa Restoration of green areas 150 rrounding airport planted Encourage growth of Percentage of trees Use sludge from waste water Villahermosa vegetation without using chefertilised using 100% treatment plant to fertilise trees mical fertilisers sludge Villahermosa Replace 100% Contact supplier; switch to Percent of paper of paper used in Villahermosa recycled paper in airport’s replaced with 100% administrative offices administrative offices recycled product with recycled paper Appendix A ASUR Environmental Objectives and Performance, 2011 71 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 569,624 555,939 596,197 7.2% Total water discharged m3 380,845 403,864 318,093 -21.2% Total electricity kWh 62,938,597 60,584,421 62,167,261 2.6% consumption Gj 226,579 218,104 223,802 2.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 19,380 20,274 17,788 -12.3% Total non-hazardous t 4,114.3 4,465.0 4,311.5 -3.4% waste produced Total fuel consumption l 446,361 455,712 459,837 0.9% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 35.9 32.7 33.6 2.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 24.0 23.7 17.9 -24.5% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.0 3.6 3.5 -1.6% per passenger Mj/pax 14.3 12.8 12.6 -1.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.2 1.2 1.0 -15.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.26 0.26 0.24 -7.4% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 28.2 26.8 25.9 -3.2% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 72 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Cancún Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 335,697 306,231 330,336 7.9% Total water discharged m3 261,089 281,178 185,000 -34.2% Total electricity kWh 43,448,286 41,794,777 43,036,277 3.0% consumption Gj 156,414 150,461 154,931 3.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 4,085 7,576 4,456 -41.2% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 3,645.9 4,034.5 3,794.4 -6.0% Total fuel consumption l 220,519 224,728 208,650 -7.2% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 29.6 24.4 25.2 3.4% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 23.0 22.4 14.1 -36.9% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 3.8 3.3 3.3 -1.3% per passenger Mj/pax 13.8 12.0 11.8 -1.3% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.4 0.6 0.3 -43.6% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.32 0.32 0.29 -9.8% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 19.5 17.9 15.9 -11.0% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 73 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Cozumel Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 23,194 25,722 19,738 -23.3% Total water discharged m3 21,761 25,579 11,850 -53.7% Total electricity kWh 2,200,931 2,250,689 2,340,202 4.0% consumption Gj 7,923 8,102 8,425 4.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 5,090 3,532 3,814 8.0% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 29.9 37.4 34.1 -8.9% Total fuel consumption l 26,950 41,289 48,407 17.2% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 51.8 57.1 43.6 -23.6% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 48.6 56.8 26.2 -53.8% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.9 5.0 5.2 3.6% per passenger Mj/pax 17.7 18.0 18.6 3.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 11.4 7.8 8.4 7.6% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.07 0.08 0.08 -9.2% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 60.2 91.6 107.0 16.8% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 74 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Huatulco Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 15,764 12,108 15,997 32.1% Total water discharged m 3 8,463 6,288 6,114 -2.8% Total electricity kWh 870,079 847,896 821,857 -3.1% consumption Gj 3,132 3,052 2,959 -3.1% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,657 1,532 1,876 22.5% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 52.2 23.6 54.5 131.0% Total fuel consumption l 13,958 15,377 15,025 -2.3% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 40.4 31.2 34.6 10.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 21.7 16.2 13.2 -18.4% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 2.2 2.2 1.8 -18.7% per passenger Mj/pax 8.0 7.9 6.4 -18.7% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 4.3 4.0 4.1 2.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.13 0.06 0.12 93.8% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 35.8 39.7 32.5 -18.0% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 75 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Mérida Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 84,398 97,812 123,285 26.0% Total water discharged m 3 61,408 53,985 87,502 62.1% Total electricity kWh 7,123,760 7,074,957 7,307,080 3.3% consumption Gj 25,646 25,470 26,305 3.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 2,278 3,040 2,190 -28.0% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 87.9 91.9 92.7 0.9% Total fuel consumption l 43,628 34,767 49,734 43.0% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 77.9 83.9 98.3 17.3% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 56.7 46.3 69.8 50.8% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 6.6 6.1 5.8 -3.9% per passenger Mj/pax 23.7 21.8 21.0 -3.9% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 2.1 2.6 1.7 -33.0% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.08 0.08 0.07 -6.1% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 40.3 29.8 39.7 33.1% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 76 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Minatitlán Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 14,800 14,184 16,444 15.9% Total water discharged m 3 4,075 5,788 4,906 -15.2% Total electricity kWh 853,410 753,339 760,698 1.0% consumption Gj 3,072 2,712 2,739 1.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,025 989 1,785 80.5% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 9.3 4.5 3.6 -19.0% Total fuel consumption l 11,480 18,928 14,100 -25.5% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 98.0 112.8 145.8 29.3% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 27.0 46.0 43.5 -5.4% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 5.7 6.0 6.7 12.6% per passenger Mj/pax 20.3 21.6 24.3 12.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 6.8 7.9 15.8 101.4% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.06 0.04 0.03 -9.7% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 76.0 150.5 125.0 -16.9% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 77 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Oaxaca Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 15,396 17,823 15,270 -14.3% Total water discharged m 3 4,638 7,802 5,590 -28.4% Total electricity kWh 896,168 903,576 933,268 3.3% consumption Gj 3,226 3,253 3,360 3.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 2,020 1,800 1,605 -10.8% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 81.4 93.8 94.9 1.2% Total fuel consumption l 24,107 27,360 26,262 -4.0% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 28.4 38.6 37.1 -3.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 8.6 16.9 13.6 -19.7% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 1.7 2.0 2.3 15.8% per passenger Mj/pax 5.9 7.0 8.2 15.8% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 3.7 3.9 3.9 0.0% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.15 0.20 0.23 13.5% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 44.5 59.3 63.8 7.6% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 78 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Tapachula Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 23,397 22,595 22,570 -0.1% Total water discharged m3 8,185 10,959 9,590 -12.5% Total electricity kWh 1,778,560 1,546,300 1,518,370 -1.8% consumption Gj 6,403 5,567 5,466 -1.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,076 810 794 -2.0% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 43.6 33.6 31.8 -5.4% Total fuel consumption l 43,488 43,181 43,530 0.8% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 119.3 119.0 133.6 12.3% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 41.7 57.7 56.8 -1.6% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 9.1 8.1 9.0 10.4% per passenger Mj/pax 32.7 29.3 32.4 10.4% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 5.5 4.3 4.7 10.2% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.22 0.18 0.19 6.3% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 221.7 227.4 257.6 13.3% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 79 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Veracruz Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 22,889 24,077 25,093 4.2% Total water discharged m 3 6,975 7,058 2,308 -67.3% Total electricity kWh 2,373,480 2,150,460 2,030,760 -5.6% consumption Gj 8,545 7,742 7,311 -5.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,724 642 834 29.9% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 75.2 83.2 91.9 10.4% Total fuel consumption l 32,290 20,545 24,739 20.4% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 25.1 27.0 28.1 4.4% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 7.6 7.9 2.6 -67.3% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 2.6 2.4 2.3 -5.4% per passenger Mj/pax 9.4 8.7 8.2 -5.4% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.9 0.7 0.9 30.1% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.08 0.09 0.10 10.5% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 35.4 23.0 27.8 20.6% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 80 Annual Sustainability REPORT 2011 Villahermosa Total Figures % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Total water consumption m3 34,089 35,386 27,464 -22.4% Total water discharged m3 4,251 5,228 5,233 0.1% Total electricity kWh 3,393,923 3,262,427 3,418,749 4.8% consumption Gj 12,218 11,745 12,307 4.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 425 354 434 22.8% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 88.8 62.5 113.7 81.7% Total fuel consumption l 29,941 29,537 29,390 -0.5% Per-Passenger Basis % change Parameter Unit mmt 2009 2010 2011 (‘11 vs ‘10) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 42.5 45.9 31.3 -31.8% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 5.3 6.8 6.0 -12.0% Electricity consumption kWh/pax 4.2 4.2 3.9 -7.9% per passenger Mj/pax 15.2 15.2 14.0 -7.9% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.5 0.5 0.5 7.9% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.10 0.08 0.13 59.8% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 37.3 38.3 33.5 -12.5% APPENDIX B Environmental Performance Indicators 81
