2012 Teijin Group CSR Report [Achievements in FY2011] Consolidating our Position as a Corporate Group with a Strong Global Presence… The Teijin Group established its corporate philosophy in June 1993, 75 years after its founding. In April 2003, we changed to a holding company system and established “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” as our brand statement to represent the Teijin Group’s commitment to customers and society. We will continue striving to fulfill this commitment, developing and enhancing our “Quality of Life” corporate philosophy, and acting as a corporate group that can be trusted by society and by our customers. Corporate Philosophy In Harmony with Society Quality of Life Empowering Our People Our aim is to grow and evolve in We encourage our employees to The Teijin Group’s purpose harmony with the progress of society, achieve self-realization by thus justifying the trust of our is to enhance the quality of developing and exercising their shareholders, customers, and the life through a deep insight abilities to the fullest. We nurture a public at large. To this end, we strive into human nature and corporate community with a wide constantly to raise corporate value needs, together with the variety of abilities and personalities and place our highest priority on application of to foster creative innovation. safety and the environment. our creative abilities. Brand Statement The promise of the Teijin brand is summed up in the resonant statement: “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions.” Our promise is to continue to develop chemical technologies that are friendly to both people and the global environment and to provide solutions that deliver real value to our customers and society. “Chemistry” and “Solutions” summarize the Teijin Group’s strategy for the 21st century focusing on chemical materials and provision of services that create added value. Chemistry also refers to good relationships, expressing the importance of trust, goodwill, and mutual benefit. CSR Basic Policy (2012–2015) 1. To recognize common value of business strategy and CSR management as a driving force toward sustainable development of the society 2. To contribute to Teijin’s achieving the global excellence as a global player, by obtaining and maintaining a global recognition as “CSR champion” in Teijin’s way. 3. To realize “co-existence with global environment” by actively promoting environmental management. 4. To help realize improvement of “Quality of Life,” by providing safe and reliable products and services. 5. To be recognized as a benchmark of Basic CSR activities such as compliance and risk management by their thorough implementation. 6. To build “Win-Win” relationships with stakeholders in and outside the Teijin Group by two-way dialogues and active involvement in their development and enhance their satisfaction. 1 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Editorial Policy CONTENTS Explanatory Note Message from the President .......................................... 3 In creating the 2012 Teijin Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Profile of the Teijin Group .............................................. 5 Report, we have considered the following points, aiming to increase the report’s audience and their understanding of the Teijin Group’s CSR activities. Features Completeness and Materiality The 6th Stakeholder Dialogue ...................................... 7 The contents of this year’s CSR Report have been chosen according to Products/Technologies Realizing Reduced Environmental Impact ........................................ 13 Social Report strict criteria, referring to the following guidelines and questionnaires on socially responsible investment (SRI), and considering the business conditions of our group. Notably, the features section describes initiatives relating to themes that are important to both the Teijin Group and society. News Flash ....................................................... 15 Reference Guidelines: ri&OWJSPONFOUBM3FQPSUJOH(VJEFMJOFT u .JOJTUSZPGUIF Vision and Strategy Environment, Government of Japan) ri4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ3FQPSUJOH(VJEFMJOFT u (MPCBM3FQPSUJOH*OJUJBUJWF CSR Management System ................................ ....... 17 Reporting that corresponds to items in the GRI guidelines is marked with FY2011 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations ..... 19 Corporate Governance ........................................... 23 the applicable number as follows: ** Environment, Safety Coordination between CSR Report and Website Social Report and Health Report Information that could not be included in this CSR report due to space restrictions is published on the website. Relevant pages in the report are marked for reference at the top of the page and a full list of references is Compliance and Risk Management ........................... 25 included on the final page. Quality Assurance ................................................. 28 Web Human Resource Management and Labor CSR ............ 29 Website-only item CSR Procurement ........................................... ....... 32 See website for more detailed information Web See website for more Social Contributions ........................................ ....... 33 detailed information http://www.teijin.co.jp/english/eco/ Economic Report Clarity Environment, Safety and Health Report This report predominately targets readers who are interested in CSR, and ESH Management (Environmental Preservation, at the same time endeavors to promote understanding of our activities Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) ....... ....... 35 across a wide audience. To this end, we have minimized the report’s Reducing Environmental Impact ....................... ....... 36 length as much as possible, and adopted a layout arranged according to Design for Environment .......................................... 41 specific features of our group’s CSR management. As well as emphasis on making the report easy to understand and view, we have considered Environmental Businesses ................................ ....... 43 ease of searching via features such as cross-referenced pages. Disaster Prevention Activities ............................ ....... 46 Occupational Safety .............................................. 47 Reliability Emphasizing transparency in all aspects of management, the Teijin Group Health and Sanitary Measures ........................... ....... 48 is committed to active disclosure of information that can be trusted. On ESH Management Data (Environmental Preservation, this basis, this report has been independently reviewed by KPMG AZSA Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) ....... ....... 49 Sustainability Co., Ltd., who have provided assurance of its reliability. Indicators on which assurance is provided are marked with a red star ( ). Economic Report Time Period/Boundaries 3 .1 3 .6 3 .7 In principle, this report includes information corresponding to the period Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders ......... ....... 50 from April 2011 to March 2012. However, some information is included that corresponds to the 2011 calendar year or activities implemented after April 2012. Furthermore, information in this report generally refers to all Opinions from Third Parties Teijin Group companies (Teijin Limited, plus 67 in Japan and 81 overseas). Opinions from Experts ..................................... ....... 51 However, in some sections, such as environment, safety and health management and human resource management, we have included notes indicating the use of a separate time period and boundaries. Independent Assurance Report ................................ 53 List of Website References ................................ ....... 54 Additional Information Editor’s Postscript .................................................. 54 Information that could not be included in this report due to space restrictions (on topics such as our business activities, social contributions, financial data and environmentally friendly products) has been published and is regularly updated on our website. In addition, the All product and service names in this report are trademarks or registered following documents are available for reference. trademarks of the Teijin Group. Other names of products and services are r$433FQPSU +BQBOFTF trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. r5FJKJO(SPVQ$PNQBOZ1SPñMF +BQBOFTF&OHMJTI r OOVBM3FQPSU +BQBOFTF&OHMJTI Publication Date and Schedule for Next Report 3.2 3.3 r'BDU#PPL +BQBOFTF&OHMJTI Published in August, 2012 r'JOBODJBM4UBUFNFOUT +BQBOFTF&OHMJTI (next report scheduled for publication in September, 2013) (published once a year). r4IBSFIPMEFST3FQPSU +BQBOFTF Contact 3.4 Teijin Limited CSR Planning Office URL: http://www.teijin.co.jp/english/ Tel: +81-3-3506-4508 Fax: +81-3-3506-4037 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 2 Mediumto Long-term Management Vision and CSR Challenges Message from the President Tow Towards the Group’s Sustainable Growth thro through a Head-on Approach to Tackling Difficult Global Issues The mediumto long-term management vision has been announced. What initiatives are being taken in terms of CSR-related issues? What are the key points? Aim for Growth through Providing Solutions to Global Issues Review BCP and Aim to Enhance Our Ability to Cope with Disasters In February 2012, after a review process of our mediumto long-term The Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11 last year caused strategy for sustainable growth that took close to two years, we substantial damage to our home healthcare business and films announced “CHANGE for 2016—Innovation and Action for business. Many patients in our home healthcare business were Sustainable Growth,” our new mediumto long-term management severely affected by the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear power plant vision. For long-term issues, we conducted simulations of global accident. Thanks to the utmost efforts of employees engaged in work economic, social and environmental issues in 2020, taking the view related to the business at the disaster areas and support extended that providing solutions to these issues is an opportunity for by employees outside the disaster areas as well as tremendous sustainable growth of the Teijin Group. cooperation from the people in the affected areas, we were able to In the past, the Teijin Group has divided its businesses into resume normal business activities by the middle of June. The response material businesses and solution businesses. However, we now to the earthquake by the home healthcare business leveraged our consider that it will be difficult for material businesses to grow experience from past earthquakes such as the Hanshin-Awaji unless they contribute to provision of solutions. In this respect, the earthquake in 1995 and the Niigata-Chuetsu earthquake in 2004. In Teijin Group vows to take a head-on approach to tackling difficult our films business, both the Utsunomiya and Ibaraki Plants sustained global issues. serious damage to their manufacturing facilities. By the end of June, In FY2011, the Teijin Group recorded net sales of 854.4 billion production lines had resumed, but unfortunately, in the meantime, yen and an operating income of 34 billion yen. In the future, many customers and suppliers were greatly inconvenienced. through concentrated investments in growth areas, mergers and The flooding that started last October in Thailand also caused acquisitions, as well as effective alliances, we aim to make further serious damage to three plants of the polyester fibers business. By contributions to the solution of global issues. Our target is net sales March, the situation had improved to the extent that the Japanese of 1.3 trillion yen and operating income of 100 billion yen by FY2016, support team could return to Japan, but still further efforts are and net sales of 2 trillion yen and operating income of 200 billion required to complete recovery. yen by around FY2020. As is clear from the above, this past year we experienced severe natural catastrophes both in Japan and overseas. Many times during Outline of the Mediumto Long-Term Management Vision these situations I called to mind our corporate philosophy: “Improve Quality of Life,” “In Harmony with Society” and “Empowering Our Long-term Vision: People.” I strongly felt the burden of protecting the safety of our 1. Secure profitable, sustainable growth by providing customers with needed solutions. stakeholders including customers, employees and their families and 2. Build value that also benefits society, and contribute to the the weight of responsibility to supply products and services as a advancement of humanity by focusing on businesses that leverage Teijin’s cutting-edge technologies. business operator even when faced with an accident or disaster. The 3. Be recognized as a leading player that has attained global Teijin Group adopted risk management practices and business excellence.* continuity plans (BCPs) at an early stage. Through making the most * Our criteria for global excellence is a corporation that has several world-leading businesses; has expanded its businesses on a global scale; of what we have learned in the past year and reviewing the details, has gained recognition in society; and has employees who are proud to work there. we will aim to build a corporate structure characterized by an even stronger ability to cope in a disaster. Basic Policies 1. Press forward with growth strategies in green chemistry, healthcare and overlapping business domains. Three Core Elements Driving Environmental Management: 2. Advance and expand existing businesses by broadening Environmental Preservation, Design for Environment and scope and adding depth. 3. Bolster R&D aimed at fostering new businesses. Environmental Businesses 4. Enhance implementation of strategies through The Teijin Group announced the Declaration of Sustainable organizational reforms. 5. Promote decisive, ongoing efforts to reform cost structure. Environment Initiatives in 2007. Environmental management refers to reducing environmental impact over the entire life cycle of Targets Net Sales Operating income products including all processes from material procurement to FY2016 ..... 1.3 trillion yen 100 billion yen production, use and disposal. The three core elements of this are environmental preservation, Design for Environment and Around FY2020 ..... 2 trillion yen 200 billion yen environmental businesses. Environmental preservation refers to activities aimed at reducing the negative impact our daily business 3 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 activities have on the environment. Design for Environment refers to our initiatives, based on in-house guidelines, to design products and production processes that contribute to reducing environmental impact. Environmental businesses are business activities aimed at contributing to environmental improvement. Examples of Teijin Group activities for each of these three core elements are presented as follows. First, for environmental preservation, one example is our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions to prevent global warming. Our target (in Japan) of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% compared to the FY1990 level by FY2020 has already been achieved. We are striving for further reductions, and have set a new target to reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production been reached in Japan. In response we established the Diversity amount by 1% or more compared to the preceding fiscal year. Development Section and have since endeavored to make various Secondly, an example in Design for Environment is the Hi-Sanso™ reforms including changing the awareness related to gender-based 7R home healthcare oxygen concentrator. This energy-saving product division of roles in the workplace, which had been an obstacle for features the lowest power consumption in the industry and is equipped female workers, as well as reforms of personnel management with sophisticated functions including compatibility with a system systems to enable female employees to continue to work even after that automatically monitors equipment operational status. There are major life events such as marriage or pregnancy. approximately 30 other products and processes throughout the At the same time, we set the goal for the ratio of newly recruited Teijin Group that meet the Design for Environment guidelines. female university graduates to 30% or more and have been trying to Thirdly, for environmental businesses, there are any number of increase the ratio of females in managerial positions. In 2000, the examples of diverse products and services based on our long-accumulated total number of females in managerial positions was approximately chemistry-based technologies. Some specific products are bioplastics 10 at Teijin Limited, but this had increased to approximately 80 in that use raw materials originating from plant life such as BIOFRONT®, a total in 2011 at the 12 core group companies . Female employees highly heat-resistant bioplastic, PLANEXT®, a polycarbonate resin, and are now stepping up their presence as an indispensable part of the ECO CIRCLE Plantfiber ®, a bio-PET, as well as carbon fibers and aramid workforce and our target is to double the number of females in fibers that contribute to products with reduced weight and longer managerial positions to 160 by 2016, five years from now. service life. Our environmental businesses also include a chemical In FY2007, the Diversity Development Section expanded its role recycling technology used to recycle polyester products to a highly beyond gender issues, and in FY2009, we established the Global Human pure raw material. In March 2012, we came to a basic agreement Resources Office. These organizations have been playing a central regarding an alliance with the China Chemical Fibers Association. This role in creating globally focused personnel management systems to alliance will aim to develop the chemical fibers and related industries recruit, foster and assign excellent talent in the world in a fair manner in China as well as Teijin’s fibers industry in China. As part of the irrespective of gender, age, nationality, race or physical impairment, agreement, the Teijin Group will promote the establishment of a and provide them with a place to fully maximize their potential. closed-loop recycling system in collaboration with major companies In addition, the Health Care Administration Office established in in China. This move will allow us to contribute to the sustainable FY2009 was bolstered to eight-person operation in 2012. This office development of the chemical fibers industry in China. takes a preventive approach to promoting the healthy minds and In this way, the effects of environmental management extend bodies of employees. to all business groups. To support global expansion in each field, in I am convinced that these measures to strengthen human resources FY2012, we established the Group Environmental Management will support the mediumto long-term growth of the Teijin Group. Promotion Subcommittee. This subcommittee will have a central The Teijin Group will continue aiming to “Improve Quality of Life” role in promoting environmental management, while integrating on a global basis through the activities described above. I look the growth strategies of the entire Teijin Group. forward to your ongoing support in these and other efforts. June 2012 Strengthen Human Resources Globally, Aiming for Employee and Group Growth One part of the Teijin Group’s corporate philosophy is “Empowering Our People.” Shigeo Ohyagi In 2000, although female employees had achieved equal terms President and CEO with male employees at overseas companies, this situation had not Teijin Limited TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 4 Profile of 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 the Teijin Global Expansion in Diverse Businesses 2.6 2.7 2.8 LA1 Group The Teijin Group’s key statement, “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions,” signifies the deep integration of our diversified, advanced technologies, and vast “solutions knowledge” in the lives of people, achieved through the help of our business partners and their activities. The restructuring of our business has led to Expansion of the Teijin Group’s Teijin Limited Corporate Profile changes in the number of our employees. (As of March 31, 2012) Businesses Currently, there are 16,819 group company Established: June 17, 1918 Capital: 70,816 million yen The Teijin Group was established in 1918 as employees, including 7,111 overseas (187 Osaka Head Office the first manufacturer of rayon yarn in Japan. transferred from Japan). In FY2011, the 6-7, Minami-Honmachi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Starting with the launch of our polyester average annual number of temporary Osaka 541-8587 Japan business, and building on the foundation of employees in companies in Japan and Tel: +81-6-6268-2132 our strong technological prowess in fibers, we overseas was 2,412. Tokyo Head Office Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 have expanded to become a diverse business The Teijin Group is primarily involved in Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo group active in a broad range of fields. business activities in which we do not have 100-8585 Japan Tel: +81-3-3506-4529 Today, Teijin Limited and 148 group direct contact with consumers, such as the Representative companies are active in our Synthetic Fibers, production of materials. Despite this, through Shigeo Ohyagi, President and CEO Films and Plastics, Medical & Pharmaceutical, our involvement in various industrial fields, URL: http://www.teijin.co.jp/english Fiber Products Marketing, and IT businesses. our innovative and numerous products and We continue to expand these businesses on services have become strongly integrated in Profile of the Teijin Group a global scale in Asia, the USA and Europe. the lives of consumers. (As of March 31, 2012) Holding company: 1 Group companies in Japan: 67 Raw Our partners Materials materials Group companies overseas: 81 (clients) Total: 149 Consumers Number of employees in Japan: 9,708 Our partners Number of employees overseas: 7,111 (clients) Finished Total: 16,819 Services products * Excluding temporary employees. Trends in No. of Group Employees Trends in Consolidated Net Sales and Operating Income Trends in Main Management Indexes In Japan Overseas Consolidated net sales Return on assets (ROA) Consolidated operating income Debt equity ratio (D/E) (Persons) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (%) 25,000 1,200 120 8.0 1.2 1,000 1,036.6 100 6.5 1.18 1.18 0.94 20,000 19,125 19,453 18,778 943.4 6.0 0.89 0.9 17,542 16,819 800 815.7 854.4 80 15,000 765.8 6.1 8,668 8,785 65.2 0.83 4.5 8,581 7,588 600 60 4.0 0.6 7,111 10,000 48.6 400 40 34.0 2.0 0.3 5,000 10,668 10,457 10,197 9,954 9,708 200 18.0 13.4 20 1.9 1.6 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Breakdown of FY2011 Consolidated Net Sales (As of March 31, 2012) Sales by Business Segment Sales by Domicile of Customers Others Trading and Retail Europe/Other Japan 40.8 billion yen (4.8%) 224.6 billion yen (26.3%) 70.3 billion yen (8.2%) 519.0 billion yen (60.7%) Polyester Fibers The Americas Total Total 109.9 billion yen (12.9%) 71.0 billion yen (8.3%) 854.4 854.4 Advanced Fibers & billion yen Asia billion yen Composites 72.2 billion yen (8.5%) 120.7 billion yen (14.1%) Pharmaceuticals and Home Healthcare Film and Plastics China 143.0 billion yen (16.7%) 215.4 billion yen (25.2%) 121.9 billion yen (14.3%) 5 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Business groups were reorganized in April 2012 in line with the implementation of CHANGE for 2016, the mediumto long-term management vision announced in February 2012. Advanced Fibers & Composites Business Group Healthcare Business Group High Performance Fibers Business Unit Carbon Fibers & Composites Business Unit These companies are engaged in manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals, as well as the This group is engaged in the manufacturing and This group is engaged in the manufacturing and manufacture of home healthcare products and marketing of high-strength, high-tensile marketing of Tenax® carbon fiber and its provision of related services. Home healthcare para-aramid fibers, and highly heatand application, carbon fiber reinforced plastics (CFRP) devices and a treatment for hyperuricemia and flame-resistant meta-aramid fibers. Notably, the (see pages 13–14). The carbon fiber production gout continue to be expanded internationally. group holds an approximate 50% share of the capacity of this group is the world’s second largest. global para-aramid fiber market. In April 2012, we Tenax ® is used in aircraft, the blades of wind turbine launched Hi-Sanso™ 3S, Twaron® is a lightweight, generators and other similar applications owing to its a home healthcare high-strength light weight, high strength and high tenacity. Through oxygen concentrator para-aramid fiber. It is use of thermoplastic resin in CFRP, the Teijin Composites featuring safe, used widely including in Innovation Center anxiety-free, protective clothing, in (TCIC) has established a energy-efficient automobiles as a friction world-first technology performance. An audio material for brake pads that enables mold guidance function and reinforcement production in less than informs users of material for tires, and as a one minute, and is procedures in the case reinforcement material now concentrating on of a power outage or for optical fiber cables. developing malfunction, thereby Optical fiber cable made applications of molded Structure of concept car made ensuring anxiety-free use. using Twaron® parts made of CFRP. entirely of thermoplastic CFRP Hi-Sanso™ 3S Electric Materials & Performance Polymer Products Business Group IT Business Group Films Business Unit Teijin Chemicals Ltd. manufactures and sells This group provides operation, development and ELECLEAR ®, a film for touch panels. This thin, maintenance services for information systems. This group is a world-leading manufacturer of lightweight and transparent electroconductive film is polyester films, which are used in back sheets of Emergency Call™ is a system developed to enable produced from the base of two materials, a solar battery panels and LCD televisions. Through polycarbonate film produced by Teijin Chemicals Ltd. confirmation of the safety of others, and to secure in-house development of polyethylene and a polyester film produced by Teijin DuPoint Films quick and accurate mutual communication. Evaluated naphthalate (PEN) film, this group’s share of the Japan Limited. highly for its effectiveness in protecting children global PEN film market is almost 100%. against risks such as those posed by natural disasters or crime, this system has been adopted in many private elementary schools in Japan. How Emergency Call™ Works Resin & Plastic Processing Business Unit (1) Emergency contact As Asia’s No. 1 manufacturer of polycarbonate General notice of disaster sent Office Users General General Notice resin, this group takes advantage of compounding, Notice notice sent notice sent Emergency Call ™ processing and other technologies in producing Mobile phone, PHS, e-mail, various products, such as resin windows for phone, pager, fax, Shinkansen trains and automobiles, LED lighting, satellite mobile phone Office Users Information Users send and films for touch panels. on safety information of users on own safety ELECLEAR ® film for touch panels Confirm information on safety of users (2) Safety confirmation Products Converting Business Group New Business Development Group Products Converting Business Unit Polyester Fibers Business Unit Established within Teijin Limited, the New Business Development Group promotes activities to create This group handles the total planning and sales of In addition to manufacture/sales of apparel and and develop new businesses in cooperation with fiber, apparel and industrial materials, films and interior household materials, this group is other group companies. plastics, and other miscellaneous household products. responsible for global expansion of the ECO CIRCLE™ closed-loop recycling system. LIELSORT® is an innovative separator that enhances the AEROSHELTER® II is an ultralight and compact safety, extends the service life and realizes high large-scale temporary tent made using POWERRIP ®, a ELK ® is a functional cushioning material with superior capacity/output for lithium-ion secondary batteries lightweight, high-strength polyester fabric, as the base elasticity, durability and ventilation. After use, ELK® (LIBs). We aim to establish LIELSORT® as the de facto material. Owing to its ability to restrict the passage of products can be recycled as part of the ECO CIRCLE™ standard for specifications of next-generation LIBs for outside air and excellent flame resistance, it has system, and toxic gas emissions during combustion fast-expanding tablet computers, automobiles and applications including at events and as an initial relief are minimized. other products. facility during disasters. AEROSHELTER® II ELK ® LIELSORT ® innovative separator TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 6 The 6th Stakeholder Dialogue (Dialogue with Doctor and Patients’ Association) Feature 1 CSR in Disasters 4 .17 Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd., in collaboration with medical institutions and patients’ associations, was involved in urgent efforts to verify the safety of long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) patients and distribute portable oxygen cylinders to these patients. One year on, we take a look back at our response to the earthquake, and think about what CSR the home healthcare business should fulfill in disasters. Home Healthcare Support in the Great East Japan Earthquake March 11 Great East Japan Earthquake strikes (at 14:46) Four minutes after the quake hit, in accordance with the Progress of Safety Verification for All Affected Areas up to March 31, 2011 disaster countermeasures manual, Teijin Home Healthcare (No. of LTOT patients yet to have safety verified) Ltd. set up a disaster (Persons) countermeasures headquarters at the Sendai branch office 25,000 and a disaster support headquarters at the Tokyo head office. 20,000 15,000 Safety of 99.8 % of LTOT patients verified Power outage throughout the Tohoku 52.3% by the end of March region 10,000 verified Utilizing D-MAP, a disaster response and 91.6% support map system, a list of 25,000 patients 5,000 verified 98.8% living in the disaster areas was prepared 10 0 verified minutes after the earthquake. Approximately 50 staff members from the head office disaster support headquarters started Mar. 11 Mar. 13 Mar. 19 Mar. Mar 25 Mar Mar. 31 calling LTOT patients to verify their safety. Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd.’s Ishinomaki At the disaster countermeasures headquarters, satellite office is inundated by the tsunami. Explosion at Fukushima No. 1 Nuclear Power damage to oxygen cylinder filling stations was checked as calls to verify safety continued. The Kanagawa branch office was designated as a March 12 Plant; Evacuation advisory is issued for all areas within 20 km radius depot for oxygen cylinders, and arrangements A disaster-area support plan was for oxygen cylinders/concentrators for patients created, support personnel were and medical institutions began. dispatched to the six Tohoku prefectures and Ibaraki, and the number of staff at the call center was increased. Due to distribution companies cancelling any delivery of cargo to disaster areas, we used March 13 chartered truck transportation to send oxygen cylinders. Tokyo Electric Power Co. (TEPCO) announces planned power outages from the following day Call center In response to TEPCO’s announcement, we started notifying LTOT patients affected by the planned power outages. The first group of support personnel arrived in Sendai and started distributing oxygen A temporary distribution base was set up. cylinders to high-priority LTOT patients in the areas affected by the power outages. Activities in the Fukushima area continued while checking radiation exposure with radiation meters. Oxygen concentrators were installed for patients who evacuated to Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital (50 units) and at 17 other institutions in Miyagi (112 units). March 14 TEPCO implements the planned power outage Tohoku Electric Power announces planned power outages from the following day Support personnel started arriving in Tohoku disaster areas from all over Japan. A temporary base for distribution of oxygen concentrators and other items was set up in March 15 Cooperation between our offices and cylinder dealers in planned power outage areas helped to improve the oxygen cylinder distribution system. Yamanashi. Safety verification of LTOT patients moves into full swing with staff from Sendai office making direct visits to homes and evacuation shelters. March 16 Medical equipment supplied to the Tohoku region (as of the end of March 2011) Oxygen concentrators 603 units Use of the mass media (television, radio, newspapers, etc.) to alert people of our safety verification efforts begins in collaboration with Tohoku Hakuchokai, a patients’ association. March 18 Oxygen cylinders 17,173 units Mask respirators 74 units Safety of 99.8% of LTOT patients is verified Batteries for respirators 284 units by the end of March March 31 7 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. is a subsidiary of Teijin Pharma is unknown, and continued vigilance is required in respect to an Limited, a core company of Teijin Group’s medical and earthquake in the Nankai or Tonankai troughs. Today, this group of pharmaceutical business. Among other products, the company people, who have all made dedicated efforts in the disaster area, has supplies oxygen concentrators for long-term oxygen therapy been gathered to discuss what we can do and what preparations are (LTOT). Immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake, necessary for future disasters. I invite everyone to share personal Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. extended full support to LTOT experiences, make requests to Teijin Pharma and Teijin Home Healthcare patients in the disaster areas with the Sendai and Fukushima Ltd., and discuss future challenges and any other relevant issues. sales offices playing a central role. Mr. Matsumoto: First of all, as the manager of Sendai sales office, LTOT is a method of providing oxygen inhalation at home Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd., I would like to thank Dr. Yanai of for a long period of time to patients who cannot take in enough Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital, as well as Mr. Takahashi and Mr. oxygen into their bodies. It enables patients to return to their Ohtomo, chairman and vice chairman of Tohoku Hakuchokai for all family lives and their workplaces, enhancing their quality of the support extended to us. A telephone conversation with Dr. Yanai life. There are estimated to be approximately 150,000 patients on March 11, the day of the earthquake, helped me grasp the in Japan. situation in faraway Ishinomaki. Mr. Takahashi and Mr. Ohtomo were In this stakeholder dialogue, we are joined by Dr. Yanai of of great assistance in helping verify the safety of patients. At Teijin the Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital, as well as Mr. Takahashi and Home Healthcare Ltd., when there is an earthquake of lower-5 or Mr. Ohtomo, chairman and vice chairman of Tohoku Hakuchokai, higher intensity, in order to verify safety and decide the best an association for patients with respiratory diseases. In addition support method, we use D-MAP, an originally developed disaster to taking a look back at the response to the earthquake, we talk response and support map system that automatically outputs a list about what is required to prepare for future catastrophes and of Teijin medical equipment LTOT patients in the affected areas. what CSR the home healthcare business should fulfill in disasters. However, there were some patients that we had difficulty in contacting and I would like to thank you again for your assistance Date & Time Wednesday, March 28, 2012 From 3:00 to 5:00p.m. in that regard. Venue Sendai sales office meeting room, Mr. Ohtomo: At that time, I was also urgently moving from place to Sendai branch office, Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. place to verify people’s safety but just as I was becoming aware of my limitations, Teijin Tokyo head office called asking for help in verifying the safety of patients. In response, I proposed using television and other mass media to alert people. This proposal was Working with the Patients’ Association to Urge Mass Media to Alert accepted, so on March 18 as there was no transportation available Patients to Safety Verification Activities then, I walked to NHK Sendai broadcast station, the nearest Mr. Kishida (MC): Over one year has passed since the Great East broadcast station from my house. Apparently, NHK received many Japan Earthquake. When and where the next catastrophe will strike similar requests to ours. In our case, based on our position as a Mr. Ryosei Kishida Mr. Ryo Ohtomo Mr. Akira Takahashi Dr. Masaru Yanai Mr. Tadaaki Matsumoto Mr. Toshiro Miyazaki Senior Manager and Vice Chairman Chairman Respiratory Department Manager Manager Assistant to the Head of the Tohoku Hakuchokai Tohoku Hakuchokai Manager Sendai Sales Office Fukushima Sales Office Home Healthcare Sales Division (patients’ association) (patients’ association) Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. Teijin Pharma Limited TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 8 The 6th Sttakeholder Dialogue (Dialogue with Doctor and Patients’ Association) CSR in Disasters Feature 1 respiratory disease patients’ association, the broadcast examination manager concerned, but LTOT committee approved our request. I also went to the Miyagi patients were not eligible. In Prefectural Office to ask for a request to be made for the mass other words, recognition of this media’s cooperation. Our information was published in newspapers disease is very low. In my role on March 19 and also broadcasted through newspaper-affiliated as a consultant for Sendai city, stations. Patients soon started contacting us saying “I heard the when I was asked by the broadcast” or “I read it in a newspaper.” We could thus alert patients mayor about any problems, in the six Tohoku prefectures that we were verifying safety. I responded, “Please make Mr. Ryo Ohtomo Mr. Matsumoto: The success in approaching the mass media was Vice Chairman people who use an oxygen Tohoku Hakuchokai (patients’ association) only possible through the assistance of Tohoku Hakuchokai. The concentrator in daily life After the Great East Japan Earthquake, message was broadcast by NHK late at night on March 18. By the Mr. Ohtomo made urgent efforts eligible for the secondary through the mass media to alert following day, we had made contact with approximately 92% of respiratory disease patients of safety evacuation shelters.” verification activities. patients and one week later, this figure rose to 99%. When we visited Mr. Kishida: Dr. Yanai, as a patients’ homes to check oxygen concentrators and other doctor, what is your opinion about this situation? equipment, patients made comments such as, “I was relieved to see Dr. Yanai: I regret to say that few people understand the situation it on television” and “I felt I had Tohoku Hakuchokai supporting me.” of LTOT patients. Nurses and physiotherapists are permanently Mr. Kishida: We have learnt through our experiences this time that, stationed at the welfare evacuation shelters* and doctors move as business operators, when a large disaster occurs we must between shelters to give support to those who need nursing approach mass media in collaboration with patients’ associations. In care, but the city officials were not fully aware of LTOT patients. this sense, we have discussed in our company that it is important to I would like the city to have a proper understanding of LTOT keep in close contact with patients’ associations in various areas on a patients. In the case of dialysis patients, this has been achieved. routine basis. Including the degree of emergency needs, the status of LTOT patients must be understood beyond the boundaries of businesses and medical institutions. In a crisis, the effect of the A System is Needed to Determine LTOT Patients Beyond the Boundaries disaster could be reduced if the required information was made of Any Medical Institution or Business Operators available to local social workers Mr. Kishida: Mr. Takahashi, as a representative of the patients’ and the patients’ association. association, what are your thoughts about the earthquake response? Even if disasters cannot be Mr. Takahashi: What I am most concerned about is the so-called prevented completely, in order earthquake-related death. These deaths were an issue that came to minimize damage, we must to the fore after the earthquake this time and include those who anticipate various cases and died after deterioration of prepare for occurrences health while living in an beyond these anticipations. Dr. Masaru Yanai evacuation shelter. We think We fully learnt this time that Respiratory Department Manager Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital that some of these deaths may the more we are prepared, Dr. Yanai supported LTOT patients by have included home therapy the less damage we will suffer. installing a LTOT station at Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital, the only medical patients. If first-aid stations had This will lead to reducing institution that escaped major damage in the affected areas. been set up in evacuation disaster-related deaths. shelters, patients would have * Welfare evacuation shelter: A kind of secondary evaluation shelter where elderly Mr. Akira Takahashi people who require nursing care, physically impaired people, pregnant women Chairman been able to receive treatment and others are given special consideration. Tohoku Hakuchokai (patients’ association) sooner and some deaths may Mr. Takahashi has given many rehabilitation lectures advocating the importance of have been avoided. I think it is Mr. Takahashi: In some areas, the government is supposed to respiratory rehabilitation. Many patients were able to get through this crisis using important to make the convey information to social workers, but in some respects it is the breathing method they had learnt. government understand this. difficult for the government to always grasp the status of patients Mr. Ohtomo: In Sendai, I considered it a problem that respiratory due to privacy and other issues. We also tried to have patients disease patients were not allowed into secondary evacuation register with a neighborhood association, but hardly any patients shelters. Secondary evacuation shelters are facilities that accept registered of their own accord. For the time being, it may be the and support people who need nursing and other care. home healthcare dealer supplying oxygen concentrators and Admissions are checked by a nurse and approved by the cylinders that has the best understanding of patients. 9 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Mr. Kishida: The actual situation may be so, but as Dr. Yanai pointed assisted by bringing as many oxygen concentrators/cylinders as out, it is necessary to have a record of all patients in each area possible to the hospital, and many empty cylinders were taken back beyond the barriers of medical institutions and businesses. In my and refilled regardless of whose cylinder it was. It was reassuring to role as head of the home oxygen task force of the Japan Industrial know that in an emergency, medical equipment manufacturers and and Medical Gases Association, I went to the Pharmaceutical Affairs their agents can cooperate beyond company barriers to do Section of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government to ask about the everything possible for patients. actual situation of patient registration. I learnt as a result that Mr. Kishida: Twenty years ago, the Association for Promotion of although patients requiring dialysis and patients with amyotrophic Health Care Service initiated a certification system for LTOT. Today, lateral sclerosis are registered, there is no registration for respiratory approximately 220 companies in Japan are certified under the disease patients. system. One criterion for certification is being able to offer 24-hour Mr. Miyazaki: I think it is important to use some kind of method so support, or if this is not possible, guaranteeing a substitute company that government officials understand the suffering of respiratory that can offer 24-hour support. In this case, I think this provision disease patients. One method may be to measure blood oxygen functioned effectively. saturation levels with a simple fingertip instrument, and have Mr. Matsumoto: Recently, many hospitals have asked for our people experience the strain when the level falls below 90%. regional data on the number of LTOT patients. Since D-MAP, our disaster response and support map system, can output a distribution map of patients, we have explained to hospitals that any Collaboration Beyond Company and Organizational Barriers to data that does not contain Establish an LTOT Station in a Hospital personal information can be Mr. Kishida: Dr. Yanai, provided. The keyword that I understand that the Ishinomaki I thought came out of this Red Cross Hospital used one of earthquake disaster in terms the rehabilitation rooms as an of future measures was LTOT station. Please tell us “collaboration” including that about it. between business operators, Mr. Tadaaki Matsumoto Dr. Yanai: The practice of business operators and hospitals, Manager Sendai Sales Office business operators supporting business operators and patients’ Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. Mr. Ryosei Kishida patients in disasters started with Senior Manager and Assistant to the Head associations, and patients and While contacting/liaising with various of the Home Healthcare Sales Division parties as a person responsible for the Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. and Teijin Pharma Limited patients’ associations. Use of home oxygen business in Miyagi, Mr. Matsumoto issued instructions to his staff others in the Hanshin−Awaji Mr. Kishida has been engaged in the D-MAP by hospitals is also part of as a workplace leader while considering home oxygen business for 28 years the psychological stress of employees. earthquake. As a system, this and serves as the chairman of the this collaboration. home oxygen task force of the Japan proved to work fairly well, as was Industrial and Medical Gases Dr. Yanai: In the event of a large-scale disaster, it will be important Association. also demonstrated in the Niigata− to collaborate beyond company and organizational barriers. Chuetsu earthquake, the Chuetsu offshore earthquake and the Iwate−Miyagi inland earthquake. On the other hand, although the hospital had prepared for an earthquake predicted to occur offshore Promoting Respiratory Rehabilitation: Training Patients in Breathing Methods Useful in Emergencies of Miyagi, we never expected such a widespread disaster nor the situation of many respiratory disease patients coming to the hospital Mr. Kishida: I understand that respiratory rehabilitation* proved for oxygen. The number of people that came rose from 10 on the very useful in this earthquake. Please tell us about it. first day to 26 the next day and then to 29 on the day after that until Mr. Takahashi: Tohoku Hakuchokai asked its members about we couldn’t respond. It was in this situation that I had the idea of respiratory rehabilitation through questionnaires and during group setting up an LTOT station, on the basis that the rehabilitation center discussions at the general meeting. Many patients said that using had electricity and thinking that it could be used by many LTOT the breathing methods that they had learnt in Hakuchokai patients. Thus, I consulted Mr. Matsumoto of Teijin Home Healthcare rehabilitation sessions allowed them to wait calmly for family Ltd. and 50 oxygen concentrator units were installed on March 15. members to return or for other help. I was very glad to hear that. Mr. Matsumoto: I think the prompt support was possible because Mr. Kishida: Dr. Yanai, please tell us again about the significance of I had previously had many discussions with Dr. Yanai. respiratory rehabilitation? Dr. Yanai: I appreciate all the help we received from each business Dr. Yanai: For chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients in operator. Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. and other business operators particular, respiratory rehabilitation carries the same importance as TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 10 The 6th Sttakeholder Dialogue (Dialogue with Doctor and Patients’ Association) CSR in Disasters Feature 1 drug therapy. If patients learn how to breathe properly, they can reaffirmed the importance of collaboration between medical staff, substantially prevent the drop in blood oxygen saturation levels that patients and home heathcare dealers and of raising the issue with occurs when walking. This time, there were patients who were able the government. to survive the crisis without oxygen cylinders through use of Mr. Takahashi: In this major earthquake disaster, many local respiratory rehabilitation; it is that important. That is why it is such a clinics ceased functioning. That’s why a huge number of patients great thing for the patients’ association to offer respiratory went to large hospitals for help. rehabilitation classes. Patients also receive encouragement from From now on, I think it is each other while talking at the classes. necessary that local clinics Mr. Ohtomo: Recently, patient awareness about the benefits of introduce in-house power respiratory rehabilitation has been increasing. For instance, in generation and for there to be Yamagata, there have been requests for rehabilitation lessons to be closer coordination between held. Through comprehensive public relations activities, Tohoku clinics. Hakuchokai would like to increase the number of participants at Mr. Ohtomo: In this earthquake Mr. Toshiro Miyazaki these sessions. disaster, we saw the sincere Manager Fukushima Sales Office Mr. Takahashi: Tohoku Hakuchokai will start accepting applications efforts of Teijin Home Healthcare Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. for respiratory rehabilitation classes in May. We are now preparing a Ltd. with our own eyes. This In Fukushima, which experienced both the earthquake and nuclear power leaflet inviting patients to join the classes. It would be nice if Teijin strengthened the resolve of the plant accident, the struggle from a psychological point of view is still Home Healthcare Ltd. staff could hand out these leaflets when they patients’ association to also take continuing today. While considering the health of employees, Mr. Miyazaki visit patients. action and we were able to carry guided staff to ensure proper patient follow-up. Mr. Matsumoto: Yes, we would be glad to cooperate. out measures to face the Mr. Kishida: This autumn, the general meeting of the Federation of problem. For me, today’s dialogue reinforced the importance Japanese Respiratory Disease Patients’ Associations will be held. As of collaboration between all groups. there is increasing interest about the benefits of respiratory Mr. Matsumoto: Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd.’s underlying theme is rehabilitation among patients in the areas not affected by the “security and trust.” On March 11, to be honest, we didn’t know how disaster, I hope that comments from Tohoku Hakuchokai at the to take the initial step forward. However, I think this dialogue has meeting will lead to its more widespread use. told us that the trial-and-error process used to support patients was * Respiratory rehabilitation: As a supplement to medical treatment, a combination not mistaken. Based on the lessons that we have learnt this time, of physical therapy (breathing training, exercise therapy) and diet therapy to we hope to strengthen collaboration between all groups and improve breathing difficulties. achieve an enhanced level of security and trust. Mr. Miyazaki: This dialogue was a valuable opportunity for business operators like us to think about what responsibilities Collaboration, the Keyword in Creating an Environment of Security we must fulfill to prevent/reduce the effect of disasters. In the and Trust future, we hope to apply what we have learnt from Dr. Yanai Mr. Kishida: Today’s dialogue was the first opportunity for and Tohoku Hakuchokai. discussions between a doctor, a patients’ association and Teijin Mr. Kishida: As a business operator, my resolve to collaborate Home Healthcare Ltd. What did everyone think about the dialogue? with people in the industry and work for better home healthcare Dr. Yanai: It was good to hear how patients in Sendai responded to was renewed. Thank you very much for sparing the time to join the earthquake disaster. I had heard about the patients in Ishinomaki this dialogue and for the valuable comments. and now I know the details of the situation in Sendai. The dialogue Dialogue with Employees Engaged in Home Healthcare In addition to this dialogue with a doctor and a patients’ association, a dialogue was held with employees of the home healthcare business regarding the response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. For details, please visit our website. Web 11 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Teijin Group’s Response to the Thailand Floods: Recovery and Restarting Production after Suspended Operations due to Flooding In Thailand, due to the continuous and torrential rainfall that started in July 2011, rivers overflowed and approximately one third of the land was inundated. Three (TPL, TJT and TCT) of the four Teijin Group production bases in Thailand were inundated and production had to be temporarily suspended. However, there were no injuries to Teijin employees and recovery work has progressed to enable gradual resumption of production activities. Bangkok g Outline of the Three Teijin Group Production Bases in Thailand and the Extent of Damage Teiijin T ji Co C rd d Extent of damage (Thail (Th ai and and)) No. of employees Partial restart Company name Abbreviation Business details Operations Co. Ltd. (T Co.,, Ltd. (TC TC CT CT) C (at time of disaster) Injuries of production suspended after flooding Teijin Polyester Manufacture of polyester chips, polyester October 16, TPL Approx. 900 None February 9, 2012 (Thailand) Limited filament/staple fibers and industrial fibers 2011 Teijin n Teijin (Thailand) Manufacture of polyester chips and October 12, (Thailand) (Tha annd) TJT Approx. 500 None February 29, 2012 Limited polyester filament/staple fibers 2011 Limited ed Teijin Cord (TJT) T) TCT Approx. 100 Manufacture of cords for the core of October 8, None May 3, 2012 Te T Teijin ster Polyester j Polyes eijin eij (Thailand) Co., Ltd. industrial-use transmission belts 2011 (T T ((Thailand) hail Tha Th LLimited Lim Limi Limit ited t d (TP T ((T P (TPL) PLL) TPL) TPL Worksites and Head Office Working Together for Recovery After we were notified of the further spread of damage on October 14, 2011, we set up a Thailand floods countermeasures task force in our head office to support the activities of the countermeasure headquarters already established onsite. The countermeasures headquarters assigned Maintaining Deliveries to Customers through Alternate personnel responsible for each business and department. Placing Production priority on human life, these personnel took action in areas such as After operations were suspended at the three local sites, we onsite directions, customer response, material supply support, immediately considered alternate production and procurement procurement of machinery/materials, technical/personnel support, from other companies to ensure customer needs were met. local employee support, infection prevention and healthcare. Production of polyester filament and staple fibers, and industrial Recovery work at the three companies, such as cleaning the fibers was shifted to the Matsuyama, Tokuyama and Iwakuni premises and disassembly/cleaning of equipment was conducted Factories of Teijin Fibers Limited as well as to manufacturers in through the joint efforts of local employees and the support team Indonesia and Taiwan, thereby minimizing the impact on from Japan. TPL made the first shipment after the flooding on deliveries to customers. TCT also maintained their deliveries to February 11, 2012, followed by TJT on February 29, 2012, and Japanese rubber manufacturers through alternate production at production has since been resumed step-by-step. other companies. Inside the inundated plant at TJT The inundated plant at TPL Trial operation of equipment at TCT First shipment after restart of production (October 21, 2011) (October 24, 2011) (March 9, 2012) at TPL (February 11, 2012) Looking Back at the Great East Japan Earthquake and Thailand Floods with Respect to Teijin’s BCP/BCM The Teijin Group implements risk management for the entire group Japan Earthquake. I am based on its basic principles of total risk management. In this proud of the employees framework, the BCP and BCM are positioned as core challenges, and who fulfilled their duty at Tamotsu their implementation status, and group-wide risk management plan their respective Koyama and progress are reported to the Board of Directors. workplaces. General Manager of Risk Management Office Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd., which features in this report, has During the Thailand Teijin Limited formulated a BCP under the basic concept that business flooding, countermeasures headquarters were established both continuity is directly connected to the safety of patients, and has in Thailand and at the Teijin head office and all-out group-wide devised original systems such as D-MAP. These kinds of efforts were made for recovery. We will continue to promote preparations performed on a routine basis made it possible to total risk management including BCP and BCM as an important respond appropriately and promptly at the time of the Great East part of CSR. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 12 Products/Technologies Realizing Reduced Environmental Impact Feature 2 Thermoplastic CFRP: Transforming the Future— Reducing Automobile Chassis Weight by 80% CFRP a New Material Being Viewed CFRP, V as the Answer to Creating Weight Reduction Spiral Effect Lighter Cars Carbon fiber is an advanced material 10 times stronger than steel Automobile yet only a quarter of its weight with the added advantage of being weighing highly resistant to both acid and alkaline corrosion. Combining Body 1,100 kg carbon fiber with plastics is CFRP, whose use as a structural material for aircraft and wind power generation turbines continues to grow. Engine In the automotive industry, CFRP is capturing attention as a new material that can realize a lighter vehicle body while ensuring safety. Weight reduction spiral Since the body is currently the heaviest part of a car, a lighter body Transmission will allow downsizing and weight reductions of other parts such as the engine and transmission. This will result in a substantial reduction of the overall vehicle weight (weight reduction spiral) and Electric components Steering improve fuel efficiency dramatically. For hybrid and electric vehicles, Brake it will help realize smaller and lighter batteries and motors, the Suspension sources of power, while significantly increasing the driving range. Other components 35% The world’s first CFRP one-minute molding technology developed by Teijin has received worldwide acclaim. The technology has received awards from the global market research firm Frost & Sullivan and ICIS, an influential UK-based 710 kg reduction in total journal in the chemical industry, who chose the technology as the overall winner and division award winner in the ICIS Innovation Awards 2011. Fuel efficiency of automobiles is a global issue as underlined by the US government’s announcement to tighten fuel-efficiency regulations to 23.2 km/liter for 2025 models, approximately twice the current average. Offering a solution, the Teijin Group has successfully established a new technology that, for the first time in the world, enables carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP), a new material that is strong yet light, to be molded in just one minute. This will make it possible to achieve the previously difficult task of using CFRP in automobile mass-production, and will pave the way toward better fuel efficiency owing to a substantially lighter vehicle body weight. Weighs only Chassis of a thermoplastic 47 kg CFRP concept car light enough to be lifted easily by two adults 13 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Potential of Thermoplastic CFRP to Reduce Environmental Impact In March 2011, a concept electric vehicle was manufactured combining Reduced impact on all of these new technologies. This global environment all-thermoplastic-CFRP car has minimized use of metal and a CO2 emissions chassis weighing a mere Enhanced restricted Shorter 47 kg, one fifth the weight of fuel production efficiency process a conventional steel chassis. Accelerate Substantially change to All-thermoplastic-CFRP car Reduced less EVs/HEVs disposal components Reduced loss One-minute weight molding Joint R&D with GM, USA for Full-scale Application to Mass-produced Automobiles Thermoplastic CFRP innovation For full-scale application of thermoplastic CFRP to mass-produced automobiles, it is necessary to guarantee further reliability and safety as a vehicle-body structural material, while also developing Overcoming the Barrier of One-minute Takt Time for peripheral technologies relating to repair and maintenance. the First Time in the World In December 2011, we signed a pact with General Motors (GM), Conventional CFRP could not be used in automobile a major US automobile manufacturer, for co-development of mass-production where a takt time (time required for one process) mass-production technologies for various components using within one minute is required. This was because of a complex thermoplastic CFRP. It was a first step toward full-fledged application manufacturing process and longer molding time due to the use of to mass-produced automobiles. thermosetting resin, which hardens when heated. The high cost is Moving towards commercialization of thermoplastic CFRP, in another obvious problem. the middle of 2012, operations will begin at a pilot plant currently In response, the Teijin Group used thermoplastic resin, which under construction at our Matsuyama Factory (Ehime). We will also softens when heated and had previously been difficult to use for fast-track component development at Teijin Composites Application CFRP, to successfully develop thermoplastic CFRP in March, 2011. As Center, established in the north-eastern part of the USA in March a result, the manufacturing process was simplified significantly and 2012 as a base for application development. takt time within one minute was realized for the first time in the In the future, we plan to approach manufacturers at home and world, opening up the possibility of applications to mass-produced abroad regarding full-scale application of thermoplastic CFRP with a automobiles. Thermoplastic CFRP, whose shape can be easily focus on automotive applications. We also hope to expand modified after molding, is also suitable for reuse or reforming, and applications to other industrial components to contribute to the has the potential to contribute to reducing environmental impact reduction of CO2 emissions through weight reductions. over the entire product life cycle including after use. Concept Car with Chassis Weight Reduced to One-fifth Comment of GM Vice Chairman Mr. Steve Girsky The Teijin Group has analyzed the strength and moldability required Our relationship with Teijin provides the opportunity to for a vehicle body and developed three types of intermediate revolutionize the way CFRP materials with different strength characteristics to enable use of is used in the automotive thermoplastic CFRP to meet the requirements for various vehicle industry, which till now has parts. We have also developed technologies to bond CFRPs with been limited to some parts of luxury cars. This other CFRPs and with different materials such as steel and aluminum. technology holds the potential to be an industry Development of intermediate materials game changer and demonstrates GM’s Norio Kamei, Senior Managing long-standing commitment Director (left) to innovation. Steve Girsky, Vice Chairman (right) • Unidirectional base • Isotropic base material • LFT* material Excellent physical balance High-intensity long Maximum use of the between dimensional fiber pellet for injection Comment from Teijin—Involvement in Development strength of carbon fibers flexibility and strength molding * LFT: Long fiber thermoplastic pellet Designing and Analyzing Molded Parts Made of Thermoplastic CFRP Development of molding technology Development of bonding technology No-one has ever done this kind of development before so there are many difficulties, but considering the Steel/ technological innovation that we are creating, it is CFRP CFRP CFRP aluminium extremely satisfying. I hope our thermoplastic CFRP can be used in many components and contribute • World’s first technology to • Bonding • Bonding to reducing global environmental impact. mold CFRP within one minute technology for technology for thermoplastic different • Injection molding using LFT CFRPs materials Tsukasa Arai Teijin Composites Innovation Center TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 14 News Flash Major topics relating to FY2011 Teijin Group CSR activities are presented below. Three Textile Group Companies in Thailand Society Listed Once Again in SRI Indexes Award Presented with Safety Award 2.10 Teijin Limited has been listed for three consecutive years in the Dow In August 2011, Teijin Polyester (Thailand) Limited (TPL) and Jones Sustainability World Index, which is recognized as a global Teijin ( Thailand) Limited ( TJT ), companies engaged in the indicator of socially responsible investment (SRI). Teijin is also listed manufacture and marketing of polyesters, as well as Teijin Cord in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia-Pacific Index, the FTSE4Good ( Thailand) Co., Ltd. ( TCT ) engaged in the manufacture and Index series, the Ethibel Investment Register as well as in the marketing of polyester cords for transmission belts received the Morningstar SRI Index, a representative SRI index in Japan. These National Occupation Safety and Health Award, the most prestigious listings are evidence of the high worldwide evaluations of Teijin’s safety award in Thailand. social-responsibility initiatives. Through ESH activities such as a safety-awareness week to We were also awarded a Bronze Class rating in the CSR promote the safety activities of each division and implementing assessments by Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), a globally management-led safety patrols, these three companies (TPL, TJT and recognized SRI rating company. Teijin Limited is the only Japanese TCT) exerted all-out efforts to instill/raise safety awareness. firm in the chemical industry sector that acquired a rating in 2012. We hope that being presented with this prestigious safety award will enhance the sense of trust in us in Thailand as a company making efforts for ESH activities. Ohda City Presents First “Corporate 2.10 Award Excellence in Childcare Support System” Award to Teijin Cordley Shimane Plant Society Expanded Scholarship Project in China Teijin Cordley’s Shimane Plant, a driving force in the Teijin Group’s artificial leather business, was chosen by Ohda City in FY2011 The Teijin Scholarship Foundation (see page 34) has decided as the first company to receive the Corporate Excellence in to expand its scholarship project in China and will increase Childcare Support System Award. A certificate was presented the number of annual scholarship recipients for FY2012 to 36, a together with a Corporate Excellence in Childcare Sticker. The 50% increase from FY2011. award is a result of the company’s overall efforts in childcare One of the Teijin Group’s growth strategies is reforming the support including a work-at-home system for employees regional portfolio, aiming to expand business in the key regions of experiencing difficulties in attending the office for Asia and emerging countries, prime examples being China and childcare-based and other reasons, and a system for returning Brazil. We have high expectations that the expansion of the to work after childcare leave. The Teijin Group plans to use this scholarship project this time will contribute to further support for award as a springboard to further enhance childcare support fostering excellent human resources in China, resulting in the and also work–life balance of group employees. Through wide enhanced presence of the entire group in the future. flexibility in “place” (work-at-home system) and “time” (support for childcare and nursing care), we will ensure comprehensive back-up for our employees. 15 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Society Various Projects Started to Support Award CSR Report Wins Award for Excellence in Reconstruction of Disaster Areas Sustainability Reporting 2.10 Teijin Associa Retail Limited, which is The 2011 Teijin Group CSR Report received the Award for Excellence driving business focused on specialist in the Sustainability Report Awards section of the 15th men’s and ladies’ wear retail stores, Environmental/Sustainability Report Awards organized by Toyo started the From Tohoku Factory Keizai Inc. Following on from receiving the Award for Excellence Project in June 2011. Almost 10,000 in the 14th Awards, we have received high evaluations for four products made at factories in the consecutive years. areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake are being sold through its nationwide retail network. Teijin Fibers Limited Wins Award for Award Excellence in the 13th Green Purchasing Furthermore, on February 1, 2012, Awards 2.10 the Teijin Group started a project aimed at improving the living environment at Teijin Fibers Limited was presented with the Award for Excellence emergency temporary housing as the for their initiatives for the reduction of environmental impact in first activity of the Fukushima Living Product tag the 13th Green Purchasing Awards organized by the Green Environment Research Group. This is a joint project with the Purchasing Network. Fukushima University Post-disaster Reconstruction Research Institute. Teijin Fibers Limited is committed to reducing environmental We also joined the National Institute of Advanced Industrial impact through their business under a hybrid strategy that Science and Technology (AIST) Smart Life Care Consortium, a group amalgamates biomaterials, recycling, functional materials and of companies who have formed an alliance through the Kesennuma reform of manufacturing processes. Kizuna (strong bond) Project to support post-disaster The award is a result of the highly evaluated achievements reconstruction. The Teijin Group has extended support of over 500 of Teijin Fibers in a wide range of fields, as exemplified by the million yen for all projects combined (for the period between March cross-industry coordination and product development in the ECO 2011 and January 2012), including donation of wastewater CIRCLE ® closed-loop recycling system for polyester products. treatment equipment and curtains. Environment Benefits of MSABP® Recognized in Japan Donations to School Lunch Project in and Abroad Society Developing Countries through Introducing In joint research with the Japan Sewage Works Agency spanning over Table for Two Program two and a half years, Teijin Limited has been conducting pilot tests of The Teijin Group participates in Table for Two,* a social contribution MSABP®, biological-process-based wastewater treatment equipment program that is easy for employees to take part in, and that seeks to (see page 44). The results of this research announced in July 2011 have solve problems of famine in developing countries and obesity and demonstrated the benefits of MSABP®. Compared to the oxidation lifestyle-related diseases in advanced countries. ditch process widely used at small-scale wastewater treatment plants, Through the Table for Two program, company cafeteria menu excess sludge can be reduced 78%, while power consumption can be items are introduced where donations of 20 yen per meal are reduced 12% (including power for sludge processing). passed on to a school lunch project in developing countries. The Teijin Limited has provided the MSABP® system free-of-charge program was introduced to cafeterias at the Teijin Limited to help recovery of the Kesennuma sewage system affected by the Matsuyama Plant in October 2011, the Iwakuni Plant in April 2012 Great East Japan Earthquake. The equipment was adopted as and the Osaka head office in May 2012. temporary recovery equipment for a sewage treatment plant. The donation-linked menu items are healthy and low-calorie, In addition, the MSABP ® system is being used for sewage also aiding in the fight treatment in Shenyang, China, and in March 2012, was awarded the against obesity and 2011 Grand Prize for Corporate Excellence in Environmental lifestyle-related diseases Business at the 5th Chinese among employees. Environmental Industry Awards * Table for Two: A social for enabling centralized contribution program in Japan started by the NPO, Table for Two management of sewage International. treatment plants dispersed in Donation-linked menu multiple locations. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 16 Vision and CSR Management System 4.8 4.9 4.12 4.13 Strategy The Teijin Group has appointed a Chief Social Responsibility Officer*1 under whose strong leadership we are implementing comprehensive group-wide CSR management. We classify various CSR issues into three fields, and have created a CSR management system that is appropriate to each respective field. This field includes (1) corporate ethics Activities to Promote CSR and compliance, (2) risk management, (3) Teijin Group CSR Committee environmental preservation, safety and We consider CSR to be an important element of disaster prevention, and health activities, (4) The Teijin Group has established the Group corporate management, and aim to promote product liability/quality assurance and (5) CSR Committee to discuss and take action CSR as an integral part of management. In 2005, secure export control. While observing laws on key issues and initiatives relating to the Teijin Group created the new post of Chief and international standards, we are striving group-wide CSR. The Committee meets Social Responsibility Officer (the abbreviation to reach a level beyond these standards. twice a year: in FY2011, meetings were held CSRO was used previously) to act as proxy for in April and October. The main agenda the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in managing Expansive CSR included confirmation and deciding policies all CSR-related affairs. Since being appointed, The “expansive” CSR field includes (1) human relating to the Great East Japan Earthquake the Chief Social Responsibility Officer has been resources/labor (directly controlled by the such as how to deal with the radiation, the showing strong leadership in promoting the Chief Human Resources Officer*1) and (2) work-at-home system and financial Teijin Group’s CSR activities. purchasing/procurement (Chief Financial contributions/donation of relief goods, as To implement the Teijin Group’s CSR Officer [CFO]) to meet supply chain needs. well as items relating to how to integrate management in a unified, efficient manner, As of recently, in order to respond to ISO 26000 into our CSR management. various CSR issues are classified into three advancing social needs, the Chief Social Under the Group CSR Committee, there fields, “basic,” “expansive” and “selective.” A Responsibility Officer advises/supports the are six subcommittees or conferences (see main division/organization in charge is Chief Human Resources Officer and CFO on page 18: The Teijin Group’s CSR Management specified for each field, and starting with “expansive” CSR issues. System). Four of these subcommittees planning for the mediumto long-term and discuss and address “basic” CSR issues, a single fiscal years, we implement the Plan, Selective CSR focus of the Teijin Group. “Expansive” and Do, Check, Act (PDCA) approach. In “selective” CSR, companies conduct “selective” CSR issues are discussed and voluntary activities irrespective of legal addressed by the Group CSR Promotion Basic CSR obligations. Subcommittee consisting of staff from the The Teijin Group’s “basic” CSR is directly The Teijin Group is proactively engaged holding company and representatives from controlled and supervised by the Chief Social in this field and is strongly committed to five business groups and the New Business Responsibility Officer*1. various philanthropic activities. Development Group. Teijin Limited joined the UN Global Compact in March 2011 based on a global perspective and in order to promote high-quality CSR management. The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid PDCA Approach to CSR Activities t Long-term policies: t Holding company programs: Corporate philosophy, As part of short-term plans, each division Corporate Code of Conduct, implements measures relating to Corporate Standards of environmental protection, safety/disaster Selective CSR Conduct prevention, product liability/quality t Environmental policy: assurance, compliance, risk management, Philanthropic activities Midand long-term Plan Do human resources/labor, purchasing/ environmental targets procurement, and social contributions. t Action plans: Midand t Group company programs: short-term CSR action plans Implement respective plans at individual companies. Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement t Self-check by CSR-related division of t Chief Social Responsibility the holding company (included in Officer specifies next year’s the CSR Report) (see pages 19–22) challenges Action Check t Self-check by group companies t Report to the Group CSR Basic CSR Committee t Assurance by an assurance provider Compliance; Risk management; t Chief Social Responsibility Officer Environmental preservation, review (see page 25) Safety and disaster prevention, t Assessment and guidance by four and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance external experts (see pages 51–52) t SRI assessment 17 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 The Teijin Group’s CSR Management System From April 1, 2012 Chief Social Environmental management (including Design for Environment), social contribution activities, reporting Responsibility Officer CSR Planning Office and consultation center operations, CSR report and other activities. Environment, Safety and Activities relating to environmental preservation, safety/disaster prevention, occupational safety and hygiene. Health (ESH) Office Risk Management Office Enlightenment activities relating to risk management, corporate ethics/compliance, product liability/quality assurance and secure export control. With the CSR Planning Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee consists of the holding company division heads (human resources/labor, purchasing/distribution, public relations, marketing, Group CSR Committee Group CSR Promotion Subcommittee management auditing, and environment, safety and health), and representatives of five business groups and the New Business Development Group. With the CSR Planning Office as its secretariat, the subcommittee consists of representatives of five Committee members Group Environmental Management business groups and the head of the New Business Development Group and representatives from Chief Science and Technology Officer Promotion Subcommittee related divisions (marketing, environment, safety and health, technology strategy, intellectual property, public relations, engineering, purchasing/distribution, and raw materials and polymers). Chief Marketing Officer Chief Human Resources Officer With the ESH Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in charge of group-wide Group ESH Subcommittee environment, safety and health activities, and integrates, manages/operates the relevant activities. Assistant to the Chief Social Responsibility Officer (in charge of disaster prevention) Group Compliance and With the Risk Management Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in charge of group-wide compliance and risk management, and integrates, manages/operates the Five Business Group General Managers Risk Management Subcommittee relevant activities. Head of the New Business Development Group With the Risk Management Office as its secretariat, this subcommittee appoints a person in Group Product Liability/ charge of group-wide product liability/quality assurance activities, and integrates, Public Relations Office General Manager Quality Assurance Subcommittee manages/operates the relevant activities. Legal Affairs Office General Manager Management Auditing Office With the Risk Management Office as its secretariat, this conference raises awareness of issues Group Secure Export relating to secure export control at the applicable group companies and manages/operates the General Manager Control Conference Investor Relations Office General Manager relevant activities. *1 On February 8, 2012, the Teijin Group announced its mediumto long-term New Position Titles Previous Position Titles management vision, “CHANGE for 2016.” From April 1, to strongly promote our Chief Social Responsibility Officer CSRO: Chief Social Responsibility Officer overall strategy and as a measure to enhance corporate administration functions, Chief Science and Technology Officer CTO: Chief Technology Officer we have reorganized the previous chief officer system and updated it to a Chief Marketing Officer CMO: Chief Marketing Officer functional coordinator system. Chief Human Resources Officer CHO: Chief Human-resources Officer Looking Back at FY2011 CSR Activities Osamu Nishikawa As the Teijin Group Chief Social Responsibility Officer, at the end of every The objective is to integrate Senior Executive Officer, fiscal year I conduct a review of the CSR of each business group through the group growth strategy Member of hearings with personnel responsible at all business groups. In the and environmental the Board, Chief Social following I look back over the FY2011 CSR activities referring to these management while also Responsibility Officer hearings, and report on three matters where progress has been made. expecting further expansion Teijin Limited 1) Improvements to BCPs of environmental businesses. To prepare for a large-scale disaster such as a large earthquake or a While advances such as these have been made, accidents also pandemic such as bird flu, in 2006 the Teijin Group established a BCP occurred that require serious reflection. As a chemical manufacturer, for central management. Since then, we have been working to create the Teijin Group has placed special emphasis on disaster prevention BCPs customized to the characteristics of each business group, and in and safety activities. Despite this, in August 2011, there was an FY2011 we completed this process. As upcoming measures, we will accident at the Matsuyama Plant of a group company involving a review BCPs based on the important lessons learnt after the Great East chemical (hazardous) substance falling/spilling onto the road during Japan Earthquake of March 11 last year and conduct regular training transportation of raw materials. After the accident was reported to the and drills seeking to increase BCP functioning. authorities and the substance was cleaned up, the accident details 2) Stronger Risk Management System were publicized. Fortunately, there was no damage to the Previously, the CSR department consisted of two office systems, the environment or people, but we regrettably caused much concern CSR Planning Office and the ESH Office. However, in light of the among local residents. Immediately after the accident, we set up an increasing importance of risk management and BCP, we have newly accident countermeasures committee, enacted measures to prevent established a Risk Management Office and increased the number of recurrence and applied them group-wide (see page 46). staff responsible for risk management. In FY2012, with respect to international standards for social 3) Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee Established responsibility, we will seek to further instill the principles of ISO 26000 The Teijin Group Environmental Management Promotion Subcommittee (published at the end of 2010) within the company and review the has been established as of 2012 to enable a group-wide approach to form that the Teijin Group’s CSR should take. As the Chief Social environmental management, considering that its application has Responsibility Officer, I vow to continue striving to further advance the expanded globally and it has become applicable to all business groups. CSR management of the Teijin Group. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 18 Vision and FY2011 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations Strategy The Teijin Group organizes CSR issues into three categories; Basic, Expansive and Selective. We set mid-/long-term and fiscal-year goals for each area and self-evaluate achievements to reflect them in the goals for the next fiscal year. Midand long-term goals FY2011 goals Conduct a systematic review of corporate governance regulations in accordance with amendments of laws. Corporate governance Enhance corporate governance and ensure compliance with laws Respond to the announcement by the Financial Services Agency/Business and regulations. Accounting Council entitled, “Council Opinions on the Revision of the Standards for Management Assessment and Audits for Internal Control of Financial Reporting” (maintain effectiveness and promote efficiency). Keep careful track of social demands and use the knowledge gained to enhance management (continue to hold stakeholder Identify issues through stakeholder dialogues. dialogues). CSR general Instill and enhance CSR activities by applying CSR performance Review CSR performance indicators/items and apply them to group indicators. companies in Japan. Promote common CSR education. Continue to hold environmental forums. Revise the Teijin Group Corporate Ethics Handbook. Promote corporate ethics/compliance education activities in Japan. Have all employees of group companies in Japan participate in the Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees (collect 100% of check sheets at the workshop). Corporate ethics/ Compliance Hold compliance meetings organized by Teijin Ltd. (at least two locations a Promote corporate ethics/compliance education overseas. year). Operate hotline. Continue to utilize and promote the hotline in Japan and overseas. Conduct risk management using “heat maps” (achieve heat map submission Basic CSR rate of 90% or more in Japan and 50% or more overseas). Review the earthquake manual. Increase recognition and enhance risk management activities. Risk management Continue to implement earthquake drills (conduct group-wide EMC drills twice a year). Create and improve BCPs. Formulate BCP for business/development groups. Product liability/Quality Achieve zero product liability claims and zero serious quality claims. assurance Secure globally high level of effectiveness. Raise employees’ awareness of work−life balance and increase/expand system Formalize and promote work–life balance. users and registrants. Increase the number of career-oriented female employees and Maintain the hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates at 30% facilitate the promotion of female employees to managerial or more (as a total combined with FY2011). positions. Increase the ratio of career-oriented female employees and female employees Increase the number of section managers 1.5-fold from 19 (end of in managerial positions. FY2008) to 28. Aim for 28 or more female section managers. Enhance the personnel management system through the Global Human Establish global human resources management. Resources Office of Teijin Creative Staff Co., Ltd. Instill the Teijin way at all group companies and promote Increase the number of overseas employees selected for the core human Human resources/ recruitment of global human resources. resources training program. Expansive Labor CSR Increase the re-employment rate for those who desire to be re-employed after Promote re-employment after age-based mandatory retirement. age-based mandatory retirement. Promote the recruitment of those with a disability in all group companies in Japan. Achieve the legal employment rate for those with a disability at all group Achieve the legal requirement (1.8% or more of regular companies in Japan (1.8% or more of regular employees). employees). Secure fairness of personnel-related regulations and personnel Inspect personnel-related regulations and personnel management systems at management systems at all group companies in Japan. all group companies in Japan at the time of amendments to labor-related laws. Appoint employees to appropriate positions at all group Regularly inspect placement of full-time employees and contract/temporary companies in Japan. and other non-full-time employees at all group companies in Japan. Purchasing/ Expand CSR procurement based on CSR management at suppliers on a Procurement Formalize and enhance procurement CSR activities. group-wide/global basis. Spend at least 1% of current profits on monetary donations. Selective Social contributions Manage group-wide donations (monetary and other) and support Introduce a system to support volunteer activities of employees. CSR volunteer activities of employees. Continue to donate picture books overseas. 19 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Philanthropic activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate SelfFY2011 performance and results evaluation FY2012 challenges ISO 26000 core subjects Reference page No change as a result of the review. A 23 Respond appropriately to reorganization of the Teijin Group and group companies and Organizational governance Internal controls related to financial reporting were effective as of A reinforce/improve governance further. 23 the end of March 2012. Held a dialogue (March 28, 2012) relating to BCP and home healthcare support in Sendai, one of the areas affected by the Great A 7–12 East Japan Earthquake, and identified issues. Identify issues through continuing to hold Organizational governance/ stakeholder dialogues (at least once a year). Consumer issues Held a dialogue (March 26, 2012) and identified issues on Design for A 42 Environment. Reviewed adherence of CSR performance indicators to ISO 26000. C Apply CSR performance indicators to all core Organizational governance 17 Yet to be applied to group companies. companies (100%). Not possible due to the effect of the Great East Japan Earthquake. C Promote understanding of ISO 26000. Environment 18 Revised the Corporate Ethics Handbook, but could not publish B Publish the Corporate Ethics Handbook in July 25–26 within FY2011. 2012. Have all employees of group companies in Japan 96% of the check sheets were collected at the workshop. B participate in the Corporate Ethics Workshop for 26–27 All Employees (collect 100% of check sheets at the workshop). Human rights/ Held compliance meetings in Obergünzburg (Germany), Arnhem Hold compliance meetings organized by Teijin Fair operating practices A 25 (the Netherlands) and Shanghai (China). Limited (at least two locations a year). Japan: Continued with internal disclosure of operation status in response to 44 reporting/consultation cases. B Continue to utilize and promote the hotline 27 Overseas: Zero reporting/consultation cases in the US. both in Japan and overseas. Started utilizing the hotline at Teijin Aramid B.V. in March 2012. Conduct risk management using “heat maps” Heat map submission rate: 91% for Japan and 37% for overseas. B (achieve heat map submission rate of 90% or 27 more in Japan and 50% or more overseas). Revised the manual for large earthquakes. A Increase recognition of the manual for large 27 earthquakes. In the Great East Japan Earthquake, we utilized EMC and confirmed the safety of 98% of employees within 24 hours. Continue the earthquake drills (conduct Organizational governance Conducted a group-wide reporting drill from Dec. 2011 to Jan. 2012. A group-wide EMC reporting drills and evacuation 27 Conducted earthquake evacuation drill (9,240 employees drills at all locations twice a year). participated from 237 locations across Japan). Formulated BCPs for five business groups and the New Business A 27 Development Group. Expand BCPs to directly managed companies. Product liability claims: 0. Serious quality claims: 7. Fully applied the function improvement measures (assessment, B Organize structure and enhance activities to Consumer issues 28 business group product liability/quality assurance organizations and secure globally high execution levels. education thoroughness). Raised awareness through a diversity handbook “together” (published Promote work-life balance as a platform for annually) and Teijin Group news (published six times a year). “accelerating globalization and diversity” as part The number of work-at-home system registrants was 29 (including of the reform of the human resources portfolio A in the mediumto long-term management 30 seven men) (FY2010: 16 including five men). The number of employees taking childcare leave was 201 (including vision “CHANGE for 2016.” 39 men) (FY2010: 171 including 38 men). Expand definition and awareness of work-life balance. Enhance various systems and increase/expand users. Hiring ratio of career-oriented female university graduates was 31% (as a total combined with FY2011) (FY2012: 41%; FY2011:19%) Maintain the hiring ratio of career-oriented Ratio of career-oriented female employees was 16% (FY2010: 16%) female university graduates at 30% or more. B Increase the ratio of career-oriented female 29–30 Ratio of female employees in managerial positions was 3.45% (FY2010: 3.15%) employees and female employees in managerial 24 female section managers (goal: 28) positions. Introduced EaGLES, the Teijin Group standardized leadership training Expand the training locations of EaGLES and program to train newly appointed managers. increase the number of employees taking the A total of 88 managers in four regions (EU, US, China and Japan) took B course. 30–31 the course. Increase the number of overseas employees Eleven overseas employees are registrants of the core human selected for the core human resources training Labor practices resources training program (of 153 registrants) (FY2010: 10 of 146). program. The re-employment rate for those wishing to be re-employed after Improve the re-employment rate for those A wishing to be re-employed after aged-based 30 age-based mandatory retirement was 95% (FY2010: 78%) mandatory retirement. Established a permanent recruitment center for those with a disability to facilitate matching between applicants and group companies. Achieve the legal employment rate for those At 33 companies, 212 people with a disability are employed C with a disability at all group companies in Japan 29 compared to the 200 obligated by law (however, 11 companies have (1.8% or more of regular employees). not achieved the legal requirement). As there were only minor amendments to labor-related laws, this fiscal Continue to inspect personnel-related year we checked the number of employees and system usage of group B regulations and personnel management 30 companies and investigated if there are personnel-related issues. systems at all group companies in Japan at the time of amendments to labor-related laws. Continue to inspect placement of full-time Inspected placement of full-time employees and contract/temporary B employees and contract/temporary and other 30 and other non-full-time employees at all group companies in Japan. non-full-time employees at all group companies in Japan. Created a Chinese version of CSR procurement guidelines and B Introduce and develop CSR procurement Human rights/ 32 conducted a survey of overseas suppliers on a trial basis. activities in China. Fair operating practices Spending on philanthropic activities totaled 1.16 billion yen (3.4% of A Continue to spend at least 1% of current profits 33 current profits) on monetary donations. Introduced the volunteer support program. Donated 100,000 yen each to four volunteer organizations that A Expand the volunteer support program. Community involvement 33 employees participate in. and development In Japan, collected used books worth 109,378 yen. Donated 52 books to a library in Indonesia. A Continue to donate picture books overseas. 34 Donated 50,000 yen towards library operations in Thailand. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 20 Vision and FY2011 Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations Strategy Midand long-term goals FY2011 goals Conduct ESH audits in Japan and overseas. Audit I: Conduct at 22 sites. Audit II: Conduct once a year for eight business groups, New Business Development Group and Raw Materials and Polymer Department. Audit III: Conduct once a year for eight business groups, New Business ESH general Enhance ESH management. Development Group, Raw Materials and Polymer Department and three directly managed companies. Conduct ESH training in Japan at least once a year and overseas at least once every two years. Hold an ESH compliance internal auditor training course (at least once a year). Group-wide: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 per unit of production amount by 1% or more compared to the preceding fiscal year (evaluate the effect of energy-saving and other projects while excluding the influence of increased/decreased production). Group-wide: Prepare for the CO2 emissions*1 target per unit of production Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 20% or more compared to the amount from FY2012. FY1990 level by FY2020. Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 Overseas (Europe & USA): Reduce CO2 emissions*1 by 10% or level by FY2020. Efforts to more compared to the FY2010 level by FY2020. prevent global Overseas (Asia): Reduce CO2 emissions*1 per unit of production warming amount by 10% or more compared to the FY2010 level by FY2020. Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount by 1% or Achieve targets through further enhancing measures to reduce the more compared to the previous year’s level. environmental impact of logistics. Reduce chemical substance emissions by 30% or more compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011. Reduce chemical substance*2 emissions by 80% or more Using the chemical substance emissions in FY2010 as a model case, specify Managing/ compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Reducing representative chemical substances that have a large impact on humans and Adopt LIME2, the second version of the Life Cycle Impact the environment, discuss with relevant businesses and set reduction targets. chemical Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling (LIME) substance Regarding proposals of reduction targets in the FY2011 mid-term plan and long-term plan developed in Japan and focus on reducing chemical substances up to FY2020 (80% reduction of chemical substance emissions compared to the FY1998 emissions that have a large environmental impact. level), check the mid-and long-term plans of each business and investigate whether Environmanagement of chemical substance emissions reductions should incorporate units of ment production amount in addition to total emissions (for improved production efficiency). Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective use*3” by 85% or more compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. Group-wide: Achieve zero emissions at all major business sites in Group-wide: Reduce the amount of “waste with no effective use” by 50% or Japan and overseas. more compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011. Waste Japan: Excluding coal ash and similar waste, endeavor to reduce reduction Japan: For business sites/plants emitting over 500 tons of waste per year, Basic the amount of waste generated, and achieve zero emissions*4 achieve zero emissions by the end of FY2011. CSR for group companies in Japan. Japan: Reduce the total waste generated per unit of production amount by 1% compared to the preceding fiscal year. Further instill the Design for Environment concept (strengthen brand power, Design for Shift to development more focused on supply chains. and apply concept to systems developed by business groups). Environment Review LCA of in-house products. Develop technologies and promote products to realize advanced materials As sustainable solution proposals, strive to increase the contributing to the reduction of CO2 emissions and recycling of resources and Environmental widespread use of environmentally friendly products, water. business technologies and systems. Review environmental business index settings. Promote disaster prevention management. Enhance countermeasures for earthquakes and tsunamis at high-risk business sites/plants. Achieve zero serious accidents. Improve disaster prevention assessments for overseas plants. Disaster prevention Enhance activities of fire prevention management liaison meetings. Enhance group-wide disaster prevention capabilities. Take measures for 19 buildings under a 2006 revision of the Promotion of Building Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law. Expand application of the three major workplace accident prevention Safety Maintain the annual lost time injury frequency rates at under 0.3. guidelines to plants in Japan. Maintain the lost time injury frequency rates at under 0.25. Implement assessments of work stress in all workplaces and assess changes in Strengthen measures for early prevention through creating an health risk values. easily approachable counseling environment and increased Health and hygiene interview opportunities. Review system for enhanced individual counseling functions. Prevent damage to health due to hazardous chemical substances. Review nano-material handling guidelines following the changes in regulations. *1 CO2 emissions include methane and N2O emissions. *2 Chemical substances: 462 chemical substances listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the Chemical Substances Management Law (Law Concerning Reporting, etc., of Releases to the Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management) revised in April 2010, and 433 substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. Excluding duplicated listings, there are 575 specified chemical substances. 21 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 The Teijin Group CSR Pyramid Selective CSR Philanthropic activities Expansive CSR Human resources/Labor; Purchasing/Procurement Basic CSR Compliance; Risk management; Environmental preservation, Safety and disaster prevention, and Health; Product liability/Quality assurance Self-evaluation Ratings A: Goals achieved B: Goals achieved to a certain extent C: Inadequate SelfFY2011 performance and results evaluation FY2012 challenges ISO 26000 core subjects Reference page Conduct ESH audits in Japan and overseas. Audit I: Conduct at 31 sites. Audit I: Conducted at 17 sites in Japan and five overseas. Audit II: Conduct once a year at eight business Audit II: Conducted at eight business groups, New Business groups, New Business Development Group Development Group and Raw Materials and Polymer Department. A and Raw Materials and Polymer Department. 35 Audit III: Conducted at eight business groups, New Business Audit III: Conduct once a year at eight business Development Group, Raw Materials and Polymer Department and groups, New Business Development Group, three directly managed companies. Organizational governance Raw Materials and Polymer Business Department and three directly managed companies. Japan: Held ESH training at Osaka head office in July. A Conduct ESH training in Japan at least once a 35 Overseas: Held ESH training in China in November. year and overseas at least once every two years. Held training course at Osaka head office in January (38 and 14 employees A Hold an ESH compliance internal auditor 35 were certified as 1st-grade and 2nd-grade auditors, respectively). training course (at least once a year). Group-wide: Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of Group-wide: Organized data for the standard year in preparation production amount by 1% or more compared for the new target of CO2 emissions*1 per unit of production to the preceding fiscal year (overseas targets amount. A 36–37 Japan: Reduced CO2 emissions*1 by 49% compared to the FY1990 are integrated into group-wide targets). level. Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more compared to the FY1990 level by FY2020. We were unable to implement the planned measures to reduce environmental impact due to the breakage of links in the supply chain Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of transportation caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Thailand flooding. C amount by 1% or more compared to the previous 37 This resulted in worse CO2 emissions per unit of transportation amount year’s level. compared to the previous year’s level. Nevertheless, we took all possible measures to reduce environmental impact and controlled the increase. Chemical substance emissions of 2,279 tons (34% reduction Maintain proper management of the compared to the FY2005 level). B group-wide chemical substance emissions. 37–38 Specified chemical substances that have a large impact on humans Continue to promote chemical substance and the environment, and set reduction goals. reduction through use of LIME2. Environment Group-wide: Reduce “waste with no effective Group-wide: Reduced the amount of “waste with no effective use” use*3” by 85% or more compared to the by 74% compared to the FY2005 level. A FY1998 level by FY2020. 40 Japan: Following on from FY2010, continued to achieve zero Japan: Reduce the total waste generated per emissions at relevant business sites/plants. unit of production amount by 1% compared to the preceding fiscal year. Further instilled the Design for Environment concept. Instill the Design for Environment concept both Registered the Earth Symphony® trademark overseas (EU, China, Singapore). internally and externally. Held re-training at major sites (10 sites, 11 times, approx. 250 participants). Quantify and expand contributions to the environment. Expanded certified products to five. A Newly establish the Group Environmental 41–42 Started operating the Design for Environment guidelines with Management Promotion Subcommittee and enhanced assessment of the effect on biodiversity. review the overall system of promoting Conducted LCA activities through the industry. environmentally friendly management activities. Increased the widespread use of carbon fibers and polycarbonate Develop technologies and promote products to resin in the transportation field. realize advanced materials contributing to the Developed and increased the widespread use of bioplastics. B 43–45 reduction of CO2 emissions and recycling of Developed ECO CIRCLE™ on a global basis. resources and water Promoted the water treatment business. Other. Planned establishment of the Group Environmental Management B 43–45 Review environmental business index settings. Promotion Subcommittee. One chemical substance leakage accident occurred. C Enhance disaster prevention management. 46 Planned and implemented risk reduction measures at five plants with high risk B Review and exercise emergency response measures 46 of fire and leakage of hazardous substances due to earthquakes and tsunamis. with emphasis on earthquakes and tsunamis. Implemented disaster prevention assessment at four plants in Japan and one overseas plant. Implement disaster prevention assessment at • Specialist disaster prevention team conducted on-site guidance at B one plant and mini disaster prevention 46 all plants including overseas from specialist and objective assessment at six plants. viewpoints and achieved enhanced risk reduction effect. Labor practices Achieved zero fire accidents. • A total of 15 plants and companies participated in fire prevention Enhance activities of fire prevention management management liaison meetings. A 46 liaison meetings. • Newly introduced fire and disaster prevention hands-on training at the liaison meetings. Take measures for 18 remaining buildings under Completed measures for one building. B a 2006 revision of the Promotion of Building 46 Earthquake-resistance Reinforcement Law. Officially started operating the three major workplace accident Enhance recognition of the three major prevention guidelines in the Teijin Group from May 2011. C workplace accident prevention guidelines. Labor practices 47 The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.32. Maintain the lost time injury frequency rates at under 0.25. Continue with workplace environment The number of workplaces with high health risk values was reduced A improvement activities after implementing 48 from 63 of FY2010 to 61. assessments of work stress in all workplaces. Made decision to place clinical psychotherapists, counselors and Enhance the individual counseling system both health nurses in the Healthcare Administration Office. A Labor practices 48 internally and externally. Maintained a face-to-face counseling system involving visiting counselors. A Review nano-material handling guidelines 48 No change in FY2011 as a result of the review. following the changes in regulations. *3 Waste with no effective use: Waste that is simply incinerated or put directly into landfill. *4 Zero emissions: Reducing the ratio of “waste with no effective use” to 1% or less of the total waste generated. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 22 Vision and Corporate Governance 4.1 4.2 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.10 Strategy The Teijin Group positions corporate governance as an essential element in realizing sustainable improvements in shareholder value and fulfilling our responsibility to stakeholders including employees, customers, the local community and residents, and we are implementing measures to strengthen corporate governance. Further evidence of our progressive History of Corporate Governance Separation and Strengthening of actions was our pioneering release of the Improvements Decision-making, Internal Operation and Corporate Governance Guide 2003, guidelines Monitoring/Supervision Roles In 1999, the Teijin Group began a series of that integrated the Teijin Group’s corporate groundbreaking management reforms with governance and the supporting areas of 0VSBSUJDMFTPGJODPSQPSBUJPOMJNJUUIFTJ[FPG the aim of achieving corporate governance compliance and risk management. In response Teijin Limited’s Board of Directors to 10 that is built on fairness, transparency, quick to changes in social and legal circumstances, NFNCFSTXJUIUIFHPBMPGSFBMJ[JOHRVJDL decision-making, and ensuring objectivity. we have continued to revise these guidelines decision-making and clear accountability. These reforms include establishing the to reflect the appointment of independent We have also introduced a corporate officers’ Advisory Board, reducing the number of outside directors and an increased number system and delegated considerable authority directors, introducing a corporate officers’ of independent outside corporate auditors. and responsibility to corporate officers. system and establishing a compensation These guidelines are now published as the Four of the 10 directors are independent system for directors in accordance with Teijin Group Corporate Governance Guide. individuals appointed from outside the consolidated return on assets (ROA). Group. To separate responsibilities for It is our practice to adopt corporate monitoring/supervision and those for governance systems considered most Internal Control internal operations, the Teijin Limited appropriate to achieve our goals at that Chairman of the Board is not involved as a point in time. At present, we have judged The internal control system was established corporate officer. that the best system of governance as a and is operated and improved according to The Board of Corporate Auditors consists company with auditors is the following. First, annual decisions made by the Board of of five members and is in charge of the function of monitoring and supervising Directors regarding its functioning. overseeing and auditing management. The management fulfilled by a board of directors In accordance with the Financial majority (three) of the Corporate Auditors are including independent outside directors, a Investments & Exchange Act, this report includes independent and appointed from outside corporate officer system and a board of the opinions of an accounting auditor and helps the Group to ensure outward transparency corporate auditors system including to ensure the reliability of financial reporting. in management. Additionally, we have independent outside corporate auditors, In addition, a body under the direct established the Committee of Teijin Group and second, the function of a nominating control of the CEO has been established in Corporate Auditors (which meets once every and compensation committee fulfilled by order to increase the effectiveness of our two months) consisting of auditors of Teijin an advisory board. internal control activities. Limited and core group companies. Through sharing of group auditing policy and auditing information, this board, which Teijin Group’s Corporate Governance System As of June 22, 2012 integrates management of the group, seeks to increase the effectiveness of group-wide Governance System monitoring/auditing and maintain a fair Board of Board of Directors Advisory Board auditing system. Corporate Auditors (Function of Nomination and (5 members [3 external]) (10 members [4 external]) Compensation Committee) Majority of members are external Committee of Teijin Group Corporate Auditors TRM Committee Total Risk Management CEO To protect itself from the uncertainty that it Group Strategy Committee faces, the Teijin Group established the Total Group Management Committee (Functional Coordinators, Risk Management (TRM) Committee under Business Group General Managers) the Board of Directors to manage risk in an integrated manner from strategic and Electric operating perspectives. Advanced Materials & Products Healthcare New Business Fibers & Performance Converting IT Business Business Development Composites Polymer Business Group Group Group Business Group Products Group Business Group r#VTJOFTTHSPVQTIBWFCFFOSFPSHBOJ[FEXJUIUIFPCKFDUJWFPGNBYJNJ[JOHPVSPWFSBMMTUSFOHUIBTBHSPVQBOE facilitating implementation of our growth strategy. The changes are effective as of April 2012. 23 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Mi n i-f eat ure Business Activities that Reflect the Advice/Suggestions of the Advisory Board In June 1999, Teijin Limited established the Advisory Board to further increase the level of management transparency. Since that time, the Advisory Board has fulfilled its role as an advisory body for the Board of Directors. Advisory Board Functions as the Nominating and Members of the Advisory Board As of the end of March 2012 Compensation Committee Mr. Toru Nagashima (Chairperson) Teijin Limited’s Advisory Board consists of five to six independent Chairman of the Board, Teijin Limited outside experts from Japan and overseas (three Japanese and Mr. Shigeo Ohyagi President and CEO, Teijin Limited two to three non-Japanese), the chairperson and the CEO. Mr. John W. Himes Former Senior Vice President of DuPont Lord Leon Brittan Vice Chairman, UBS Investment Bank Pluralistic and objective judgments are possible through the Mr. Kunio Suzuki Counselor, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. eyes of members from Japan and overseas and from both Mr. Hajime Sawabe Director and Chairman of the Board, TDK Corporation inside and outside the company. Mr. Yutaka Iimura Japanese Government Representative The Advisory Board has seven functions including to give (for Middle East and Europe) advice and make suggestions regarding overall management, deliberate a change of CEO and nomination of successor Deliberation Items (Nominating Committee Function) (nominating committee function) and to give advice and 1. Change of CEO and nomination of successor (decided make suggestions regarding compensation and evaluation of by the Board of Directors)* 2. Selection of CEO successor candidates, deliberation on Teijin Group directors (compensation committee function). plan to foster candidates formulated by the CEO and Regular meetings are held twice a year (once in Japan and progress review 3. Deliberation on election of the Chairman based on the once overseas). In FY2011, meetings were held in Tokyo in May suggestion of the CEO and in the US in November. 4. Deliberation on election of representative director candidates based on the proposal of the CEO Deliberation Items (Compensation Committee Function) 5. Deliberation on compensation system for Teijin Group directors 6. Deliberation on compensation level for the Teijin Group directors* 7. Performance evaluation of CEO* 8. Performance evaluation of representative director based on the suggestion of the CEO * For items 1, 6 and 7 above, as a rule, the CEO leaves the room and does not participate in the deliberation. For matters relating to the Chairman, the Chairman leaves the room and does not participate in the deliberation. Photo of a regular Advisory Board meeting Example of Advisory Board Deliberation Items Meeting Date Spring (April to May) Autumn (November) Venue Japan Overseas (held alternately in Europe/USA) Agenda Report on previous fiscal year performance First-half performance report Report on business plan for the new fiscal year Report on prospects for the second half Evaluation of CEO performance for the previous fiscal year and Successor plan discussion of the bonus amount Report on specific matters* raised at a previous meeting Deliberation on CEO’s targets for the new fiscal year Specific matters* to be reported on at the next and Report on specific matters* raised at previous meeting subsequent meetings Specific matters* to be reported on at the next and subsequent meetings * Examples of specific matters: Management benchmarks, major M&A and subsequent results, R&D strategy. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 24 Compliance and Risk Management Social Report Promoting Compliance and Risk Management We believe that compliance and risk management are the two pillars of internal control. They form the basis for sound corporate governance and are a focus of our CSR activities. We are working hard to ensure that corporate ethics are followed closely at all group companies and to implement business continuity plans. business group carrying out independent Factory Manager as chairman, the manager Compliance and Risk Management S0 2 S0 4 S0 7 training, we hold corporate-hosted of the manufacturing plant in question as compliance and risk management meetings in vice-chairman, the person in charge of Compliance and Risk Management System major overseas regions every year. For FY2011, business group ESH as secretary-general, and The Group Compliance and Risk Management meetings were held in Obergünzburg, the staff of the Corporate ESH Office and Subcommittee has been established under Germany and in Arnhem, the Netherlands in relevant departments as committee the Group CSR Committee (see pages 17–18) September and in Shanghai, China in October. members. As well as planning and chaired by the Chief Social Responsibility implementing countermeasures to prevent Officer. Subcommittee members include the Results of Reviews by Chief Social Responsibility recurrence we aimed to apply them to other Risk Management Office General Manager as Officer (Law Violations and Occurrence of Accidents) business sites group-wide. chairman, business group representatives Since FY2003, every February, the Chief Social There was also one case of an employee and functional staff. The Subcommittee Responsibility Officer has reviewed the being dismissed for violating the Road Traffic helps promote the Teijin Group compliance activities of the previous calendar year. This Law by driving under the influence of alcohol and risk management and makes review assesses whether there were any while commuting to work for a night shift. suggestions to the Group CSR Committee on serious violations of laws or accidents in this policies, targets and strategies. area, and confirms the compliance and risk Corporate Ethics and Compliance Activities We also appoint personnel responsible management activities of each group S03 for promoting compliance and risk company and each business group on the management at all group companies. These basis of the compliance and risk management Compliance is essential for creating a sound personnel manage and operate activities in activity survey submitted. In FY2011, 53 of 57 corporate culture. With this in mind, we carry each workplace. Subcommittee meetings companies in Japan and 35 of 67 companies out educational programs not only on internal are held twice a year and there is annual overseas submitted a survey form. rules and laws relevant to our business but training for those responsible for promotion. For major incidents and accidents in the also on various aspects of corporate ethics. group reported to the CEO and Chief Social We also operate a counseling and Promoting Compliance and Risk Management at Responsibility Officer during FY2011, there reporting system (hotline) that is designed to Overseas Group Companies was a serious accident involving leakage of a facilitate self-resolution of internal legal and We are promoting compliance and risk hazardous substance at the Matsuyama Plant ethical problems. management at overseas group companies of Teijin Techno Products Limited (see page while maintaining the Teijin Group’s basic 46). To respond to the accident, we Revision of the Teijin Group Corporate Ethics Handbook policies and considering the culture and established an accident countermeasures The Teijin Group established the Corporate traditions of each country. In addition to each committee consisting of the Matsuyama Code of Conduct in 1993, followed by the Positioning of Compliance and Risk Management PDCA Cycle of Compliance and Risk Management Activities Establish Yearly Plan and Develop and Maintain of Educational Materials Corporate Governance Prioritize Activities t Improve the content, and update the Q&A and A fair, transparent and objective t Confirmed by the Group case-study lists management system Compliance and Risk Implement Training Management Subcommittee Plan t Workshops for promoting managers t E-learning about compliance t Level-based workshops Approach to Risk t Training relating to verifying safety in emergencies t Clarifying and evaluating risks t Creating business continuity plans Internal Control Action Do t Earthquake response drills Corporate Ethics Month Campaign t Display corporate ethics posters Lessons Learnt t Display posters aiming to prevent abuse of authority from This Fiscal t Workshops for all employees Year to Be t Conduct surveys of all employees using check Incorporated for sheets the Following Year Check Information Disclosure t Achievements for t Set up a corporate ethics website on the corporate Compliance Risk Management this year and intranet selection of issues t Disclose the results of corporate ethics surveys Activities focusing on legal Mechanisms, systems and Chief Social Responsibility Operate Hotline and ethical compliance, as training for evaluating, Officer Review: Once a year t Notices to all group employees and individual well as on internal preventing, and Corporate Ethics Awareness responses regulations, to create a controlling corporate risks Survey: Once a year t Disclose hotline information (every six months) sound corporate culture 25 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Web r Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey Corporate Standards of Conduct for offices in which 94 promoting-managers work-related behavior in 1998. To put participated. In addition to confirming together these standards, we created a serious risks and policies/plans for activities, Corporate Ethics Handbook and have since we invited a visiting lecturer to talk about a been revising it to reflect the changing social case study relating to the Whistleblower demands on corporations. Protection Act . In FY2011, we reviewed the Corporate 3. Workplace Training/Education Social Report Code of Conduct and Corporate Standards Promoting-managers conduct training at each of Conduct to more clearly define our workplace in Japan and overseas at least once approach to environmental management a year. Relevant materials and case examples and our response to international standards are always available on the intranet to create such as the UN Global Compact. The an environment facilitating independent Japanese version is scheduled to be revised training and learning at each workplace. in July 2012 and the overseas version (USA, During the Corporate Ethics Month Environment, Safety Europe, China, Thailand, Indonesia) by the campaign every October, a message from the end of FY2012. CEO in six languages (Japanese, English, and Health Report Chinese, Thai, Indonesian and German) is Corporate Ethics Month campaign poster Group-wide Application of Corporate Ethics and distributed to each workplace, and starting Compliance with display of the Corporate Ethics Month participants, we will prepare separate materials 1. Level-based Workshop Training campaign poster, the Corporate Code of for new recruits, staff in mid-level positions and As part of level-based workshop training for Conduct and other standards are reconfirmed staff newly assigned to managerial positions employees at group companies in Japan, at each workplace in Japan and overseas. The and thereby introduce level-based e-learning. the CSR Planning Office conducted training slogan on the FY2011 poster, chosen from Economic Report for new recruits, staff in mid-level positions, employee suggestions, was “Pretending not Check Sheets to Survey All Employees at staff newly assigned to managerial to see something makes you a co-conspirator.” the Corporate Ethics Workshop positions, newly assigned department 4. E-learning To increase the interest and awareness of all managers and newly appointed directors of Staff newly assigned to managerial positions group employees in relation to the group companies (in FY2011, 284 and other employees of group companies in Corporate Code of Conduct and Corporate participants in total) . Japan take part in compliance e-learning. Of Standards of Conduct, we have conducted a 2. Training for Promoting-managers the 200 participants in FY2011, 182 passed questionnaire on the Teijin Group Corporate The CSR Planning Office organized training with a score of 70 points or higher . Ethics Handbook since FY2007. As of FY2009, sessions held at the Tokyo and Osaka head From FY2012, to increase the number of we use check sheets, which have further improved upon the questionnaire. The check sheet contains nine questions directed at group company executives and TOPICS Corporate Ethics Workshop for All Employees at employees in managerial positions, and Overseas Operations of Teijin Chemicals Ltd. another nine for other employees. The check sheets measure the participation rate in Workshops for all employees are held at all workshops for all employees and examine the overseas operations of Teijin Chemicals Ltd. during the Corporate Ethics Month the level of interest and comprehension of campaign every October. corporate ethics through asking questions such In FY2011, a participatory program was as: “If you became aware of a violation, would used including a read-through of the CEO you report it?” and “Do you observe the Code message and the Corporate Code of of Conduct and the Standards of Conduct?” Conduct, and discussions regarding past The survey was completed by a total of compliance violations. In the discussions, 12,128 executives, and full-time and contract there was a lively exchange of views such as, “The initiative shown by leaders of each employees at group companies in Japan in division increased the knowledge and FY2011. Of these, a total of 11,631 responses shared awareness of members” and “I realized (approx. 96% response rate) were obtained . that corporate ethics is an issue involving The participation rate in workshops for everyone.” As was in the case in Japan, check all employees was 88% for group company Scenes at workshops during the sheets were submitted by all employees Corporate Ethics Month campaign executives and employees in managerial after the workshop. Top: Teijin Kasei America, Inc. Bottom: Teijin Chemicals Plastic positions and 92% for other employees. Compounds Shanghai Ltd. (TCS) Adding those who could not participate but TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 26 Compliance and Risk Management Social Report studied by themselves, the figure of those over the past several years, showing that the expanding the implementation of BCPs to who learnt about corporate ethics was presence of the hotline is well recognized by group companies. almost 100% at every employee level. In employees. In FY2011, we formulated BCPs for nine addition, a common reason given for not companies (mainly core companies) and we being fully confident in one’s adherence to plan to expand the use of BCPs to other Code of Conduct and Standards of Conduct Risk Management Activities group companies from FY2012 onwards. was that in reality it can be hard to follow Moreover, as a part of the BCP to respond to rules exactly. We will consider additional Since FY2003, in accordance with the COSO* large earthquakes, we considered a materials that will be of help in this situation. guidelines and in order to strengthen its risk temporary shift of the functions of head management, the Teijin Group has been focusing office and set up a work-at-home system in Counseling and Reporting System (Hotline) on: (1) clarifying risks, (2) assessing risks based the case of scheduled power outages in Operations 4 . 4 on frequency and effect, (3) risk prevention Tokyo. In FY2011, we also conducted The Teijin Group counseling and reporting and control and (4) emergency response training. earthquake and tsunami evacuation drills at (hotline) system was launched in 1999 on Each Teijin Group company worldwide prepares a all business locations in Japan and all group the intranet and via a consultation center “heat map” (risk management chart) once a year to employees in Japan participated in reporting operated through a contract with an aid in understanding the level of importance and drills. The earthquake evacuation drills external organization. The system is not management status of risks to their own company. involved 9,240 employees at 237 locations, limited to full-time employees; it is also open The details of the heat map are reviewed by the and evacuation sites and the emergency to contract and temporary employees. Since Chief Social Responsibility Officer every year. contact network were confirmed. For 2006, a consultation link for business As for serious risks for the Teijin Group, the reporting drills, 12,589 employees partners has been available on our website. Chief Social Responsibility Officer extracts 20 participated utilizing Emergency Call™, a The hotline system is operated under the major risks, reports them to TRM Committee (see system to verify employees’ safety in direction of the Chief Social Responsibility Officer page 23) and responds appropriately. One of the emergencies provided by Infocom in accordance with corporate ethics regulations serious risks for FY2011 was the occurrence of Corporation, a Teijin Group company . We that protect privacy/other personal information a large-scale earthquake. In response to this will continue these drills regularly (twice a and specify that there shall be no prejudicial risk, we created a business group BCP, revised year) and make improvements as required. treatment regarding consultation/reporting. the earthquake manual, reviewed our tsunami Major risk issues are also reported to the Total Risk simulations and implemented evacuation Revision of the Large Earthquake Response Manual Management Committee (see page 23), and are drills. From FY2012, through the newly In FY2011, from the lessons we learnt after the handled by top management. While protecting established Risk Management Office under Great East Japan Earthquake, we reviewed our privacy, the content and responses to issues the Chief Social Responsibility Officer, we will corporate countermeasures headquarters raised by employees via consultation/reports are strengthen risk management relating to the structure to respond to earthquakes affecting summarized and disclosed to employees every operations of the Teijin Group. wide areas and, in the manual, clarified the six months for educational purposes. In FY2011, * COSO: Global standards for internal control systems decision-making function, execution/support created by the Committee of Sponsoring there were 44 cases of reporting/consultation by Organizations of the Treadway Commission function and the chain of command in regards to employees and others outside the group; this local countermeasures headquarters. As well, we figure has been maintained between 40 and 50 stipulated implementation of tsunami evacuation Progress of Business Continuity Plans drills. Future intentions are to use drills and other Content of Reports/Consultation From Employees/ Those Outside the Group in FY2011 measures to make improvements and ensure A business continuity plan (BCP) is “an action the full awareness of all employees in this area. Personal information handling Sexual harassment plan by which a company can protect itself 3 cases 2 cases from loss of corporate value in emergencies, Response to the Thailand Floods Treatment, Other rule labor management, such as accidents and disasters, by preventing The Thailand floods of October 2011 resulted in employee benefits violations (suspected) 11 cases interruption of its business activities or by damage to certain group companies. However, 6 cases quickly restoring the activities if interrupted.” we were able to apply lessons learnt after the Personal 44 cases The Teijin Group established BCP basic Great East Japan Earthquake to promptly relationship policies in FY2006 and first formulated a BCP for establish a corporate countermeasures 6 cases central management (top-level management headquarters through which we collaborated Unfair practice at work, rule violations Abuse of authority under the CEO) to prepare for large earthquakes to extend on-site support and work towards 8 cases 8 cases in metropolitan areas. We are also gradually a quick recovery (see page 12). 27 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 r Efforts of the Teijin Group to Ensure Customer Satisfaction Quality Assurance Web r Examples of Overseas Activities Social Report Ensuring Provision of Safe Products Our product liability/quality assurance activities are promoted under the Teijin Group’s unique management system in order to ensure provision of safe products to customers while also responding quickly to the diversifying social environment. how the system is working and to verify its 2. Enhance Operation of Business Group Product Teijin Group Management System effectiveness, the audits bring issues to light Liability/Quality Assurance Organizations which are then improved through We are continuing with efforts to ensure the Social Report The Teijin Group Product Liability/Quality implementing the PDCA approach. independence of quality assurance Assurance Regulations apply to all Teijin In FY2011, we continued our regular organizations of each business group and Group products and services and can be audits and gave directions for improvements improve functioning in other areas. Additionally, considered the base for our product safety to business groups and directly managed the secretariat of the Group Product Liability/ and quality assurance activities. Based on companies. Special audits were also Quality Assurance Subcommittee participates these regulations, we are promoting product conducted for business groups specified as in the Business Group Product Liability/Quality liability/quality assurance activities for our ur requiring reconfirmation in the FY2010 audits, Assur Assurance Committee held for each business Environment, Safety business groups through basic policies and and the extent of improvement was checked. group and shares information. associated targets set by the Group Product duct 3. Con Conduct Thorough Product Liability/Quality and Health Report ee. Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee. Assu Assurance Education FY2011 Measures to Enhance Operations We have also created a product P R1 held group product liability/quality We he liability/quality assurance unit system forr the assurance workshops for newly appointed assura product range of each business group. This In FY2011, based on FY2010 audit results, we administrators and managers. As part of this, a admin quality assurance management system, took the following measures to enhance lecture was given by a visiting lecturer from the lectur which is unique to the Teijin Group, aims tto ti operations. National Institute of Technology and Evaluation. Natio enhance customer satisfaction, prevent 4. Respond to New Chemical Substance Regulations Economic Report product defects, and ensure appropriate Measures to Enhance Operations REACH information meetings, special responses in the event of that defects occur. 1. Enhance Operations of Product Liability/Quality subcommittees set up within the Group Product The system not only covers the whole scope Assurance Assessments Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee, were of the ISO standards for quality management The product liability/quality assurance renamed as chemical substance information systems but also incorporates perspectives of assessment system is used to examine safety meetings to reflect the response to laws and product liability/quality assurance such as the and quality throughout the product life cycle regulations not only in Europe but also in response to customers and product safety. in the event of changes in the product/new other countries such as China and South Korea. product environment or 4M*1 changes. In FY2011, to enhance operation of this system, Response to Claims Implementation of Product we made it a practice for the chairman of In FY2011 we once again achieved zero Liability/Quality Assurance Audits the Product Liability/Quality Assurance product liability claims*2 but there were Since FY2005, the chairman of the Product Subcommittee to check the assessment seven serious quality claims*3 . Liability/Quality Assurance Subcommittee has details of products that have a high risk of *2 Product liability claim: A claim involving (large-scale) damage to property or people caused by a product performed audits on all business groups that causing harm to humans, and for the defect, where a cause-and-effect relationship is have introduced the Product Liability/Quality Business Group General Managers to established between the damage and the defect. Assurance Unit System (10 business groups approve these details. *3 Serious quality claim: A claim relating to a product defect where there is no related damage but a strong and six directly managed companies as of *1 4M: Stands for man, machine, material and method, possibility that there may be, or a defect that causes which are management resources affecting quality. March 2011). As well as being used to check or is likely to cause loss of trust in the Teijin Group. Group-wide Product Liability/Quality Assurance System From April 1, 2012 012 CEO Chief Social Responsibility Officer FY2012 Initiatives Business Group General Managers Teijin Risk Management Office In FY2012, we will review our Product Liability/ Business Group CSR Committee Group CSR Committee Business Group Product Liability/ Quality Assurance System based on the Teijin Business Group Product Liability/ Group Product Liability/ Quality Assurance Committee Quality Assurance Subcommittee Group mediumto long-term management Chairperson (Administrator) Chairperson (Risk Management Office General Manager) Deputy Chairperson Deputy Chairperson vision “CHANGE for 2016” formulated in Committee members Business group representative members (administrators) Secretariat Secretariat: Teijin Limited Risk Management Office February 2012. We will establish the Risk Quality Assurance System Management Office and promote activities Manager Manager to further reduce product liability/quality Product liability/ Product liability/ assurance risks under the supervision of quality assurance unit system quality assurance unit system Chief Social Responsibility Officer. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 28 Human Resources Management and Labor CSR Social Report Allowing Employees to Grow and Achieve Work–Life Balance The Teijin Group makes continual efforts to improve the quality of life of our employees. In FY2011, in spite of the tough economic circumstances, we made all possible efforts to secure employment at group companies. We also worked to further develop human resources and to help employees realize work–life balance. Group Core Human Resources Development Systems with a disability was 212 exceeding the Teijin Group Human Resources Policy and The Strategic Executive Team Challenge (STRETCH) figure of 200 required . Despite this, 11 Mid-term Plan I and II are group-wide core human resources individual companies have not met the legal The Teijin Group established the Teijin Group development programs used to develop human requirement. Seeking to remedy this, we will Basic Human Resources Policy in 2003 aiming resources who can work actively on the global take measures such as setting up a to improve employees’ quality of life under our stage. The programs target employees at all group permanent recruitment center . corporate philosophy of “empowering our people.” companies including overseas. In addition, the In relation to future appointments and As stated in the mid-term management Strategic Leader Development Program (SLP), promotions, we will set specific goals for all plan, one of the most important policies is to aimed at employees in mid-level positions, our businesses and aim to appoint a diverse hire, train and cultivate human resources. To seeks to foster core human resources. range of people in managerial positions. this end, we have set the following five ideals Through these three programs, we are as the focus of human resources management: striving to develop human resources who will Progress of Measures to Promote Female Career promote global expansion of our business, forge the future of the Teijin Group. Development strengthen group management, review For recruitment at 12 core group companies personnel management to stay ahead of in Japan*1, we have set a goal of maintaining Promoting Diversity Among Employees changes in the business environment, Web the ratio of newly recruited career-oriented See website for more detailed information increase the vitality of employees and the female university graduates at 30% or more. organization, and ensure appropriate In the Teijin Group, in all facets of our business, For the combined total of FY2011 and FY2012, management of company-owned facilities. As but particularly in recruiting, employment and we achieved a ratio of 31%. part of this management, which is being promotion, we respect the character and We have also set a goal of increasing the carried out from group-wide and global individuality of all our employees regardless total number of women in managerial perspectives, we are pushing ahead with of gender, age, nationality, race, disability etc., positions, that is, the equivalent of section group-wide measures to secure employment, and support our employees in reaching their manager or above, at 12 core group promote diversity and realize work–life full potential. companies in Japan*1 to 60, triple the FY2002 balance while considering the sense of value We employ experienced workers and run level. We reached this goal in FY2007, and the of all group employees, and aiming for a a year-round recruitment program for foreign figure has risen to 79 as of the end of FY2011. smooth handover of technologies and skills to students and foreign nationals in Japan. However, we did not achieve our the next generation. We also promote the recruitment of those end-of-FY2011 goal set in our FY2009–2011 with a disability; as of April 1, 2012, at 33 group mid-term management plan of increasing the companies in Japan, the number of employees number of women in section manager Human Resources Development LA 1 1 TThe he Teijin Te Group Training and Job Rotation/Appointment System The Teijin Group has put systems in place to support employees in developing their Teijin Group Group-wide training system capabilities. and each business group (core companies) Employees in Training for newly Development and evaluation of abilities Transfer of employees who have stayed Executive tenure-of Department Strategic Executive Succession plan*1 Overseas Training for New Recruits Study abroad language programs general appointed department Team Challenge Annual human resources plan managers general managers (STRETCH)*2 Job Challenge System*5 To strengthen the fast-tracking of human Self-application System 360 degree observation Training for newly managerial positions office limitations appointed section Strategic Leader resources development in response to the Section managers managers Development Training for Program (SLP)*3 globalization of business, we sent new recruits employees in in the same post for a long period mid-level positions of the 12 core companies in Japan (74 New recruits − Speciality Employees in Development employees) for training in China and India. mid-level Program (SDP)*4 positions Training for Divided into small groups of 12 to 14, new recruits recruits gained firsthand experience of various cultures and customs through discussions *1 Succession plan: A plan to foster successors to important posts from the viewpoint of business continuity. with high-achieving local human resources of *2 Strategic Executive Team Challenge (STRETCH): A group core human resources development system for leaders. the same generation, visits to companies, *3 Strategic Leader Development Program (SLP): Leadership skills development program for employees in mid-level positions with a desire to become key staff in the future. participation in NGO activities and so on. *4 Speciality Development Program (SDP): An educational program designed to enable career-oriented employees We will continue this training program in to gain specialized knowledge relating to marketing, engineering or clerical work. FY2012. *5 Job Challenge System: An in-house staff recruitment system. Any employee can file an application for a position without permission from the division manager, and the manager cannot overrule decisions. 29 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Web • Job Rotation/Appointment System • Human Rights Protection • Maintaining Sound Working Relationships • Employee Satisfaction Survey • Data on Human Resources positions to 28, 1.5-fold the number at the improvement from the FY2010 results of 13.8 Employees in this situation who wish to return end of FY2008, only achieving a 1.3-fold hours and 64%. We will continue to work on ger to Teijin due to the reason for leaving no longer increase to 24 . improving facets such as the work environment. ees applying will be rehired as full-time employees *1 Twelve core group companies in Japan, accounting At 10 group companies in Japan, we also ears on the condition that it is not more than 10 years for 77% of all Teijin Group employees in Japan. introduced a work-at-home system. ists. since they left and provided that the need exists. Global Management of Human Resources der To date, seven people have been rehired under In 2009, we established the Global Human Promoting Childcare Leave for Employees her this system. Additionally, regardless of whether Social Report Resources Office in the Human Resources The number of employees at 12 core group he the employee’s spouse is an employee of the Division to facilitate creation of personnel companies who took childcare leave in FY2011 any Teijin Group, if an employee wishes to accompany management and appointment systems to was 201 (including 39 men), an increase from his/her spouse to a transfer destination, we aid group employees overseas and in Japan 171 (including 38 men) in FY2010. o will try to arrange the employee’s transfer to to be active on a global basis. To promote childcare leave for male yee an appropriate location to avoid the employee One specific example of this is the employees, 12 core group companies in Japan ave having to leave his/her job. Overall, there have group-wide leader training program, EaGLES have submitted action plans based on the been over 20 instances of such cases. Environment, Safety (see page 31), which started in March 2011. next-generation law (stage 1: FY2005–2006, tate The Senior Partner System aims to facilitate stage 2: FY2007-2011, stage 3: FY2012–2014). re-employment of former employees after and Health Report As specific measures, this action plan lists mandatory retirement if they wish to rejoin Measures to Promote Work–Life Balance Web expanding the system for promoting short-term ees the company. In FY2011, of the 101 employees See website for more detailed information childcare leave and awareness-raising activities. who retired at the fixed age and wished to be The Teijin Group is focusing on activities that In FY2012, we will reinforce awareness-raising re-employed, 96 (95%) were re-employed facilitate work–life balance in order to respond measures and aim for further expansion of users. (total for 48 group companies) . to employees’ diversified perspectives on work. For example, Teijin Limited and other Re-employment Systems Expanding the Nursing Care Leave System Economic Report group companies in Japan are proceeding As re-employment systems, the Teijin Group Our nursing care leave system operating att with activities aiming to decrease the number has established the Hello Again System h nine group companies in Japan allows each of working hours such as enforcing a system operating at eight core group companies in are applicant to take up to 730 days of nursing care of prior application for overtime work and Japan and the Senior Partner System ons. leave per reason, which can be taken in portions. strict implementation of the no-overtime-day operating at all group companies in Japan. fied This far exceeds the 93 days of leave specified rule. The average overtime per month for The Hello Again System targets employees aw. under the Child Care and Family Care Leave Law. employees at 12 core group companies in who left the company for reasons including ees In FY2011, a total of five group employees Japan in FY2011 was 12.3 hours, and the rate marriage, pregnancy, child-rearing, nursing (including one male) used the system . of taking annual paid holidays was 77% , an care, or work transfer of their spouse. Volunteer Leave System The Teijin Group has intoduced a Volunteer Changes in the Number and Ratio of Newly Recruited Career-oriented Female University Graduates Leave System (paid) at 10 core group companies Females Males Percentage of females emales in Japan. As of March 31, 2012, there were 12 (Persons) (%) employees using the Volunteer Leave System . 200 185 100 150 160 75 142 116 124 121 100 132 111 91 50 Determining the Status of Group-wide 79 68 21% 80 31% 87 30% 80 34% 29% 31% 100 30% 57 28% 74 19% Labor Management 41% 50 71 15% 60 54 25 54 53 49 41 See website for more detailed information Web 0 8 14 36 37 41 42 16 14 37 0 1999 2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) The Teijin Group carries out regular surveys on labor management at group companies. We Changes in the Number of Female Employees in Managerial Positions Trends in the Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave eave identify management issues in our group No. of females in managerial positions Female employees Male employees personnel management system and implement (equivalent of section manager or above) (Persons) Percentage of females in managerial positions* 200 201 effective measures as required, particularly (Persons) 154 171 171 150 143 129 from the viewpoint of labor CSR. 80 3.45% 4.0% 60 2.83% 2.87% 3.11% 3.15% 3.0% 100 89 100 104 117 133 162 Survey forms are sent to 68 group 2.25% 2.50% 50 101 companies, 57 in Japan and 11 overseas, 40 2.0% 89 54 71 79 0 0 43 28 50 38 39 20 52 62 64 69 1.0% every year. From the survey, we obtain data 45 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 0% on basic labor CSR indicators. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * Percentage of female employees in managerial positions of the total number of managerial positions in the company. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 30 Human Resources Management and Labor CSR Social Report M i ni-f eat ure Fostering Leaders to Respond to Global Expansion To respond quickly and precisely to the growing diversity of our employees and the expansion of global operations, we have been expanding the application of our group-wide leadership training program, EaGLES, on a global basis since FY2011. group companies overseas and in Japan, and started Developed Group-wide Leader Training for operation in March 2011. Employees Newly Assigned to Managerial Positions Overseas and in Japan Program Expanded to Application in Four From the viewpoint of the increased diversity of employees in Languages to Meet Needs of Group Companies terms of nationality and race owing to our global focus in regard to human resources and business, it is essential that all The training program is implemented in four languages group employees fully understand and share the basic (Japanese, English, Chinese and Thai) and consists of three concept of the company, as expressed in our corporate steps, (1) e-learning, (2) group training in five regions (EU, US, philosophy and our sense of value. There is also an urgent and China, Thailand and Japan) and (3) measuring learning growing need to efficiently and effectively foster managers outcomes (see chart on left). In the group training in the EU, capable of responding to our global expansion, particularly in US and China, meetings with regional representatives of Teijin overseas group companies. Limited were also held. In FY2011, there were a total of 88 It was in this context that we developed the Teijin Group participants (EU: 14, US: 13, China: 8, Japan: 53). leadership training standards, EaGLES (Global Leadership In FY2012, referring to the opinions of participants in Excellence Standard for Early newly assigned manager) for FY2011, we divided e-learning, which has a large amount of content, into two sessions and changed group training from an optional to required basis. Meetings with top management EaGLES Program Structure are also held in all regions. Step 1: E-learning (four languages supported) Looking forward, we will aim to position this training as a Self-learning of the Teijin Standard, which summarizes content such program for all managers rather than for newly assigned as the sense of value, management policy and history, and the Fundamentals of Leadership, which are required to be learnt as managers only and also expand its scale. employees in managerial positions. Step 2: Group training (conducted in five regions globally) Training in groups of 10 to 15. Experiences are shared through group discussions and case studies to deepen understanding and master knowledge and skills learnt at a prior stage. Step 3: Measure learning outcomes (four languages supported) Confirmation of whether there have been any changes in attitude and behavior in the workplace. Attempt to practically implement and consolidate leadership skills, and instill the philosophy, sense of value and policies of the Teijin Group. A training session Participant Comments r The group training was very practical, mainly consisting of discussions and case studies. Poor 1% Very poor 0% r Talking with regional representatives had a lot of significance for me. r I would like meetings to be held with top management in Japan as well. Neither good nor poor 7% Survey of Very good r Group training should be longer in terms of both hours/days. Overall 40% r There were too many e-learning items to learn in the specified time. Evaluation r I would like to share training experiences with group employees in other areas. Good 52% 31 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 r Green Procurement/Purchasing CSR Procurement Web r Consideration for Contractors and Work Contracts Social Report Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain HR2 The Teijin Group has established and is putting into practice basic policies for purchasing and procurement activities and CSR procurement guidelines. Regular surveys of suppliers are performed to actively provide guidance and support for the CSR activities of these suppliers. compliance ratio with CSR guidelines of 40% of questions was increased by 17 from 53 to 70). Viewpoints/Standards Relating to or more. Ranks IV and V with a ratio of under The results of the survey revealed that,t, CSR Procurement 40%, in which case suppliers are subject to compared to 95% in FY2010, 86% of Social Report To manufacture and distribute its products, guidance to assist in improvements. suppliers corresponded to groups I–III, thee the Teijin Group procures a large amount and In FY2008, Fiberfrontier Co., Ltd. took groups where continuing to do business wide variety of raw materials, equipment, over operations of this system and we began with suppliers is no problem. In addition, the components and services from many companies joint management/cooperation with Toray ratio of purchases from group I, II and III around the world. As part of CSR in supply Industries, Inc. for CSR procurement. This has o suppliers decreased from 99% in FY2010 to chain management, we clarify and publicize realized use of common standards to 98% in FY2011. The reason for this was our viewpoints and standards relating to CSR evaluate the CSR performance throughout el, analyzed to be the relatively advanced level, Environment, Safety procurement and purchasing. Examples of supply chains of the whole chemical in terms of CSR standards, of the newly this relate to improving the environmental synthetic fiber industry as well as our own added items, which caused lower scores and Health Report performance of procured goods, supply chain. ers. mainly for small and medium-sized suppliers. encouraging environmental consideration, * Fiberfrontier Co., Ltd.: An electronic commerce textile ed The results after excluding the newly added sales and procurement management company legal compliance and protection of human jointly established by chemical synthetic fiber items were 93% and 99%, respectively, rights by suppliers, and also promoting fair companies in Japan. equivalent to FY2010 results. trade practices with suppliers. Furthermore, the individual guidance Since FY2006, the Teijin Group’s basic ers and support to help group IV and V suppliers policies for purchasing and procurement FY2011 CSR Evaluations of Suppliers improve, which started in FY2010, was Economic Report and Guidance/Support to Improve activities have been posted on the Teijin CSR Activities he continued in FY2011. As a result, eight of the Group’s website (in Japanese & English). In 22 suppliers ranked in groups IV or V in addition, CSR procurement guidelines have In FY2011, 413 suppliers, accounting for 76% FY2010 improved their rating to group III or been posted on our website in Japanese of the total purchasing value, were surveyed. better in FY2011. On the other hand, due to since FY2006, and in English since FY2007 as This is seven more suppliers than in FY2010, the effect of the newly added items, 26 part of our global expansion. In FY2011, we representing a slight increase (1%) in the suppliers were ranked in groups IV or V. Wee also progressed with preparations for percent of total purchasing value. will continue to provide guidance and Chinese versions of these documents. Furthermore, in FY2011, owing to support to these suppliers and in doing so increased numbers of suppliers who had aim to raise the quality of CSR procurement. participated on a successive basis and because We are also continuing preparations to Ongoing Surveys and Ratings of Suppliers expansion had reached a certain level, we expand CSR procurement to suppliers made our fiscal year objectives to advance overseas in line with our global expansion. In In FY2007, the Teijin Group launched an the level of evaluations, review questionnaire FY2011, we trialed a printed version of the originally developed system to grade the items, make further subdivisions and add new questionnaire and we are planning to take the CSR of suppliers. The system uses an online questionnaire items relating to matters of next step to implement the system in questionnaire to confirm whether or not increasing importance including the approach FY2012. These activities are being conducted suppliers are meeting the standards of the to biodiversity conservation and management on a joint basis with Toray Industries Inc. Teijin Group CSR procurement guidelines. of mineral resources in conflict zones (number through exchange of opinions. The results are used to grade suppliers from I to V with reference to specified standards and put into a database. Breakdown of Suppliers by Rating Breakdown of Purchase Value by Rating Suppliers respond to 70 questionnaire Group IV 8% Group V 5% Group III 0% Group IV 1% items and receive a score indicating the extent of compliance with standards Group II 3% Group V 1% specified in the Teijin Group CSR Group III 0% procurement guidelines. Suppliers are then ranked according to this score using on a Group II 15% Group I Group I 71% 95% percentage ratio and according to their credit status as ongoing suppliers. Using a matrix of these two rankings, suppliers are ranked from I to V. Ranks I to III equate to a TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 32 Social Contributions Social Report Promoting Group-wide Social Contributions Social contribution activities are being expanded on a group-wide basis and conducted at each plant and group company making use of their unique characteristics. In addition, we have set up comprehensive systems to support the volunteer activities of employees. In FY2006, we established the Teijin CEO Fostering Volunteer Personnel In Other Areas Teijin Group Social Contribution Activities Social Contributions Award to award employees The Teijin Group is also supporting volunteer and organizations that demonstrate good activities through systems such as a volunteer The Teijin Group has set basic policies for social performance in social contribution activities. In leave system, and a leave system for bone contributions and the Group CSR Promotion FY2011, the activities of the Home Healthcare marrow transplant donors and registered Subcommittee meets twice annually to discuss Business to help those affected by the Great firefighters. the details of specific activities. In FY2011, among East Japan Earthquake were commended. Furthermore, since FY2007, we have main items on the agenda were the activities in assisted employees to participate in a nature response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. observation leader workshop. Employees Fostering Volunteer Personnel registered as leaders play a central role in Teijin Group Basic Policies for Social Contributions implementing cicada exuviae surveys. 1. Social contribution activities are positioned as a Volunteer Support Program pursuit of the Teijin Group corporate philosophy and In June 2011, we established the Volunteer as practical implementation of the Code of Conduct. Sup Support for Areas Affected by the Great Support Program, a new program aimed at 2. Social contribution activities are to be implemented East Japan Earthquake proactively, and show respect for the particular encouraging employees’ social contribution characteristics of the business and region. activities and fostering volunteer personnel. The Teijin Group has extended support to 3. Volunteer activities of employees are encouraged and support shall be provided to foster volunteer This program provides partial financial support the areas affected by the Great East Japan personnel. for the volunteer activities of Teijin Group Earthquake through donating relief money and 4. Priority fields in social contributions in terms of group-wide activities are the environment, employees via the Teijin Group Social goods as well as funds raised from volunteer international exchange and social education. Contribution Fund made up of donations from employees in March and April of 2011. 5. Donations shall be made according to need for volunteer employees and directors as well as There were many Teijin Group humanitarian purposes such as after natural disasters. from companies. Employees request support employees who participated in volunteer Since joining the Keidanren (Japan Business for activities, and the administration committee activities such as cleaning off mud and Federation) 1% Club in FY2003, the Teijin Group then deliberates on and decides which removing furniture and household goods in has been setting aside at least 1% of current volunteer activities are to be supported. the disaster area from April to July, as well as profits for social contribution costs. In FY2011, In FY2011, the first recipients of support packing relief goods in other areas in April we spent approximately 1.16 billion yen on were the following four non-profit organizations and May. In total, 230 employees volunteered. social contribution activities (24% increase from (NPOs) where Teijin Group employees are In view of this situation, Teijin relaxed certain the previous fiscal year). involved in activities on a voluntary and requirements for taking holidays for ongoing basis. A donation of 100,000 yen was volunteer activities in the affected areas Expenses of Social Contribution Activities made to each organization. where activities needed to be continued. The environment Others The Teijin Junior Soccer School, contributing to the local community through soccer. Data on the Teijin Group Support for Affected Areas 1% 11% Sports The Japan Association for Galapagos, involved Monetary support (donations, etc.) 105,479,855 yen Science and in activities to conserve the nature of the (Breakdown) Teijin Limited 100,000,000 yen 6% research Galapagos Islands. Group companies Culture and Total 72% in Japan 2,043,000 yen the arts KAPATID, supporting activities such as 1,155 management of kindergartens in the Philippines. Overseas group 3,436,855 yen 10% million yen companies The Nature Conservation Society of Osaka, Relief goods 29,482,862 yen engaged in activities such as nature (Breakdown) Towels/Wet tissues 25,160 observation programs and conservation of Stuffed toys made of Microguard ® 1,000 forest reserves. Pulse oximeters 10 Blankets/Underwear 2,027 Breakdown of Spending on Social Contribution Activities Flashlights and other 1,060 emergency goods Amount Other Item Description (millions of yen) Funds raised from volunteer 19,492,069 yen*1 Monetary Monetary donations and other expenses for social contribution activities 965 employees Donations of goods Donations of our products and other goods to social welfare organizations 5 (Breakdown) Group companies in Japan 11,709,207 yen Free renting of Expenses for free renting of company facilities such as gyms and playgrounds company facilities 49 Overseas group companies 7,782,862 yen Personnel expenses for employees who participated in philanthropic activities Participation/Disduring their work hours, such as joining local events as part of their work, and patch of employees employees who gave lectures at meetings 136 Total 154,454,786 yen*2 Total 1,155 *1 This amount includes approx. 2.2 million yen that Teijin Limited donated to match funds raised. * Data for all group companies, based on the Keidanren “Procedures for Implementing FY2011 Survey on Results of Corporate Philanthropic Activities”. *2 Including free provision of home healthcare equipment, the total amount was 500 million yen or more. * Money used to support the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake is not included. 33 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Web • Examples of Social Contributions in Japan Fostering Young Scientists through Picture Book Donation Activities Scholarship System in China the Teijin Scholarship Foundation –Book Dream Project– Web See website for more detailed information The Teijin Scholarship Foundation established a The Book Dream Project was started in Since 1954, the Teijin scholarship system in China in June 2010 and FY2008 to donate Japanese picture books to Group has offered the has started operations to provide scholarship libraries in Indonesia after collecting used Teijin Kumura payments. The annual scholarship amount is books and other items from group employees Social Report Scholarship named 8,000 yuan per student and there were 24 and exchanging them for cash. Translated after Seita Kumura, a recipients in FY2011. The project is planned for caption sheets are added to the picture pioneer in the further expansion in FY2012 (see page 15). books by volunteer employees and books Japanese chemical are delivered to libraries in Indonesia in fiber industry, aiming cooperation with the Jakarta Japan Network. “Father of the Japanese Co-sponsoring the Koshien Tournament of to pass on and develop In FY2011, we donated 52 books. rayon industry,” Science an original R&D spirit, Seita Kumura In addition, since FY2010, we have been Environment, Safety as well as foster young scientists who will In March 2012, the first Koshien National donating 50,000 yen of the total amount contribute to social development and the Tournament of Science organized by the converted to support libraries in Thailand and Health Report creation of new culture (reorganized to the Japan Science and Technology Agency was through the Shanti Volunteer Association. Tejin Scholarship Foundation in 2011). held. The Teijin Group participated as a In FY2011, the collection of used books This scholarship system was Japan’s first supporting company. yielded a total of 109,378 yen. scholarship created by a private company The Koshien Tournament of Science was and 1,502 science and technological established with a view to broadening the base students have so far benefited from the of people with a passion for science as well as scholarship over a period of almost 60 years. improving the academic ability of those at the Economic Report Dr. Ei-ichi Negishi, Distinguished Professor at top. Students from 48 high schools who made Purdue University and a 2010 Nobel laureate it through the nationwide preliminary rounds in chemistry was a recipient of the Teijin competed in teams of six to eight students in Kumura Scholarship in its fifth year. multiple disciplines that tested their scientific The scholarship now applies across a knowledge and skills. The Teijin Award was wide range, to the medical and presented to one of the schools that excelled. Donating Japanese picture books to libraries in Indonesia pharmaceutical, bio-science, science and technology, engineering, information science and other fields. In FY2011, 47 graduate students (21 in master’s courses, 26 in doctoral courses) received funds totaling 52.44 million yen. A scene at the awards ceremony TOPICS Supporting Lung Walk Japan, an NPO-organized Charity Event Lung Walk Japan is a charity walking event organized by the NPO, J-Breath. The event aims to raise awareness of the importance of breathing and make people think about lung-related diseases and the air. It is held during the season when the new green leaves are budding close to May 9, which sounds similar to “breathing day” when Some employees participated with their families pronounced in Japanese. on a refreshing spring day Teijin Pharma Limited, which has a leading role in a medical and pharmaceutical business of the Teijin Group, Participant’s Voice endorses the event’s cause and is a proud supporter. The I really enjoyed the five-kilometer walk. As we fourth Lung Walk Japan (April 29, 2011) was cancelled walked among the new green leaves around the Takayuki due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, but in the fifth Imperial Palace, the occasion made me think Suzuki event (April 29, 2012), 500 participants walked around about LTOT patients… It was an entirely new Home Healthcare Sales Planning experience. Department the outer gardens of the Imperial Palace. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 34 ESH Management (Environmental Preservation, Web r The Teijin Group Global Environmental Charter r Teijin Group ESH Basic Policies r The Teijin Group Global Environmental Activity Goals Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) r Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual ESH General Assembly Environment, Safety and Promoting Group-wide ESH Management Health Report We are establishing an integrated ESH management system. ESH Promotion System * From April 2012. Group ESH Management System ESH chain of command Boa Board of Directors The Teijin Group positions ESH as a key issue * Business groups have been reorganized with the objective of relating to all business operations. As basic President Pres and CEO maximizing our overall strength as a group and facilitating management policies that relate to ESH, and implementation of our growth strategy. The changes are effective as of April 2012. on the basis of our corporate philosophy, we Chief Social Responsibility Officer have established the Teijin Group Global Group CSR Committee Environmental Charter, the Teijin Group (Chairperson: Chief Social Responsibility Officer) Global Environmental Activity Goals and the Group ESH Subcommittee (Chairperson: General Manager of the Teijin Limited ESH Office) ESH Basic Policies. In addition, in order to manage ESH, we New Business Development Group Business Group ESH Committee have set-up the Group CSR Committee. This committee is chaired by the Chief Social Advanced Fibers & Composites Business Group Business Group ESH Committee Responsibility Officer who has authority and Electric Materials & Performance Polymer Products Business Group Business Group ESH Committee responsibility delegated from the CEO. Under the Group CSR Committee, is the Healthcare Business Group Business Group ESH Committee Group ESH Subcommittee, which is chaired Products Converting Business Group Business Group ESH Committee by the General Manager of the Teijin Limited ESH Office and has members including IT Business Group Business Group ESH Committee corporate staff leaders and the chairperson of each business group’s ESH committee. ESH Office The subcommittee discusses and makes decisions on various measures and activities Group ESH Education Training Seminar for Internal Auditors of regarding ESH management, and oversees To enhance group-wide ESH management, ESH Compliance the expansion of these measures/activities to we established the ESH Education Program each business group. for presidents and executives involved in ESH To enhance compliance with laws and management, ESH staff, and production line regulations related to ESH, we held an ESH NBOBHFSTJOJOEJWJEVBMHSPVQDPNQBOJFT8F compliance training seminar for internal ESH Auditing and Training Sessions hold a workshop once a year for group auditors at the Osaka head office in January, companies in Japan, and every two years for 2012. A total of 52* employees were newly ESH Auditing overseas group companies. approved as 1st-grade or 2nd-grade auditors. ESH Audits I, II and III are conducted In FY2011, an ESH education workshop Since the system started in 2005, there according to our ESH Audit Regulations. A for group companies in Japan was held in have been a total of 664 internal auditors of double audit system is used involving audits July at the Osaka head office, with the ESH compliance . by the Chairperson of the ESH Committee for participation of 195 employees (69 in the * 1st-grade: 38 employees; 2nd-grade: 14 employees. each business group and the Chief Social basic class, 66 in the management class, and Responsibility Officer (see table on right). 60 in the applied class) . Overseas, a As part of the audit process, each workshop was held at Teijin Polycarbonate business group reports on ESH management China Ltd. in November. status, any accidents, status of countermeasures, and status of ESH Outline of the ESH Audits activities. This content is then audited, and Outline of the audits Auditors FY2011 audit results confirmation and guidance is provided in relation to future issues and actions required ESH Audit I ESH audits at production Chairperson of Business 17 in Japan, five overseas sites Group ESH Committee before the next audit. ESH Audit II Audits mainly concerning Chairperson of Business One annual audit for each of the eight environmental activities Group ESH Committee business groups ESH Audit III Audits of the results of ESH Chief Social One annual audit of eight business groups Audits I and II Responsibility Officer and independently managed companies 35 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Reducing Environmental Impact Environment, Safety and Reducing Environmental Impact over the Entire Product Life Cycle 3.9 Health Report Environmental preservation is one of the three core elements of the Teijin Group’s Sustainable Environment Initiatives. With the goals of reducing waste and emissions of CO2 and chemical substances, as well as managing waste more effectively, we evaluate the environmental impact of our business activities over the entire life cycle of each product and take positive measures to reduce our environmental impact. improved response efficiency as a result of Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impact in Climate Change Initiatives Clim updating the isomerization catalyst for the All Processes from Procurement to Disposal EN 5 EN16 EN17 EN18 raw materials factory of the Matsuyama Plant Social Report In addition to compliance with rules and Reducing Greenhouse Gases Emitted as well as other energy-saving measures such regulations and agreements with local During Manufacturing as updating the refrigerators at the Gifu Plant governments relating to environmental impact, of Teijin DuPont Films Japan Limited, and 100% Targets for FY2012–2020 the Teijin Group is carrying out various voluntary external supply of electricity and reduced Group: Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of activities aiming to further reduce the overall production amount by 1% or more production at the Tokuyama Plant. This is a compared to the preceding fiscal year. environmental impact of our business activities. 49% reduction compared to the FY1990 Japan: Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% or more These include efficient use of resources and compared to the FY1990 level by FY2020. level, thus achieving the FY2020 goal set for Environment, Safety energy, minimizing chemical substance emissions +BQBO8FXJMMDPOUJOVFUPQSPNPUFFOFSHZ and preventing soil and groundwater pollution. In FY2011, at group companies in Japan, CO2 savings, fuel conversion and other measures. and Health Report For processes other than manufacturing emissions were 1.32 million tons, a 16% At overseas companies, CO2 emissions and processing, it is necessary to consider reduction from the FY2010 level of 1.57 were 0.93 million tons, a 7% decrease from the environmental impact caused by the use, million tons. This was achieved through FY2010. This was achieved through renewal consumption, and disposal of products by Trends in Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Manufacturing Operations customers of the Teijin Group. For this reason, 49% decrease we have established a system to assess the Japan Overseas environmental impact of each product through (Million tons-CO2) Japan Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Overseas Economic Report compared to FY1990 4 Target for Japan of reducing CO2 Companies in FY2011 JUTMJGFDZDMF8FBSFBMTPQVSTVJOHUIFDSFBUJPOPG 3.50 3.46 emissions by 20% or more compared (Million tons-CO ons CO2) 3.41 to the FY1990 level has been achieved 3.25 .25 7% decrease products that can be easily recycled and reused, and 1.50 3 0.90 developing new functions for products to reduce 1.44 2.86 2.57 Overseas 1.45 compared to the previous fiscal year environmental impact based on the Teijin Group 1.48 48 22.25 25 0.50 2 1.34 1.00 0.405 Design for Environment system (see page 41). 0.93 0.325 2.60 0.25 Three Core Elements of Teijin Group Environmental Management 1 0.175 2.02 1.96 1.77 1.52 1.57 1.32 1 Environmental Preservation 0 0.024 0 Activities aimed at reducing the negative impact our North Europe China Southeast daily business activities have on the environment. 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) America Asia (Base year) 2 Design for Environment r*ODMVEFT$02, methane and nitrous oxide. Activities reflected in product and process design aimed at reducing the negative impact on the environment. r$BMPSJñDWBMVFTBOE$02 emissions are calculated according to the coefficient specified in the Law Concerning the 1SPNPUJPOPG.FBTVSFTUP$PQFXJUI(MPCBM8BSNJOH BOFNJTTJPOTGBDUPSGPSFMFDUSJDJUZPGLH$02L8IJTVTFEGPS 3 Environmental Business every fiscal year). For power purchased overseas, where known, the relevant emissions factor is used for calculations. Business activities aimed at contributing to r5IFSFXBTBTVCTUBOUJBMEFDSFBTFJO':CFDBVTF5*'*$0 XIPFNJUUFENJMMJPOUPOTPG$02 in FY2009, was environmental improvement. excluded from the calculations. Environmental Impact of the Teijin Group in FY2011 by Input/Output EN1 EN3 EN16 See website for more detailed information Web INPUT OUTPUT Energy Manufacturing Intermediate CO2 and Products 34.3×10 6 GJ processing Products 2.25 million tons Chemical substances handled Chemical substances 1.272 million tons Raw Materials Use 2,279 tons Freshwater consumption Waste with no effective use 86 million tons 4.6 thousand tons Recycling Seawater consumption Total water discharged Recovery Disposal 76 million tons 154 million tons TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 36 Reducing Environmental Impact Environment, Safety and Health Report of the thermal boiler for the dyeing machine 4,000-ton reduction from the previous fiscal review of Japanese domestic shipping routes at Nantong Teijin Co., Ltd. and other energyyear. Per 1,000 ton-kms, the specific in line with conditions after the Great East saving efforts such as introducing energyemissions unit index was 1.018 (FY2006 = 1). Japan Earthquake and maintaining the FîDJFOUMJHIUJOHBUBMMQMBOUT8FXJMMTUSJWFUP This represents a 14.8% increase, at odds with usage ratio of JR Freight containers. In 2012, reach next year’s CO2 emissions target, which our annual target of reducing CO2 emissions we will review overall distribution and set will be measured per unit of production per unit of transportation amount by 1% environmental-impact reduction measures amount and based on FY2011 emissions. compared to the previous fiscal year. Possible according to the circumstances. Group-wide CO2 emissions amounted to main reasons for this are the effect of the 2.25 million tons in FY2011, a 12% decrease Great East Japan Earthquake and Thailand Employee-oriented Environmental Activities from the FY2010 level. floods and changes in the supply chain As part of environmental and biodiversity based on business structure reform. education, with the cooperation of the Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions from Offices and One of the effects of the Great East Japan Bousou Nougei company, Teijin Limited Company Vehicles Earthquake was damage to the ports used for joined with Infocom Corporation to hold a In FY2008, we began collecting data on CO2 sea transport. As an alternative, we selected Field-mustard Farm Project at a forest reserve emissions of our offices and company ports close to the final destination but this led in Kimitsu, Chiba on November 13, 2011. WFIJDMFT8FTFUJOEFQFOEFOUOVNFSJDBM to increased distance of truck transportation. There were 30 participants, consisting of targets for each site in FY2009, and are Due to the Thailand flooding, production of employees and their families. promoting activities to cut emissions. the raw materials we had imported to Japan On the day, participants planted fieldMeasures at offices include improving ceased, prompting us to use the Matsuyama mustard seeds in the morning, listened to a talk the efficiency of energy use at Osaka head Plant for alternate production. This in turn by a field-mustard expert over lunch and then office (company-owned building), group caused the need for truck transportation in in the afternoon had a chance to experience company head offices and sales branches, Japan. As a result of the business structure activities such as harvesting taro potatoes, and proactively cooperating in energy-saving reform, shipping of large-volume lots via sea visiting a vegetable market, and digging a efforts such as dimming or turning off certain transport was eliminated and the truck well using an old-fashioned method known lights on all floors at Tokyo head office. At transportation ratio increased. as kazusabori. During the day’s activities, the the Tokyo Research Center, an energy-saving Even in this tough situation, we are CO2 emitted from monitoring system was introduced in FY2010, making full efforts to reduce environmental the participants’ facilitating visualization of energy use. Given impact as demonstrated by a higher ratio of transportation that the center is subject to the Tokyo batch transportation using large trucks, was offset. This metropolitan government’s mandatory CO2 minimizing truck transportation through a event is scheduled reductions, we promoted increased efforts to to be held again lower CO2 emissions. Trends in CO2 Emissions in Logistics and in FY2012. Field-mustard Farm Project the Unit Index for Teijin Group Specific Consignors participants As measures to reduce CO2 emissions of CO2 emissions per unit of company vehicles, we have updated to transportation amount (compared to the eco-cars and we are promoting fuel-efficient CO2 emissions level (1) in the Comparison with Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions driving. At Teijin Pharma Limited, in addition (tons-CO2) previous fiscal year base year FY2006) 14.8 27,987 1.01 1.018 1.00 EN8 EN20 EN21 30,000 1.000 to the above measures, we have introduced 27,5766 % a system of recording fuel consumed and 25,000 worse 0.98 distance driven. 21,823 21 823 Targets for FY2006–2011 20,000 19,260 18,500 0.96 Group-wide: Reduce chemical substance These measures resulted in office CO2 0.963 emissions by 30% or more compared to the emissions of 11 thousand tons, a 13% 15,000 14,216 0.94 FY2005 level by FY2011. 0.928 decrease compared to FY2010, and company Japan: Reduce emissions of volatile organic 10,000 0.930 0.92 compounds (VOCs) by 50% or more compared vehicle emissions of 8,448 tons, a slight to the FY2000 level by FY2010. 5,000 0.90 increase from FY2010 . 0.887 0 0.88 The Teijin Group is actively committed to Reducing CO2 Emissions in Logistics 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) reducing emissions of all chemical substances In FY2011, CO2 emissions associated with the rAlthough the raw materials and polymer business were listed as Class 1 chemical substances in the transferred from Teijin Fibers Limited to Teijin Limited in shipment of products of Teijin Fibers Limited, April 2010, for comparison purposes, the figures for these Chemical Substances Management Law*1 businesses have been included in those of Teijin Fibers. Teijin Dupont Films Japan Limited, and Teijin revised in April 2010 (462 substances), and rThe calorific value of light oil was changed to 37.7 GJ/kL Chemicals Ltd., amounted to 14,216 tons, a in FY2010 (38.2 GJ/kL till FY2009) those specified by the Japan Chemical 37 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Industry Association (433 substances). oxygen demand (COD) load and biochemical Trends in Chemical Substance Emissions Excluding duplicated listings, there are 575 oxygen demand (BOD) load associated with 34% decrease Japan Overseas specified chemical substances. the water discharged group-wide was 664 Social Report (t) At group companies in Japan, in addition 4,000 Group-wide target of a 30% or tons, an 18% decrease compared to FY2010. more reduction compared to the 3,444 3,614 FY2005 level has been achieved to the efforts mentioned above, we have set the goal of reducing emissions of volatile 3,000 2,883 3,026 Trends in SOx Emissions Mid-term 2,677 organic compounds (VOCs) by 50% or more target 2,279 Japan Overseas compared to the FY2000 level by the end of FY2010 (by 72% or more compared to the 2,000 (thousand tons) 12.5 14 % decrease ':MFWFM 8FIBWFBMTPFTUBCMJTIFEB 1,000 10.0 10.3 compared to the previous fiscal year 9.5 8.9 Environment, Safety long-term goal for reducing emissions of 0 7.5 7.3 chemical substances by 80% or more 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 5.1 and Health Report compared to the FY1998 level by FY2020. (Base year) 5.0 44.44 From FY2010, in addition to these goals, rEmissions of Class 1 chemical substances listed in the Chemical Substances Management Law and chemical 2.5 the Teijin Group has been focusing on reducing substances specified by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. The figures shown are the total of emissions 0 substances that have a large impact on the into the atmosphere, soil and water, and landfill amount 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) environment, ecosystems and humans even within business sites. when emitted in small amounts. To this end, we Trends in Water Consumption and Total Water Discharged Top 10 Chemicals Substance Emissions in FY2011 have been using LIME2*2 (see page 39) to Economic Report Inorganic cyanogen compound 8BUFSDPOTVNQUJPO Total water discharged promote targeted environmental-impact Toluene (excluding complex salt and cyanate) 2.6% Japan Overseas Japan p Overseas 15 2.6% Methyl alcohol 2.4% (million tons) 1 reduction. *1 Chemical Substance Management Law: Law Xylene 3.2% Others 6.6% 300 % % decrease Concerning Reporting, etc., of Releases to the decrease compared to the compared to the previous fiscal year Environment of Specific Chemical Substances and Tetrahydrofuran 250 previous fiscal year 5.0% Promoting Improvements in Their Management. Dichloromethane NTotal (methylene 212 211 *2 LIME2: The second version of the Life Cycle Impact 200 Methylpyrrolidone emissions chloride) 196 Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling 5.0% 2,279 43.5% 182 (LIME) developed in Japan. Acetone tons 150 154 5.0% Details of Chemical Substance Emissions Methyl ethyl ketone N,N-Dimethylformamide 100 102 97 FY2011 chemical substance emissions in 10.9% 13.3% 91 87 86 Japan were 1,456 tons, a 17% decrease from rRed text denotes chemical substances specified as Class 1 in the Chemical Substances Management Law. 50 the previous year. Overseas, emissions fell to 824 tons, a SOx Emissions and Wastewater Loading (COD, BOD) 0 35% drop compared to FY2010. This was due EN 8 EN 20 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) in large part to the suspension of operations In FY2011, group companies in Japan generated r8BUFSDPOTVNQUJPOBNPVOUJODMVEFTJOEVTUSJBMXBUFS  groundwater and tap water. at three Polyester Fibers Business Group 4.2 thousand tons of SOx as a result of fuel use, rTotal water discharged includes seawater used for cooling. plants in Thailand after the devastating a 13% decrease compared to the FY2010 level. Trends in COD/BOD Load floods that occurred there in the second half Overseas, 0.2 thousand tons were of the fiscal year. Group-wide, emissions fell generated, thus making the group-wide COD (Japan) BOD (Japan) COD (overseas) BOD (overseas)) 25% to 2,279 tons. Compared to FY2005, this emissions 4.4 thousand tons, a 14% decrease 18 (t) is a 34% decrease, meaning that we achieved compared to FY2010. 1,500 % our goal of a 30% decrease. In FY2011, the Teijin Group used a total decrease compared to the 1,113 1,062 previous fiscal year Of the total chemical substances of 86 million tons of freshwater (industrial 1,000 950 emitted into the environment, 97.9% was water, tap water and groundwater). In 797 809 664 released into the atmosphere, 2.1% into the addition, we used 76 million tons of seawater, 500 water, and 0% into landfill or the soil. mainly for cooling applications. Both freshwater In addition, VOC emissions for FY2011 in and seawater consumption was reduced 0 Japan were 1,360 tons, a 17% decrease compared to FY2010. Group-wide, a total of 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) compared to FY2010 . 154 million tons of water was discharged, a r QQMJFTUPXBTUFXBUFSEJTDIBSHFEJOUPSJWFST PDFBOT and lakes. 15% decrease from FY2010. r$0%EBUBJTVTFEJODBTFTXIFSFCPUI$0%BOE#0% Additionally, the total amount of chemical data are available. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 38 Reducing Environmental Impact Environment, Safety and Health Report M i ni-f eat ure Reducing Chemical Substance Emissions Using LIME2-based Evaluations of Environmental Impact The Teijin Group has used LIME2* since FY2010 as part of its focused initiatives to manage and reduce chemical substances that effect the environment and ecosystems. “Environmental Impact Risk”: A New Outlook Built Targeted Reduction of Large-impact Chemical into Initiatives to Reduce Chemical Substances Substances at all Business Groups LIME2 is a life cycle assessment (LCA) method developed In FY2011, the LIME2-based quantitative evaluation and analysis through a national project of the National Institute of Advanced of group-wide chemical substance emissions was completed. Industrial Science and Technology. It involves measuring and The results showed that we are having a large impact on assessing overall environmental impact according to 15 categories the environment in the areas of ecotoxicity, which impacts on of environmental impact including hazardous chemical biodiversity, and photochemical oxidants, which effect human substances, ozone-layer destruction and global warming. health and cause atmospheric pollution. In addition, we found Till FY2010, the Teijin Group’s approach to reducing that there are chemical substances that have a large impact on chemical substances was to specify chemical substances for the environment even in small amounts. management based on their hazardous properties. After At the same time, based on the finding that there are introducing LIME2 in FY2010, we have newly incorporated the other factors impacting on the environment apart from perspective of the risk of environmental impact, deciding to chemical substances, we have started analysis using a wider focus on management and reduction of substances that have scope. One of these factors is freshwater (industrial water, tap a large impact on the environment. water and groundwater) used by the Teijin Group worldwide. This has been applied to targets as well; we have set For FY2010 results, we found that the environmental impact was targets not only for chemical substances emissions but also large in Thailand, China and the Netherlands, but small in Japan targets to reduce environmental impact. Specifically, the despite high consumption in comparison to other countries. FY2020 emissions goal is a 48% reduction compared to the In the future, each business group will use this data to FY2005 level, whereas the environmental-impact goal is an rank substances in terms of priority for reduction and 87.5% reduction. According to in-house simulations, even if establish/promote emission-reduction and action plans. small-impact chemical substances are reduced and the Finally, the Teijin Group will consider how we can take an even FY2020 emissions goal is achieved, environmental impact will more multidimensional approach in evaluating environmental only be reduced 5.5%. This reinforces the importance of impact globally. reducing chemical substances from the perspective of environmental impact. Environmental Impact of Chemical Substance Emissions Using LIME2 The 15 Environmental Impact Categories in LIME2 (indexed by setting FY2005 to 100) r Urban area atmospheric pollution r (%) Worse-case scenario (in the case of Indoor air quality pollution 120.0 r reducing low-impact chemical substances) Hazardous chemical substances r Noise r Ozone-layer destruction 100.0 100.0 94.5 r Global warming r Photochemical oxidants 80.0 r Ecotoxicity r Acidification r Eutrophication r Waste 60.0 Estimated reduction r Soil use 40.0 based on r Consumption of mineral resources reduction plan r Consumption of fossil fuels 20.0 r Consumption of biological resources 0.0 12.5 2005 2020 (FY) Forecast * LIME2: The second version of the Life Cycle Impact Assessment Method Based on Endpoint Modeling (LIME) developed in Japan. 39 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 In addition, the Teijin Group has Water Purification and Preventing Reducing/Managing Waste EN 2 2 defined zero emissions as reducing the ratio Soil/Groundwater Pollution of “waste with no effective use” to 1% orr less Social Report h of the total waste generated, and each In FY2006, the Teijin Group formulated Targets for FY2006–2011 business site/plant has been able to take ke guidelines for preventing soil and groundwa groundwater ater Reduce “waste with no effective use*” by 50% or more compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011 bly independent reduction initiatives. Notably, poll tion Under the guidelines, pollution. g idelines wee are business sites in Japan that produce 500 or striving to prevent soil and groundwater The Teijin Group has made a strong more tons of waste all achieved zero pollution resulting from our business commitment to reducing the amount of emissions by FY2011. “Waste with no operations in Japan and overseas. We are waste generated, and also reducing the effective use” totaled 182 tons in Japan in also taking appropriate action in response to Environment, Saf Safety “waste with no effective use.” This is FY2011, a 46% reduction compared to revisions of the Water Quality Pollution manifested in promoting reuse of waste, and FY2010. Starting from FY2012, we have set Control Act effective as of June, 2012. and Health Report shifting from simple incineration/landfill to the annual goal of a 1% reduction per unit material, chemical, and thermal recycling. of production amount. Biodiversity Conservation EN14 Our mid-term target for “waste with no Overseas, 4.4 thousand tons of waste Web See website for more detailed information effective use” is a reduction of 50% or more with no effective use were generated, a compared to the FY2005 level by FY2011. 19% reduction from FY2010. As was the Biodiversity is affected by chemical substances, When compared to FY1998, this represents a case in FY2010, only three business greenhouse gases, waste and other forms of reduction of 81%. In our long-term target for sites/plants achieved zero emissions. As environmental impact resulting from business Economic Reportt FY2020, we aim to achieve a reduction of overseas group companies are lagging activities. To enable visualization of this 85% or more compared to FY1998. behind those in Japan in this area, in situation, the Teijin Group has created a map In FY2011, group-wide, we generated FY2012, we will continue to make showing risks relating to loss of biodiversity due 4.6 thousand tons of “waste with no effective improvements such as searching for to business activities and activities to conserve use,” 6.7% of the total 68 thousand tons of suitable recycling companies. biodiversity. This will facilitate all employees waste generated. This represents a 74% having a clear awareness of the impact of reduction compared to the FY2005 level, business activities on biodiversity, helping to thus achieving the mid-term target of a propel conservation activities forward. reduction of 50% or more. This result reflects the decreased production and the reduction Map of Risks (Biodiversity Loss) and Initiatives (Biodiversity Conservation) efforts at each business site, a prime example (Loss-of-biodiversity risk) being the improved tank-residue recovery Design for Chemical substance emissions into r-PTTPGIBCJUBU Environment the atmosphere, water and soil r*OUSPEVDUJPOPGGPSFJHOTQFDJFT ratio at the No. 1 polymerization factory at Environmental preservation activities r1PMMVUJPO r$MJNBUFDIBOHF the Matsuyama Plant. r&YDFTTJWFDPOTVNQUJPO Design for Products Environment Trends in “Waste with no Effective Use*” Intermediate products Use Japan Overseas (tons) 74% reduction 20,000 Renewable 17,974 resources compared to FY2005 Group-wide target of a reduction 15,000 of 50% or more compared to Production/ Energy resources FY2005 has been achieved Waste Processing Petrochemical 10,000 9,977 resources Substance introduction Mid-term 7,780 /removal target 6,240 5,691 Land reform 5,000 4,598 Land use Chemical substance (plant construction, etc.) emissions into the Raw atmosphere, water and soil materials Recovery 0 (Loss-of-biodiversity risk) 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) r-PTTPGIBCJUBU Green procurement Recycling (Base year) rIntroduction of foreign species r1PMMVUJPO Design for Design for Environment Environment * Waste with no effective use: Waste that is either put r$MJNBUFDIBOHF directly into landfill or incinerated without heat recovery. r&YDFTTJWFDPOTVNQUJPO TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 40 Design for Environment Environment, Safety and Product and Manufacturing Process Design Contributing to Reduced Health Report All products, manufacturing processes, and IT services are designed based on evaluations of the environmental impact throughout the product’s life cycle. reduce the environmental impact are investigated, Design for Environment Approved What is Design for Environment? and the results are reflected in the design of new Products “Earth Symphony®” Pro products, manufacturing processes and IT services. The Teijin Group positions Design for In February 2010, we developed the “Earth Environment as one of the three core elements Symphony ®” concept, a logo to be displayed of environmental management. Design for Design for Environment Approval System Des on products that have received Design for Environment is defined as: “Product design that Environment approval. In June 2010, “Earth aims to reduce the environmental impact of The Teijin Group has an original system for Symphony ®” became a registered trademark each product through evaluating the overall approving Design for Environment products, of the Teijin Group (in Japan). environmental impact throughout the product in place since January 2008. In FY2011, this trademark was registered in life cycle including raw materials, production, use The approval system applies to products the EU, China and Singapore. Future plans are to and disposal.” (Environmental impact includes and IT/services for which sales are expected register it in the US and various Asian countries release of CO2/sulfur oxides that contribute to to exceed a specified amount, or products, where the Teijin Group is expanding its products, global warming/air pollution.) Based on this manufacturing processes or IT/services for and thereby aim to increase global awareness and definition, in January 2008, we established the which there is a specific desire to obtain wider use of Earth Symphony® in the market. Teijin Group Design for Environment Guidelines, Design for Environment approval. which apply to six areas; safety, energy saving, The chairman of the Expert Committee for resource saving, environmental conservation, Promoting Design for Environment examines provision of information, and environmental applications and grants approval. In FY2011, five impact reduction in the manufacturing stage. products were granted approval (see below). When a product, manufacturing process or Even after approval, compliance is checked This logo is used to promote awareness among the IT service is newly designed or the design is periodically through product liability/quality general public of our initiative for harmonization with the global environment through environmentally improved, the guidelines and a special checklist are assurance audits, and decisions on whether to conscious corporate activities based on the Teijin used to evaluate the design. Various measures to renew or withdraw approvals are made. Group Design for Environment Guidelines. Products that Received Design for Environment Approval in FY2011 Resource Saving Energy Saving/Environmental Conservation Enhanced Safety Used in the arms of Megane Ichiba TRIPROTECH™ eyeglasses (laminated cloth for Photo shows 2012 models BIOFRONT ® new fire-fighting uniforms) Despite being a bioplastic, BIOFRONT® has high heat Artificial leather Cordley ® TRIPROTECH™ is a lightweight resistance owing to its stereocomplex polylactic (using ECOPET®SF and AEROTOP ®SF) cloth for fire-fighting uniforms acid crystal structure. Its melting point of 200°C or Cordley® has a structure similar to natural leather while providing superior safety through higher is equal to that of petroleum-derived weighing approx. 20% less than our conventional combining three-layered cloth polyester (PET, PBT) and it is suited to applications artificial leather. It is used in school bags sold by Nitori with high-strength, highly for industry and durable consumables. throughout Japan (during certain seasons). heat-resistant fibers. Energy Saving Reduced CO2 Emissions Hi-Sanso™ 7R E-COMMUTE® Hi-Sanso™ 7R is a home healthcare (polycarbonate–polylactate alloy) oxygen concentrator that provides E-COMMUTE® is a biomass alloy compliant safe, anxiety-free and energy-saving with the biomass-based plastics performance. It features the lowest identification system and electronic products power consumption in the industry environmental assessment tool (EPEAT). The and is compatible with a system that compatibilizing technology developed has automatically monitors equipment significantly improved appearance, hydrolysis operational status. resistance and moldability. 41 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Web r Summary of the Design for Environment Evaluation Checklist r Design for Environment Organizational Bodies r List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for Environment Approval Environmental Impact published by the International Council of In addition, Teijin Limited participates in Reviewing the Guidelines Chemical Associations (ICCA) in 2009 and LCA working group activities of the Japan the Japan Chemical Industry Association Chemical Fibers Association. Social Report The United Nations declared 2010 as the (JCIA) in July 2011, it was clearly shown *1 c-LCA: A method used to investigate and analyzee CO2 emissions of each process from a perspective ve International Year of Biodiversity. In FY2011, using the carbon life cycle analysis (c-LCA)*1 m overlooking the entire life cycle of products from we started using the Design for Environment method that the chemical industry is collection of raw materials to disposal. Guidelines that had been revised to enable a contributing significantly to global CO2 more detailed evaluation of the impact on emission reductions. biodiversity in relation to the item In 2011, Teijin Limited also participated Future Developments “environmental impact reduction in the in creating guidelines for calculating the Environment, Safety manufacturing stage.” In specific terms, we contribution to CO2 reduction using the In FY2012, we will newly establish a Group p used LIME2 (see page 39) to evaluate items c-LCA method adopted by the JCIA. As part Environmental Management Promotion and Health Report such as the impact due to the use and of a joint Ministry of the Environment/ Subcommittee and review the system of disposal of specific chemical substances. Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry promoting overall environmental research project regarding greenhouse gas management activities. The new emissions in supply chains of organizations, a subcommittee will take an overall Engaged in LCA Activities via Industry global-response subcommittee chemical perspective in reviewing issues and consider der working group reported these guidelines as policies and measures to further develop In a report entitled “Innovations for an important achievement. The guidelines Design for Environment. Economic Report Greenhouse Gas Reductions—Life Cycle also contributed to a proposal to aim to Analysis of Chemical Products in Japan” develop a “green value chain standard.” Dialogue with an Environmental Expert 4 .1 7 On March 26, 2012, we held a dialogue with Dr. Masahiko Hirao, a professor at the School of Engineering of Dr. Masahiko the University of Tokyo. In light of a progress report from Teijin Limited, we exchanged opinions regarding Hirao, Ph. D. operations and challenges. Professor School of Here, we present some of Dr. Hirao’s opinions on the progress of the Teijin Group activities in relation Engineering The University to the four challenges he raised in FY2010 as well as his opinions on future challenges. of Tokyo Challenge 1: Create an independent PDCA system that enables all products to be Challenge 3: Perform quantitative evaluations using LCA designed and manufactured according to the Design for I understand that in aiming to strengthen environmental management Environment guidelines Teijin has conducted structural reorganization and is making progress in I understand that in aiming to strengthen environmental management creating an independent PDCA system. I look forward to hearing about Teijin has conducted structural reorganization and is making progress in specific actions under the new system from April 2012. creating an independent PDCA system. I look forward to hearing about specific actions under the new system from April 2012. Challenge 4: Create activities that involve all employees in environmentally friendly manufacturing Challenge 2: Develop Design for Environment through collaboration within Evidence that progress in activities is being made could be seen in the supply chains beyond company and department frameworks fact that more than 60 opinions were expressed by high-level Environmental initiatives for automobiles and infrastructure-related development and design managers in Japan including harsh opinions products in particular tend to obtain high recognition. However, the such as “Why are these activities necessary?” However, further societal and environmental benefits of chemical products are seen for enlightenment is necessary to instill a mindset that it is natural that the first time when they are used. In this respect, I have high expectations certain activities are required. that Teijin can find the best match for customer needs and expand in various fields. Future Challenges Material manufacturers tend to be behind the scenes. This is true of environmental initiatives too in that customers of material manufacturers tend to get the recognition for considering the environment. At the same time, there is also an unreasonable misconception that it is the material manufacturer that causes CO2 emissions. It will therefore be important to further appeal to the environmental conservation and social contributions of chemical materials and products. See the website for more detailed information Web TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 42 Environmental Businesses EN 7 Environment, Safety and Promoting Businesses Contributing to Reduced Environmental Impact Health Report With the ultimate aim of helping solve global environmental issues, we are utilizing our technologies cultivated over many years to focus efforts on developing cutting-edge materials that contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, recycling technologies that enable reuse of water and other resources, as well as wider adoption of our products. Applications for aircraft include the Products/Technologies Contributing to Teijin Group’s Environmental Businesses es upper-deck floor cross beam of the AIRBUS A380, Environmental Improvement the world’s largest passenger aircraft. The Teijin Group Global Environmental Weight Reductions in Transportation 2. Panlite® Polycarbonate Resin Charter was established in 1992. In the automotive and aircraft industries, Polycarbonate resin is used in automobile as Subsequently, in 2007, we announced the initiatives to improve fuel efficiency and well as the N700 Series Shinkansen train Declaration of Sustainable Environment reduce CO2 emissions are continuing. windows. In addition to being lightweight, Initiatives. Recognizing the substantial In order to realize lighter chassis and polycarbonate resin has superior processing impact of our business activities on the fuselages, and thereby contribute to improved characteristics, raising expectations of further global environment, we are striving to fuel efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions, the improvements in design. preserve the environment through providing Teijin Group is working hard to develop and products and services that reduce increase the widespread use of carbon fiber and Contributing to Wider Use of New Energies environmental impact. polycarbonate resin, materials which are more The use of clean energy sources that do not Additionally, the mediumto long-term lightweight and stronger than conventional emit CO2 such as photovoltaic (PV) and wind management vision, CHANGE for 2016, materials such as iron, aluminum and glass. power generation is continuing to become announced in February 2012, outlines our 1. Tenax® Carbon Fiber more widespread. In these new energy fields, basic policy to promote growth strategies in The Teijin Group has established a world-first Teijin Group products are making vital green chemistry, healthcare and overlapping technology enabling mass-production of contributions. domains, clarifying our intention to provide composite products for automobiles through For example, in PV generation, PET film is solutions that have sustainable value. the use of thermoplastic resin with carbon used in back sheets of PV panels. Furthermore, We are also strengthening efforts in fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP). As the first step through use of silicon nano-ink, currently development of bioplastics to contribute to to realizing automotive applications, we have under development, for power generation inhibiting CO2 emissions and consumption of started joint development with GM, one of materials, we will aim for improved productivity oil resources and development of advanced the world’s largest automotive manufacturers leading to substantial cost reduction. and composite materials to contribute to and we will create a business aiming for In wind power generation, Tenax® conserving energy and resources. full-scale application to mass-produced cars carbon fibers enable larger wind turbine (see feature on pages 13–14). blades, contributing to improved power generation efficiency. Examples of How Teijin Group Environmental Businesses are Reducing Environmental Impact • Wind turbines • LED lighting (carbon fiber) • Organic EL related materials • Highly transparent & heat reflective insulating film • Weight reduction (carbon fiber) • Photovoltaic panels (PET/PEN films, silicon nano-ink) • Closed-loop recycling system • Bioplastics • Flue gas NOx/SOx removal equipment • Weight reduction (carbon fiber, polycarbonate resin) • Bioplastics 43 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Web • Environmental Impact Surveys and Monitoring Bioplastics: Contributing to Reduced CO2 3. ECO CIRCLE ™ Plantfiber * 80% reduction: Source: Report on “Textile Goods Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Survey,” Ministry of Emissions and Resource Savings ECO CIRCLE™ Plantfiber is a partially Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan. CO2 emissions The Teijin Group is developing bioplastics bio-derived PET. Ethylene glycol, one of the include those produced during incineration. with performance comparable to that of components of PET resin, is made from petroleum-derived engineering plastics. biofuels derived from biomass such as Wastewater Recycling/Reuse through Bioplastics are made from renewable sugarcane. The bio-content of ECO CIRCLE™ Biological Processes resources such as plants, therefore inhibiting Plantfiber is a little over 30% and it has the Social Report the consumption of oil, a finite resource. In same characteristics and quality of oil-derived Water shortages and water pollution are addition, plants, the raw material, absorb CO2 PET. Recycling is also possible via the ECO becoming increasingly serious problems in in the process of growing, so increased CO2 CIRCLE™ closed-loop recycling system. various areas of the world. Raising hopes of a concentration in the atmosphere can also be Full-scale production mainly for solution are Japan’s outstanding water inhibited. application to car seats started in April 2012 purification treatment technologies. The 1. BIOFRONT ® and has been expanding steadily. This is the Teijin Group is part of this solution through Compared to PLA, the conventional bioplastic, world’s first full-scale expansion of a our initiatives to alleviate water shortages Environment, Safety BIOFRONT® has higher heat-resistance as well bio-derived PET fiber product. around the world. To this end, we are as excellent durability, moldability and proactively promoting our water purification and Health Report transparency with a bio-content of close to treatment business under the concept of Closed-loop Recycling System Contributing 100%. Making the most of these features, we recycling and reuse of wastewater. to Resource Savings EN27 are developing new applications for the The core technology of our wastewater electronics and automotive fields. ECO CIRCLE™ is a closed-loop recycling system purification treatment system is the 2. PLANEXT ® based on a world-first chemical recycling multistage activated biological process PLANEXT® is an eco-friendly polycarbonate-like technology developed by Teijin Fibers (MSABP ®). As well as purifying wastewater via resin, containing isosorbide made from corn Limited. Through chemically decomposing microorganisms, MSABP ® uses the microbial Economic Report and other plants. With the bio-content as polyester products to the molecular level, an food chain to control the generation of high as 70%, it has excellent transparency, endless cycle of regenerating used products excess sludge. As a result, compared to chemical resistance, scratch resistance and into new products without loss of quality is ordinary activated sludge equipment, energy durability. We are developing applications possible. In addition to reducing waste, ECO savings and cost reductions are realized. that take advantage of these features in the CIRCLE™ recycling realizes an approximate We have also developed sophisticated automotive/electronics, optical, medical, 80%* reduction in energy consumption and technologies for wastewater reuse, including food, cosmetics and other industries. CO2 emissions compared to newly producing ELCAT ™, an electro catalytic method, and HiPOx®, Extending further, we are fully utilizing polyester feedstock (DMT) from petroleum. an advanced oxidation water treatment. our compounding and alloying technologies Product development, collection and In response to user needs, through to propel development of E-COMMUTE®, a recycling are now in progress in cooperation combining MSABP ®, ELCAT ™ and HiPOx ® and plant-derived polymer alloy material, thus with more than 150 apparel manufacturers membrane technologies we are aiming to taking up the challenge of pioneering and sporting goods manufacturers in Japan realize recirculation/reuse of wastewater at development of new markets. and overseas. plants and other facilities. Development of Teijin’s Bioplastics Global Expansion of ECO CIRCLE™ High-performance Europe North America plastics Highly heat-resistant PEI PEEK LCP bioplastic: BIOFRONT® Bio-polycarbonate resin: Bio-derived PET: PES ECO CIRCLE ™ Plantfiber PLANEXT® PSU PPS Engineering PC PAG, PAGG plastics mPPO PBT, PET, POM Conventional bioplastics China Japan Commodity PLA, PBS, PHA ABS, PMMA plastics PS, PVC PE, PP There are approximately 150 ECO CIRCLE™ members worldwide. Amorphous (transparent) Crystalline (opaque) TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 44 r Other Feature Topics Environmental Businesses Web Environment, Safety and Health Report TOPICS Comprehensive Partnership Agreement with the China Chemical Fibers Association In March 2012, Teijin Limited agreed to a partnership with the China Chemical Fibers Association* aiming to develop the chemical fibers and related industries in China and expand the Teijin Group fibers business in China. Through the partnership, the Teijin Group will utilize its technologies and knowledge to contribute with solutions that promote energy savings and environmental conservation in the chemical fibers industry, which was specified as a strategic new industry in China’s 12th five-year plan. In addition to detailed talks already underway with local businesses regarding the closed-loop recycling system for polyester products, in April 2012, the Teijin Product Development China Co., Ltd. was established in Nantong, Jiangsu as a base for yarn and textile product development aiming to strengthen R&D functions in China. * China Chemical Fibers Association: The only and largest nationwide organization in China’s chemical fiber industry. It is a non-profit organization established in 1993 and is made up of approximately 400 members from related businesses, universities and research institutions. TOPICS Expansion of Innovative Separators for Lithium-ion Secondary Batteries Lithium-ion secondary batteries are used in tablet computers and smartphones, both products on a rapid rise, as well as in EVs, next-generation eco-cars. The relentless pursuit of high energy density in the battery design means that materials with a high level of safety and high resistance to chemical reactions are required. In 2007, Teijin commercialized high heat-resistance separators coated with Teijinconex® meta aramid on both sides. The next step was the new development of LIELSORT ®, an innovative separator for lithium-ion secondary batteries with a world-first fluorine-based compound coating. This development enables lithium-ion secondary batteries with high output power and long service life while ensuring safety. Together with CNF, a leading film processor in South Korea, we have established Teijin CNF LIELSORT® separator for lithium-ion secondary Korea Co., Ltd, a joint venture, and production is scheduled to start in June 2012. Marketing is batteries mainly being handled by Teijin Electronics Korea Co., Ltd., our sales subsidiary in South Korea, with a view to fast-tracking expansion of the rapid-growth lithium-ion secondary battery market. Global Expansion of MSABP ®: An Energy-saving and TOPICS TO Low-cost Solution to Wastewater Treatment Needs Arising from Urbanization and Industrialization in Emerging Nations MSABP®, a multistage activated biological process, is a core technology of Teijin’s wastewater treatment system and its overseas expansion is steadily progressing. MSABP® has been adopted for multiple new sewage treatment plants in the Hunnan New District of Shenyang city, Liaoning province, China. Shenyang city, which develops the Hunnan New District for the National Games of the People’s Republic of China in 2013, chose MSABP® because of the low initial investment and maintenance costs as a result of the minimized need for sludge disposal, and a shorter construction time as a result of the minimized sewer network maintenance work owing to its decentralized system. Furthermore, when the system is eventually replaced with a larger centralized system to accommodate the area’s anticipated population growth, it will be possible to relocate the decentralized and container-size MSABP® plants to other areas of the city. All these factors were highly evaluated and led to the package contract. MSABP® Additionally, in Yixing city, Jiangsu Province, China, a pilot system is being tested for the development of wastewater treatment systems for rural communities. MSABP® has also been adopted in Angola and other countries mainly for factory wastewater treatment. Future plans are to further develop our unique total wastewater treatment solutions both in Japan and overseas to contribute to wastewater recycling, energy savings and reduced CO2 emissions. 45 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 r Activities of the Specialist Disaster Prevention Team Disaster Prevention Activities Web r Fire Prevention Activities Environment, Safety and Protecting Local Communities and Employees from Disasters Health Report In order to prevent accidents and disasters such as explosions, fires, and leaks/spills of hazardous substances, we are enhancing disaster prevention management including fire prevention and earthquake/tsunami countermeasures. tanks at the time of receipt. When the container handling the environmental changes that have ave Promoting Disaster Prevention was being transported, the hazardous substance fied occurred over the past five years. We identified Management EN 2 3 leaked onto the road. We sincerely regret this many points for improvement such as Social Report Our disaster prevention activities are based on accident and are taking measures to ensure that es. strengthening earthquake countermeasures. the group-wide Disaster Prevention Guidelines. an accident such as this never happens again, In the future, we will systematically proceed Our efforts range from preventative measures including a review of operations/equipment with countermeasures. such as disaster prevention assessment and for receipt/shipping of hazardous substances Two mini disaster prevention assessments nts fire prevention, as well as earthquake and increasing the thoroughness of training. 008, were also conducted in 2011. In place since 2008, countermeasures and activities to prevent the In doing so, we aim to strengthen our disaster these mini assessments focus on locations where ere expansion of damage, including disaster prevention to a higher level (see page 18). h there may be a risk of small-scale fires, such Environment, Safety prevention training, drills and upgrading of as near boilers and places where hazardous fire prevention equipment. materials and combustibles are stored. Implementing Disaster Prevention and Health Report In 2011, these activities resulted in the In FY2012, standard and mini disaster Assessments number of disasters at group companies in ne prevention assessments are scheduled for one Japan and overseas being zero. However, The Teijin Group has been conducting disaster plant and six business sites, respectively. there was one accident involving leakage of a prevention assessments in line with our own hazardous substance (Matsuyama Plant, Teijin independent standards since 1980. Safety is Techno Products Limited). Immediately after the assessed every five years by experts in accident, we established a countermeasures manufacturing, facilities and environment, Economic Report committee to examine the accident cause and safety and health at a total of 22 plants in Japan enact countermeasures. The assistant to the and internationally. These are plants where large Disaster prevention assessment reporting committee ee Chief Social Responsibility Officer (responsible amounts of high-pressure gases or hazardous for disaster prevention) conducted an audit, substances are handled. Experts review and and the General Manager of the Teijin Limited upgrade the safety and disaster prevention Accident Prevention Measures ESH Office conducted a reaudit. The accident measures. In 2011, assessments were carried out cause was failure to properly remove a hazardous at four domestic plants and one overseas plant In FY2011, we considered measures to restrict rict substance, which leaked from a pipe onto a to check items such as whether the disaster damage in the event of a large earthquake/ container while pouring the substance into prevention management system is capable of tsunami, identifying plants where there is a high risk of damage not only to the company Trends in the Number of Serious Accidents and Disasters Trends in the Number of Disaster-prevention-assessed Plants but also to the local community. As well as Disaster prevention assessments Explosions/Fires Leaks/Spills/Other Mini disaster prevention assessments reinforcing the stability of equipment, we (Number of events) (Number of events) reviewed emergency procedures. In the future, 2 2 2 20 while proceeding with these measures, we will 17 15 take actions in accordance with the reviews 1 1 1 1 1 10 8 7 7 of local community disaster prevention plans 5 5 4 5 5 2 2 2 conducted by the Japanese government 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) Central Disaster Prevention Council. TOPICS Training in How to Put Out Fires Using Actual Fire Extinguishers (DSC) Every year, with the cooperation of the local fire department, Diversified Structural Composites, Inc. (DSC) in Kentucky USA conducts training in how to extinguish a fire in its initial stages. Employees from each worksite take it in turns to do the training course, which is based on lectures and use of powder, foam and various other fire extinguisher types. In contrast to training in Japan, which usually involves spraying water at the target from a fire extinguisher, at DSC actual fire extinguishers are used. Spraying fire retardant used in actual fire extinguishers. All employees engaged enthusiastically in the task. TEIJIN CSR TEIJIN Report 2012 CSRReport 2012 30 46 • Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification Occupational Safety Web • Response to Workplace Accidents Environment, Safety and Creating a Safe and Secure Workplace Environment Health Report Aiming to realize zero serious workplace accidents and to upgrade group-wide safety, we implement both preventative and recurrence-prevention measures. group-wide and in Japan. Sharing Workplace Accident Information Occupational Safety Initiatives LA 7 In FY2012, through promoting the three and Preventing Recurrences L A9 pillars of our safety activities, we will The Teijin Group places a strong emphasis on continue to strengthen activities including Information relating to all workplace accidents accident prevention activities. In 2008, one of prevention of workplace accidents, sharing that occur at Teijin Group companies is distributed the targets set in the mid-term plan was to workplace-accident information and group-wide via an Intranet to enable these maintain the lost time injury frequency applying it group-wide, as well as ESH experiences to be used as a reference, and to rates* below 0.3. We achieved this target for training and guidance in Japan and overseas. help prevent the recurrence of similar accidents. three successive years in 2008, 2009 and In doing this, we will aim for the twin goals The three major kinds of workplace accidents 2010 with a lost time injury frequency rate of of zero serious workplace accidents and have been specified as: 1) accidents involving 0.25. However, despite maintaining the rate reducing lost time injury frequency rates. being caught in rotating machinery, 2) accidents at less than the average for the Japanese * Lost time injury frequency rate: The number of involving contact or collision with transport workplace accidents resulting in leave of absence per domestic chemical industry (0.88 in 2011), one million labor hours. equipment, and 3) falls or slips on walkways or the target was not achieved in 2011 with a staircases. We have established prevention lost time injury frequency rate of 0.32 guidelines for these three major kinds of workplace accidents as well as machinery safety assessment Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates Promoting the Three Pillars of Safety standards. Through safety and enlightenment Activities LA9 Japan Overseas Teijin Group activities we are making every possible effort Manufacturing industry (Japan) (%) Chemical industry (Japan) In order to prevent workplace accidents, the to prevent these kinds of accidents. 1.2 Teijin Group has established three pillars of For serious accidents, which are defined in 1.12 safety activities: the “5S” initiative (five Japanese our rules for reporting accidents related to the 1.0 1.05 words [seiri, seiton, seisou, seiketsu and shitsuke] environment, safety and health (ESH), measures 0.99 0.98 0.84 0.88 which correspond to organization, tidiness, to prevent recurrence of similar accidents are 0.8 cleaning, hygiene and discipline), the implemented group-wide. In 2011, a chemical 0.6 0.72 0.72 “Hiyari-Hatto” (meaning close call or near poisoning workplace accident occurred in June miss) initiative and safety patrols. at a company affiliated with our plastics business. 0.4 Utilizing the information obtained through In response, through all safety management 0.35 0.32 0.32 0.25 0.26 0.25 0.25 0.32 these activities, we aim to enhance individual departments within the group, we investigated 0.2 0.32 0.22 awareness of risks, and communication in the usage status of protective equipment and 0.20 0.11 the workplace. work management system at related sites, and 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) based on simulations of the same conditions, improved the thoroughness of countermeasures. TOPICS Distinctive ESH Activities Developed at Two US Plants at the Core of the Carbon Fibers Business Comprehensive Employee Training at TTA Proactive Actions for 5S (DSC) At Toho Tenax America (TTA) in Tennessee, specialist staff use training The 5S concept used in Japan relating to basic safety activities is also rooms to conduct employee safety training. The content is practical, being widely enacted in the US under the name, “5 Steps Housekeeping.” with specialized safety knowledge unique to individual factories At Diversified Structural Composites (DSC) in Kentucky, colored lines added to general items regarding protective equipment and lockout are used to divide walkways, work areas procedures and other safety and hygiene items specified by the and storage areas in the plant and tools United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). are arranged with each tool having its The meticulous level of training is also evident in own place to be put away. This work other aspects such as yearly environment improvement proposal training plans created for was an employee initiative that has each individual employee. increased safety awareness and facilitated vitalization of the entire workplace. 47 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Health and Sanitary Measures Environment, Safety and Enhancing the Healthcare Management System to Foster Health Report Employees with Healthy Minds and Bodies LA8 Collaborating internally to enhance the healthcare management system (incl. mental health)/work environment. saw/felt while walking and a system for employees Promoting Health Management and Enhancing Mental Health Measures to read the diary and express their support. During Prevention of Lifestyle-related Diseases the period, there were over 22,000 messages of Social Report The Teijin Group established the Health Care In April 2008, it became mandatory for health support including opinions like “Reading the Administration Office in April 2009. Through insurance providers in Japan to provide specific comments of a complete stranger was so amusing collaboration between group companies in medical check-ups and guidance (also known as I couldn’t stop laughing” and “The messages from Japan, we are building a system for integrated metabolic syndrome check-ups/health guidance). people I didn’t even know encouraged me a lot.” management of employee health status. The Check-ups are conducted by industry medical staff In this way, the event helped to foster exchange Health Care Administration Office collects mental at head offices and other business sites on a group and a sense of solidarity among employees. health data from group companies in Japan every or individual basis, and ongoing support is provided Environment, Safety month and reports the results to management for six months. Under the national standard, all Preventing Nano-material-related and each business. It also diagnoses stress levels employees aged 40 or over are subject to the Health Problems and Health Report at all workplaces every March and for workplaces check-ups. However, the Teijin Group has made all where health risk values exceed the Teijin Group its employees subject to the check-ups regardless of In July 2008, we established guidelines to workplace improvement standard, it proposes age, and there is a declining trend among subjects. prevent damage to health caused by work improvement activities matched to the workplace We also hold the Teijin Group Health Walk involving the production or handling of (e.g., increasing opportunities for bosses to every October with a view to preventing nano-materials in response to a notice issued by provide information or setting aside time for lifestyle-related diseases and raising mental health the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, Japan.* discussion at weekly/monthly meetings). awareness. Employees enter the number of steps Additionally, in March 2009, in response to Economic Report Proposals made to 63 workplaces during earned every day on a special website, allowing a further three notices relating to nano-materials FY2010 resulted in improvements at 86% of them to move forward in a virtual tour of World issued by the relevant authorities, we expanded these workplaces. Employees involved in Heritage sites. As of 2011, we have changed the the scope of our guidelines to apply to improvement activities said that the workplace arrangement of voluntary participation, making it nano-materials as well as recycling of environment changed within six months and mandatory for all employees whose regular nano-materials. At the same time, we enhanced communication between employees improved. health check-up showed an abnormal finding on safety measures. In line with these revised In FY2011, due partly to the Great East a metabolic-syndrome-related item (obesity, lipid guidelines, divisions that handle nano-materials are Japan Earthquake, stress and health risk levels abnormality, high blood pressure, high blood sugar aiming to prevent recurrence of health problems. varied depending on the business group. levels). We have also introduced a system for * Notice issued by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare: “Measures to Prevent Exposure to Nano-materials However, in March 2012, we confirmed that employees to record in a mini-diary what they at Workplaces Where They Are Produced or Handled.” activities at 61 workplaces had resulted in improvements at 86% of these workplaces, an equivalent result to the previous year. For FY2012, with the objective of preventing voice : Participating in the Teijin Group Health Walk mental disorders and their progression through Two teams from our department participated and they were fortunate enough to finish third and win the booby prize. Celebrations with all early detection and treatment, we will create a members are being planned in combination with December and January counseling system so that employees can feel free birthday parties. A source of motivation for participation was increasing to talk about any worries or troubles before they communication among staff, as many of us usually spend a lot of time staring at computer screens and reports. When we asked people to get lead to health problems. Specifically, specialists involved, both full-time and temporary staff said they would participate. such as clinical psychotherapists, counselors and Thanks to this occasion, we have started to communicate with each other Yasuhiro Kumita public health nurses will be stationed at the Health even outside of work, enabling us to get to know each other’s Healthcare Business Group Tokyo Head Office personalities better and creating a friendly atmosphere in the workplace. Care Administration Office to consult with employees, and we will aim to strengthen the The prompt for me to start walking was when the public health nurse group-wide consultation system through at the clinic told me that I was at risk of getting metabolic syndrome. collaboration between staff of businesses, business During the first month, I felt like quitting, but I gradually started losing administration offices and clinics. Furthermore, weight and learnt what it feels like to get positive comments about my weight loss from others, and now I am 11 kg lighter than I was at with the support of the external Employee the start. My fitness has improved to the extent where I can even do Assistance Program (EAP), we will set in order a light jogging. As well as experiencing the pleasure of self-achievement, system to provide counseling via telephone/e-mail an invaluable benefit has been the health-conscious atmosphere at Haruhiko Takeda the workplace that my weight loss has triggered. Healthcare Business Group or face-to-face through sending counselors to any Iwakuni Plant worksite in Japan as requested by employees. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 48 ESH Ma Web • Breakdown of ESH-related Costs of the Teijin Group in FY2011 Safety and Disaster Prevention, and Health) Environment, Safety and For Constant, Efficient Improvements of ESH Activities Health Report The Te Teijin Group promotes efforts to obtain certification for management system standards such as ISO and OHSAS. Furthermore, we quantitatively measure ESH-related investments/expenses and link this to efficient OHSA progress and improvements of ESH activities. progre Trends in ESH-related Investments Environmental Performance Indicators and ESH-related Accounting EN 3 0 Boundaries for Reporting of ESH Accounting Environmental preservation investments Japan Overseas The Teijin Group calculates the investments, Polyester Fibers Safety and disaster prevention, and health investments expenses, and effect of ESH activities at all Japan Overseas Japan: Teijin Fibers, Teijin Tedy, Teijin Modern Yarn, (Billions of yen) Wako, Teijin Monofilament, Union Tire Cord, Unisel group companies. The investments, expenses 3.0 3.0 Overseas: Teijin Polyester (Thailand), TEIJIN and effect of activities for environmental (THAILAND), TEIJIN CORD (THAILAND), Thai Namsiri preservation, energy savings, reduced use of 2.5 2.4 Intertex, Nantong Teijin, Teijin Modern Yarn natural resources, and recycling are calculated (Nantong), Nantong Teijin Automotive Fabrics 2.0 2.0 2.0 Finishing with reference to the environmental accounting guidelines published by the Aramid Fibers Ministry of the Environment of Japan. We also 1.3 Japan: Teijin Techno Products, Teijin Cordley 1.0 1.0 0.8 0.9 0.7 calculate the investments and expenses for Overseas: Teijin Aramid safety and disaster prevention, and health. Carbon Fibers Japan: Toho Tenax 0 Obtaining Management System 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Overseas: Toho Tenax Europe, Toho Tenax America, Certifications Diversified Structural Composites • Environmental preservation investments in FY2011 were 1.3 billion yen, a 48% increase compared to the Films In the Teijin Group, each group company previous year. This result occurred based on a considerable increase in investments related to Japan: Teijin DuPont Films creates an environmental management energy savings, and in spite of decreased investments in pollution prevention and R&D. Overseas: P.T. INDONESIA TEIJIN DUPONT FILMS system (EMS) based on ISO 14001 and • Investments related to safety and disaster prevention, Eco-Action 21 proposed by the Ministry of the and health in FY2011 were 1 billion yen, a 51% Plastics Environment of Japan (and equivalent increase compared to the previous year. This was Japan: Teijin Chemicals, Hiroshima Plastic, Kinkai based in particular on increased investments in Chemicals, Teiyo standards overseas if applicable). In doing this, disaster prevention, mainly for that after the Great East Japan Earthquake. Overseas: TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE SINGAPORE, we aim to take our independent activities for Teijin Chemicals Plastic Compounds Shanghai, environmental preservation to the next level TEIJIN POLYCARBONATE CHINA Trends in ESH-related Expenses through continuous improvements. Medical & Pharmaceutical In addition, we promote efforts to obtain Environmental preservation expenses Japan: Teijin Pharma, Teisan Pharmaceuticals, Teijin Japan Overseas certification for standards such as OHSAS Home Healthcare Safety and disaster prevention, and health expenses 18001 (occupational health and safety) and Japan Overseas (Billions of yen) Trading and Retail ISO 9001 (quality assurance). 15.0 Japan: N.I. Teijin Shoji, Teijin Associa Retail, Shinwa Gosen, Teikyo Lace, Teisho Sangyo, Techset, Folkner Current Status of Teijin Group Management System Certifications See website for details 12.4 12.6 Web 12.0 Overseas: FASHION FORCE NO.1 FACTORY 9.9 9.7 IT Current Status of ISO 14001 Certification 9.0 8.1 Japan: Infocom Japan (21 companies, 43 business sites) Overseas (13 companies, 16 business sites) 6.0 Individual Management Companies Japan: Teijin Kosan, Kure Kogyo, Teijin Logistics, Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification Teijin Eco-Science, Teijin Engineering 3.0 2.4 2.9 Japan (20 companies, 34 business sites) 2.2 2.0 2.1 Corporate Staff and Others Overseas (6 companies, 8 business sites) 0 Japan: Teijin Creative Staff, Teijin Entech Current Status of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ISO 16949 and Other Certifications • Environmental protection in FY2011 were 8.1 billion yen, a 16% decrease compared to the previous year. • Company names are correct as of the end of March, Japan (30 companies, 57 business sites) This decrease was in line with decreased expenses for 2012. Overseas (17 companies, 21 business sites) pollution prevention and R&D, and occurred in spite • Limited (Ltd.), Co., Ltd., Inc., GmbH, Corporation, B.V. of a slight increase in resource recycling expenses and the like have been omitted from the company related to global environmental conservation and names. effective use of waste. • Expenses related to safety and disaster prevention, and health in FY2011 were 2.1 billion yen, a 6% increase compared to the previous year. This was based on an increase in expenses for workplace environment improvement and disaster prevention, and occurred in spite of a decrease in occupational safety expenses. 49 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Economic Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders 4.14 EC1 Report There are a wide range of stakeholders in the Teijin Group. With this in mind, as the social responsibility of the Teijin Group, we place importance on maintaining a profit through our business, and distributing the resulting added value to stakeholders in an appropriate manner. manufacturing cost), and adding independently Percent Allocation of Added Value to Stakeholders rs Distribution of Added Value to calculated social contribution expenses and Stakeholders (FY2011) environmental preservation expenses. The environment Shareholders olders Social Report The added value obtained in FY2011 was These final two expenses are included in 8.5% 6.2 2% Company (Teijin Limited) distributed to major stakeholders as follows. either other SGA or manufacturing costs. 6.4% The total amount of added value was Additionally, social contribution expenses Local Total: Employees oyees communities calculated by subtracting expenses for include the use of company facilities by local 95.5 1.3% billion yen 62.2 .2% transportation, R&D, marketing promotion and residents and services provided by employees Administrative tenancy, tariffs, depreciation, and other selling, converted to a monetary value. For organizations (national and general and administrative expenses (SGA) from distribution of added value, the stakeholder local Creditors ditors governments) (financial institutions) tions) Environment, Safety gross operating profit (net sales minus classification is listed as “local communities.” 10.4% 5.1 .1% Distribution of Added Value to Stakeholders and Health Report Amount Stakeholders (billions of yen) Breakdown Remarks Figures are shown in financial statements (in the Dividends table of the Consolidated ted Shareholders 5.9 Dividend Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2012]). Salaries/Wages, bonuses and Figures are shown in financial statements. Note that the amounts shown above do o Employees 59.4 retirement allowances not include personnel expenses that are calculated as part of production costs. Creditors d Figures are shown in financial statements (as Interest expenses in the Consolidated 4.9 Interest paid (financial institutions) Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2012]). Economic Report Administrative organizations Taxes paid, such as corporation, local Figures are shown in financial statements (as Income taxes in the Consolidated 9.9 (national and local governments) and business taxes Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2012]). Monetary donations, and article donations, free renting of company facilities, and services provided by Local communities 1.2 Calculated by the CSR Planning Office (see page 33). employees converted to a monetary value using the Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) method. ed Figures are shown in financial statements (as Retained earnings in the Consolidated Company (Teijin Limited) 6.1 Increase in retained earnings Financial Statements Summary [For the year ended March 31, 2012]). Expenses for environmental The environment 8.1 Calculated by the Environment, Safety and Health Office (see page 49). preservation Total amount 95.5 • Data in this table is rounded off to the nearest whole number. Trends in Added Value Distribution to Stakeholders Teijin Group’s Stakeholders Gross operating profit Direct stakeholders Indirect stakeholders Investors (Billions of yen) 250 Employees and Shareholders labor unions 229.3 Job seekers 225 225.2 218.6 Local residents Advanced Customers Fibers & and NGOs consumers NPOs Composites 200 Business Group Electric 191.9 IT Materials & Performance 108.2 Total: Business Group Polymer Products 100 Total: 4.9 95.5 Business Suppliers, 42.9 Local Group logistic and other governments Shareholders 4.9 5.9 contractors 75 2.0 53.9 Company Healthcare Products (Teijin Company Business Converting Limited) (Teijin 59.4 National Group Business 50 -49.1 Limited) government Group Financial -37.9 and institutions 4.4 agencies New Business 12.0 Development Employees 55.8 54.2 0.9 Group 25 Creditors 10.5 4.9 Administrative organizations 5.8 22.4 9.9 Industrial (national and local governments) 7.3 7.8 1.2 Media associations Local communities 0.9 1.0 6.1 0 The environment 12.6 9.9 9.7 8.1 The global environment 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 50 Opinions from Third Parties Opinions from Experts Report in More Detail about Distinctive Qualities and Mainly on Corporate Governance and Corporate Ethics Differentiating Characteristics Last year, I commented that in the Plans, Teijin prepares its own training materials Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations table, rather than using ready-made training some of the challenges for the following fiscal materials, and that it is serious about year were too abstract and that the employee training. These kinds of good self-evaluation ratings were too ambiguous in qualities should be fully conveyed to readers. some respects. Reading this report, I noticed In addition, for focus areas or areas that that efforts have been made to make the Teijin is confident about, how about listing targets more specific through conversion into the main points in bullet-point form in numbers wherever possible. addition to the main text? This will not only However, there is still room for make it easier to understand but also help to improvement. Although I appreciate that provide a fresh perspective in the Dr. Yoshinari Koyama, Ph.D. (Commerce) some targets are difficult to convert into organization and review of initiatives. Professor of Business Administration, College of numbers, I would like Teijin to continue to use In the Corporate Governance section, it is Economics Kanto Gakuin University their ingenuity in this respect. highly commendable that specific details After serving as an assistant professor at the School of I also think it would be better to provide about the Advisory Board are reported. Setting Commerce of Yamanashi Gakuin University and associate professor at the College of Economics of more details on each individual initiative. For up this kind of organizational body and the Kanto Gakuin University, Professor Koyama assumed his example, level-based workshop training, Chief CSR Officer performing audits at current position in 2010. He is also a part-time lecturer at the School of Business Administration of Yokohama promoting-manager training, training at each worksites clearly express Teijin’s seriousness National University and a concurrent lecturer at the workplace and e-learning are all mentioned as about these issues. I have high expectations School of Commerce of Meiji University. He is the author of many literary works including “CSR Management” activities in the Group-wide Application of that the next report will include features such published by HAKUTO-SHOBO Publishing Co., “Gendai Corporate Ethics and Compliance section, but as comments from the board members and CSR Keiei Youron” (Modern CSR Management Summary) published by SOSEISHA Co. and “Nihon no Kigyou Rinri” because there are no specific details, the that even more detail will be provided. (Corporate Ethics in Japan) published by difference between Teijin and other HAKUTO-SHOBO Publishing Co. companies is not clear. I personally know that Set Long-term Goals as Part of the Challenge to Mainly on Environmental Preservation Activities Become a Company Advanced in CSR In general, the environmental report is easier (2012–2015) in step with global societal to understand than last year. For example, the challenges have achieved improvement. In the graph showing the amount of environmental dialogue relating to the home healthcare impact has separate numbers for Japan and business after the March 11 disaster, an overseas. However, there are still some areas outstanding aspect was the discussion on the requiring improvement. nature of BCP in terms of measures to counter Although environmental targets are set functional losses after the disaster. However, for for up to 2020, there should also be goals group-wide BCP/BCM, the report does not go looking as far forward as 2050. On climate far enough and remains at a preventative level. change in particular, total volume targets for Improvement is also necessary in the the entire group are needed. At the same handling of ISO 26000 in the Plans, Goals, Masahiko Kawamura Senior Research Fellow, Insurance Research Group, time, targets relating to both mitigation (i.e., Performance and Self-evaluations table. As is NLI Research Institute restricting CO2 emissions) and adaptation (i.e., the case with the comparison chart of many Mr. Kawamura graduated from the Graduate School of reduction of global warming effects) are companies, the seven core principles of Engineering, Kyushu University. After being engaged in offshore oil-related project management at MODEC, Inc., required. In regard to biodiversity, while efforts ISO 26000 are matched to company initiatives, he joined NLI Research Institute in 1988. His research has to map relevance to business activities are making it appear as though all ISO 26000 centered on environmental management, environmental ratings, corporate social responsibility, and environmental commendable, it is necessary to set further principles are covered. In reality, business. Mr. Kawamura is the author of many papers guidelines that include supply chain self-evaluation should be performed for the including “CSR Keiei de Nani wo Mezasu no ka?” (What to Aim for in CSR Management), “CSR Houkokusho Kara management. At the same time, the steady compliance status of all 37 issues that are Tougou Houkokusho e” (From a CSR report to an Integrated development being made in environmental included in the core principles. Report) and other publications such as “Kankyou Keiei Nyuumon—Sustainable Management wo Mezashite” (An businesses was clear. In the future, I look In closing, although I have made various Introduction to Environmental Management—Aiming for forward to initiatives that seek to solve global comments, I am certain that Teijin, who is Sustainable Management) (Nippon Kogyo Shimbun), “SRI to Atarashii Kigyou/Kinyuu” (SRI and New Corporate water problems. aiming to be a company advanced in CSR, can Finance) (Toyo Keizai Inc.), and “Carbon Disclosure” The revisions to the Basic CSR Policy improve and achieve their goals. (Zeimukeiri Kyokai Co., Ltd.). 51 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 Appropriate Action Required to Support Cultural Diversity and Mainly on Human Resources and Labor Management the Changes in Japanese Society Till now, one of main themes of Japanese address the issue by linking it with businesses in terms of respect for diversity has mental-health measures and to revive a sense been increasing recruitment and promotions of solidarity at the workplace within the of female employees. From now on, as training of newly recruited employees. A sense companies expand their businesses to various of solidarity among workers is the basis for countries, the response to cultural diversity growing as members of society. I would like will become important. Teijin, with its corporate philosophy of growth In this sense, I think it would be of individuals, to be engaged in this issue. appropriate to set CSR goals based on factors In Japan, formation of new structures and such as how many languages the Teijin systems are required for a society that is both philosophy is translated into. Another suitable aging with a low birthrate and ageless in that Dr. Kohji Okubayashi, Ph.D. (Business Administration) target would be to provide local employees of people keep working past 65 years of age. Assistant President & Professor, Faculty of Business overseas companies with the same promotion While continuing with re-employment Administration, DBA, Osaka International University opportunities and benefits as those provided systems, Teijin should strive to establish After serving as a visiting researcher at the University of in Japan. Of course, laws and situations vary systems for tomorrow’s society. California, Berkeley, Dr. Okubayashi was a visiting fellow at the Industrial Relations Research Institute, the from one country to another and there may Setting quantitative targets for CSR University of Wisconsin, a professor at the School of be difficulties, but nevertheless, it is the social activities is a good thing, but when the goal is Business Administration at Kobe University, and a visiting professor at Aix-Marseille Université. He was Vice responsibility for leading companies to not achieved, there is a risk that the numbers President of Setsunan University, and then assumed his maintain personnel management systems at alone will not truly reflect the efforts of present post in April 2012. Dr. Okubayashi is the author of many books including “Nyuumon. Jinteki Shigen Kanri” the same high standard globally. I would like people responsible. Please make sure to also (Introduction to Human Resources Management) Teijin to strive for such a goal. pay attention to the details of activities so published by Chuokeizai-sha and “Kyuu-Sorenpo no Roudou” (Labor in the Former Soviet Union) published In Japan, I am concerned about that the employees, who carry responsibility by Chuokeizai-sha, and “Keiken Kara Manabu Keieigaku individualism and isolationism prevailing for CSR, feel assured that they being Nyumon” (Introduction to Business Administration Learned from Experience) published by Yuhikaku. among the youth. It has become necessary to evaluated in a fair manner. Persist with “Human Chemistry, Human Solutions” Mainly on Social Contribution Activities Even in Social Contribution Activities The Teijin Group Social Contribution Policy has nothing is as important as activities that been introduced in this report. The first item employees and other people concerned with describes the intention of the policy to facilitate Teijin can identify with and that reaffirm the value pursuit of the corporate philosophy and of Teijin. This will subsequently lead to greater practical application of the code of conduct. volunteer involvement of employees and others. Through clarifying the meaning of social I would like Teijin to continue development in contributions, this item provides an answer to this regard together with the Volunteer Support the issue last year of the need to clearly explain Program that started last year. While adjusting the reason for engaging in social contribution existing programs to suit the current times, activities. The fourth item specifies the accelerated progress in CSR can be achieved environment, international exchange and social by carefully nurturing the seeds that have Yoko Takahashi President, Japan Philanthropic Association education as priority fields, but the categories been planted and repeating the PDCA cycle. Ms. Takahashi joined the Japan Philanthropic in the expenses breakdown are listed as Lastly, there is little mention of ISO 26000 Association in 1991 after serving as a high school science and research, culture and the arts, in the report; only in the Plans, Goals, teacher and a psychologist. After positions as a director and the secretary-general, she assumed her present sports, the environment and so forth. This Performance and Self-evaluations table. post in 2001. Ms. Takahashi is the author of “Philanthropy should be organized appropriately. Description of application mechanisms are Nyuumon” (Introduction to Philanthropy) (Kainan Shobo) and “Rokujuusai Kara no Iki-iki Volunteer For individual activities, I think the Teijin lacking. ISO 26000 is an effective yardstick for Nyuumon” (Introduction to Becoming an Active Scholarship is worthy of special mention in evaluating the CSR initiatives of one’s own Volunteer After Reaching Sixty) (Nippon Kajo Shuppan). terms of future-oriented activities and its organization. Through comparing one’s own function, which expresses qualities unique to company in the “mirror” of ISO 26000, it is Teijin, of fostering human resources who will possible to see whether the response to the carry forward the “Human Chemistry, Human present social challenges has been successful. Solutions” brand statement. To emotionally I look forward to seeing Teijin accepting the engage and create pride among employees, challenge to take the next step forward. TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 52 Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report To the President and CEO of Teijin Limited Purpose and Scope We were engaged by Teijin Limited (the “Company”) to provide limited assurance on its CSR Report 2012 (the “Report”) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The purpose of our assurance engagement was to express our conclusion, based on our assurance procedures, on whether: r the environmental and social performance indicators marked with a red star included in the Report and the “Breakdown of ESH-related Costs of the Teijin Group in FY2011” and ”Data on Human Resources” on its website (www.teijin.co.jp/english/eco/) for the period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 (the “Indicators”) are prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria; and r all the material sustainability information defined by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (“J-SUS”) is included in the Report. The content of the Report is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express our conclusion based on the work performed. Criteria The Company applies its own reporting criteria as described in the Report. These are derived, among others, from the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 of the Global Reporting Initiative and Environmental Reporting Guidelines of Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. We used these criteria to evaluate the Indicators. For the completeness of material sustainability information, we used the ‘Criteria for Granting a Sustainability Report Assurance and Registration Symbol’ of J-SUS. Procedures Performed We conducted our engagement in accordance with ‘International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and the ‘Practical Guidelines of Sustainability Information Assurance’ of J-SUS. The limited assurance engagement on the Report consisted of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other procedures. The level of assurance provided is thus not as high as that provided by a reasonable assurance engagement. Our assurance procedures included: r Interviews with the Company’s responsible personnel to obtain an understanding of its policy for the preparation of the Report. r Reviews of the Company’s reporting criteria. r Inquiries about the design of the systems and methods used to collect and process the Indicators. r Analytical reviews of the Indicators. r Examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the generation, aggregation and reporting of the Indicators in conformity with the Company’s reporting criteria, and also a recalculation of the Indicators. r Visit to the Company’s domestic factory selected on the basis of a risk analysis. r Assessment of whether or not all the material sustainability information defined by J-SUS is included in the Report. r Evaluating the overall statement in which the Indicators are expressed. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: r the Indicators in the Report are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s reporting criteria as described in the Report; and r all the material sustainability information defined by J-SUS is not included in the Report. We have no conflict of interest relationships with the Company that are specified in the Code of Ethics of J-SUS. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan August 20, 2012 53 TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 List of Website References Information that could not be included due to space limitations has been published on our website. http://www.teijin.co.jp/english/eco/ Detailed Contents of this report Reference information on website Website only content on website Feature The 6th Stakeholder Dialogue t Dialogue with Employees Engaged in Home Healthcare Compliance and Risk Management t Corporate Ethics Awareness Survey t Efforts of the Teijin Group to Ensure Customer Satisfaction Quality Assurance t Examples of Overseas Activities t Promoting Diversity Among Employees t Measures to Promote Work–Life Balance t Determining the Status of Group-wide Labor Management Human Resources Management and t Job Rotation/Appointment System Social Report Labor CSR t Human Rights Protection t Maintaining Sound Working Relationships t Employee Satisfaction Survey t Data on Human Resources t Green Procurement/Purchasing CSR Procurement t Consideration for Contractors and Work Contracts t Fostering Young Scientists through the Teijin Scholarship Foundation Social Contributions t Examples of Social Contributions in Japan t The Teijin Group Global Environmental Charter t Teijin Group ESH Basic Policies ESH Management t The Teijin Group Global Environmental Activity Goals t Group ESH Debriefing Session and Business Group Annual ESH General Assembly t Teijin Group Environmental Input/Output (Trends in the Past Five Years) Reducing Environmental Impact t Biodiversity Conservation t Summary of the Design for Environment Evaluation Checklist t Design for Environment Organizational Bodies Design for Environment t List of Products and Processes that have Received Design for Environment Approval Environment, t Dialogue with an Environmental Expert Safety and Health Report t Environmental Impact Surveys and Monitoring Environmental Businesses t Other Feature Topics t Activities of the Specialist Disaster Prevention Team Disaster Prevention Activities t Fire Prevention Activities t Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification Occupational Safety t Response to Workplace Accidents t Breakdown of ESH-related Costs of the Teijin Group in FY2011 t Current Status of ISO 14001 Certification ESH Management Data t Current Status of OHSAS 18001 Certification t Current Status of ISO 9001, ISO 13485, ISO 16949 and Other Certifications Editor’s Postscript In the face of the 2011 catastrophes of the Great East Japan 1. In the Plans, Goals, Performance and Self-evaluations section, to Earthquake and floods in Thailand, this has been a year in which address the slight lack of clarity in terms of target values and points the Teijin Group has been prompted to review its responses to for improvement, we set clear mid-/long-term and short-term disasters and its BCP. Under the theme of “CSR in disasters,” the targets and used quantitative indexes wherever possible. feature stakeholder dialogue this time reviews the responses of 2. In line with our global expansion, data and information is listed Teijin Home Healthcare Ltd. in Sendai, Miyagi after the Great East for each business region wherever possible (Japanese, English Japan Earthquake. This not only brought to the fore future and Chinese [as of last year] versions) challenges for the entire home healthcare business but also 3. To make the report easier to read, we have limited the number reaffirmed the importance of “collaboration” with stakeholders on a of pages and amount of text on each page, and have published regular basis. We would like to sincerely thank Dr. Yanai of the more detailed information on our website. Ishinomaki Red Cross Hospital, and Mr. Takahashi and Mr. Ohtomo, Finally, this year, we were once again permitted to use the real chairman and vice-chairman of Tohoku Hakuchokai, for their names of many individuals, suppliers, NPOs and other organizations. valuable comments. All of these groups and individuals understand the objectives of our The Teijin Group CSR Report contains opinions from third parties CSR reports well, and willingly cooperated in enabling us to disclose given every year by experts in four fields. The following are the points this information. We would like to take this opportunity to thank that we improved in this report based on the advice we received last everyone for their cooperation and support. year. The advice was useful in helping us to improve not only our CSR report but also all CSR activities in general. Teijin Limited CSR Planning Office J-SUS: Regarding the reliability of the sustainability information published in this CSR report, the J-SUS mark on the back cover is registration proof that the report satisfies the J-SUS mark standards formulated by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://j-sus.org/english.html). TEIJIN CSR Report 2012 54 Kasumigaseki Common Gate West Tower, 2-1 Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8585 Japan Contact: CSR Planning Office Tel: +81-3-3506-4508 Fax: +81-3-3506-4037 URL: http://www.teijin.co.jp/english/ Published in August, 2012
