ACCELERATING OUR AMBITIONS Flight emissions to be reduced 20% by 2015 SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Content Sustainability work in brief 1 Statement from the President and CEO 2 Organization and management 3 Responsibility for sustainable development 4 Stakeholders – dialog and commitment 6 SAS is convinced that financially sustainable operations require social and environmental responsibility, and that, in various ways, work on sustainability issues contributes to value growth and competitiveness. This is SAS’s 16th sustainability report, which has been audited since 1997, and, as of 2009, also includes EMAS requirements. This sustainability report begins with a brief Environmental responsibility 8 summary of SAS’ sustainability work, followed by a detailed description of how SAS works with sustainable development, Aviation industry moving towards zero emissions 12 meaning its environmental responsibility, its social responThe framework for aviation 13 sibility and its financial responsibility. In addition, aspects of SAS’s sustainability programs are described in the SAS environmental vision, policy and targets 14 Annual Report for 2011. Results Environmental responsibility 2011 21 About the SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 The Sustainability Report 2011 describes the most essential environmental and societal aspects impacted by its operations. It reports what is felt, after continuous dialog, to be of interest to its main target groups: financial analysts, customers, suppliers, employees, authorities, policymakers Corporate social responsibility 36 and shareholders. SAS Group has self-declared the Annualand Sustainability Report 2011 to be Application Level A+, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.0. Deloitte AB has reviewed the Sustainability Report 2011 and has confirmed it to be Application Level A+. Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011 are avaliable on pages 56–58. The SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 was approved by SAS Group Management in March 2012. The SAS Group Board of Directors submitted the annual report in March 2012, and was informed of the sustainability report at the same time. SAS Group Management is responsible for organizing and integrating sustainability work with the Financial responsibility 42 operations of the Group. SAS Group Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 was published in March 2011. Scope of the sustainability report The sustainability report includes the entire Group excluding Individual Holdings. The focus is on all the main bases, but comprises all destinations in Scandinavia and Finland. Other destinations are handled through checks and followups of contracted sub-suppliers. A certification site list is available at: http://www.sasgroup.net under the heading sustainability. UN Global Compact, EMAS, ISO 14001 and the Carbon GRI Sustainability Reporting 45 Disclosure Project, together with GRI’s guidelines, have been taken into consideration in the preparation of this Sustainability Report – GRI Cross Reference List 46 sustainability report. Auditors Report 55 External review Accounting Principles for Material sustainability information Sustainability Reporting 2011 56 All material sustainability information in the Annualand Sustainability Reports for 2011 has been reviewed by Sustainability-terms, definitions & concepts 60 Deloitte. The Auditor’s review of sustainability report can be found on page 55. EMAS This published report has been EMAS-verified by Bureau Veritas, EMAS verification and registration will be issued when all underlying data for each business area mentioned in this report has been verified.The review was conducted as part of the periodic assessment of the overall ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental certification. Bureau Veritas, Contact information accreditation number DANAK 6002. Lars Andersen Resare EU-ETS Director Environment and sustainability External auditors have verified systems and reports re+46 709 97 23 46 garding the EU trading scheme for emission allowances. lars.andersen@sas.se PwC for SAS, Blue1 and Widerøe. Sustainability work in brief Highlights from 2011 Sustainability-related KPIs1) 2011 2010 2009 • All of the SAS Group’s airlines are certified in accordance with both Revenue, MSEK 41,412 41,070 44,918 ISO 14001 and EMAS, and, are currently the only airlines worldwide to EBT before nonrecurring items, MSEK 94 –444 –1,754 hold both certifications. EBT margin before nonrecurring items, % 0.2 –1.1 –3.9 • The SAS Group’s relative CO2 emissions increased during the year to Number of passengers, 1,000 28,990 27,096 26,967 122 grams (121) per passenger kilometer. Among other factors, this Average number of employees4) 15,142 15,559 18,786 is due to a continuing challenging market situation and severe winter of whom women, % 38 38 45 Sick leave, % 7.02) 7.12) 6.9 weather at the beginning of the year. Total number of occupational injuries 272 327 291 • Energy consumption in SAS declined by 8.3% during the year, adjusted Climate index 91 90 94 for changes in the property portfolio. CO2 emissions, 1,000 tonnes 3,8633) 3,654 3,793 • SAS accelerated its environmental goal via the 4Excellence strategy, NO X emissions, 1,000 tonnes 15.6 14.8 15.4 which was launched during 2011. Flight emissions shall be cut by CO2 gram/passenger kilometer 1223) 121 127 20% by 2015 compared with 2005. Fuel consumption airline operations, 1,000 tonnes 1,226 1,160 1,204 • SAS completed its commitment in regards to national legislation, Fuel consumption ground operations, 1,000 liters 3,3175) 3,668 3,869 including trading in emissions permits as of January 1, 2012. Water consumption, 1,000 m3 154 159 169 • The industry organization, IATA continued to promote the aviation inEnergy consumption, ground, GWh 193 216 205 dustry’s inclusion in a global trading system of emissions permits in Unsorted waste, 1,000 tonnes 0.8 0.9 1.1 an effort to reduce climate-impacting emissions. Hazardous waste, 1,000 tonnes 0.2 0.3 0.4 External environment-related costs, MSEK 407 356 364 •W  ork satisfaction at SAS continued to rise. The Employee Work Satisfaction index rose by 4 percentage points to 66. 1. Changed method for environmental key figures. 2. Changed method. Pertains solely to Scandinavian Airlines. • Illness-related absenteeism at SAS declined. Total absenteeism in 3. The negative development was primarily due to a continuing challenging market situation with lower load factors and severe winter weather at the beginning of the year. The increase in absolute CO 2 emissions can Scandinavian Airlines was 7.0 % in 2011. partly be explained by traffic and passenger growth. Read more on page 21. 4. Source: Note 3 on page 64 in SAS Annual Report 2011. 5. The reason for difference between the reported 3,540 in the SAS annual report 2011 and the 3,317 in this sustainability report is a calculation error discovered too late for annual report print. Transport sector’s global emissions Other transports, 17% Air transport, 2% Energy/other, 65% Today, commercial air transport accounts for about 2% of global CO2 emissions, corresponding to 12% of the transport sector’s global emissions. The remaining 88% of the transport sector’s global emissions is divided among road traffic, 76%, and sea and rail traffic, 12%. To manage its share, the airline industry has adopted an ambitious target to halve its total emissions by 2050 compared with 2005. SAS has adopted the even more ambitious target of reducing flight emissions by 20% by 2015 compared with 2005. Agriculture, 16% Source: IEA 2007 Environmental index, Scandinavian Airlines total SAS climate index Index Index 100 100 95 95 Goal 93 90 90 Goal 89 85 85 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Since 1996, SAS has measured environmental efficiency using an environmental As of 2007, SAS also reports a climate index that pertains to climate impact index in which environmental impact is measured in relation to production. The excluding noise, that is, emissions of carbon dioxide (2/3) and nitrogen oxides environmental index is measured for each individual airline, but not for the Group (1/3). The climate index measures the Group’s overall climate impact related to as a whole. This index is used as a tool for control and follow-up of the Group’s traffic measured in passenger revenue kilometers. environmental performance. As of 2007, all environmental indexes have been The long-term improvement trend is primarily attributable to a higher load restructured according to a new model using 2005 as the base year. The airlines’ factor as a conse­quence of early adaptation of capacity to the market, but also targets were established in consultation with Group management. The index increased demand, high punctuality, progress in the airlines’ fuel save program comprises 50% carbon dioxide, 40% nitrogen oxides and 10% noise in relation and renewal in the aircraft fleet during the years. to the most significant production parameter, passenger revenue kilometers. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 1 Our specific situation places high demands on responsibility and commitment From the President’s comments, SAS Group Annual report 2011 Our employees, who are strongly committed to our service pledge – Service And Simplicity – are one of our greatest assets. An employee survey conducted in 2011 showed that employee motivation has increased. This is also confirmed by how our customers perceive us, and indicates that our level of service and punctuality is world-class. A marked rise in job satisfaction in connection with the launch of a new strategic platform also demonstrates that our employees believe in, and want to dedicate themselves to, the course that SAS has chosen. The fact that our unions have undertaken to reduce employee-related costs by SEK 1 billion shows commitment and responsibility for the future of SAS. The fact that the employee survey also indicates growing satisfaction with SAS’s leadership is very positive. It shows that our systematic efforts to promote strong leadership as a means of enabling employees to deliver the highest possible standards of service have been successful. In 2011, SAS’s sustainability efforts continued to gain momentum and we accelerated our environmental targets, which are now a 20% reduction of our flight emissions by 2015, compared with 2005. We are determined to attain this ambitious target and have introduced a number of activities within the framework of our environmental management system to secure their fulfillment.” Rickard Gustafson President and CEO CSI, Being an evironmentally aware company CSI, Being a company taking on society and social reponsibility Index Index 70 70 65 65 60 60 55 55 50 50 2004 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2004 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 Result of sub-questions in SAS’s recurring customer survey (Customer Satisfaction Index): “Rate SAS in regard to being an environmentally-aware company” and “Rate SAS in regard to its taking social responsibility”. CO2 gram/passenger kilometer Result in total index PULS regarding “Job satisfaction” Co2 gram/passenger kilometer Index 140 70 135 65 130 60 125 55 120 50 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Since 1995, the Group’s relative CO2 emissions have been reduced by 33% from 183 to 122 grams per passenger kilometer. 2 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Organization and management Management SAS’s sustainability related policies Board of Directors Group Management Operations, Commercial • follows the Swedish • sets the framework in the & Sales model for Code of form of comprehensive ob• implements sustainability Corporate Goverjectives, policies, and other related policies Environment nance guidelines • carries out management’s overview of Work environment Quality • submits the annual • has the comprehensive rethe environmental management proSafety report and reviews the sponsibility for the Corpogram sustainability report rate Manual which make up • provides , via Environment & SustainabilManagement • sets guidelines for the the basis for the Group’s ity, support for the sustainability work Governance IT Group’s strategies sustainability work • is responsible for and integrates sustainPersonnel Sustainability Purchasing and activities • assesses risk and possibiliability issues in manuals, plans and operDiversity policy Insurance Ethics and morals • internal control that ties related to sustainability ations the Code of Conduct • has the comprehensive • is responsible for the work on followingis implemented responsibility for the impleup quality, safety and sustainability issues Shareholders Communication mentation of the Code of and dialog with internal and external Finance Conduct stakeholders Laws and regulations Environment & Sustainability Human Resources • coordination, consultation and support in regard • formulates and implements policies related to to sustainability issues and work for Group manemployees, management development and other agement and other SAS operations HR-related subjects • coordinates the Group’s Sustainability Network • carries out negotiations and dialog with unions and internal evaluation process regarding collective agreements in accordance • carries out ISO 14001 and EMAS follow-ups, inwith national regulations ternal audits and also coordinates external audits • develops the work with social responsibility and • communicates the sustainability work contributes to the sustainability report Organization CEO: Ensures guidelines through SAS Corporate Manual President and CEO Rickard Gustafson CFO Finance: CFO, Tax, General Counsel Deputy President Mats Lönnkvist Accounting, Treasury, Göran Jansson Legal, Public Affairs Asset Management and Control (incl. fleet and fuel), HR & Communication Commercial Sales & Marketing Operations Infrastructure and M&A Deputy President & Joakim Landholm Eivind Roald Flemming J Jensen Benny Zakrisson Executive Vice President Henriette Fenger Ellekrog Commercial: Revenue Sales: Sales, E-Commerce Operations: Quality Infrastructure: HR: Media and Public Management, Network & Marketing: Marketing and Assurance, Safety, Security, • IT: Commercial, Structure, Relations, Online Strategy, Partners, Product & Services Branding Airline Operations, Technical Architecture, Infrastructure Communication, People (incl. In-flight), SAS Cargo Operations, Ground Handling and System Administrators Development & Management Group (1), Widerøe (2) and and Crew Training • Business Support: Business and Human Resources Blue1 (3) Support, Airport Strategy, Services • (1) SAS Cargo Group: Freight Airport & ATC charges, Public & Postal Sales and OperaAffairs & Infrastructure tions, incl. Support • Facility Management: • (2) Widerøe: Top ManageFacility management in ment, Legal, Finance, HR, Scandinavia Quality, Safety & Security, • Purchasing: Corporate Flight Ops, Technical Ops, purchasing Ground Ops, Cargo Opera• Environment & CSR: tions and Commercial Supports SAS Group on • (3) Blue1: Top Management, Environment and Corporate Legal, Finance, HR, Quality, Responsibility matters Safety & Security, Flight Ops, Technical Ops, Ground Ops, Cargo Operations and Commercial SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 3 Responsibility for sustainable development The sustainability work is based on SAS policies and the Group’s commitment to adhere to the principles in the UN Global Compact, Code of Conduct, SAS priorities and promise. Sustainable development creates value By constantly improving processes and enhancing the effihow SAS handles the demand to reduce greenhouse emisciency of production in a sustainable manner, value is creatsions. Therefore, environmental responsibility is the largest ed, not only for shareholders, but also for stakeholders such part of SAS’s reported sustainability work. For SAS, social as passengers, employees and suppliers. To communicate responsibility on a wide scale is just as important, but is not this work and its results, SAS strives to remain at the foregiven the same amount of space in this report. front of sustainability reporting; work that is driven by sociDespite the turbulent market for the airline industry in ety’s demand and the expectations of stakeholders. recent years, SAS has chosen to maintain its commitment to SAS’s long-term targets remain unchanged and reporting sustainability-related issues. Adapting capacity and taking on its sustainability work shall maintain a high standard, for emission-reducing action have constantly decreased emiswhich SAS has received positive responses, both from sussions per passenger kilometer over time. Although the 2011 tainability analysts and other independent assessors. results were weaker, it is evident that the structured actions SAS’s stakeholders generally place the greatest imporare generating long-term results. tance on environmental responsibility, especially relating to 4 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 SAS Sustainability policy and strategy UN’s Global Compact, GRI and CDP Sustainability (CSR) policy The SAS Group joined the Global Compact in 2003 and participates For SAS, sustainable development means a simultaneous focus on in the Global Compact’s Nordic Network. One criterion for publishing financial, environmental and social responsibility. The objective is to company information on the Global Compact website is an annual contribute to the creation of long-term growth in shareholder value. update of the material, the Communication On Progress (COP). The SAS aims to follow strong sustainable practices and to encourage most recent update of SAS’s information was completed in April 2011. its stakeholders to do the same. UN Global Compact is a pivotal component of the SAS Code of • Sustainable development is an integrated part of SAS’s business Conduct and the requirements imposed on the company’s suppliers. activities and is closely linked to our ability to fulfill and develop the SAS’s sustainability reporting observes the guidelines of the Global priority program, Care, Reporting Initiative (GRI) and is reviewed by an external auditor. GRI is a • To contribute to sustainable development, everybody must, in their framework designed for sustainability-related information and perforday-to-day work, take financial as well as environmental and social mance. Page 45 presents specified GRI cross references. considerations into account. SAS reports to CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). For 2011, SAS was awarded 74 points. Sustainable development strategies SAS aims to: Sustainability-related business opportunities and risks • create a culture among its employees based on strategic decisions Management of sustainability-related risks is integrated with the SAS and a commitment to environmental work Group’s comprehensive risk management. This is described in the • use documented sustainability appraisals as a basis for all decisions Annual Report on pages 32–34. In general, we can conclude that risks • engage in strategic sustainability communication with relevant stakeare reduced – and, indeed, certain opportunities offer tangible business holders potential – by having proactive and effective sustainability programs. • promote tomorrow’s solutions through alliances and proactive deProactively working with its environmental impact in a structured envimand of better sustainability performance from our suppliers and ronmental management system offers a company control and the capacstakeholders. ity to deal rapidly with changing requirements in the business environment and those demanded by certain customer groups. Another SAS Corporate Manual example is the ability to impose demands on product and service supThe Corporate Manual describes SAS’s organization, corporate form pliers, where, thanks to favorable insight and monitoring, there is the and all of its policies, which, combined, govern the Group’s sustainability potential to contribute to exerting positive influence on developments work and operations in general. at individual suppliers. The SAS Group’s role models for executives and employees comprise the basis for the Group’s sustainability programs. Managing sustainability-related data The various operations in the SAS Group report once a year on meaCode of Conduct sures for the purpose of improving the Group’s sustainability work To summarize and clarify the Group’s stated priorities, promises, polithrough internal self-assessment. Reporting covers such areas as comcies, and other regulations, the SAS Board of Directors has issued a munity involvement, supplier contacts, cooperation with internal and Code of Conduct that covers all employees within the Group. To underexternal stakeholders, work environment, training, conflicts and efforts score the Code’s importance, there are clear rules and structures for involving the Code of Conduct and the UN Global Compact. Although reporting and addressing suspected violations. the heads of the particular companies and units are responsible for Supervisors and other managers play a key role in the implementareporting, in practice, the coordinators in the Sustainability Network tion and follow-up of the Code. An extensive training program supports undertake this work. the Code and the goal is for all personnel to participate in the program. Environmental data are reported annually, while data concerning At the end of 2011, 76% of the employees had done so. employees are followed up at a local level on an ongoing basis. Data are The Code’s whistleblower function was used in four cases. One case compiled by the Group department for Environment & Sustainability, was dismissed without further action and three were concluded after checked by internal auditors and reported once a year to Group Maninvestigation. agement. During 2012, the reporting frequency in respect of environmentally related data will stepped up to a monthly basis, with quarterly Business relations monitoring integrated in other reporting. Read more on page 9. Anti-trust issues are always in focus for the airline industry. The SAS Competition Law Compliance Program encompasses all employees concerned and is designed to ensure that SAS complies with laws, regulations and practices in the area. Regulations relating to bribery and other improper actions are especially strict. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 5 Stakeholders – dialog and commitment During 2011, dialog and cooperation in stakeholder resulted in a numing flights at Oslo-Gardermoen Airport. Read more on page 21. During ber of activities aimed at creating dialog around the terms and condi2011 SAS participated in the update of Avinor’s report on “Samfunnstions for aviation from a sustainability perspective, with the focus on finyttig og bærekraftig luftfart”. nancial controls, alternative jet fuels and efficiency-enhancement of the Cooperation with central players in aviation, components, equipment European air space. Similarly, SAS participates in national industry or and catering is essential in promoting sustainable development in all employee organizations in an effort to create greater understanding for areas. SAS plans to renew a large share of its aircraft fleet, with fuel conthe terms and conditions for the aviation industry. sumption and environmental impact as key parameters in the decisionTogether with other Nordic companies that are a part of the Global making process. Compact, SAS participates in the Global Compact Nordic Network. Discussions with potential suppliers are underway and will be intenSAS is also a member of national or Nordic corporate networks whose sified in 2012. SAS is also engaged in talks with a series of prospective primary task is to make social responsibility and social engagement a suppliers of alternative sustainable fuel, which are expected to lead to natural part of the companies’ daily work and to also encourage the contracts during 2012 regarding future deliveries. reporting of these issues. Sustainability issues have gained greater importance for public adRelations and cooperation with parties responsible for airports and ministration and the business sector, and SAS is initiating discussions air traffic control are of great importance. For many years, SAS has with these parties. SAS is pursuing ongoing dialogs with various groups participated in their adaptation and development programs. 2011 saw in a bid to advance and adapt products and, indeed, the company itself continuing proactive cooperation with Swedavia (Airport Agency) and to the ever-changing market demands. All stakeholders seeking contact LFV (Air Navigation Agency) in Sweden, and in Denmark with CPH A/S with SAS will be offered the opportunity of a dialog with the company. (Copenhagen Airports). Environmental impact is reduced as a result of The requirements imposed by SAS’ customers confirm that sustainlogistical improvements at the airports – such as higher passenger and ability issues are gaining greater significance. An increasing number of baggage flows and reduced waiting times. Also, during 2011, cooperacompanies are imposing demands in respect of environmental managetion with suppliers of air traffic control management proved instrumenment systems and continual accounting for climate-impacting emissions. tal in SAS’ efforts to reduce environmental impact in connection with inAlso, issues regarding how SAS manages its social responsibility are coming and outgoing flights. Particular focus was devoted to the dialog tending to increase. As a natural component in this development, SAS with Avinor in Norway in an effort to address challenges in conjunction itself is presenting an increasing number of questions to its suppliers in with the implementation of a new methodology for incoming and outgothis area. Employees Customers Owners, investors and • Employee index PULS • Customer surveys financial analysts • Performance reviews • Interviews • Regular Board meetings • Whistleblower function • Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) • Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting • Employee meetings at all levels • Image index • Surveys including meetings related to ISO 14001 • Contract customers are offered carbon • Teleconferences and EMAS dioxide compensation • Regular meetings with investors and • Dialog and close cooperation with labor • Direct dialog in meetings and ongoing analysts unions contact with several thousand customers • Social media Partnerships and networks NGOs Industry organizations • Star Alliance • Close dialogue and cooperation with, • ICAO’s Committee on Aviation • Global Compact Nordic Network for example, Bellona, WWF and Natur­ Environment Protection (CAEP) vernforbundet, Norway • Association of European Airlines (AEA) • CSR Sweden • SAS was a sponsor of Save the Children • IATA and ATAG • IATA, ATAG, SAFUG and Sustainable in 2011 Biofuel Network • Conf. of Swedish Enterprise • NHO Klimatpanel, Baltic Development • Conf. of Danish Industries Forum etc • Conf. of Norwegian Enterprise, etc. • Green Light Project 6 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 SAS pursues active talks with various NGOs, researchers and the media. Over the course of 2011, the dialog with WWF was extended in respect of the challenges associated with the use of biomass and other resources for the production of jet fuel . SAS believes that society should prioritize the production of alternative, sustainable jet fuel, since there are currently no realistic alternatives, and that production should be conducted in a manner that is socially, environmentally and economically sustainable. Employee attitudes towards the company and its ability to meet their demands in terms of the work environment and other significant factors that affect commitment and loyalty are gauged continuously. Considerable emphasis is placed on ethical questions and the development of the corporate culture and value base. Systematic approach offers benefits For some time now, SAS has worked with systematizing, strengthening and further developing relations with external, primary stakeholders, meaning customers, politicians, financial analysts/investors and the general public. This contributes to creating the premises for the conditions underlying SAS’s competitiveness and operational framework. Talks are held with stakeholder organizations, the media and universities. The considerable media focus on aviation’s negative environmental impact is a challenge for the entire airline industry. SAS has chosen to take a leading role in the debate as a feature of its efforts to link the brand with responsible management of both climate and social issues. Authorities Suppliers Manufacturers • Close contact with relevant national • Purchasing negotiations with prioritized • Ongoing dialog with manufacturers and international authorities, politicians, suppliers based on the SAS Group’s of aircraft, engines and equipment that airport owners and air traffic control purchase policy and adherence to the are better adapted to the environment management principles of the Global Compact, etc. and work equipment products, services, • Together with AEA, IATA and Star Alliance, • Dialog with energy energy and fuel chemicals, etc. dialog meetings are held with relevant suppliers authorities Mass media Schools and universities Airports and air traffic control • Daily communication and dialog with • Support of and dialog on essays and management media doctoral theses • Partnership and cooperative models • Interviews • Presentations and participation in established with airport owners and air conferences and debates traffic control management at the most • Articles and opinion pieces important airports • Social media, for example, • Focus on punctuality, efficiency and facebook.com/SAS or twitter.com/SAS reduced environmental impact SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 7 Environmental responsibility SAS’s operations comprise airline operations and ground activities. The major environmental impact results from flight operations, but ground operations and customer service onboard also affect the environment. 8 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Environmental Management System and environmental targets. SAS has a review process that integrates SAS’s environmental management system includes all activities in the environmental reports in existing quality/security inspections. This is SAS Group, except Individual Holding (Air Greenland where SAS owns part of our endeavor to achieve constant improvement. 37.5% of the shares). The system focuses on activities around the main SAS has a central department for Environment & Sustainability that bases (Stockholm, Copenhagen, Oslo, Helsinki and Bodø), but also emreports to senior management through the Infrastructure Manager. braces all stations in Scandinavia and Finland, as well as international serThe department coordinates sustainability programs at SAS through vices and activities through follow-up programs and contracted services. the SAS Sustainability Network. Annual, internal self-assessments are See the scope list on www.sasgroup.net/sustainability/ISO14001 and conducted on sustainability programs throughout the Group. This EMAS function also includes a resource – Green Flight & Fuel Efficiency – that The system is based on shared environmental and sustainability works with the enhancement of SAS’s fuel efficiency, thereby reducing policies, such as the Code of Conduct, the UN Global Compact, airline climate-impacting emissions. This function concentrates primarily on operational standards and ISO 14001 and EMAS. It provides guidelines the fuel-savings program, which involves a focus on procedures, behavfor a continuing cycle of planning, implementation and evaluation, as ior, and cooperation centered on “green” flights with air traffic control well as the improvement of processes and activities to meet operational and the European project, SESAR. Read more on page 18. Administration of the Environment VI Training and awareness: All employees of the SAS Group reManagement System: ceive essential environmental awareness training, while managers and selected key individuals receive training at a higher level. I General requirements: through the SAS Corporate Manual: All operational training aimed at safeguarding processes is conA guidance and control system at SAS, which consolidates many trolled and registered in line with official requirements. local control systems from each business area /unit. (www.sasgroup.net/sustainability) VII Monitoring and follow-up: All key aspects are measured, including regular follow-ups of key data and environmental imII Environmental Policy: The SAS Group works in line with the provement activities. Inspections/audits are conducted continuSAS Environmental Policy. See policies on page 14. ally – internally and externally – by suppliers and certification bodies. An overall audit process has been established to ensure III Environmental aspects: Management groups at all levels are knowledge sharing among companies/units/departments. A selfsupported by an environmental group that works on proprietary assessment and data collection on the management system for aspects. These are described in local control systems that incorthe whole organization is conducted yearly and signed by SVP or porate goals and activities. See aspects on page 10 and data and CEO. The self assessment is followed up by spot checks. Knowlresults on pages 21–35. edge sharing is conducted through four rounds of the SAS Group’s Sustainability Network meetings. IV Legal and other requirements: A list of legal and other requirements that apply to all units and companies has been compiled for VIII Reporting: Each year, a thorough self-evaluation is conducted each of the four countries: Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. throughout the SAS Group and the results are used for control, The list comprises statutory and other requirements from national/ improvements and goal setting, as well as for annual sustainabilimunicipal authorities, the EU, airline regulators, approvals and othty reporting. er applicable leases. SAS works on compliance with legal and other requirements, with observance controlled by units designed to IX SAS Sustainability Network comprises a representative from support SAS’s operational management. Any breach of regulations each of the largest areas/companies, while each of the smaller or rules in respect of permits is described in the annual sustanability units/parts of the SAS Group are managed by other network report. members. In turn, the representatives support local management in the individual company/unit. Thanks to its fixed agenda, the V Resources and responsibility: Described in the control systems sustainability network ensures that all ISO14001/EMAS compoat all levels nents are discussed and followed up throughout the organization. The Network meets four times a year. All environmental work is governed through policies, key aspects, targets and control and follow-up of results. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 9 Key environmental aspects In the SAS environmental management system, a distinction is made To identify the most important aspects in normal and abnormal situabetween direct and indirect environmental aspects. Direct environmentions, SAS environmental aspects are identified using a proprietary tal aspects are the environmental impacts over which SAS has direct method. The degree of significance of the environmental aspect significontrol, while the indirect features are those that can only be affected to cance is governed by: a greater or smaller degree. This is of great significance for improvement • the scope of the environmental consequences programs where controllable impacts can be governed through guide• emissions/wastewater volumes lines and policies, while an indirect environmental aspect must be gov• legal requirements erned through purchases, contracts, cooperative agreement, dialogues • the risk of incidents and deviations and monitoring. • stakeholder groups’ demands and expectations One example of a direct environmental aspect is jet fuel; the combustion of which emits greenhouse gases to the atmosphere. An indirect All essential environmental aspects are measured and key indicators as environmental aspect is an agreement regarding hotel stays for SAS well as improvement activities are continuously followed-up. crews, etc., where the service creates emissions to the air, soil and water. What comes in and goes out 1 In the air Emmissions to SAS’s responsibility SAS’s responsibility Air Ground Water IN Jet fuel Carbon dioxide (CO2) Engine oil Nitrogen oxides (NO X) Halons Unburnt hydrocarbons (HC) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Oil aerosols Jettisoned fuel ( ) ( ) Noise Water vapor (H2O) Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) Halons (CFC)2 OUT Onboard Emmissions to SAS’s responsibility SAS’s responsibility Air Ground Water IN Food and beverages Organic waste Packaging Waste Disposable/semidisposable Unopened packaging items Waste and recycling Articles for sale Lavatory waste Newspapers Germicides Chlorinated water Germicides Airport-owner responsibility Wastewater (disposal) Lavatory waste (disposal) OUT On the ground Emmissions to SAS’s responsibility SAS’s responsibility Air Ground Water IN Glycols Waste Water Hazardous waste Maintenance supplies Waste water, incl. flooded water Energy Sulfur dioxide (SO2), Carbon dioxide (CO2) Vehicle fuel Nitrogen oxides (NO X), HC Office supplies Soot och particulates, VOC Chemicals Heavy metals3 Solvents Recycling Equipment Work clothes and uniforms Airport-owner responsibility Airport-owner responsib. Glycols (disposals) Urea/Acetate ( ) OUT Urea/Acetat Wastewater (disposals) 1. Definitions in the table of what we emit are immediate emissions. 2. Civil aircraft operation is allowed to use halon 1301 and 1211 for fire protection under critical use clauses, where no alternative substances are yet certified. Research on alternatives is ongoing. 3. Heavy metals such as cadmium and chromium are used as alloys and very small amounts can be cast off during washing and rainy weather, which during aircraft maintenance is confined in the closed sewage systems in the hangars. The process is strictly regulated through measurements and approval from municipalities. 10 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 From the list of aspects, (see What comes in and goes out, page 10), the The multiplier – to be or not to be SAS Group has elected to primarily work with six of the most significant Industry and scientists generally agree on the magnitude and impact of environmental aspects: CO2 emissions. However, there is less consensus regarding NOx, parti1) Jet fuel, cles and water vapor. Meanwhile, more voices are being raised in sup2) Aircraft noise, port of the introduction of some form of duty on nitrogen oxides. SAS 3) Waste from onboard products and services, and the airline industry recommend ECAC’s model of differentiated 4) Deicing fluid, landing fees based on nitrogen oxide emissions. There is also a propos5) Fuel used on the ground and, al to use a multiplier; however, the size of the multiplier is disputed and 6) Energy. not based on scientific findings. Ten years ago, a multiplier of 2–4 was discussed while today’s indicative value is around 1.2–1.8 (Source: Biodiversity Cicero). This issue is on the EU’s agenda and, until clearer directives Biological diversity is affected by airline operations in different ways. The are given, SAS has chosen to report each emission separately. actual flight affects the biological diversity to a limited extent through emissions, primarily of nitrogen oxides. Other aspects include facilities Polluter pays principle and the use of airports, which, depending on geographic location and by SAS fully endorses the “polluter pays principle” and is prepared to take utilizing large areas, can affect water, flora, fauna and nearby residents. responsibility for its share. This assumes that any charges imposed on Airlines purchase services from airports with private or public invesit are based on scientific findings and that the total climate impact of tors. Every new construction or other change in ground use requires competing transport modes is taken into consideration. Read more authorization from local authorities. Biological diversity is normally an about SAS’ environmentally related costs on page 43 . approval aspect. Biodiversity, airport concessions and other environmental aspects regarding airport operations are reported in respective Market trend airport’s own sustainability reports. 2011 was hallmarked by rising demand in the early part of the year, which, however, subsequently declined due to macroeconomic condiImpact of air transport tions. Today, commercial air transport accounts for about 2% of global CO2 The market is characterized by continuously increasing competition emissions, which corresponds to 12% of the transport sector’s global and rising price pressure, affecting margins and profitability for the enemissions. CO2 emissions account for about two-thirds of air transport’s tire industry. Although there are varying perceptions about the future total impact on climate, while nitrogen oxides (NOX), water vapor and parperformance of air transport, according to AEA, the Middle East and ticles are assumed to account for most of the balance. (Source: IATA& ATAG) Asia appear to show the fastest growth – especially China and India – while mature markets in the industrialized West will show lower growth SAS’s main markets and its impact figures. In addition, the primary growth is expected to be on longer SAS’s main market is the Nordic region, with travel among the Nordic routes that offer no other real alternative to air transport. countries as the core operation. Scandinavian Airlines’ share of total Air transport is a key part of the infrastructure of a globalized world traffic in its home market was 36% in 2011. Widerøe’s share was 17% and a prerequisite for economic and social progress. and Blue1’s 18%. Norwegian domestic air traffic accounts for 2.3% of Industry and IPCC estimates indicate a possible reduction in emistotal national CO2 emissions. The corresponding figures for Danish, sions by an annual average of 2% as a result of enhanced technology Swedish and Finnish domestic traffic are 0.2%, just under 0.9%, and and short-term efficiency gains. This trend – combined with expected 1.0%, respectively. (Sources: National statistics). long-term growth – means that air transport’s environmental impact will increase in the absence of action programs. CO2 vs. nitrogen oxides Accordingly, the airline industry as a whole has agreed to ambitious, To date, the climate impact of air transport has focused on CO2 emislong-term environmental targets. sions. However, in the future, the focus will most likely also include other climate effects, primarily nitrogen oxides and water vapor. The journey towards certification... The idea of certification In June 2008, executive As of 2008, the ISO 14001 From mid-2009 until late On September 23, 2010, emerged because the SAS management decided to environmental groups were summer of 2010, Bureau the SAS Group was Group had conducted prosecure ISO 14001 certificaformed with expertise from Veritas tested manageawarded ISO 14001 and active environmental efforts tion for the SAS Group the particular areas. The ment and all employees EMAS certification. and had a structured envisince SAS Cargo was alGroup reviews manuals, throughout the organizaronmental program – ready certified and the rest documentation and procetion using certification including published enviof the organization had a dures to identify environaudits. ronmental/sustainability well-developed managemental aspects. Efforts to reports – since the midment system. gain ISO 14001 certification 1990s. revealed that EMAS was an equally important standard. One of the tasks was to find a certification authority and Bureau Veritas, the world’s largest certification authority, was selected. …and the resulting effects The environmental management system has provided operations with extra support in a number of areas, such as a superior structure for the follow-up of environmental programs and a simpler structure of regulations, legislation and so forth, which SAS must observe. Moreover, the system has created new conditions for pursuing development efforts as well as monitoring the adopted environmental programs. The system gives us a constant reminder to both monitor and control goals – which has resulted in both environmental and economical savings. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 11 Aviation industry moving towards zero emissions The industry’s environmental work primarily focuses on four areas, agement, new fuels and coordinated actions to improve the infrastrucor what are referred to as the pillars, namely: New Technology, Infrature and the conditions under which air transport operates. structure, Operational Measures and Economic Instruments. The Achieving zero emissions requires the total replacement of existing airline industry’s commitment to reducing environmental impact aircraft fleets with a new generation of aircraft and engines not yet on requires long-term investments that take time to complete and are the market. The lead-time for such a changeover is 20–30 years, which capital intensive. is why the vision of zero emissions should be interpreted as meaning Aviation is a relatively young industry but there is significant that the necessary technology must be commercially available. potential for environmental improvements, provided that they are To achieve this vision, IATA and other areas of the airline industry economically justifiable and technically feasible. In the past have agreed on a joint target, which will subsequently be adopted by 40 years, developments have obviously changed the conditions underthe entire airline industry and will now be further developed by ICAO: lying air transport, with CO2 emissions per produced passenger kilo• Improving fuel efficiency by an average of 1.5% annually until 2020 meter decreasing by 70% according to IATA. • Carbon-neutral growth from 2020 In 2007, IATA formulated a vision that, by 2050, it will be possible to • 50% reduction in greenhouse CO2 emissions by 2050, compared fly commercially without climate impact. This vision is to be realized with 2005 levels through a combination of new technology, more efficient air traffic manSource: www.enviro.aero Road map to 50% reduction by 2050 No action Technology Operations Million tonnes of CO2 Infrastructure Additional technologies and biofuels Carbon-neutral growth 2 1 –50% by 2050 3 2005 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Known technology, operations and infrastructure measures Economic measures “No action” emissions Biofuels and additional new-generation technology Net emissions trajectory 1. Improve fleet fuel efficiency by 1.5% per year from now until 2020. 2. Cap net emissions from 2020 through carbon neutral growth. 3. By 2050, net aviation CO2 emissions will be half of what they were in 2005. Source: http://www.enviro.aero/CNG2020 12 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 The framework for aviation Emissions trading Environmental compliance Europe has adopted a goal of reducing emissions in the Union by 20% Airline operations are subject to environmental policies set by each airby 2020. One of the measures devised to achieve this was the estabport. These usually involve noise, rules for using deicing fluids and limlishment of the EU Emission Trading System (EU-ETS) for stationary its on emissions into the air, soil and water. sources. On the January 1, 2012, aviation became the first transport One of Stockholm-Arlanda Airport’s environmental rules is a ceiling sector to be included in the EU-ETS, regulations, covering emissions for how much CO2 and NOX airport activities may emit. Since 2008, from flights inside the Union and international flights departing or enSwedavia (previously a part of LFV – Swedish Navigational Agency), has tering the EU. EFTA has adopted the same scheme through the EEA developed an application for a totally new environmental permit that agreement, and is – from an aviation operator’s ETS perspective – an was submitted to the authorities in charge in May 2011. Source: integral part of the EU-ETS. Talks are progressing with Switzerland on http://arlanda.se/sv/Information-om/Miljoarbete/Miljotillstand/ a similar approach and the upcoming EU membership of Croatia from The established noise limit of 80dB(A) for night traffic at Copenhagen2013 will further enlarge the EU-ETS area. There are also other indusKastrup did not result in any complaints from the authorities regarding try sectors and new emission types that will be included for stationary SAS’s operations in 2011. During a test run of aircraft engines on the sources from 2013. The final year of the second ETS trading period is ground after technical maintenance, there was one run outside the 2012. The third trading period covers 2013–2020, while plans are in established time limit. For other environmental permits/policies decidprogress for a fourth trading period starting 2021. ed by authorities, such as premature deviation from the takeoff path, SAS – and its subsidiaries Widerøe and Blue1 – applied for and reunnecessary use of an aircraft’s extra engine for energy provision ceived approvals for the required monitoring plans for emissions and (APU) and engine reversals, SAS did not exceed limits during the year. ton-kilometers within the set deadlines at year-end 2010. During 2010, Measuring the air quality at the airport is also a part of environmental both of these parameters were continuously monitored on a flight-bypolicies. Copenhagen-Kastrup was the first airport in Europe to meaflight basis, and the required annual emissions and ton-kilometer reports sure air quality on the ramp in 2010, with a special focus on ultra-fine were verified by the third party accredited verification companies, namely, particles. This was carried out by DMU (Danish National Environmental PwC for SAS and Widerøe, and Bureau Veritas for Blue1. These reports Research Institute) and showed a periodic increased concentration of were handed over to the relevant national authorities within the set ultra-fine particles. The foremost sources are APU, aircraft engines, deadline. The ton-kilometer report also functioned as an application for heavy traffic on the ramp and other ground transport to and from the allocation of free allowances. airport. There are no limit values for ultra-fine particles but they are conIn 2011, SAS received notification of the number of allowances sidered to be health-impairing. The concentration of larger particles in granted for 2012 and the third trading period 2013–2020. For 2012, exhaust emissions was below the limit values. Read more on page 40. compared with 2010, emissions will cover 74% for Scandinavian AirA new noise regulation was implemented at Oslo-Gardermoen durlines, 44% for Widerøe and 52% for Blue1. Emissions reports for 2011 ing 2011. Unfortunately, this led to higher emissions in the short term, for the three airlines are currently being produced and verified, and will be as described in greater detail on page 21. delivered to national authorities within the set deadline of April 31, 2012. In general, there is a trend towards introducing tougher restrictions The EU-ETS has been criticized by several airlines – mostly based outregarding permitted approach and takeoff paths. Deviations generally side the EU/EEA, and IATA – for including emissions that occur outside result in fines for the airline. In general, the trend is towards a greater the EU, such as on a flight to or from the US or China. The Airlines for use of environment-related surcharge systems and operational limits. America industry group has taken legal action against the EU on this isThe twofold purpose is to reduce local environmental impact and create sue on the basis that the ETS is contrary to the principles laid down in the incentives for airlines to use aircraft with the best available technology Chicago Convention, which forms the basis for many bilateral air agreefrom an environmental perspective. Read more in the Report by the ments and is the foundation of the UN aviation organization ICAO. The US Board of Directors in SAS Group Annual Report 2011 pages 46–51. administration has criticized this unilateral approach by the EU and a large group of nations support similar views. Moreover, some of these have Environmental permits threatened retaliatory measures such as increased over-flight charges for Airline operations have no separate licenses or environmental permits EU airlines and a procurement boycott of, for example. Airbus aircraft. The for operation; instead, they depend on permits held by the airport ownEuropean High Court has ruled that EU-ETS is lawfully established within er, such as for glycol handling, noise and emission thresholds. EU law, and that it is not contradictory to international agreements. However, environmental approval is part of the process to certify SAS supports the concept of a global solution for airline emissions aircraft in the three Scandinavian countries, as well as in the terms of rather than regional or local programs. A task force at AEA, in which technical aircraft maintenance. Airline operations have a legal dispenSAS has participated, has formulated a proposal for a global system sation for the use of halogen and submit annual reports to the authorithat does not distort competition and incorporates the UN’s CBDR printies on consumption, including leakage and storage. The reason for ciples (Common But Differentiated Responsibility), referred to as GAP the dispensation is that there is no certified alternative to halon for (Global Approach for International Aviation Emissions). The proposal is extinguishing fires in aircraft engines, cabins and aircraft toilets. SAS based on a division of the world into three blocks, where the industrialestimates that around 5 kilograms of halons was emitted during 2011. ized counties are given greater responsibility than developing counSAS Oil is a jet fuel purchasing company for the SAS Group at Copentries. In addition, IATA is also working on a document outlining concepts hagen, Oslo and Stockholm airports. Through SAS Oil, SAS is a minority for economic instruments for reducing CO2 emissions from air transowner of a number of smaller companies that deliver jet fuel. The Group port. It is SAS opinion that a global solution for aviation must come has ensured that these companies have the necessary permits, continthrough political processes and not through court actions. gency plans and insurance. SAS has started to trade allowances to cover estimated needs beA detailed description of SAS’s licenses and environment-related yond the allocation of permits. An emission reporting (EMIR) system permits is presented in the Report by the Board of Directors in SAS gives an overview of monthly emissions. Permits are traded as required Group Annual Report 2011 pages 46–51. and SAS hedges about 60% of the required EUA’s. As in the case of several airlines, cost is recovered through add-on fuel surcharges. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 13 SAS environmental vision, policy and targets Environmental vision The overall goal for SAS’s sustainability programs is to create long-term SAS intends to be a part of the future long-term sustainable society value growth for its owners and contribute to the Group meeting its goals. and support IATA’s vision to make it possible to fly without greenhouse gas emissions by around 2050. Environmental target SAS aims to create responsible and sustainable traffic growth, while Eco-political vision reducing environmental impact. SAS’s eco-political vision is for all four transport sectors – road, rail, sea • 50% lower emissions per unit by 2020 compared with 2005 and air – to pay for investments and infrastructure, other social costs (such as accidents) and environmental impact according to the polluter Environmental goals, 2008–2011 pays principle. Subsequently, all four sectors should compete in a comDuring 2011, SAS’s sustainability programs continued at an intense petitively neutral transport system, based on a holistic approach. pace in the Group, which was in line with the action plans drawn up in 2008 to reach their targets no later than by 2011. The deterioration in Environmental policy market conditions has not affected SAS’s goals and schedules. A deSAS will have an environmental program on par with leading industry scription of the outcome for these goals, which have now been concludcompetitors that attracts employees, customers, and investors and is ed, is available on page 15. Also, page 16 provides a description of perceived as positive by other stakeholders. SAS’s new goals, which extend through 2015. SAS will contribute to sustainable development by optimizing resource use, seeking the use of renewable energy and minimizing its SAS should: environmental impact throughout its operations. • be seen as the most environmentally aware airline in Europe SAS’s environmental programs and activities are based on continu• have ISO 14001-certified environmental management systems ous improvement, with reference to SAS’s overall environmental goals. • have the industry’s most effective fuel-saving program Each company and unit is responsible for setting specific targets and • be among the first airlines to use alternative fuel blends once they working to reach them. are approved and commercially available The activities within SAS’s environmental programs will be coordi• have a long-term plan for its aircraft fleet that leads to a significant nated and integrated with production, quality and financial activities reduction of greenhouse emissions and will comply with applicable legislation and other requirements. • have reached the target for SAS’s environmental indexes. 14 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Environmental goal attainment, 2008–2011 SAS will be seen as the most environmentally SAS will be one of the first airlines to use alternative fuel aware airline in Europe blends once they are approved and commercially available Goal achievement in 2011 Goal achievement in 2011 The basis for achieving this goal is, of course, the actual achieveDuring the year, SAS has worked in cooperation with relevant ments attained by SAS in its efforts to reduce its environment imstakeholders to hasten the production of sustainable alternative jet pact. These are, for example, embodied in the company’s status as fuel based on renewable sources. the only airline that is certified according to ISO 14001 and EMAS; July 2011 marked the certification of the international specificain having a number of environmentally certified products onboard tion for jet fuel, which has opened up the international market for and in the lounge, seeking to conduct more environmentally comalternative aviation fuels based on sources other than crude oil and patible flights, offer voluntary CO2 compensation, being involved in coal. To date, production has been on a small scale and prices very seeking suitable suppliers for future aircraft purchases and future high, which has meant that our goal cannot yet be realized. At this fuel purchases based on renewable sources. During the year, a point in time, a number of airlines have conducted individual demlarge number of communications activities were conducted to suponstration flights using alternative fuels based on, for example, port the goal. This involves, for example, partaking in external concooking oil. SAS has opted not to purchase this fuel, since we are ferences and trade fairs, as well as participating in all the channels focusing entirely on identifying appropriate suppliers that can dethat SAS itself has at its disposal, as well as activities that increase liver at commercial prices and with a sustainability performance commitment among SAS employees. SAS’s sustainability report that meets our demands. Read more on page 20. also gained a number of distinctions over the years. During 2011, SAS was a strong driving force in environmental SAS will have a long-term plan for its aircraft fleet that and sustainability issues in international bodies such as IATA and leads to a significant reduction of greenhouse emissions AEA, as well as participating actively is the social debate around Goal achievement in 2011 these issues. A key condition for attaining SAS’s environmental goal is a cost-effecThe annual CSI (Customer Satisfaction Index) indicates that SAS tive and fuel-efficient aircraft fleet designed to meet market requirehas improved its result for the question: “Do you perceive SAS as an ments. The strategy is based on continually replacing aircraft to upenvironmentally aware company?” from 55 till 64 between 2007 grade to the optimum technology when it is financially defensible. and 2011. SAS has a long-term plan for its aircraft fleet that affects the goal up to 2015 by replacing a number of older aircraft with more energySAS will have ISO 14001-certified environmental efficient aircraft; but also after 2015 a number of current generamanagement systems tion aircraft will be replaced by the next generation A320neo. Read Goal achievement in 2011 more on page 19. SAS has attained this goal. The SAS Group’s three airlines have SAS has an aircraft fleet that offers considerable flexibility ahead been certified in line with ISO 14001 and EMAS since September of future aircraft procurement and, like other airline companies, 2010. This means that SAS’s airlines are the only ones worldwide SAS is monitoring the results of the development programs curto be certified according to both standards. rently in progress among the relevant manufacturers. SAS will have the industry’s most effective fuel-saving SAS will reach the target for its environmental indexes program Goal achievement in 2011 Goal achievement in 2011 Scandinavian Airlines saw a decline of one index point – to 94 – in In 2005, Scandinavian Airlines initiated a program aimed at operatits environmental index compared with 2010. Thus, Scandinavian ing existing aircraft types in a more fuel-efficient manner. The goal Airlines did not achieve its goal. The deterioration is primarily due to is that, by year-end 2011, to operate comparable flights with 6–7% a generally challenging market situation, resulting in a weaker cabin fuel efficiency compared with the period from July 2005 to June factor. Scandinavian Airlines’ aviation operations in Norway displayed 2006. At year-end 2011, the improvement was 4.5% since the a general improvement, while other markets showed a decline. launch of the program. This corresponds to an emissions reduction Wideroe improved its index by 8 index points – to 82 – compared of 161,000 tons of CO2 or a reduction in fuel purchases of approxiwith 2010. However, it should be noted that Wideroe’s environmenmately MSEK 350 at year-end 2011 compared with the base period. tal index declined significantly in 2010 due to factors including There are several reasons as to why the goal was not fully changes of methods in conjunction with the introduction of a new achieved. One contributory factor is the implementation of new database (MRV). Wideroe missed its target by one index point. approach and takeoff routes at Oslo-Gardermoen. Read more on Blue1 saw a deterioration in its environmental index by one inpage 21. Another is the relatively tougher winter weather in Scandex point – to 80, but nevertheless achieved its target for 2011. dinavia in recent years compared with the base period. Year-end 2011 marked the conclusion of the environmental The fuel-savings program is progressing with a greater scope index. As of 2012, the focus will be on goals within the framework of within the 4Excellence strategy. Read more on page 17. 4Excellence and the SAS Group’s climate index. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 15 Environmental goals 2015 The climate goal up to 2015 will lay the basis for ensuring that SAS operations will be sustainable in the long-term. SAS will: reduce flight emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005. reduce total ground-related energy consumption by 15% in 2015 compared with 2010. reduce ground-vehicle consumption of fossil fuels by 10% at SAS’s major airports in Scandinavia 2015 compared with 2010. improve one index point annually for the Customer Satisfaction Index question involving being an environmental-aware company (2011: Index 64) secure a regular, large-scale supply of a commercially available and sustainable jet fuel by 2015. Measures to be undertaken in 2012 to attain SAS environmental goals 2015 SAS will reduce flight emissions by 20% in 2015 compared SAS will improve one index point annually regarding with 2005 the Customer Satisfaction Index question of: “being an Measures in 2012 environmentally-aware company” (2011: Index 64) During 2012, Scandinavian Airlines plans to phase in about ten aircraft to the fleet, thereby replacing a similar number of older generMeasures in 2012 ation models. This measure – combined with fuel-savings programs During 2012, communication will continue of all the activities new route planning systems, more efficient procedures and culture, that SAS undertakes to realize its environmental goals. This is plus continuing modification of the existing fleet more efficient enexpressed, for example, in communications activities aimed at gines, lighter seating and so forth – will contribute positively to realcustomers through social and traditional media, as well as onboard izing the goal for 2015. Read more on page 17. SAS aircraft. SAS will reduce total ground related energy SAS will secure a regular, large scale supply of consumption by 15% in 2015 compared with 2010 a commercially available sustainable jet fuel by 2015 Measures in 2012 Measures in 2012 Structured energy-efficiency programs are progressing as SAS is continuing its cooperation with potential suppliers of alternaplanned. Examples of activities include the adjustment of the existtive aviation fuel. Depending on the terms and conditions, SAS will ing installation, continuing reporting from users and fault-searchsign contracts with one or several future suppliers. Subsequently, ing, etc., as well as the continual follow-up and environmental manSAS will communicate more details regarding these suppliers. Deagement system audits. pending on the progress of negotiations, one or several demonstration flights will be conducted during the year. SAS will reduce ground-vehicle consumption of fossil During 2012, SAS will continue its involvement in the various infuels by 10% at SAS’s major airports in Scandinavia by 2015 ternational forums in which this issue is addressed. Read more on compared with 2010 page 20. Measures in 2012 The planned replacement of vehicles continued during the year. The switch involved more fuel-efficient vehicles, as well as vehicles driven by alternative energy sources, such as electricity. Also, during the year activities will continue that are aimed at increasing fuelefficiency in daily operations, as well as fuel-savings programs addressed in the ongoing LEAN project. 16 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 SAS will reduce flight emissions by 20 % in 2015 compared with 2005. This is one of SAS’s four main goals within the framework of the 3. Modification of existing aircraft 4Excellence strategy. SAS continuously modifies its aircraft. This involves such proceIn addition, to maintaining favorable punctuality – which boosts dures as the ongoing engine upgrade program within the framefuel-efficiency – this goal wil be realized in the four priority areas. work of the ordinary technical maintenance of most of the Boeing 737NG fleet. In practice, this entailed upgrading the engines to the 1. Modern and more efficient aircraft latest version known as Tech Insert until the summer of 2011 and During the period through 2015, SAS plans to replace its old gensubsequently to the Evolution. To date, more than half of the fleet’s eration aircraft fleet (MD80 and Boeing 737 Classic) for new and engines on the Boeing 737NGs that were delivered prior to 2006 more efficient aircraft (Boeing 737NG and the Airbus A320-famihave been upgraded and are thus about 3% more fuel efficient ly). This alone will provide fuel savings of 10–15% per seat comthan the engines with which the aircraft were delivered. Aircraft depared with a similarly sized aircraft. livered after 2007 are already equipped with Tech Insert and aircraft delivered after the summer of 2011 have “Evolution”. Another 2. Fuel-savings program example is the replacement of the brakes on Boeing 737-800s SAS’s fuel-savings program is continuing and is being extended to with a lighter composite-material version, or the light-weight seats include more aspects of SAS operations that can contribute to lowthat are to be installed in a number of B737NGs as of 2012. er fuel consumption throughout SAS’s flight operations. This means that other employee groups – other than pilots – will be in4. Lighter products onboard volved in the fuel-saving program There is an ongoing effort to reduce the weight of all products inThe program includes a large number of activities that focus pricluded in the SAS service offerings. One example is wine bottles marily on the conditions established in operations in the form of of plastic instead of glass. procedures and how we implement these, as well as how the available systems support is sufficiently optimized for fuel-efficiency. External partnerships are key Of course, all changes remain at a level that ensures the high flight The four aforementioned principal areas are activities that are consafety requirements. ducted in proprietary operations. In addition to these, extensive collaborations are conducted with airport and air traffic control Activities include: suppliers in Scandinavia to advance the ways in which aircraft are • Speed policy: Securing optimal speed in all flight phases to enpropelled through airspace and at airports. Two examples of this sure optimal fuel efficiency. fall under the designation Green flights and the European develop• Weight reduction: Such as reducing weight through taking varyment project SESAR. A positive aspect of SAS’s involvement is that ing amounts of water in the aircraft water tanks, depending on the this trend will also benefit other airlines when the changes have length of the flight. been implemented. • Lower air resistance: Such as landing with reduced flap setting, permitting flaps to be pulled in earlier on takeoff in order to reduce fuel consumption. • Clean aircraft and engines: Regular engines cleaning provide Scope and method lower fuel consumption. The goal includes Scandinavian Airlines, Widerøe and Blue1 • Single engine taxiing: Starting or shutting down an engine before flight operations. The emissions in this goal are defined as or after landing to reduce fuel consumption. the absolute emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrogen • Weight and balance: Ensuring that the aircraft is optimally loaded. oxides (NOX). • On-ground processes: Ensuring that the aircraft engines are used as little as possible around the gate. In order to measure and follow-up the progress SAS moni• New flight planning system: During 2012, a new flight planning tors the absolute CO2 emissions. NOX will follow the develsystem will be implemented to permit more efficient flight plans. opment of CO2 and possibly be reduced even more as newer In early 2012, a new system support will be implemented to follow aircraft are introduced. up on resolved activities and to identify new ones. All activities are followed up through audits, inspections, evaluaTo attain the goal in 2015, the absolute flight CO2 emissions tions and line checks, within the framework of the environmental from Scandinavian Airlines, Widerøe and Blue1 should be management system. less than the 3,658 million tons. In 2011, absolute flight The 2012 goal for the isolated fuel-savings program is to inCO2 emissions from the three airlines was 3,863 million crease the fuel efficiency by 0.4%. tons. During the period to 2015, traffic growth is expected at the same time as the absolute flight CO2 emissions are expected to decline. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 17 Single European Sky SESAR (Single European Sky Air Traffic Management Research) is an EU initiative aimed at advancing tomorrow’s airspace and the air traffic management system in Europe. SAS is involved in SESAR and participates in efforts to enhance efficiency, capacity and safety, and to reduce the environmental impact of flights. Congestion in European airspace Europe’s air traffic is currently marked by inefficiency and a lack of airspace and ground capacity. Unlike the US, we have no joint airspace where air traffic can be governed and controlled at a joint European level. European airspace is among the most highly congested in the world with up to 33,000 daily flights during the peak season. Air traffic is also continuously increasing and is expected to double by 2030. Air Traffic Management (ATM) governs how high, far, close and at what speed and output aircraft can fly. These factors impact how much fuel is consumed, how much greenhouse gases are emitted and the level of noise exposure on the ground. ATM improvements can dramatically reduce emissions by optimizing vertical and horizontal flight path. Delays cost airlines in Europe large amount of money annually, due to several factors, including insufficient Air Traffic Control (ATC) capacity, poor weather conditions, a lack of capacity and inefficiency at airports or internally at airlines. Renewal of Europe’s air traffic system The European Commission and EUROCONTROL jointly created SESAR in 2004 with the aim of modernizing, unifying and reforming air traffic in Europe. Since 2009, SAS has participated in SESAR with a number of experts in various flight-operating areas, and participates as an “airspace user” in some 20 development projects to ensure that the end result suits SAS’ needs as a Nordic airline. Part of the development effort consists of practical trials. In 2011 and 2012, SAS is participating in live flight trials in the Green Connection project. These flight trials will demonstrate what can be achieved using existing technology with a focus on such aspects as optimized procedures for controlled time of arrival (CTA/RTA) and the use of precision navigation (RNP-AR) through a new arrival procedure at runway 26 at Stockholm-Arlanda. The project aims to conduct more than 100 flights between Gothenburg-Landvetter and Stockholm-Arlanda more efficiently than today, and one of the major savings is that the flight stretch can be shortened by slightly more than 15 kilometers as a result of the more efficient use of existing system support. Another example was the establishment of what is known as the Free Route Airspace concept on November 17, 2011, by the Danish air traffic management supplier Naviair and its Swedish equivalent LFV. Under the Free Route Airspace concept, flights in this airspace can be conducted more efficiently by making the actual flight routes straighter and shorter. SESAR objectives The long-term objectives for SESAR are: • Three times as much capacity. • Ten times as much safety. • A 10% reduction in the environmental impact of emissions. • Half the Air Traffic Control costs. Already by 2020, this will lead to: • Flight times that are 8–14 minutes shorter. • A reduction in fuel consumption of between 300 and 500 kilograms per flight. • A reduction in CO2 emissions of between 948 and 1,575 kilograms on average, per flight, compared with 2010. 18 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Large vs. small & new vs. older aircraft SAS currently operates with a mix of aircraft in various sizes and Next generation aircraft ages. The aim is to create the conditions for flying as profitably and The development of the next generation of long-haul aircraft has energy efficiently as possible on each occasion. been underway since 2004. In 2011, the Boeing 787 embarked on An aircraft that flies for 15 minutes with an average demand of its first flight in commercial traffic and, within a couple of years, the 20 passengers between two islands along the Norwegian coast Airbus A350 will be launched into traffic. These aircraft are essenhas different prerequisites, for natural reasons, than an aircraft tially built in lighter materials and more aerodynamically effi­cient that flies for ten hours with a demand of 240 passengers. These constructions with more efficient engines, which results in a 15– two aircraft are part of SAS’s business model and have varying 20% reduction in emissions compared with an aircraft with the energy efficiencies. The age of the aircraft also generate varying same amount of seats from current generation. What is known as degrees of energy efficiency and environmental performance. the noise abatement zone also generates a tangible reduction, An aircraft of latest generation (Boeing 737NG and Airbus A320 which contributes to less noise around airports. series) is about 10–15% more energy efficient than one of the preSAS is currently working on identifying potential replacements vious generation (MD80 and Boeing 737 Classic) provided that two to today’s long-haul fleet. As with the short-haul fleet, these efforts aircraft of the same size are compared. For this reason SAS seeks take an ambitious approach to sustainability related aspects for the to use the older aircraft relatively less and these are the aircraft reentire lifecycle of the aircraft, included everything from construcmaining on the ground in traffic weak periods. Within a generation, tion to use to decommissioning and recycling. there has also been some product development. For example, SAS In terms of the next generation of short-haul aircraft, Airbus and has actively chosen to invest and upgrade its Boeing 737NG when Boeing will be offering updated versions of their pre-existing airthe desired effect occurs. Examples are the current engine upgrade craft families, the A320 (delivery 2015) and B737 (delivery 2017), program, installation of winglets, and to replace chairs and other as of 2016. Bombardier will be offering the C series as of 2013. All fixed installations with lighter versions, etc. Another important asthree offer completely new, more fuel efficient engines, which are pect is how the aircraft is flown during its lifetime. For example, SAS also considerably quieter. Bombardier will launch an entirely new has Boeing 737NGs with 120+, 140+ and 180+ seats that grant construction, while Airbus and Boeing have incorporated aerodyhigh flexibility depending on demand and ensure a total emission namic improvements in the existing constructions. The estimated that is as low possible at any given moment. Flying over-dimen­ reduction in emissions is calculated at about 10–15% and the sosioned aircraft generates unnecessary emissions, although the called noise abatement zone is anticipated to be half the size comresult per available seat kilometer is better. pared to an aircraft with the same amount of seats from current In 2011, Scandinavian Airlines decided to phase out all aircraft generation. Following a selection process in 2011, SAS decided to from the previous generation in the coming years and replace order 30 A320neo for use by Scandinavian Airlines, which will be these with leased aircraft featuring the best available technology delivered as of 2016. today. This means that Scandinavian Airlines will only fly current generation aircraft by 2015. Blue 1 replaced all older Avro RJ85s and MD-90s with newer and more energy-efficient Boeing 717s in 2011. Carbon offset and emission statistics SAS’s offer to voluntarily carbon-offset its flight emissions is a key via SAS’ website, and work is continuously underway to facilitate supplement to its environmental program. It does not replace any the compensation of CO2 emissions. All carbon offset revenues are other actions, but comprises a prudent solution for those who want channeled to SAS’s partner, the CarbonNeutral Company, which is to offset the CO2 emissions caused by flight travel. responsible for funding energy projects based on renewable enerFor organizers of conferences, seminars, trips, meetings, etc., gy sources and verified/certified projects. SAS offers customized offsets, often when SAS is the Official SAS was one of the first airlines to offer an emission calculator Airline. All SAS own duty travels are offset. on its website, which is approved by a third party. SAS also offers all Corporate customers are encouraged to sign up for carbon offcorporate customers sustainability statistics as part of their agreesets, which are based on estimates of travel volume on an annual or ments. semi-annual basis. Individual customers can purchase CO2 offsets SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 19 Alternative sustainable jet fuel The global perspective The current market To realize the airline industry’s environmental objectives, the future There are currently a limited number of suppliers that can deliver of aviation is largely dependent on the development of alternative minor quantities of a certified alternative jet fuel at a high price. jet fuels based on one or more renewable sources. Unlike most These suppliers have provided a number of airlines with sufficient types of transportation, aviation has no real alternative to the liquid fuel to perform flight trial demonstrations. However, SAS has opted fuels that are currently used. There is also a need to secure access to not purchase these fuels, since the objective is to achieve a conto liquid fuels as the supply of fossil alternatives is expected to detinuous large-scale use that tangibly reduces climate impacting cline and/or become more expensive. CO2 emissions. Furthermore, SAS’s sustainability requirements Developing alternatives that can reduce climate impacting emismust be fulfilled. sions while also fulfilling the established sustainability criteria is of the utmost importance. The principal sustainability criteria are that SAS commitment production shall be sustainable in the long-term and thus not comFor the past decade, SAS has worked on various activities aimed at pete with the production of foodstuffs or access to potable water, accelerating the development of alternative jet fuels. do not harm biodiversity as well as to use as small an area of land as In 2008, SAS was involved in forming the Sustainable Aviation possible. According to the IATA, phasing in alternative fuels over Fuel Users Group (SAFUG), which was charged with expediting the time will enable a reduction in the air travel industry’s emissions by development of new jet fuels that are sustainable in the long-term up to 80% throughout its lifecycle. from renewable sources. The Group comprises a number of major In 2011, the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) global airlines and represents about 25% of the global civil jet fuel adopted an updated specification that enables the commercial use consumption. SAFUG is carefully monitoring the activities that are of alternative jet fuels that are based on renewable sources such as currently under way in the aim of ensuring long-term sustainability camelina, jathropha, algae, animal oils, fats and so forth. in all phases of the development of alternative fuels. It is vital that The so-called, Fischer Tropsch method was approved under the the production of alternative fuels are sustainable in all aspects. Standard Specification for Aviation Turbine Fuels Containing SynSAS is also involved in a number of national and international fothesized Hydrocarbons in 2009. This standard uses various types rums, such as the IATA/ATAG biofuel network, the Sustainable Bioof coal-based sources such as waste from industry, households, fuel Network in Copenhagen, Cleantech Cluster, Global Green agriculture, forestry, paper mills and so forth. Growth Fora (3GF), and various Scandinavian interest organizaThese two specifications allow up to a 50% blend with the traditions working in the area. SAS also supports the EU’s Biofuel Flight tional fossil fuels to ensure the high requirements related to enPath, which aims to create the preconditions to produce two million gines, as well as fuel supply systems on aircraft and on the ground. tons of biofuels by 2020. Initiatives are under way in a number of countries worldwide to During the year, SAS has engaged in specific talks with various evaluate the possibility of producing alternative sustainable jet fupotential stakeholders, such as Haldor Topsøe (DK) and Solena els based on renewable sources. These initiatives often take the (US), regarding the possibility to produce alternative sustainable shape of partnership projects between private and public players. jet fuels in Denmark and Sweden. SAS is optimistic that one or Unfortunately, we have not yet experienced the same commitment more of these activities will lead to specific contracts during 2012 in Scandinavia. regarding future deliveries. As a result of the approved certifications, the technological preIn 2011, the Norwegian air service provider Avinor launched a requisites are in place and buyers are available as for example SAS. project aimed at assessing the preconditions for producing alterIt is now a matter of initiating large-scale production at competitive native jet fuels in Norway. SAS is participating in this effort. prices. SAS has clearly indicated to existing and potential future proSAS would like to accelerate the development together with a ducers of jet fuels that we are prepared to purchase alternative jet number of players in the aviation industry, and is appealing to fuels if the sustainability criteria are in place and the price is comagencies and politicians worldwide to create framework agreepetitive. ments that reduce the risks of investing in this type of production, as well as giving airlines the incentive to use these alternative fuels. Green flights Partly in parallel with and prior to the launch of SESAR, in the early dard at smaller airports without nearby air traffic, it remains unusu2000s, SAS initiated partnerships with the heads of the air traffic al at larger airports where other air traffic must be managed simulmanagement in Sweden, Norway and Denmark to identify more eftaneously. fective methods for conducting air traffic in the airspace of each In practice, curved approaches mean that the approach is concountry. This effort has primarily been conducted in Sweden and ducted using the satellite-based precision navigation (RNP AR) resulted in manual green approaches (Continuous Descent Apinstead of the traditional ground-based approach system (ILS). proach from Top of Descent) now being the standard during low In the application deployed on Stockholm-Arlanda’s third runway, and medium traffic at Stockholm-Arlanda, and in SAS being the approaches are conducted in an S-shaped curve. Accordingly, the only airline in Europe that is allowed to conduct what are known as noise in the immediate vicinity of the airport is relocated and expocurved approaches on Stockholm-Arlanda’s third runway. sure is reduced in susceptible areas. The approach also often entails Manual green approaches mean that air traffic management ala shorter flight route, which reduces climate-impacting emissions. lows the aircraft to conduct the approach in a continuous sequence The development of the curved approaches commenced in 2004 without the engines being used unnecessarily. While this is stanthrough a partnership between SAS and LFV. 20 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Results Environmental responsibility 2011 2011 was hallmarked by rising demand in the early part of the year, Official requirements, improvements and decline which, however, subsequently declined due to macroeconomic condi­ In 2011, SAS worked with Oslo-Gardermoen and is following the new tions. The market is characterized by continuously increasing competiregulations on noise prevention and the new traffic regulation system. tion and rising price pressure, affecting margins and profitability for the Takeoff is undertaken using defined procedures that determine routen­tire industry. SAS’s climate index, which also encompasses other ing. Earlier, the western runway was largely used for takeoff to the emissions than CO2, deteriorated to 91 (90). Overall CO2 emissions innorth. Under the new rules, the day is divided into three periods with creased 1% compared with 2010. different rules for runway use. Previously, it was possible to turn directly During the year, the SAS Group’s fuel efficiency deteriorated and the toward a destination after the aircraft reached a certain altitude. Under relative CO2 emission increased to 122 (121) grams per passenger kilothe new rules, aircraft must remain in fixed tolerance corridors regardmeter. The negative development was primarily due to a continuing less of altitude. The most densely built areas around the airport are thus challenging market situation with lower load factors and severe winter better protected from overflight on takeoff. The new system requires weather at the beginning of the year. use of both runways from 6:30 a.m. until 10:30 p.m. Previously, the arWhen making comparisons with other airlines, it is important to eas close to the airport were overflown by approaching aircraft en route compare airlines with similar traffic systems and that use identical proto a point merge about 11 kilometers from the runway. With the new duction measurements. SAS frequently flies shorter average flights – in rules, this point merge was relocated at about 20 kilometers’ distance order to satisfy business travelers’ needs – than airlines that serve the and visual approaches were prohibited. leisure market. When comparing specific routes, the results are often In periods of dense traffic, incoming aircraft are regulated using a identical. Relatively often, available seat kilometers is used as a producnew system called “point merge”. Oslo-Gardermoen (OSL) is the first tion measurement, which generates lower emissions per unit, but does airport in the world to employ this system. The new point merge for apnot reveal whether the emissions generate any social benefit. By using proaching aircraft results in an approximately 40-kilometer predictable passenger kilometers as the production measurement, SAS put the approach. The result of this is an increase in fuel consumption and thus emission in context of the value for society, i.e. passenger transportation. CO2 emissions. Naturally, this impacts the SAS fuel save program and The SAS Group was still certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and result. EMAS and is the only airline in the world with both certifications. Discussion with Avinor has resulted in some improvements but not No significant emissions or spillage was reported in conjunction with entirely. technical maintenance. During the year, small spillages of Jet A1 fuel were reported on a few SAS airline operations’ CO2 emission tons CO2 occasions in conjunction with refueling of aircraft. The fuel was handled Denmark in accordance with established procedures. No fuel dumps occurred Domestic flights 30,307 during the year. Flights to EU/EEA 424,896 Management of all of the Group’s owned and rented properties is Flight to outside EU/EEA 364,846 handled by Coor Service Management. SAS thus participates in Coor’s Norway environmental and energy program for property management. Domestic flights 579,939 SAS cooperates extensively with public authorities and other organiFlights to EU/EEA 286,298 zations on environmental issues. In 2011, a continued heightened inFlight to outside EU/EEA 123,308 terest was noted from major customers regarding the operation’s enviSweden ronmental management system and sustainability efforts. A large Domestic flights 225,943 number of sustainability-related presentations were conducted at variFlights to EU/EEA 261,893 ous seminars and trade fairs during the year. Flight to outside EU/EEA 134,604 In 2011, SAS’s new strategy was launched, 4Excellence, in which Finland one of the four main objectives is environmental. SAS shall reduce its Domestic flights 44,734 flight emissions by 20% by 2015 compared with 2005. In practice, this Flights to EU/EEA 106,736 means that the objective announced earlier has been brought forward Flight to outside EU/EEA 14,009 by five years. Read more on page 17. EU/EEA During 2011, SAS also developed its new goals for the period 2012 to Departing EU/EEA1) for Scandinavia and Finland 616,105 2015. They replace the goals for 2008 to 2011. Read more on page 16. Flights within EU/EEA1) 416 As of 2012, SAS will report its environmental efficiency based on cliDeparting Europe for EU/EEA1) 47 mate index and EMAS KPIs for each airline and SAS as a whole. Climate Outside EU/EEA index consists of climate impact excluding noise, that is, emissions of Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for Scandinavia/ carbon dioxide (2/3) and nitrogen oxides (1/3). As of 2012, the climate Finland 641,239 Departing from outside EU/EEA bound for EU/EEA 276 index measures the Group’s overall climate impact related to traffic Flights outside EU-ETS or excempted 7,258 measured in passenger kilometers. Until and including 2011, it relates to Total all operations 3,862,854 traffic measured in passenger revenue kilometers. Noise is a part of the EMAS KPI’s specified for each airline. This means that SAS will stop 1. Excluding Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland that are reported separately. measuring environmental efficiency index as of 2011. Blue1 was the only airline that reached its environmental efficiency index target. Scandinavian Airlines and Widerøe was one index point above its respective targets. As a complement, the key data are reported for flight operations based on the geographic markets served by the airlines. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 21 Scandinavian Airlines Scandinavian Airlines is the largest airline in the Nordic region in terms of revenue, passengers and flights. The airline generated revenue of SEK 36.7 billion in 2011, and transported 22.9 million scheduled passengers to 90 destinations with 638 daily flights. The network is mainly dimensioned according to business travelers’ needs, but leisure travel is a growing segment and represents a growing share of revenue. The main bases are CopenhagenKastrup, Oslo-Gardermoen and Stockholm-Arlanda. The head office is located at Stockholm-Arlanda Airport. Scandinavian Airlines had 14,049 employees in December 2011. In 2011, 30 Airbus A320neo were ordered. During 2011, work also commenced to identify potential replacements for today’s long-haul Reporting and official requirements fleet. As with the short-haul fleet, this work focuses on the sustainability Scandinavian Airlines breached noise regulations on one single occarelated aspects of the aircraft’s complete life cycle, from construction to sion at London-Heathrow in 2011. The number of breaches has declined use and recycling. Read more on page 19. considerably in recent years as a result of structured improvement activWork continued in 2011 on the adaptation of Scandinavian Airlines’ ities, such as specific flight simulator training including scenarios flying new route-planning system. When it is fully implemented, it will provide to and from airports with strict noise regulations. the conditions for more efficient flights and the acceleration of future In 2011, only occasional fuel leaks were reported in conjunction with refuel-savings programs. fueling of Scandinavian Airlines’ aircraft. These were handled in accordance Work also continued with Green Flights. There is potential to identify with established procedures. No fuel dumps were reported during the year. and support the development of more effective methods for conducting air traffic in the airspace. Read more on page 20. Results and focus areas The most significant environmental aspects derive from emission Scandinavian Airlines’ relative emissions increased to 119 grams (117) from using fossil jet fuel, and noise from aircraft. It was in these areas per passenger kilometer in 2011. The increase is primarily due to a gen­ the focus was placed in 2011. erally challenging market situation, resulting in a weaker cabin fac­tor. The fuel-saving program continued in 2011, although unfortunately, Aircraft fleet it did not bring the desired result. A considerable number of improveScandinavian Airlines has a network of destinations with varied passenments were noted (including clean configuration after takeoff and ger volumes and distances, which requires an aircraft fleet with aircraft reviews of the block fuel calculation for a number of destinations), but of varying size and range to make the offering attractive to business overall fuel efficiency declined. and leisure travelers. Scandinavian Airlines had 138 aircraft in operaThe decline in fuel efficiency was partly attributable to the new approachtion at year-end and the fleet comprised 10 long-haul aircraft, 116 and departure procedures implemented at Oslo-Gardermoen. Read short-haul aircraft, and 12 regional jets. There are also four CRJ-200s more on page 21. on wet lease. The average age of the aircraft fleet was 12.7 years. ScanScandinavian Airlines environmental efficiency index deteriorated to 94 dinavian Airlines increased the operational fleet by two aircraft in 2011. (93), see page 1, and the target for 2011 was missed by one index point. The fleet was also regenerated by the delivery of two new aircraft. Within Scandinavian Airlines, only operations in Sweden reached its target. Environmental index Scandinavian Airlines’ airline operations in Norway Scandinavian Airlines’ airline operations in Denmark Index Index 100 100 95 95 90 90 Goal Goal 85 87 85 87 80 80 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Scandinavian Airlines’ airline operations in Sweden Scandinavian Airlines’ intercontinental traffic Index Index 105 110 100 105 95 100 90 Goal 98 95 85 Goal 84 80 90 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SAS measured environmental efficiency using an environmental index which comprises 50% carbon dioxide, 40% nitrogen oxides and 10% noise in relation to the most significant production parameter, passenger revenue kilometers. These indices are concluded with this report and will not be continued. 22 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Key environmental figures for Scandinavian Airlines’ operations Scandinavian Airlines Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) in Norway Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Jet Fuel used 273,157,979 287,564,162 Kg 7,065,534,435 7,802,505,591 PK Kg per PK –0.9 0.039 0.037 –4.9 –4.7 Jet fuel – CO 2 860,448 905,827 Tons 7,065,534,435 7,802,505,591 PK CO2 gram/PK –0.9 122 116 –4.9 –4.7 Jet fuel – NO X 2,731 2,863 Tons 7,065,534,435 7,802,505,591 PK NO X gram/PK 0.39 0.37 –6.2 –5.0 Jet fuel – HC 3352) 363 Tons 7,065,534,435 7,802,505,591 PK HC gram/PK 0.05 0.05 –1.7 85db area Aicraft Noise in KM2 per – takeoff 180,062.20 207,706.00 Km2 @ 85dba 103,204 101,320 Departures departure 1.74 2.05 2.7 17.5 Scandinavian Airlines Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) in Denmark Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Jet Fuel used 261,782,482 265,170,518 Kg 6,658,432,008 6,616,801,689 PK Kg per PK –0.9 0.039 0.040 –4.0 1.9 Jet fuel – CO 2 824,615 835,287 Tons 6,658,432,008 6,616,801,689 PK CO2 gram/PK –0.9 124 126 –4.0 1.9 Jet fuel – NO X 3,555 3,631 Tons 6,658,432,008 6,616,801,689 PK NO X gram/PK 0.53 0.55 –4.1 2.8 Jet fuel – HC 1962) 198 Tons 6,658,432,008 6,616,801,689 PK HC gram/PK 0.03 0.03 1.8 85db area Aicraft Noise in km per – takeoff 267,424.50 264,805.28 Km2 @ 85dba 85,589 87,107 Departures departure 3.12 3.04 2.5 –2.7 Scandinavian Airlines Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) in Sweden Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Jet Fuel used 203,466,191 218,251,834 Kg 5,459,692,424 5,754,206,203 PK Kg per PK –1.4 0.037 0.038 –8.3 1.8 Jet fuel – CO 2 640,919 687,493 Tons 5,459,692,424 5,754,206,203 PK CO2 gram/PK –1.4 117 119 –8.3 1.8 Jet fuel – NO X 2,004 2,141 Tons 5,459,692,424 5,754,206,203 PK NO X gram/PK 0.37 0.37 –11.5 1.4 Jet fuel – HC 3422) 368 Tons 5,459,692,424 5,754,206,203 PK HC gram/PK 0.06 0.06 2.2 85db area Aicraft Noise in km per – takeoff 126,151.50 151,955.68 Km @ 85dba 2 59,847 64,388 Departures departure 2.11 2.36 –10.7 12.0 Scandinavian Airlines Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Intercontinental traffic Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Jet Fuel used 302,846,089 327,470,818 Kg 8,773,694,125 9,018,976,023 PK Kg per PK 0.035 0.036 –5.5 5.2 Jet fuel – CO 2 953,965 1,031,533 Tons 8,773,694,125 9,018,976,023 PK CO2 gram/PK 109 114 –5.5 5.2 Jet fuel – NO X 5,176 5,619 Tons 8,773,694,125 9,018,976,023 PK NO X gram/PK 0.59 0.62 –5.8 5.6 Jet fuel – HC 272) 31 Tons 8,773,694,125 9,018,976,023 PK HC gram/PK 0.003 0.003 10.7 85db area Aicraft Noise in km per – takeoff 21,746.70 26,846.82 Km @ 85dba 2 5,463 6,006 Departures departure 3.98 4.47 –10.6 12.3 Scandinavian Airlines Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Total Fuel/FTE Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Jet Fuel used 1,041,252,741 1,098,457,332 Kg 4,775 4) 4,624 FTE Kg per FTE 218,063 237,556 45.55) 8.95) Jet fuel – CO 2 3,279,946 3,460,141 Tons 27,957,352,992 29,192,489,506 PK CO2 gram/PK 117 119 –5.7 1.0 Jet fuel – NO X 13,465 14,255 Tons 27,957,352,992 29,192,489,506 PK NO X gram/PK 0.48 0.49 –6.0 1.4 Jet fuel – HC 8992) 960 Tons 27,957,352,992 29,192,489,506 PK HC gram/PK 0.03 0.03 2.3 Jet Fuel as Energy 12,495,033 13,181,488 MWh 4,775 4) 4,624 FTE MWh per FTE 2,617 2,851 45.55) 8.95) Jet Fuel as Energy 12,495,032,893 13,181,487,984 KWh 27,957,352,992 29,192,489,506 PK KWh per PK 0.447 0.452 –5.7 1.0 Aicraft Noise – takeoff 595,385 651,3143) Km2 @ 85dba 254,103 258,821 2.34 2.52 –0.5 7.4 Density used from 2010 is 0.8 kg per liter. PK measured per passenger kilometer, meaning all persons transported except active crew. Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. FTE = Total number of employees December 2011 in Scandinavian Airlines Flight Operations. The same figures is found in the table on page 38. 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. New data disclosure based on stakeholder request. 2010 data not verified. Method unchanged between 2010 and 2011. 3. Increase explained by increased use of heavier aircraft such as B737-800 and A340. 4. Changed historic figure to reflect actual organization. 5. Increase partly explained by method change. Read more in Accounting Principles on pages 56–58. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 23 Widerøe Widerøe is a wholly owned Norwegian subsidiary in the SAS Group that conducts regional, domestic and international traffic, and is based in Norway. Widerøe flew 317 daily flights to 47 destinations with over 2.5 million passengers in 2011. The head office is located in Bodø and the company comprises flight operations, technical, ground and cargo operations, Network & Pricing, Sales & Marketing and ad­ministration. Widerøe had 1,260 employees in December 2011. Commercial routes currently comprise 60%, while the procured routes on the short-runReporting and official requirements way network represent 40% of the busi­ness. Widerøe did not breach any noise regulations in 2011. There has been a The most significant environmental aspects derive from emission focus on compliance with noise regulations. During 2011, no fuel leaks from using fossil jet fuel, and noise from aircraft. It was in these areas were reported in conjunction with refueling of Widerøe’s aircraft. the focus was placed in 2011. Results and focus areas Aircraft fleet Since 2009, the fuel save program has comprised a main focus – with In December 2011, Widerøe’s aircraft fleet comprised 35 Q100/ Q300/ 2009 as the base year. Since the beginning of March 2009, this has reQ400/Q400NGs. The aircraft fleet was expanded by three Q400NG sulted in a saving of nearly 2%, which is 1,649 tonnes of fuel, correduring the year. The average age of the aircraft fleet was 14.1 years. The sponding to 5,200 tonnes of CO2. The program covers the entire fleet smaller Q100 and Q300 aircraft fly mainly on the contracted short-haul and the results have been measured on 16 of the 20 Q100s, five of the routes, while the larger Q400/Q400NG aircraft serve the large airports. Q300s and all seven Q400 aircraft. The calculation is based on fuel used and the time airborn. The program is motivated on requests and Environmental index recommendations on the “best practices whenever possible” principle Widerøe and includes the optimum speed policy and activities on the ground. Index However, the trend in 2011 was for an increase in fuel consumption per 100 hour compared with 2010. The increase varies per aircraft type from 0.6 to 0.9%. 95 However Widerøe’s relative emissions decreased to 191 grams (198) per passenger kilometer in 2011 due to higher cabin factor. 90 Another focus area has been waste on ground. During 2011, there was a focus on sorting containers and the reporting of waste from 85 transporters thus enabling better follow-up of these by Widerøe. The work on fuel save and waste will continue during 2012, but there 80 Goal will also be a focus on energy. A energy project is to be started in January 81 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and concluded during 2012. This is expected to generate an energy savSAS measured environmental efficiency using an environmental index which ing of approximately 20% in relation to the 2011 level. comprises 50% carbon dioxide, 40% nitrogen oxides and 10% noise in relation Widerøe’s environmental efficiency index improved to 82 (90). The to the most significant production parameter, passenger revenue kilometers. target for 2011 was missed by one index point. Key environmental figures for Widerøes’ operations Widerøe ALL Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % 2–3% Jet Fuel used 45,265,747 50,989,932 Kg 721,614,215 842,453,404 PK Kg per PK decrease 0.063 0.061 2.1 –3.5 Jet Fuel as Energy 543,189 611,879 MWh 1,186 1,260 FTE MWh per FTE 458 486 12.1 6.0 2–3% Jet fuel – CO 2 142,587 160,618 Tons 721,614,215 842,453,404 PK CO2 gram/PK decrease 198 191 2.1 –3.5 Jet fuel – NOX 499 561 Tons 721,614,215 842,453,404 PK NO X gram/PK 0.69 0.67 6.0 –3.7 Jet fuel – HC 483) 60 Tons 721,614,215 842,453,404 PK HC gram/PK 0.07 0.07 7.9 85db area Aircraft Noise in km2 per – takeoff 23,158 27,991 Km2¨ @ 85dba 100,685 111,964 Departures departure 0.23 0.25 9.5 8.7 Vehicle Petrol – Fuel used 2,848 Liter 100,685 111,964 Departures 0.03 Vehicle Petrol as Energy 25 MWh 1,186 1,260 FTE 0.02 Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 6,486 Kg 100,685 111,964 Departures 0.06 Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 97,202 78,0672) Liter 100,685 111,964 Departures departure 0.97 0.70 25.0 –27.8 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 980 787 MWh 1,186 1,260 FTE MWh per FTE 0.83 0.62 29.3 –24.4 Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 258,829 207,876 Kg 100,685 111,964 Departures departure 2.6 1.86 5.0 –27.8 1,000 Spills per 1,000 Fuel spills 0 0 Instances 101 112 departures departures 0 0.0 0.0 Liter per Glycol used 216,533 141,924 4) Liter 1,618 1,532 Deicings deice 134 93 –11.8 –30.8 Density used from 2010 is 0.8 kg per liter. PK measured per passenger kilometer, meaning all persons transported except active crew. Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. FTE = Total number of employees December 2011 in Widerøe. The same figure is found in the table on page 38. 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. Wideroe had no transportation trucks Jan–Apr 2011. 3. Not: New data disclosure based on stakeholder request. 2010 data not verified. Method unchanged between 2010 and 2011. 4. Decrease explained by warm winter weather and a proportional mixture of glycol. 24 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Key environmental figures for Widerøes’ operations Widerøe in BOO Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Energy (electricity) 5,746,345 5,208,265 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 4,845 4,134 16.4 –14.7 Energy (heating oil) 69,561 82,733 Liter 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 59 66 0.0 12.0 Heating oil energy 701,175 834,009 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE 591 662 0.0 12.0 Water used 6,886 5,536 m3 1,186 1,260 FTE m3 per FTE 5.8 4.4 –4.7 –24.3 Unsorted Waste 68 77 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE –30% 0.06 0.06 –18.9 6.6 Hazardous waste 3 27 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE 0.00 0.02 –56.5 747.1 Widerøe in TRF Energy (electricity) 1,163,861 1,058,109 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 981 840 –1.3 –14.4 Energy (heating oil) 124,053 95,349 Liter 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 105 76 34.3 –27.7 Heating oil energy 1,250,434 961,108 Kwh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE 1,054 763 34.3 –27.7 Water used 2,744 1,755 m3 1,186 1,260 FTE m3 per FTE 2.3 1.4 21.2 –39.8 Unsorted Waste 15 23 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE –30% 0.01 0.02 0.0 44.3 Hazardous waste 4 12 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE 0.00 0.01 0.0 170.6 Widerøe in OSL Energy (electricity) 207,573 198,581 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 175 158 –0.1 –10.0 Energy (heating) 779,249 593,700 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 657 471 36.8 –28.3 Water used 180 190 m3 1,186 1,260 FTE m3 per FTE 0.2 0.2 –5.4 –0.6 Unsorted Waste 1 1 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE –30% 0.00 0.00 0.0 –5.9 Hazardous waste 1 1 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE 0.00 0.00 0.0 –52.9 Widerøe in TOS Energy (electricity) 445,044 397,351 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 375 315 3.6 –16.0 Energy (heating oil) 85,678 70,937 Liter 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 72 56 47.7 –22.1 Heating oil energy 863,634 715,045 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE 728 567 –22,1 –22.1 Water used 208 205 m3 1,186 1,260 FTE m3 per FTE 0.2 0.2 17.2 –7.2 Unsorted Waste 7 8 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE –30% 0.01 0.01 0.0 7.6 Hazardous waste 1 5 Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE 0.00 0.00 0.0 323.6 Widerøe TOTAL Energy (electricity) 8,569,701 7,772,897 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 7,226 6,169 12.4 –14.6 Energy (heating) 779,249 593,7002) KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 657 471 36.8 –28.3 Energy (heating oil) 297,998 264,4302) Liter 1,186 1,260 FTE Liter per FTE –2% 251 210 35.5 –16.5 Heating oil energy 3,003,820 2,665,454 KWh 1,186 1,260 FTE KWh per FTE 2,533 2,115 35.5 –16.5 Water used 10,018 7,6863) m3 1,186 1,260 FTE m3 per FTE 8.4 6.1 1.6 –27.8 Unsorted Waste 91 1094) Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE –30% 0.08 0.09 –35.9 12.7 Hazardous waste 9 45 4) Tons 1,186 1,260 FTE Tons per FTE 0.01 0.04 30.4 365.4 Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. FTE = Total number of employees December 2011 in Widerøe. The same figure is found in the table on page 38. 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. Decrease explained by warm winter weather and increased energy efficiency. 3. Decrease explained by less washing of fire-fighting water basin and exclusion of external temporary offices. 4. Increase explained by improved sorting, previous lack of reported data, increased production with Q300 and Q400. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 25 Blue1 Blue1 is a wholly owned Finnish subsidiary in the SAS Group that flew 86 daily flights to 28 destinations with over 1.7 million passengers in 2011. Blue1’s main base and head office is at Helsinki-Vantaa Airport. Blue1 comprises Airline Operations, Technical Operation, Support and administration. Blue1 had 352 employees in December 2011. The most significant environmental aspects derive from emission from using jet fossil fuel, and hazardous and other waste. It was in these areas the focus was placed in 2011. Aircraft fleet The Avro aircraft were taken out of operation in September. At the end of 2011, Blue1’s aircraft fleet comprised nine Boeing 717s. The average age of the fleet is 11.3 years. Blue1 has also wet-leased two ATR 72s and four SAAB 2000s for production on short regional routes in Finland and Sweden. Reporting and official requirements Blue1 did not breach any noise regulations in 2011. During 2011, no fuel leaks were reported in conjunction with refueling of Blue1’s aircraft. In 2011, aircraft cleaning personnel were trained in the correct handling of mixed waste and inflight waste. Blue1 is also working to include enviResults and focus areas ronment in contracts with suppliers so that indirect influence can also Blue1 focused its 2011 environmental effort on reducing the relative be included in the agenda. emissions from flight operations (fuel save program) and improving The target for 2011 was achieved, however, Blue1 environmental efsorting and reporting of hazardous and mixed waste. CO2 emissions ficiency index deteriorated one index point in 2011, to 80 (79). per passenger kilometer increased 8,5% to 155 grammes as a result of a challenging market situation with lower cabin factor. Environmental index Blue1 Index 100 95 90 85 80 Goal 80 75 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SAS measured environmental efficiency using an environmental index which comprises 50% carbon dioxide, 40% nitrogen oxides and 10% noise in relation to the most significant production parameter, passenger revenue kilometers. 26 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Key environmental figures for Blue1s’ operations Blue1 Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % 2–3% Jet Fuel used 73,411,467 76,855,689 Kg 1,614,489,410 1,558,011,210 PK Kg per PK decrease 0.045 0.049 –9.0 8.5 Jet Fuel as Energy 880,938 922,268 MWh 416 352 FTE MWh per FTE 2,118 2,620 14.0 23.7 2–3% Jet fuel – CO 2 231,246 242,095 Tons 1,614,489,410 1,558,011,210 PK CO2 gram/PK decrease 143 155 –9.0 8.5 Jet fuel – NO X 802 767 Tons 1,614,489,410 1,558,011,210 PK NO X gram/PK 0.50 0.49 –6.8 –0.8 Jet Fuel – HC 495) 44 Tons 1,614,489,410 1,558,011,210 PK HC gram/PK 0.03 0.03 –8.1 85db area in km2 per Aircraft Noise – takeoff 47,442 43,552 Km2 @ 85dba 25,235 31,805 Departures departure 1.88 1.37 –9.9 –27.1 Vehicle Petrol6) Liter per – Fuel used 12,618 Liter 25,235 31,805 Departures departure –1% 0.40 Vehicle Petrol6) as Energy 112 MWh 352 FTE MWh per FTE –1% 0.32 Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol6) – CO 2 28,734 Kg 25,235 31,805 Departures departure –1% 0.90 Vehicle Diesel6) Liter per – Fuel used 48,712 31,7042) Liter 25,235 31,805 Departures departure 1.93 1.00 37.9 –48.3 Vehicle Diesel6) as Energy 491 320 MWh 416 352 FTE MWh per FTE 1.18 0.91 24.5 –23.1 Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel6) – CO 2 129,709 84,421 Kg 25,235 31,805 Departures departure 5.14 2.65 15.8 –48.4 1,000 Spills per 1,000 Fuel spills 6 0 Instances 25 32 departures departures 0 0.24 0.00 15.4 –100.0 Liter per Glycol used 784,459 373,8883) Liter 1,960 Deicings deice 190.76 Energy (electricity) 1,587,000 1,617,000 KWh 416 352 FTE KWh per FTE –2% 3,816 4,594 –55.1 20.4 Energy (heating oil) KWh 416 352 FTE KWh per FTE –2% Water used 3,664 2,520 4) m3 416 352 FTE m3 per FTE 8.81 7.16 149.2 –18.7 Unsorted Waste 95 81 Tons 416 352 FTE Tons/FTE –30% 0.23 0.23 17.9 0.5 Hazardous waste 5 6 Tons 416 352 FTE Tons/FTE 0.01 0.02 14.7 56.6 Density used from 2010 is 0.8 kg per liter. PK measured per passenger kilometer, meaning all persons transported except active crew. Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. FTE = Total number of employees December 2011 in Blue1. The same figures is found in the table on page 38. 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. Decrease explained by decreasing car fleet. 3. Decrease explained by warm winter weather. 4. Decrease explained by fewer FTE and less aircraft cleaned. 5. New data disclosure based on stakeholder request. 2010 data not verified. Method unchanged between 2010 and 2011. 6. In 2010 Vehicle Petrol and Diesel was reported as Diesel. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 27 SAS Ground Handling, SGH SGH operates at airports in Norway, Sweden and Denmark and under contract abroad. SGH is part of Scandinavian Airlines. Customers include airlines other than those of the SAS Group and SAS’s partners. Ground handling services include, for example, passenger and lounge service, loading and unloading, de-icing and towing of aircraft. The most important environmental aspects for SGH are diesel and gasoline consumption, energy use, fuel and glycol spillages, waste, water and toilet liquids. SGH’s environmental objectives are based on reducing the impact from these environmental aspects. De-icing is unavoidable from a safety perspective. Glycol is used for the pre-takeoff de-icing of aircraft. As this represents an environmental burden, the search continues for alternative techniques. In the use, various methods are being evaluated for the reduction of glycol use. For example, trials are continuing on a system with electronic control of the glycol content and a preventive de-icing method that leads to a significant reduction of glycol usage without compromising internal or official safety requirements. Consumption of glycol depends on the airline, which itself determines the mix of glycol/water, aircraft type, weather conditions, humidity, flight time, route/destination, etc. It is thus impossible to set a reduction target for glycol consumption. Nonetheless, SGH has follow-up of use to identify any deviations. Due to the warm winter of 2011/2012, there has been lower use of glycol. Even if smaller amounts of glycol are used, the amounts are sometimes considerable and emissions of glycol may occur in exceptional circumstances. On these occasions, there are specific measures to restrict or completely eliminate environmental impact. The remaining glycol is handled and recovered, so that none or only a low amount is emitted to water. The aim is to reduce the number of undesired glycol spills to zero. In 2011, SGH had no reported glycol spills. Results and focus areas SGH’s focus in 2011 included an intensive effort to improve punctuality, thereby reducing CO2 and particle emissions. The focus is also on replacement of ground vehicles and equipment with greener alternatives to reduce environmental impact and enhance the work environment. For example, SGH Arlanda decided to use remote-controlled aircraft target of 60% in cooperation with Copenhagen Airport’s “Better Air heaters/coolers at the ramp, with temperature-regulating equipment Quality” project. With the reduction of the use of diesel, emissions have to reduce energy use. Another example is the purchase of hybrid pushalso been cut. In Norway, SGH cooperates with Avinor on climate projback tractors by SGH at Copenhagen-Kastrup and Stockholm-Arlanda. ects related to the Airports Council International (ACI). SAS is aiming to In all three Scandinavian countries, SAS participates in voluntary coreplace all company cars with environmental cars. Guidelines will be isoperation with various players at the airports in several areas, such as sued to all companies and units within SAS, but decisions will be made working on ultra-fine particles, measurement of electricity consumplocally because environmental cars are defined differently in different tion in buildings and the reduction of emissions from vehicles. This cocountries. operation also includes compliance with individual legal requirements. There was a deviation related to SGH’s environmental approval for Discussions with airport operators in the Scandinavian countries indioperation of the equipment workshop at CPH, but this deviation has cate that the demands on, for example, waste management and emisbeen resolved. The employees demonstrate great interest in environsions in relation to vehicles and equipment will be intensified. Commental issues and have submitted ideas and suggestions for improvebined with SGH’s own desire for environmental improvement, this has ments. SGH has also involved employees in activities through proceresulted in ground equipment being improved or replaced by more endures, such as respect for minimum idling and getting them to use vironmentally compliant units. SGH in Sweden has achieved about 60% engine heaters rather than using the engine to heat the tractors. “green equipment,” reduction of emissions (see KPI table below) and SGH’s focus on improvement in 2012 is to increase the amount of the shift from environmental diesel to BIOdiesel from April 2011. “green equipment,” improve punctuality and reduce diesel and gasoIn Denmark, SGH has seen excellent results: an increase in “green line consumption for vehicles. equipment” from 66% to 69% putting SGH far beyond the airport’s 28 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Key environmental figures for SAS Ground Handlings’ operations Norway10) Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 1,433,180 1,259,785 Liter 176,863 184,271 Departures departure –5 8.10 6.84 –7.14 –15.63 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 14,446 12,699 MWh 2,2328) 2,1173) FTE MWh per FTE 6.47 6.00 –14.539) –7.32 Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 3,816,272 3,354,555 Kg 176,863 184,271 Departures departure 21.58 18.20 –7.14 –15.63 Vehicle Petrol Liter per – Fuel used 116 6224) Liter 176,863 184,271 Departures departure 0.00 0.00 –3.82 414.312) Vehicle Petrol as Energy 1 6 MWh 2,2328) 2,1173) FTE MWh per FTE 0.00 0.00 –11.489) 464.962) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 264 1,416 Kg 176,863 184,271 Departures departure 0.00 0.01 –3.82 414.312) Spills per 1,000 1,000 Fuel spills 1 0 Instances 177 184 departures departures 0 0.01 –78.70 –100.00 Glycol used 1,799,513 1,264,2255) Liter 13,918 10,009 Deicings Liter per deice –5 129 126 –3.19 –2.31 Denmark11) Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 1,129,282 1,021,1726) Liter 90,774 91,213 Departures departure –2 12.44 11.20 0.01 –10.01 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 11,383 10,293 MWh 1,9728) 2,182 3) FTE MWh per FTE 5.77 4.72 0.0310) –18.289) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 3,007,052 2,719,177 Kg 90,774 91,213 Departures departure 33.13 29.81 0.01 –10.01 Vehicle Petrol Liter per – Fuel used 129,677 109,6516) Liter 90,774 91,213 Departures departure 1.43 1.20 –0.12 –15.85 Vehicle Petrol as Energy 1,155 977 MWh 1,9728) 2,182 3) FTE MWh per FTE 0.59 0.45 –0.10 9) –23.589) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 295,305 249,701 Kg 90,774 91,213 Departures departure 3.25 2.74 –0.12 –15.85 Spills per 1,000 1,000 Fuel spills 0 57) Instances 91 91 departures departures 0 0.05 0.00 Glycol used 1,413,607 285,6405) Liter 6,707 1,862 Deicings Liter per deice 211 153 –27.18 Sweden12) Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 654,437 639,804 Liter 88,977 92,140 Departures departure –3 7.36 6.94 1.33 –5.59 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 6,597 6,449 MWh 1,608 8) 1,7243) FTE MWh per FTE 4.10 3.74 –9.169) –8.819) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 1,742,635 1,703,670 Kg 88,977 92,140 Departures departure –3 19.59 18.49 1.33 –5.59 Vehicle Petrol Liter per – Fuel used 20,874 15,750 6) Liter 88,977 92,140 Departures departure 0.23 0.17 –50.75 –27.14 Vehicle Petrol as Energy 186 140 MWh 1,608 8) 1,7243) FTE MWh per FTE 0.12 0.08 –55.859) –29.599) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 47,535 35,866 6) Kg 88,977 92,140 Departures departure 0.53 0.39 –50.75 –27.14 Spills per 1,000 1,000 Fuel spills 2 1 Instances 89 92 departures departures 0 0.02 0.01 –33.33 –51.70 Glycol used 1,384,837 665,549 5) Liter 9,711 4,937 Deicings Liter per deice 143 135 16.77 –5.47 Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. FTE = Total number of employees December 2011 in SAS Ground Handling per country. The same figures are found in the table on page 38. 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. The increase is due to inadequate reporting 2010. 3. Spirit now included. 4. Almost no petrol cars left in production. 5. Decrease explained by warm winter weather in end of 2011. 6. More electric cars. 7. Improved reporting. 8. Changed historic figure to reflect actual organization. 9. Decrease partly explained by method change. Read more in Accounting Principles on pages 56–58. 10. Includes; Oslo, Bodø, Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger, Kristiansand, Tromsø, Molde, Ålesund, Evenes, Alta, Kristiansund, Haugesund and Kirkenes. 11. Includes; Copenhagen 12. Includes Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 29 SAS Technical Operations SAS Technical Operations is part of Scandinavian Airlines and with its 1,606 employees in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, manages the technical maintenance of the aircraft. The largest customers comprise the Group’s airlines and operations are mainly located in Scandinavia. SAS Technical Operations also sells its services to external airlines. SAS Technical Operations is responsible for most of the activities in the Group that require environmental permits. The operation is also the largest user of chemicals. The chemical products are required by the aircraft manufacturer and the authorities and cannot be replaced by SAS alone. The list of products is broad, with many kinds of cleaners, paint, grease, oils, and glues for different commodities such as rubber, textile and metal. Technical operations generate SAS’s highest proportion of hazardous waste. The use of these products sometimes results in waste and emissions to air and these are handled by approved waste management providers. In addition to chemicals and hazardous waste, the most important environmental aspects are emissions related to energy consumption, and the burning of petrol and diesel. SAS Technical Operations applies a system that is monitored by its own auditors and municipal authorities. Results and focus areas There are many devices in the hangars and documented activities to minimize the impact on the environment. These include active contact with the aircraft manufacturer to obtain approval for the substitution of certain products to more environmentally friendly products with less solvent and fewer toxic ingredients. Wastewater and air emissions along with the handling of hazardous waste are strictly controlled by national pollution control authorities and require regular reporting and auditing. Wastewater is handled according to local regulations and in most cases, wastewater is treated in closed drainage water locally. There is an in-house treatment plant at our home bases and there are contracts made with qualified companies to collect and safely deliver our hazardous waste. Emissions to air are negligible, some derive from ground transport and some from motor test runs. Focus areas 2011 in addition to chemicals: 1. Vehicle diesel consumption, applicable specifications for use on aircraft, ensure the environment as2. Vehicle gasoline consumption, pect review, secure that hazardous products are substituted with less 3. Electricity on facilities, hazardous whenever possible, secure that the number of different 4. Heating in facilities and products is kept as low as possible and establish processes that waste, 5. Information/training to employees. spills and emissions are reduced as much as possible. Energy as such has been given a high priority in 2011 as part of SAS The aims of chemical purchasing activities include reduction in storage energy plan. A “turn off the lights” drive and light sensors installed in and the number of suppliers and reducing environmentally hazardous the hangar maintenance area. And this is a part of the positive results waste. This work has resulted in optimized inventories and less storage can be seen on pages 34–35. Fuel save also brought favorable results and transportation involved in deliveries from suppliers. The number of and the main reason for this was the reduction in the number of vehicles products purchased has been reduced by one third in total and Techniand a specific focus on consumption in Denmark and Norway. cal’s own purchases have dropped by more than 90% since 2010. Waste sorting has been improved in Denmark 2011, where the Operation Management Board have established a new internal body waste company has been invited to provide information about the called “Chemical Board” which is a Chemical’s Review Board in order to different sorting hence reduced the volumes of mixed waste. establish processes for compliance with the environmental legislation The focus area will remain the same in 2012. See details about the in the Scandinavian Countries and EU, establish processes to follow the energy plan on page 33. 30 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Key environmental figures for SAS Technical Operations’ operations Norway Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 46,529 40,7622) Liter 103,7133) 101,824 Departures departure –1 0.45 0.40 5.9 –10.8 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 469 411 MWh 4527) 498 FTE MWh per FTE –1 1.04 0.83 41.38) –20,59) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 123,897 108,541 Kg 103,7133) 101,824 Departures departure –1 1.19 1.07 5.9 –10.8 Vehicle Petrol Liter per – Fuel used 976 4052) Liter 103,7133) 101,824 Departures departure –1 0.01 0.004 3.9 –57.7 Vehicle Petrol as Energy 10 4 MWh 4527) 498 FTE MWh per FTE –1 0.02 0.01 38.6 –62.39) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 2,314 922 Kg 103,713 101,824 Departures departure –1 0.02 0.01 3.9 –57.7 Denmark Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 32,333 27,153 4) Liter 90,3943) 91,301 Departures departure –1 0.36 0.30 –29.9 –16.9 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 326 274 MWh 5407) 546 FTE MWh per FTE –1 0.60 0.50 –9.0 9) –16.99) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 86,096 72,303 Kg 90,3943) 91,301 Departures departure –1 0.95 0.79 –29.9 –16.9 Vehicle Petrol Liter per – Fuel used 19,429 17,0035) Liter 90,3943) 91,301 Departures departure –1 0.21 0.19 –14.1 –13.4 Vehicle Petrol as Energy 173 151 MWh 5407) 546 FTE MWh per FTE –1 0.32 0.28 11.5 8) –13.49) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 44,244 38,720 Kg 90,3943) 91,301 Departures departure –1 0.49 0.42 –14.1 –13.4 Sweden Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % Vehicle Diesel Liter per – Fuel used 14,822 15,4846) Liter 61,3573) 65,718 Departures departure –1 0.24 0.24 35.5 –2.5 Vehicle Diesel as Energy 149 156 MWh 4997) 562 FTE MWh per FTE –1 0.30 0.28 88.0 8) –7.29) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Diesel – CO 2 39,468 41,231 Kg 61,3573) 65,718 Departures departure –1 0.64 0.63 35.5 –2.5 Vehicle Petrol Liter per – Fuel used 40,251 44,364 Liter 61,3573) 65,718 Departures departure –1 0.66 0.68 –18.0 2.9 Vehicle Petrol as Energy 358 395 MWh 4997) 562 FTE MWh per FTE –1 0.72 0.70 13.8 8) –2.19) Kg CO2 per Vehicle Petrol – CO 2 91,661 101,027 Kg 61,3573) 65,718 Departures departure –1 1.49 1.54 –18.0 2.9 Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. FTE = Total number of employees December 2011 in SAS Technical Operations per country. The same figures are found in the table on page 38. 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. Fewer cars. 3. Corrected including only SAS flight incl. International. 4. Increased focus and reduction in no of cars. 5. Increased focus and increased use of diesel cars. 6. Increased use of electric cars. 7. Changed historic figure to reflect actual organization. 8. Increase partly explained by method change. Read more in Accounting Principles on pages 56–58. 9. Decrease partly explained by method change. Read more in Accounting Principles on pages 56–58. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 31 SAS Cargo Group, SCG SAS Cargo Group A/S (SCG) provides postal and air cargo services within the framework of the operations in Scandinavian Airlines and other partners. The business is controlled from Copenhagen and includes an independent full-service provider of freight forwarding services, Trust. In 2011, there were 206 employees. The actual handling of cargo and post is conducted by Ground Handling Agents (GHA) and all contracts include CSR & environment as a parameter. SCG’s GHA in Scandinavia is Spirit Air Cargo Handling Group AB. Spirit is part of SAS Ground Handling. SCG’s shipping company, TRUST Forwarding, is 100% owned by SCG and its environmental data for 2011 and results are included in SCG’s data and results. The most significant environmental aspects derive from emission from using fossil jet fuel in cargo operations. The impact of this aspect will be reported from 2011 as grammes of CO2 per ton kilometer (TK). Other key environmental aspects derive from emission from using fossil fuel in road transports, energy consumption in buildings and waste. In 2011, SAS Cargo, in cooperation with SAS, started an energy campaign for buildings that covers all areas of SAS. Results and focus areas The focus areas for SCG in 2011 where additional fuel for returned cargo, usage of fossil fuel by trucks and energy consumption. Work on these aspects has also led to improved contracts with suppliers regarding environmental aspects. In 2008, SAS Cargo established an environmental goal for road Energy was accorded special focus in 2011, which gave SCG a much transports provided by external transporters. It was found that SCG better overview of consumption and a better possibility to see positive had worked with too poor underlying data, lack of updates from supplior negative results earlier in the process. This resulted in changes to the ers and as a result we decided to restart our measuring from 2012. measuring equipment, improved distribution of measurements and a SAS Cargo’s road transports are conducted in a network system, saving on energy consumption and costs. See energy results on pages meaning that if demand and production decline, it is not possible to 34–35. adapt the number of transports to the same degree. This can result in The focus on trucking, return cargo and energy will continue in reduced capacity utilization and thus a higher relative environmental 2012. impact. In 2011, SCG implemented a new Revenue Management System. This will enhance the possibility of planning and estimating the amount of cargo per departure for flights and trucking. Improved precision raises the possibility to optimize the amount of fuel, which leads to reduced emissions. Key environmental figure for SAS Cargo Groups’ operations Aspect Aspect Production Production Relationship (1) to (2) Input (1) Input (1) Input (2) Input (2) Relationship Result Result Result Result Aspect 20101) 20111) unit (1) 2010 2011 unit (2) (1) to (2) Goal, % 2010 2011 2010, % 2011, % CO2 – Jet fuel used 3,279,946,134 3,460,140,598 Kg CO2 3,317,314,1912) 3,438,030,1413) TK4) g CO2 per TK 989 1,006 1.8 1. Data from Route Hierarchy Report. 2. Cargo’s share was 15.7%. 3. Cargo’s share was 15%. 4. TK is tonne kilometer. TK includes passengers, freight and mail as compared to the Airline’s “PK” which is passengers only. PK is thus slightly less than a 10th of TK with corresponding higher emissions per grams per kilometer. 32 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Others Commercial, Sales, Support, Administration, Brand & Marketing etc. All units and departments at SAS, such as Commercial with Products, use dialogue and cooperation to create a greater awareness of the supInflight and Network, Sales, Brand & Marketing, Administration and pliers’ actual environmental and social impact and to create the best Support, Purchasing, and Environment & CSR has SAS environmental possible conditions to reduce the negative effects. policy as an important part of their daily work. This may involve ecology and ethics in conjunction with food and services, weight reduction of Network products and equipment, waste from food and service on board, possiNetwork & Partners is responsible for designing traffic program which bilities for customers to offset CO2 or calculate their personal CO2 imdetermines, e.g. fuel consumption, noise and turnaround times. This pact, more attention to disposable items and giveaways (e.g. toys), supmeans Network has an indirect impact on fuel consumption, noise and port for savings programs or fleet renewals. Other areas addressed by towing of aircraft. Therefore this department plays a very important role activities are external and internal information, follow-up of suppliers in supporting Network, Asset Management and Operations in fleet and, in particular, better follow-up of improvement activities. assignment, fleet forums, fleet renewal activities and flight operation improvement projects, e.g. fuel save program. Results and focus areas Product & Services Facility Management During the year, there was increased focus on sustainability issues in SAS’ Facility Service supplier, Coor, has the day-to-day operation and product development. For example, a large number of weight-reducing maintenance of all of SAS’s buildings and premises in Scandinavia, measures were evaluated for the products offered on board in combiincluding follow-up of energy, waste management, purification plants, nation with more environmentally compatible products on board and environmental regulations and reporting to the authorities. This is on the ground. A result of this was a weight-saving on board of 176,159 governed in agreements between SAS Group Facility Management and kg in 2011. Other specific examples are that passenger seats in the 737 Coor. Coor is contractually obligated to initiate improvement measures will be replaced during 2012 by new lightweight seats, from May 2012, and, along with SAS Group Facility Management, follow up on a conand the decision on the purchase of lightweight trolleys that will add to tinuing basis when potentials for improvements and any unforeseen the good savings results. The new seats will result in a weight reduction incidents are evaluated. SAS Group Facility Management has primary of about 360 kilo per aircraft, which will have a positive effect on the fuel responsibility for all facility-related requirements being met, which also efficiency of the aircraft. includes environmental responsibility. Coor is ISO 14001-certified in all The opportunity for customers to offset the CO2 footprint from their of the Nordic countries. travel via the Scandinavian Airlines website is used by less than 1% of No incidents were reported in 2011, but during the year, the Group customers and the third-party approved emissions calculator is used to was reported to the police by the Norwegian Climate and Pollution a large extent. Agency (Klif) for possessing fire-fighting equipment containing PerfluAnother focus area is waste. Sorting and waste disposal from service orooctane sulfonate (PFOS) in certain areas of its opera­tions and for the and products on board is a challenge. The challenge lies in the fact that emission of PFOS that occurred in conjunction with the fill­ing of a rentthe equipment on board has a given size and is certified for the purpose ed hangar at Oslo-Gardemoen with foam in 2010. The Group is currentof being on board so that it is impossible to simply expand or make ly awaiting the findings of the ongoing investigation in 2012. changes to create space. There is also a restriction in disposing of waste at airports because different national legislation is involved, making soEnvironment & CSR lutions complicated and, in some instances, impossible. In some cases, The task of Environment & CSR is to support SAS Group management we are forced to fly waste back to Scandinavia (e.g. USA). Despite this, in environmental or other CSR-related matters, both internally and exwaste is an area in which efforts are being made to find the best possible ternally. In addition to this Environment & CSR have the responsibility solutions. for ETS/MRV, the ISO14001 and EMAS certification as such and the In 2012, the focus will be on implementing lightweight seats and preparation for Biofuel. The department channel and collect informalightweight carts, as well as the large logistical challenge of collecting tion through a network in SAS Group called “Sustainability Network”. used newspapers. SAS distributes about 25,000,000 newspapers The focus in 2011 was ETS/MRV, supporting fuel save, ISO14001/ annually and many different airports and suppliers must be involved in EMAS follow-up, energy plan and campaign, Biofuel, supplier evaluation a large network of varying solutions to achieve this. and fleet renewal. Purchasing Energy In 2010, SAS’s central purchasing function began a review of contracts SAS Facility Management, together with Environment & CSR in 2011, with suppliers and products that could be considered to have considerconducted work in 2011 with a comprehensive energy plan for all buildable effect on the environment and society. In 2011, the focus was on ings owned or leased by SAS. such issues as working with the selected suppliers and developing a The plans were prepare in cooperation with the supplier Coor Service self-assessment/evaluation tool that, in 2012, will gather information Management. The plans include an audit of buildings to identify what from our selected suppliers. Existing contracts will be reviewed to enimmediate measures can be taken, or what medium-size investments sure that the suppliers meet SAS’s procurement demands, such as can be made with a repayment period during the five years that the compliance with the UN principles in the UN Global Compact and the plans apply, and an energy campaign to be run from 2011 to 2015. The SAS Code of Conduct. Naturally, the extent to which suppliers meet plans also include development of registration procedures for energy SAS’s environmental requirements is also assured in new contracts. consumption and the possibility of follow-up and continuous reporting. SAS has a total of approximately 15,000 suppliers, of which a few hundred are assigned priority according to how they directly or indiThe energy plan is driven by five-part strategy: rectly have a significant negative impact from a sustainability perspec1. Facility service provider working with error-fixing and adjusting devices; tive. The process involves environmental and social risk evaluation of 2. Focus, error-fixing and reporting; the supplier, the product’s country of origin, mode of transport, and the 3. Energy included in internal audits and inspections; extent to which the supplier works with responsibility issues and im4. Campaigns and provements in the area of the environment and society. The aim is to 5. Space utilization and optimization. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 33 No environmental related investments were undertaken in 2011. energy consumers; hence they have become “focus” buildings. All focus Follow-up and reporting are conducted for all of SAS, but the focus is buildings are monitored on a monthly basis. on the main bases in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. The enerYou can see the focus building result and improvement on the next gy campaign, “Spara för att bevara” (energy campaign slogan), compage. menced in February 2011. An energy planning group measures, conducts a follow-up through environmental audits and inspections, and Unsorted waste, hazardous waste and water ensures that the focus is maintained on the areas of highest priorities. Since hazardous waste is strictly controlled by national authorities and, All of the operations have developed energy plans to reduce energy as a result of environmental impact and fees, is internally controlled and consumption. The goal for 2011 was to reduce the consumption of enevaluated by both SAS and suppliers, this has an “automatic” focus ergy by 7% and the savings have resulted in 8.3%, corresponding to throughout the year. Data for SAS’s total water and waste quantities de16,265,200 kwh. rives from a common data base with Coor. Although waste did not have Target is broken down to 7% in 2011, 4% in 2012, 2% in 2013 and the same attention levels as energy in 2011, SAS will continue working then 1% for the remaining two years. SAS has “pinpointed” 4–6 buildon improvement of sorting and recycling of newspapers and aluminum ings in each country. These buildings are identified as the largest cans in 2012. Key environmental figures for Scandinavian Airlines operations regarding Energy, Waste and water 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011–2015 Norway Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result, % Goal, % Goal, % Energy – kWh Electricity – kWh 34,550,7002) 5,462 6,326 31,497,000 5,333 5,906 –8.8 –7.0 –15.0 Heating – kWh 26,385,400 5,462 4,831 24,079,900 5,333 4,515 As of heating-oil – kWh 1,038,1003) 5,462 190 566,900 5,333 106 Water – m3 41,267 5,462 8 36,980 5,333 7 Unsorted waste – kg 522,000 5,462 96 420,648 5,333 79 Hazardous waste – kg 60,000 5,462 11 47,843 5,333 9 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011–2015 Sweden Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result, % Goal, % Goal, % Energy – kWh Electricity – kWh 39,209,800 4,087 9,594 36,434,700 4,086 8,917 –8.3 –7.0 –15.0 Heating – kWh 35,420,700 4,087 8,667 31,969,400 4,086 7,824 Water – m3 51,716 4,087 13 48,122 4,086 12 Unsorted waste – kg 109,000 4,087 27 171,640 4,086 42 Hazardous waste – kg 169,000 4,087 44 94,241 4,086 23 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011–2015 Denmark Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result, % Goal, % Goal, % Energy – kWh Electricity – kWh 22,676,400 4,800 4,724 22,416,700 4,759 4,710 –7.6 –7.0 –15.0 Heating – kWh 38,809,100 4,800 8,085 34,389,200 4,759 7,226 Water – m3 52,462 4,800 11 58,723 4,759 12 Unsorted waste – kg 89,000 4,800 19 57,580 4,759 12 Hazardous waste – kg 68,000 4,800 14 29,665 4,759 6 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011–2015 Total Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result FTE1) Per/FTE Result, % Goal, % Goal, % Energy – kWh Electricity – kWh 96,436,900 14,349 6,721 90,348,400 4) 14,178 6,372 –8.3 –7.0 –15.0 Heating – kWh 100,615,200 14,349 7,012 90,438,500 4) 14,178 6,379 As of heating-oil – kWh 1,038,1003) 14,349 72 566,900 14,178 40 Total Energy – kWh 197,052,100 180,786,900 Total Water – m3 145,445 14,349 10 143,825 14,178 10 Total Unsorted waste – kg 720,000 14,349 50 649,8685) 14,178 46 Total Hazardous waste – kg 297,000 14,349 21 171,7496) 14,178 12 Reduction targets and reduction results are shown with minus. Calculations of heating is climate adjusted. Method: Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute’s service “Energy Index”. 1. FTE = The average number of employees in 2011 in total and broken down by country. Source: note 3 on page 64 in SAS Annual Report 2011. 2. 2010 data adjusted due to method change and identified errors in connection with system change. 3. Included in heating. 4. Improvement work and review of buildings. 5. Better sorting and reporting. 6. Better routines for purchasing in terms of volume and type. 34 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 KWh/m2 focus buildings ter on a monthly basis. The table shows a year-end view of kwh/m2 and The table shows the 17 focus buildings selected for follow-up in regard the reduction is a result of employee involvement and adjustment of to the energy plan. SAS monitors kilowatt hours (kwh) per square meexisting equipment. Country Building KWh/m2 2010 Tot kWh 2010 KWh/m2 2011 Tot kWh 2011 Denmark SAS Huset (office) 3075) 1,860,5005) 276 1,675,800 Denmark Hangar 1 3555) 6,288,7005) 348 6,170,800 Denmark Hangar 3 3765) 4,174,8005) 323 3,581,100 Denmark Hangar 4 4695) 7,961,6005) 427 7,261,700 Denmark Hangar 5 4955) 4,947,7005) 387 3,872,900 Denmark SAS Cargo & Oxford1) 5275) 2,116,7005) 485 1,950,016 Denmark Total 61,485,5005) 56,805,900 Sweden Sverigehuset (office) 446 3,092,300 440 3,053,300 Sweden Hangar 1 “Tekniska Basen” Stockholm-Arlanda 248 11,275,900 227 10,322,300 Sweden Hangar 22) 630 6,252,400 590 5,858,400 Sweden Hangar 43) 195 3,376,900 209 3,628,500 Sweden GOT Hangar 4024) 504 5,368,400 449 4,783,300 Sweden Total 74,630,500 68,404,100 Norway Hangar “Teknisk Base” Oslo 3805) 23,037,2005) 341 20,708,900 Norway SAS Cargo 2465) 4,781,3005) 235 4,566,300 Norway Fornebuveien 38-40 (Office) 2165) 1,536,6005) 200 1,422,400 Norway Fornebuveien 42-44 (Office) 1555) 499,0005) 131 421,600 Norway Hangar 6 Stavanger 2175) 6,395,1005) 201 5,939,900 Norway Driftsbygget Øst (Garage) 3135) 3,202,1005) 261 2,671,900 Norway Total 60,936,1005) 55,576,900 SK Total 197,052,100 5) 180,786,900 1. DK SAS Cargo/Oxford has a higher kwh/m than other similar buildings because it has shared heat consumption with Oxford, which has several large flight simulators. 2 2. Hangar 2 at ARN has higher kwh/m2 than other similar buildings because the share of hangar space is higher. 3. Hangar 4 at ARN has increased productivity in 2011 and has therefore increased. 4. The hangar at GOT has a higher kwh/m2 than other similar buildings because the share of hangar space is higher. 5. Figure adjusted due to method change and identified errors in connection with system change. Key environmental figures SAS Group’s ground and office activities1) 2011 2010 Energy consumption, GWh 193 216 Water consumption, 1,000 m3 154 159 Unsorted waste, tonnes 8402) 906 Hazardous waste, tonnes 2233) 311 Fuel consumption, 1,000 liters 3,3174) 3,668 Glycol consumption, m3 2,7315) 5,559 1. Pertains to the Group’s total ground and office activities (SAS, Widerøe, Blue1, SAS Tech, SGH, SAS Cargo and administration, staff functions and management). Also pertains to services for other airlines. 2. Better sorting and reporting. 3. Better routines for purchasing in terms of volume and type. 4. The reason for difference between the reported 3,540 in the SAS annual report 2011 and the 3,317 in this sustainability report is a calculation error discovered too late for annual report print. 5. Warm winter in 2011 and optimized mixture and use of glycol. “The sun is shining and the lights are on. Why?” This comment is not entirely unusual in a large 2011 was surpassed. The result was a saving of 8.1%, company such as SAS. This is one of the reasons which corresponds to about 16,030,300 kWh. behind the so-called Energy Project, which was iniIn 2011, no investments were made to realize the tiated in partnership with our property services savings. Instead, the full focus was on modifying the supplier, COOR, in late 2010. The aim is to reduce existing systems and creating behavioral changes. energy consumption by 15% by 2015 compared Overall communication and commitment from emwith 2010. ployees has been crucial in fulfilling the objectives. A decisive success factor is a commitment from Examples of commitment have taken the shape of all employees. Along with an increased focus on the improvement proposals. There have been a number issue comes a clear improvement, which lowers of obvious “at home” activities that should naturally costs but also reduces our environmental impact, also be done at work, such as turning off lights or at least reduces our consumption of renewable when leaving the room, turning down the heat inenergy which can be used somewhere else. stead of just opening the window, closing doors With relatively few adjustments to the buildings’ (and primarily aircraft hangar doors) during the cold lighting and heating systems, better use of premisseason, printing less and so forth. es, clearer information about preferred behavioral The effort will continue in 2012 and the goal is to changes and incentives to conserving energy, the achieve another 4% reduction during the year. goal of reducing energy consumption by 7% in SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 35 Corporate social responsibility SAS is an important part of society’s infrastructure, both nationally and internationally. 36 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 The SAS Group’s social responsibility primarily comprises its own emGeographical breakdown of employees, % 2010 2011 ployees and the environment that is dependent on and impacted by Norway 35 35 SAS operations in a number of countries, mainly in the Nordic region. Denmark 31 31 Competition in the airline business in Europe is fierce. Employees Sweden 26 27 play a key role when creating added value in the customer offering. Other 5 4 Finland 3 3 Cultural development Development of social responsibility builds on a number of focus areas The SAS Group’s operations are concentrated in the Scandinavian as the basis for developing the SAS corporate culture. countries. SAS’s strategic cultural work is therefore focused on increasing employee satisfaction and commitment, as well as increasing understandCooperation with labor union organizations ing of the values that are the basis for how the business is run. The goal Cooperation with labor unions is mainly carried out nationally, where diis to generate positive repercussions in the relationship to customers alog is conducted with the labor unions that have collective agreements and strengthen SAS’s competitiveness. with SAS. Cooperation takes place within the framework of national laws and agreements affecting the unit concerned. Leadership development Employee representatives from the Scandinavian countries sit on With regard to developing social responsibility, management is key in the SAS Group Board of Directors. The employees elect representasetting examples and interpreting and implementing SAS’s strategies. tives from units in the Group’s Scandinavian operations. SAS strives for clear leadership characterized by the watchwords conGroup Management is engaged in an ongoing discussion with union sistent, honest and reliable. Managers must be self-aware and mature, representatives, above all on issues concerning the personnel and cost and know how personal qualities are to be used to achieve a trustful reductions, organization structure and the need for a more customerworking relationship with personnel. oriented culture. In 2011, SAS continued to develop a “role model” for all managers in the organization. It contains an assessment module that once a year will Work environment and sick leave show whether managers live up to the requirements and a leadership SAS’s goal is that the work environment be as good as possible and that program for the requisite know-how. sick leave and the number of injuries be continuously reduced. Both the assessment module and several parts of the SAS leadership During 2011, total sick leave in Scandinavian Airlines amounted to program that were conducted during 2011 and are planned to continue 7.0%, in Blue1 at 4.7% and in Widerøe at 5.8%. during 2012. A master’s degree course for a number of managers in coSick leave is relatively high and an area of constant focus for SAS. operation with the BI Norwegian Business School was conducted in 2011. The results show that sick leave is especially high among flight personnel and within SGH. One explanation is that these personnel groups are Organizational development in an environment with greater interaction with many people, a higher During 2011, additional steps in the organization development where degree of changing work indoors and outdoors and more heavy tasks, taken. The Group gained a new CEO and a new organization was implewhile it is also not possible to work on board an aircraft with a mild cold, mented with focus on actions that ensure clearly controlled, efficient which might be manageable in an administrative environment. processes that lead to better profitability. In a national comparison, sick leave is highest in Norway, which in part can be explained by different national rules. Adjustment and redundancy Long-term sick leave, 60 days and above, represents in total nearly During the year, SAS carried out previously communicated cost reduchalf of the total sick leave. Staff and administration areas Group IT and tions within the framework of Core SAS. Redundancy among the perFinance have low sick leave. sonnel has been handled through negotiations with labor unions that follow national laws and agreements. During the year, a number of pilots and cabin crew were recruited. This will also be the case for handling the future redundancy connected to the 4Ecxellence strategy. Scandinavian Airlines’ sick leave DK NO SE Total No. of employees December 20111 5,163 4,562 4,324 14,049 of which women, % 35.4 36.8 37.4 36.5 Total sick leave, % 5.9 9.6 5.7 7.0 Long-term sick leave (more than 59 days), % 42.2 53.2 46.0 48.1 Sick leave for women, % 7.9 12.2 7.4 9.2 Sick leave for men, % 4.8 8.1 4.7 5.8 Sick leave employees <30 years, % 3.6 5.0 5.5 4.7 Sick leave employees 30–39 years, % 6.9 10.3 4.5 7.5 Sick leave employees 40–49 years, % 5.7 9.5 5.7 6.9 Sick leave employees 50–59 years, % 6.0 10.3 5.9 7.3 Sick leave employees 60 years and above, % 5.0 9.5 6.7 7.0 1 Deviations from the information in the financial accounting for full-time equivalents, FTE. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 37 SAS Group’s sick leave 1) Scandinavian Airlines Flight Operations SAS Ground Handling DK NO SE DK NO SE No. of employees December 20111) 1,791 1,584 1,249 No. of employees December 20111) 2,182 2,117 1,724 of which women, % 48.3 52.8 51.3 of which women, % 28.0 28.4 31.1 Total sick leave, % 10.1 11.4 8.2 Total sick leave, % 4.6 9.8 6.2 Long-term sick leave (more than 59 days), % 43.0 53.3 49.3 Long-term sick leave (more than 59 days), % 43.5 53.8 41.6 Total number of occupational injuries with Total number of occupational injuries with more than one day’s sick leave 44 17 5 more than one day’s sick leave 107 42 20 Occupational injury frequency lost Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 4) 18.2 6.8 2.6 time-to-injury rate (H-value) 4) 33.3 11.1 6.6 SAS Technical Operations DK NO SE No. of employees December 20111) 546 498 562 of which women, % 2.6 4.0 7.0 Total sick leave, % 3.9 5.1 3.1 Long-term sick leave (more than 59 days), % 27.0 40.9 39.6 Total number of occupational injuries with more than one day’s sick leave 10 3 3 Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 4) 10.4 3.8 3.1 The Group’s Administrative Functions 2) Commercial HR & Legal, Insurance & & Sales Infrastructure Communications Public Affairs Finance Total Total Total Total Total No. of employees December 20111) 932 275 232 16 220 of which women, % 59.5 34.2 62.6 48.4 54.5 Total sick leave, % 4.3 1.7 4.4 0.8 3.2 Long-term sick leave (more than 59 days), % 58.6 31.9 67.3 0.0 49.3 The SAS Group3) Scandi­navian Airlines Blue1 Widerøe No. of employees December 20111) 14,049 352 1,260 of which women, % 36.5 44.4 34.0 Total sick leave, % 7.0 4.7 5.8 Long-term sick leave (more than 59 days), % 48.1 23 2.8 Total number of occupational injuries with more than one day’s sick leave 251 13 8 Occupational injury frequency lost time-to-injury rate (H-value) 4) 12.85 14.6 4.2 1. Deviations from the information in the financial accounting for full-time equivalents, FTE. 2. R egistration and follow-up of the total number of occupational injuries within the administrative functions is not organized in the same way for operating activities. 3. Staff & other is the post remaining after a division of employees in reported groupings. These employees are included in key figures for Scandinavian Airlines, but are not reported separately. 4. Lost-time-to-injury rate (H-value): No. of occupational injuries per million work hours. 5. Lost-time-to-injury rate for Scandinavian Airlines, excl. administrative functions. 38 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Occupational injuries Employee surveys The number of occupational injuries in SAS has risen to 272 (327). The PULS, SAS’ annual employee survey, was conducted at the end of the highest occupational injury frequency is present in SGH in Denmark, year. The response rate was 78%, which, is the highest response frewithin Cargo and Spirit and among flight personnel. Within all three quency ever. More than 13,000 employees responded to the questionareas, however, it is worth noting that Sweden stands out with companaires that were sent out. rably low numbers of injuries. The extent of the occupational injuries The result of the survey shows that job satisfaction at SAS is rising at means that SAS will continue to prioritize preventive efforts, in particu66 (62). Measures were taken at all levels in the Group to create action lar in the areas where the challenge is greatest. plans and activities that have together contributed to increase job satisApart from sick leave and occupational injuries, each administrative faction. All parts of the Group present increasing job satisfaction except unit works actively with issues pertaining to telecommuting where this Blue1, which had a lower result in 2011. Of all the operations, Widerøe is possible, flextime, health insurance, etc. It is each company’s or unit’s has the highest job satisfaction. The survey generally indicates a conresponsibility to ensure a well-functioning working environment. tinued strong commitment, as loyalty and motivation are high among This work takes place in collaboration with safety representatives, employees in SAS. supervisors and labor-management joint safety committees that inApproximately 71 percent of SAS’s employees replied that they had clude all employees in each country. performance reviews during the past 12 months. Company health services Human resource development Besides medical staff, the company health services or health, safety and Human resources development is an important, ongoing activity in the environment (HSE) department that includes the whole Group, employs entire SAS Group. Flight staff and operational ground staff are covered therapists, stress and rehabilitation experts, ergonomics and engineers. by a number of license and competency requirements from EU-OPS The department also has developed and offers special services, includand the IATA through the IOSA (IATA Operational Safety Audit). The ing aviation medicine, stress management, follow-up of sick leave, mandatory training programs were carried out according to plan for difhealth profiles, ergonomics and advice in handling chemicals. ferent personnel groups for hazardous goods, passengers’ rights, IT Within large parts of the Group, investments are made in different security and food safety, etc. forms of health-promoting activities both in the workplace and during SAS has approximately 1,000 managers on different levels in the leisure time. Group. More than half of the managers are located in operations with direct customer contact such as sales, airport services and onboard Diversity and equality service. The managers’ skills development is based and evaluated on The SAS Group’s diversity policy is based on equal treatment of all emSAS’s role model for leadership. A systematic survey is continuously ployees and job applicants. Work on equal treatment includes promoongoing in the whole Group, of existing managers as well as to identify tion of diversity and equality in all its forms. persons who may meet the need for managers in the slightly longer Union membership is high within SAS in the Nordic region and labor term. The aim is for all potential managers to have an individualized deorganizations hold a strong position. Collective agreements govern velopment program. The manager process is based on the “role modworking hours, pay and other terms of employment in great detail. With el”, which reflects general personal attributes as well as SAS’s business the same conditions for the same tasks, there is complete equality beobjectives. Evaluation focuses on the individual’s performance, ability tween men and women in these issues as well. to change, leadership, potential and ambition. In general, SAS is dominated by women in such professions as cabin Training in the Code of Conduct and SAS’s environmental efforts is concrew, administrators, assistants and passenger service at the airports, tinuous. During the year, 76% of SAS’s employees have conducted ewhile men dominate in the areas of pilots, technicians, aircraft maintelearning in Code of Conduct and 38% have conducted e-learning in nance, loading and unloading of baggage. Women also have more partSAS’s environmental work. time positions than men. SAS’s employees had access to nearly 110 different web-based Of the Scandinavian Airlines pilots, 96% are men, and among capcourses during the year. Within SAS, virtually all employees are involved tains, the share is 97%. At the same time, the recruitment base for female in e-learning, both flight personnel and ground employees. pilots is small, since few opt for the profession. When it comes to cabin crew, 79% are women. Contract negotiations and disputes Senior management in the Group is dominated by men. SAS Group 2011 was marked by a stable dialog between SAS’s management and Management consist of one woman and six men (seven as of the first the labor union organizations about issues in connection with implemenhalf of 2012). The figure for the Top100 management forum is approxitation of the Core SAS strategy and the updated 4Excellence strategy. mately 23% women. SAS was involved in one conflict during the year when pilots at Blue1 Each year, equal treatment plans are drawn up based on analysis went out in strike. and surveys of a number of factors, ranging from sick leave to bullying During the year, and based on a historic incident, SAS has been inand harassment. A reference group representing the parties provides volved in disputes relating to sustainability, including use and release of support. PFOS in connection with a incident at a leased out hangar at Oslo-Gardermoen in 2010. All legal disputes of material importance are reported in the statutory Report of the Board of Directors pages 46–51 in SAS Group Annual Report 2011. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 39 Social involvement and humanitarian work SAS’s personnel participated in a number of fundraisers for Save the SAS has an agreement on commercial basis with the Swedish governChildren. SAS was a sponsor of the organization in 2011. In Norway, a ment in the case of an emergency, to make available two specially decision was also taken to donate the proceedings from the collection equipped Boeing 737s as air ambulances within the framework of the of recyclable cans to Save the Children. Swedish National Air Medevac (SNAM). As in earlier years, Widerøe’s employees and Widerøe together orA corresponding agreement exists with the Norwegian Defense which ganized a trip for children with cancer to Copenhagen and Norrköping. implies that within 24 hours, SAS must make available a remodeled amAll parts of SAS have had varying degrees of contact with schools bulance service 737-700 for medical evacuation along the same princiand universities and participated in a dialog about flight and its environple as with SNAM. If needed, a second aircraft must be made available mental impact. within 48 hours. Maintenance and development of the concept is conducted in collaboration between the Swedish Transport Agency, The ISO 26000 National Board of Health and Welfare, Västernorrland County Council SAS has carefully followed the development of the new standard related and SAS. In Norway, collaboration is conducted between the Armed to social responsibility, ISO 26000. In 2011, an evaluation of its content Forces and SAS. and its viability for SAS reporting was started. The standard comprises a number of areas and aspects of which a business shall value the relative importance. Ultra-fine particles In 2011, work was conducted to reduce the Changed procedures occurrence of particle-based pollution at A campaign is introduced to ensure compliCopenhagen-Kastrup. This was the result of ance with the rules and procedures and best an investigation into air quality at the ramp, practices. This involves use of the auxiliary particularly ultra-fine particles, that was conpower unit (APU), aircraft start-up proceducted by the Danish National Environmental dures, the number of engines used for taxiing Research Institute (DMU) in 2010, which to and from the runway, etc. In addition, work identified a periodic raised concentration of is under way to accelerate the shift to more ultra-fine particles. energy-efficient ground vehicles that are elecA working group has been established tricity-driven and the modification of existing comprising employee and employer reprevehicles to reduce particle-based pollution. In sentatives and external expertise in the area. 2012, the work group will look at the further The aim is to identify activities that reduce the potential for optimizing use of the gates deoccurrence of particle-based pollution and pending on the effect of wind conditions on thus improve the air quality. the occurrence of ultra-fine particles and increased knowledge among employees on No parameters how to avoid being exposed to particle-based In 2011, the occurrence of ultra-fine particles pollution. around specific aircraft parking gates at the airport was studied and the result shows that An international issue the average concentration is higher than the Ultra-fine particles are naturally not only busiest roads in Copenhagen. However, it is an issue for Copenhagen-Kastrup. At Oslonot known how ultra-fine particles impact Gardermoen, measurements will be con­ health in the absence of scientific studies or ducted in 2012. The issue is addressed in investigations, which means that there are no international forums such as IATA, ACI and established national or international limits. N-ALM. In the future, international cooperaThe measurements also show other particletion will be important to identify how the based pollution is lower than the legislative occurrence of ultra-fine particles can be limits. reduced in the further development of jet fuel’s sulfur content and the extensive work Danish Working Environment Authority that is in progress to commercialize sustainThe relevant authorities are informed. The able alternative jet fuels. Danish Working Environment Authority is involved in the work and, for example, has issued orders to ensure rules regarding idling for ground vehicles. Cooperation between the Working Environment Authority and the Occupational Medical Clinic has commenced to undertake a major study of the work environment-related aspects of ultra-fine particles. 40 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 SAS has strategies, targets and activities in a number of these areas. The seven main areas of the standard are: 1. Organization governance Christmas flight for 2. Human rights children in Tallinn 3. Labor practices 4. The environment For 25 years, SAS in Norway has 5. Fair operating practices sent a Christmas flight to various destination sin the world. In re6. Consumer issues, and cent years, the relief packages 7. Community involvement and development have gone to the city district of Kopli in Tallinn, Estonia. Also in Below is a summary of the seven main areas and how they can be ap2011, SAS filled an aircraft with gifts to the residents of Kopli. plied at SAS. Several of the areas are addressed in greater detail in othThe Christmas flight is an aid er sections of this Sustainability Report. campaign operated by SAS emOrganization governance. SAS’ approach to governance is to have ployees, who cooperate with a manual structure where guidance, rules and policies – including our other volunteers throughout the year to collect goods and contriCode of Conduct are fully accessible to everyone employed regardless butions from various cooperating of position, education programs to bring knowledge for the individual companies and private individuand an organization to safely, efficiently and economically to produce als. SAS provides an aircraft with the services offered by the company. full operational support, pilots and crew volunteer in their free Human rights. Being based in Scandinavia where the thirty human time and the fuel is sponsored rights articles are well integrated into national laws creates a good base by a fuel supplier. from which to base human right issues. Integrating requirements based on UN Global Compact articles and the ILO conventions into supplier contracts – not all of whom are based in countries with a similar legal base – and having firm policies and processes for own employees are two ways that SAS uses to ensure compliance with human rights. Labor practices. Firmly linked to the human rights issues are labor Consumer issues. SAS is a provider of transport services, and works practices. SAS has well documented human resource (HR) policies and extensively to ensure our customers legitimate needs. Safety is pararegulations fully accessible to all employees. Health, safety and envimount to our work and is a core subject. Access to services for persons ronment (HSE) processes and union agreements and cooperation with with reduced mobility, ensuring that information to guide customers is regular meetings and dialogs are our way of ensuring good labor pracavailable and resolving each travelers issues in case of traffic delays or tice. Included is also instruction and learning for employees, where evgrievances are all part of our organizations daily work. ery employee is trained in his/her work and in safety issues, and have Community involvement and development. SAS has several comaccess to information and training beyond minimum requirements. munity involvements ranging from creating employment opportunity The environment. SAS has comprehensive policies and processes to engaging in environment issues on a wider basis such as participatdealing with the environment aspects of the companies’ services, this is ing with other actors and organizations to bring about improvements, a focus area and comprehensively covered in this report and in our Carto sponsoring sport activities and engaging with Save the Children and bon Disclosure Project reporting. WWF. Working with industry actors such as IATA and AEA to promote Fair operating practices. SAS has policies and training for managthe political idea of a global agreement on a sectoral approach for aviaers and employees, including an e-learning program on SAS Code of tion on CO2 emissions and cooperating with Avinor and NHO Luftfart to Conduct, to ensure our compliance in such areas as anti-corruption, update the report Sustainability and Social Benefit (Bærekraftig og conflict of interest and political involvement plus fair competition and samfunnsnyttig luftfart). SAS contributes to several school and univerrespect of property rights. sities with lectures, information for essay papers and theses each year. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 41 Financial responsibility SAS is convinced that it is impossible to have economically sustainable operations in the long term without being socially and environmentally responsible. The connection between sustainable development and the bottom line is obvious to SAS. 42 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 An analysis of the SAS Group’s statement of income reveals that major Breakdown of costs in 2011 portions of revenue and expenses, and essential industry-specific earnings measurements are items relevant from an environmental and/ Jet fuel, 16% or social perspective. In short, the highest possible financial return is generated by the best possible resource utilization and management of Other, 35% Leasing costs, 5% the company’s assets, both human and financial. Optimal resource utilization means flying fuel-efficiently and making the most of capacity for carrying passengers and freight. Lower fuel Infrastructure costs consumption leads to lower fuel costs and at the same time reduces the (aviation fees), 10% Payroll expenses, 33% charges the SAS Group pays for CO2 emissions. The same applies to all External environmental costs,1% other activities that, in addition to environmental considerations, have strong financial incentives to reduce consumption of energy and other resources. One way to look after the company’s assets is to have posiEnvironmental related savings tive and improving relations with employees and in a responsible fashScandinavian Airlines has an ambitious fuel-saving program. The goal ion ensure maintenance of aircraft and other plant and equipment. Confor the program, launched in 2005, is a fuel-efficiency enhancement of versely, long-term sustainable profitability and growth are essential for 6–7% by 2011 compared with the period June 2005 to July 2006. At being able to meet and preferably surpass environmental standards year-end, improvement of 4.5% had been attained since the introducand demands for social responsibility and for ethical conduct placed on tion of the program. This corresponds to approximately MSEK 350. SAS. If the financial resources are lacking for long-term investment and maintaining extensive sustainability work, progress in these areas will Environment-related investment not be realized. The investment made by the SAS Group in accordance with the Group’s SAS aims to show how its strategic sustainability work helps to policies shall be both environmentally and economically sound, thus create long-term value. This means that the ability to work to improve contributing to the Group’s value growth and helping to ensure that the SAS’s long term environmental performance has a positive impact on Group can meet adopted future environmental standards. It should be the Group’s earnings. The ability of the SAS Group to increase its revenoted that investment not emphasized in this section may also have a nues relies on the ability to retain current customers as well as attract positive impact on the environment. new ones. Investment that can clearly be linked to structured environmental One of the aims of systematic and proactive sustainability work is to work is disclosed in this section. prevent or at least reduce the risk of being surprised by new and toughInvestments in 2011 totaled MSEK 2,041 (2,493), of which MSEK er government and market demands. This is crucial, in view of the fact 3.6 (10.9) consisted of environment-related investments primarily in that bad press and direct costs in the form of fines and civil damages the form of replacement of diesel-run tractors with electric ones at SGH. can also result in indirect costs owing to a tarnished brand and poor Scandinavian Airlines has an ongoing engine-upgrade program market image. The ultimate consequence may then be that customers within the framework of the regular technical maintenance on the maabandon SAS for other operators. jority of the Boeing 737NG fleet. The engine-upgrade is not listed as a environmental-related investment since its a integrated part in SAS Financial aspects of environmental responsibility continuous aircraft maintenance plan. It is however supporting SAS SAS’s environmental work has several overriding purposes: Besides environmental goals. In practice, this means that the engines were upmaking resource use more efficient and improving environmental pergraded to the latest version, so-called “Tech Insert” through the sumformance, it includes ensuring that the Group’s operations comply with mer of 2011 and “Evolution” thereafter. To date, approximately half of environmental laws and regulations. Below is an account of some of the the fleet’s engines in the Boeing 737NGs delivered before 2006 have most important financial aspects of environmental work. been upgraded and are thereby approximately 3% more fuel efficient than the engine with which the aircraft was delivered. Aircraft delivered Infrastructure charges and security costs after 2007 are already equipped with the “Tech Insert” and aircraft deAir transport pays the costs for the infrastructure it needs and uses to livered after the summer of 2011 have “Evolution”. conduct flights, i.e., airports and air traffic control. For 2011, these increased by 2,4% to MSEK 7,384. Correspondingly, the SAS Group also Research and development (R&D) pays MSEK 1,345 in safety costs, which for most other modes of transSAS contributes in many ways to the emergence of a sustainable sociportation are financed by taxes. ety. Among them are the Group’s commitment to and support of the development and dissemination of green technologies such as bio-based Environment-related costs jet fuel and environmentally adapted flights. In 2011, SAS was involved The SAS Group’s external environment-related costs increased by in the Sustainable Aviation Fuel User Group whose goal is to hasten the 14.5% to MSEK 407 during 2011. These costs consisted of environdevelopment, certification and commercial use of environmentally and ment related taxes and charges that are often linked with the aircraft’s socially sustainable aviation fuel. SAS also cooperates with the Scandienvironmental performance and are part of the landing fee. navian suppliers of air traffic control for the purpose of speeding up the Other environment-related costs, such as costs for waste managedevelopment of a more efficient use of air space. ment, purification plants and the costs for environmental staff, amountThe SAS Group engages in technology development benefiting the ed to MSEK 40.9 (50.1). The decline is primarily a result of less glycol entire industry. However, the Group conduct no proprietary research used at the end of 2011. and development. The Group and its airlines also play a leading role inThe SAS Group has no known major environment-related debts or ternationally in drafting environment-related norms and standards for contingent liabilities, for example in the form of contaminated soil. air transport. SAS is represented on a number of committees, projects and working groups related to the environment and corporate social responsibility in such bodies as IATA, ICAO, AEA, N-ALM and SESAR JU. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 43 Financial aspects of social responsibility Costs of sick leave and accidents SAS’s first social responsibility is to its own employees and the commuSick leave and occupational injuries constitute a large expense for the nities dependent and affected by SAS’s operations. For employees this individual employee and the employer, as well as for society at large. includes issues concerning human resources development, pay and Sick leave is affected by a number of factors such as risk of infection work environment. In addition, the Group is to contribute to social progand accidents as well as physically and mentally stressful working enviress wherever it operates and be a respected corporate citizen. ronments. The SAS Group’s companies employ various methods to Air transport helps improve labor market conditions in rural areas in prevent short-term and long-term sick leave. the Scandinavian countries and makes business travel easier in Europe SAS’s own calculation of costs for sick leave at Scandinavian Airlines and to other continents. Given increasing globalization, airlines faciliis MSEK 263 (290). tate business and other contact opportunities where efficient transportation to, from and within the countries is more or less a prerequisite for Sustainability-related charges, costs and investments economic development and progress. The airlines also contribute expertise and transfers of technology MSEK 2011 2010 2009 and make necessary investment in infrastructure. Infrastructure Infrastructure charges 7,384 7,210 7,466 SAS’s contribution to the economy Security costs 1,345 1,309 1,373 SAS’s airline operations are are creating employment and value. AcEnvironmental costs1 cording to the report “Civil Aviation in Scandinavia – value and imporExternal environment-related costs 407 356 364 tance” from 2004, each employee in SAS’s airline operations generates of which environment-related charges 78.8 66.3 76.2 approximately one more job opportunity in other industries and comof which environment-related taxes 328 289 288 panies indirectly creating employment for many in the Scandinavian Other environment-related costs 40.9 50.1 38.4 countries. Environment-related investment In 2011, the SAS Group paid wages and salaries totaling MSEK Airline operations 0.0 7.0 15.6 12,500 (13,053), of which social security expenses were MSEK 1,742 Ground operations 3.6 3.9 0.9 (1,691) and pensions MSEK 1,465 (1,637). SAS endeavors to achieve Total 3.6 10.9 16.5 market pay for all employee groups. Share of SAS’s total investment in % 0.2 0.4 0.4 1 Environmental costs have been adjusted to reflect the changed Group structure. Courses and training To retain and develop employee skills, extensive training programs are carried out each year. During 2011, SAS’s employees attended an estimated 579,000 (468,000) hours of training, of which the major part pertains to obligatory training. A growing share of SAS’s training takes place through web-based courses, or e-learning. E-learning cannot always replace classroom instruction, but thanks to its greater flexibility and availability, more courses can be offered at a lower cost. 44 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 GRI Sustainability Reporting GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, stipulates that Economic responsibility the SAS Group should determine which entities’ performance will be Information regarding financial results can be found on page 1 and on reported in the Sustainability Report. The entities included in the SAS page 46 and onward in SAS Group Annual Report 2011. Information Group’s Sustainability Report 2011 are presented in the introduction concerning the SAS Group’s economic responsibility is provided on of SAS Group’s Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting on pages 42–44, where the SAS Group’s indirect economic impact is pages 58–60. The reporting boundary, including changes compared described. Information regarding market shares etc. is located on page to previous reports, is disclosed in the of SAS Group’s Accounting Prin25, in SAS Group Annual Report 2011. ciples for Sustainability Reporting. GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3, prescribes Environmental responsibility disclosure of GRI Application Level Criteria for organizations using the The SAS Group’s main environmental impact is related to the combusGuidelines. tion of non-renewable fuels. Thus, the major disclosures regarding environmental aspects are consumption of non-renewable fuels, emisC C+ B B+ A A+ sions of CO2 and NOX , and noise. This information can be found on pages 1, and 21–27. Targets and results of the SAS Group’s environmental work Self-Declared √ are disclosed on pages 14–16, and 22–35. On page 3, the organization Third Party Checked √ and management of the SAS Group’s sustainability work are described, together with processes for feedback and reporting of environmental data. SAS Group has self-declared our reporting to be Application Level A+. Deloitte AB has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be AppliSocial responsibility cation Level A+. Labor practices and decent work: Relevant information regarding the Regarding disclosure of management approach, as required by GRI, SAS Group’s approach to labor practices and decent work is presented the SAS Group has chosen to report on management approach as an on pages 5 and 36–41. Policies regarding labor practices and decent integrated part of the SAS Group’s Annual Report 2011 and SAS Group’s work are disclosed on SAS Group’s homepage (www.sasgroup.net). Sustainability Report 2011. See below for further details regarding refThe process for handling questions regarding labor practices and manerences to SAS management approach: aging feedback and reporting of labor data is described on page 5. Human rights: Relevant information regarding the SAS Group’s All page references herein refer to the SAS Group Sustainability Report approach to human rights can be found on page 5 and in the GRI 2011 unless otherwise specified. Cross-reference list. Society: Relevant information regarding the SAS Group’s approach Guideline on Management Approach to communities, corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behavior, A general description of the SAS Group’s approach to responsibility for and compliance, can be found on page 5 and in the SAS Group’s Code sustainable development can be found on pages 4–7, 8–11, 14, 37 and of Conduct available on the SAS Group’s webpage. For any significant 43 where the SAS Group defines social, environmental, and economical case of non-compliance during the year information is disclosed in the responsibility, including the SAS Group’s comprehensive objectives Board of Director’s Report on pages 46–51 in SAS Group Annual governing the Group’s operations. Strategies, values, and extracts from Report 2011. policies guiding the operations of the SAS Group can be found on pages Product responsibility: The SAS Group mainly offers services. 5 and 14 (policies, with relevance for sustainability, can also be found Where relevant, information regarding service responsibility is dison the SAS Group’s homepage, www.sasgroup.net). closed as a part of the SAS Group’s social responsibility on pages 36– On page 3, a description of the organization and management of the 41 otherwise they are commented on in the GRI Cross-reference list. SAS Group’s sustainability work can be found. Relevant information concerning both positive and negative aspects of the SAS Group’s performance is disclosed throughout the report, the most significant aspects are commented on in the Board of Directors’ Report on pages 46–51 in the SAS Group Annual Report 2011. Risks and opportunities are included in both the SAS Group Annual Report 2011, on pages 32– 34, and on page 5. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 45 Sustainability Report – GRI Cross Reference List Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments Profile Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the AR11 pages 4–5. SR11 page 2. organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. AR11 pages 32–34, SR11 Description of major risks identified and correspondpages 8–13. ing actions are described on pages 32–34 (AR11). The impact of aviation and the SAS Group on the environment is described on pages 8–13 (SR11). Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of reporting organization SR11 back cover. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. AR11 pages 24–29, SR11 Primary brands are presented on pages 24–29 pages 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32 (AR11), 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32 and 33 (SR11). and 33. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including AR11 pages 14, 24–29 and 95. Operational structure on pages 3 (SR11) and 95 (AR11), main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, SR11 page 3. Joint Ventures and Partners on page 14 (AR11). Airlines and joint ventures. and operating companies on pages 24–29 (AR11). 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. SR11 back cover. SAS koncernen Kabinvägen 5, Arlanda, 195 87 Stockholm 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, AR11 pages 24–25 and 26– The main markets for the SAS Group is described on and names of countries with either major operations 29. SR11 page 37. page 24–25 (AR11). Each subsidiary provides a deor that are specifically relevant to the sustainability isscription of main markets on pages 26–29 (AR11). sues covered in the report. A map detailing all locations is to be found on page 24 (AR11). Geographical breakdown of employees is described on page 37 (SR11). 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR11 pages 38–39, 102–103 Largest shareholders on pages 102–103 (AR11) and and 108 legal form on page 108 (AR11). 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, AR11 pages 24–25 and The main markets for the SAS Group is described on sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 26–29. page 24–25 (AR11). Each subsidiary provides a description of main markets on pages 26–29 (AR11). A map detailing all locations is to be found on page 24 (AR11). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: AR11 pages 26–29, 52, 55 • Number of employees on pages 64–65 (AR11) (Note 3) • Number of employees; and 64–65. • Net sales on page 52 (AR11) • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and revenues (for public sector organizations); equity on page 55 (AR11) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt • Passengers served on pages 26–29 (AR11). and equity (for private sector organizations); and • Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR11 pages 6–7. regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. AR11 pages 2–3. SR11 page 15. Report Parameter Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for inforSustanability Report 2011 mation provided. front cover. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). SR11 inside front cover. Previous reports can be obtained from the SAS Group webpage (www.sasgroup.net). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) AR11 page 108. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Sustanability Report 2011 Inquiries regarding the Annual Report are handled by contents. inside front cover. Investor Relations and inquiries regarding the Sustainability Report are handled by the Director of Environment and Sustainability. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: SR11 pages 56–58 (AccountAccounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting • Determining materiality; ing Principles for Sustainability 2011 and Sustainability Report – GRI Content Index • Prioritizing topics within the report; and Reporting 2011) and this report are available on the SAS Group webpage • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects (Sustainability Report – GRI www.sasgroup.net under the headline Sustainability . to use the report. Content Index). 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, SR11 inside front cover and divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, pages 56–58 (Accounting joint ventures, suppliers). Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011). AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported 46 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundSR11 inside front cover and ary of the report. pages 56–58 (Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, AR11 pages 58–63. SR11 The accounting principles of the SAS Group Annual leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other pages 56–58 (Accounting Report is described on page 58–63 (AR11). If the entities that can significantly affect comparability Principles for Sustainability Sustainability Report deviates from these principles from period to period and/or between organizations. Reporting 2011). that will be described in the Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calAR11 pages 58–63. SR11 The accounting principles of the SAS Group’s culations, including assumptions and techniques unpages 56–58 (Accounting Annual Report is described on page 58–63. If the derlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Principles for Sustainability Sustainability Report deviates from these principles Indicators and other information in the report. Reporting 2011). that will be described in the Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2010. 3.10 E xplanation of the effect of any re-statements of inforAR11 pages 46–51 and Any significant re-statements regarding the financial mation provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 58–63. SR11 pages 56–58 report is disclosed in the Board of Directors Report on such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, (Accounting Principles for pages 60–65 or in the accounting principles on pages change of base years/periods, nature of business, Sustainability Reporting 2011). 58–63 (AR11). Re-statements regarding the Sustainmeasurement methods). ability Report is disclosed in Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods SR11 pages 56–58 (Accountin the scope, boundary, or measurement methods ing Principles for Sustainability applied in the report. Reporting 2011). GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard SR11 pages 45–56. Disclosures in the report. Identify the page numbers or web links where the following can be found: • Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2; • Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.10; • Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13; • Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 – 4.17; • Disclosure of Management Approach, per category; • Core Performance Indicators; • Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included; and • Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking AR11 page 101. Sustainability The Auditor’s Report of the Annual Report can be external assurance for the report. If not included in Report page 55. found on page 101 (AR11). The auditor’s review of the assurance report accompanying the sustainability sustainability report can be found on page 55 (SR11). report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Governance Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including AR11 pages 89–93. SustainThe Corporate Governance report on pages 89–93 committees under the highest governance body reability Report page 3. (AR11) discloses detailed information on governance sponsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy structure. On page 3 (SR11) it is possible to find the or organizational oversight. Sustainable Development organization and management structure. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance AR11 pages 96–97. Fritz H. Schur, the SAS Group Chairman, does not hold body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their funcany executive position in the SAS Group. tion within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, AR11 pages 96–97. A majority of the members of the Board of Directors state the number of members of the highest goverare defined as independent from major shareholders nance body that are independent and/or non-execuas described on pages 96–97 (AR11). All of the memtive members. bers of the Board of Directors are non-executive except for the union representatives whom are elected through the trade unions’ own process. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Annual Report 2001 pages The annual meeting is the main mechanism for shareprovide recommendations or direction to the highest 89–93. Sustainability Report holders to provide recommendations or direction to governance body. page 37. the board of directors which is described on pages 89–93 (AR11). The SAS Group have union representatives on the Board of Directors as described on page 37 (SR11). 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the AR11 pages 64–65. As stated on pages 64–65 (AR11) the executive comhighest governance body, senior managers, and execpensation only consists of a fixed part as of 2010. utives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 47 Core Indicator Page reference Reported Comments 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to AR11 pages 89–91 and A majority of the members of the Board of Directors ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 96–97. are defined as independent from major shareholders as described on pages 96–97 (AR11). The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, competence and composition of the Board of Directors on an ongoing basis as described on pages 89–91 (AR11). 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and experAR11 pages 89–93 and The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, comtise of the members of the highest governance body 96–97. petence and composition of the Board of for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, Directors on an ongoing basis as described on pages environmental, and social topics. 89–93 (AR11). The Board of Directors prior and current engagements are disclosed on pages 96–97 (AR11). 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, AR11 page 13. Sustanability codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Report 2011 pages 5 and 14. environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overAR11 page 90. Sustainability The Board of Directors have sustainable development seeing the organization’s identification and manageReport page 3. on their agenda as described on page 90 (AR11). The ment of economic, environmental, and social perfororganization and structure of the SAS Group’s susmance, including relevant risks and opportunities, tainability work is described on page 3 (SR11) and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance AR11 pages 89–93. The Nomination Committee evaluates the work, combody’s own performance, particularly with respect to petence and composition of the Board of Directors on economic, environmental, and social performance. an ongoing basis as described on page 92 (AR11). The Annual Meeting is the main forum for all shareholders evaluation of the board of directors as described on pages 89–90 (AR11). Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 E xplanation of whether and how the precautionary apSR11 pages 28 and 30. The SAS Group has joined the UN Global Compact, proach or principle is addressed by the organization. which prescribes the precautionary approach as one of their ten principles. The precautionary approach is also a principle of the Rio Declaration which is a part of both the SAS Group’s Code of Conduct and the SAS Group’s Purchasing Policy. The SAS Group’s commitment to the UN Global Compact is described on page 5. Examples of how the precautionary approach has been applied is described on page 28 (SR11) regarding SGH’s deicing activities and on 30 (SR11) regarding SAS Tech’s activities for reduction and substitution of chemicals. 4.12 E xternally developed economic, environmental, and SR11 pages 4–7, 12 and 56– social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 58 (Accounting Principles for the organization subscribes or endorses. Sustainability Reporting 2011) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as SR11 pages 5–7 and 43. The SAS Group and its subsidiaries are members of industry associations) and/or national/ several industry and business organizations. The international advocacy organizations in which the ormemberships stated on page 5–7 (SR11) and 43 ganization: (SR11) are considered the most important ones. • Has positions in governance bodies; • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organizaSR11 pages 6–7. tion. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders SR11 pages 6-7. General selection criterions are not used due with whom to engage. to the fact that the SAS Group never denies a stakeholder an opportunity for dialogue. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, SR11 pages 6-7. The approach to stakeholder engagement is including frequency of engagement by type and by described on page 6–7 (SR11). In the table on page stakeholder group. 6–7 (SR11) specific dialogues with stakeholders are described where the frequency varies depending on the nature of the dialogue. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised SR11 pages 6–7. through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported 48 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Economic Economic Performance EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including AR11 pages 52–53. SustainEconomic value generated and distributed is disrevenues, operating costs, employee compensation, ability Report page 42–44. closed on pages 52–53 (AR11). Sustainability specific donations and other community investments, reeconomic values are disclosed on pages 42–44 tained earnings, and payments to capital providers (SR11). and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportuniSR11 pages 8–13 and 42–44 . Perspectives on climate change, including risks and ties for the organization’s activities due to climate opportunities, are described on pages 8–13 (SR11). change. The SAS Group’s activities to handle climate change is described throughout the sustatainability report. The financial implications of environmental related costs are described on pages 42–44 (SR11). EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan AR11 page 71. The SAS Group’s defined benefit pensions are disobligations. closed in note 15 on pages 71 (AR11) in accordance with IAS 19. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from governAR11 pages 102–103. The SAS Group receives no significant subsidies. ment. Within the airline industry, all operators can be eligible to a discount during the first months of operation on a new flight connection. Some connections to smaller airports, notably in Norway and in Sweden, are subject to a public bidding process where the winning bid gives the operator a fixed sum for operating a flight connection under given frequencies, airplane sizes and timeframes. Due to the open bidding process, SAS does not consider this to be a form of subsidy. The Scandinavian governments are major shareholders of the SAS Group as reported on pages 102–103 (AR11). Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on localThe SAS Group promotes the consideration of locally ly-based suppliers at significant locations of operabased suppliers. Fuel is for example never sourced tion. from only one supplier since the SAS Group’s Purchasing Policy promotes using multiple suppliers for significant purchases. Catering and waste disposal is for example usually provided by locally-based suppliers. However, the SAS Group does not collect data on group level on this indicator. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior SR11 page 37. More than 90% of SAS Group employees are based in management hired from the local community at sigthe Nordic countries as described on page 37 (SR11). nificant locations of operation. The SAS Group seek to attain as high as possible level of locally hired management due to both better knowledge of local markets and lower cost compared to expatriates. However, the SAS Group does not collect data on group level on this indicator. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investSR11 pages 40–41. The SAS Group’s airline operations are an important ments and services provided primarily for public benpart of the transportation infrastructure in all counefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagetries where it operates. All in-kind or pro-bono enment. gagement regarding infrastructure, e.g. free or subsidized airline tickets, is performed by each subsidiary by themselves since they are the ones best suited to decide which engagements to support. However, the SAS Group does not collect data on group level on this indicator. Examples of humanitarian assistance and partnerships are described on page 40–41 (SR11). EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect SR11 pages 43–44. Research and development is described on page 43 economic impacts, including the (SR11). The SAS Group’s contribution to the economy extent of impacts. is described on page 44 (SR11). Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. SR11 pages 1, 23–25, 27 Materials used are reported on the following pages: and 31–32. Jet Fuel – page 23, 24, 27 and 32(SR11). Diesel/Petrol – page 29 and 31 (SR11). Glycol – page 29 (SR11). EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Since the main input for the SAS Group is fuel this inrecycled input materials. dicator is not considered material. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary SR11 pages 1, 23, 24, 27, The jet fuel consumed by the Group’s airlines is the energy source. 29 and 31–32. completely dominant source of energy for the SAS Group. All certified jet fuels are fossil based. Direct energy consumption is reported on the following pages: Jet Fuel – page 23, 24, 27 and 32 (SR11). Diesel/Petrol – page 29 and 31 (SR11). AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 49 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. SR11 pages 1, 24–25, 27 The SAS group reports energy use in kWh or GWh, and 34–35. as applicable. The SAS Group does not convert these figures into joule. Reporting this indicator by primary source is not considered relevant due to the fact that jet fuel is the completely dominant source of energy for the SAS Group. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency imSR11 pages 15, 17 and 21–27. The SAS Group’s airlines reports on efficiency as fuel provements. consumption relative to passenger kilometers on pages 21–27 (SR11). The fuelsave programs are described on pages 15, 17, 22, 24 and 26 (SR11) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or SR11 pages 15, 17, 19, 20 The SAS Group’s airlines reports on efficiency as fuel renewable energy based products and and 21–27. consumption relative to passenger kilometers on pagservices, and reductions in energy requirements as a es 21–27 (SR11). The fuelsave program is described result of these initiatives. on pages 15, 17, 22, 24 and 26 (SR11). The possibility for the customer to offset the CO2 emissions from their flight is described on page 19 (SR11). The research for a jet fuel partly based on renewable resources is described on page 20 (SR11). EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and SR11 page 19. Indirect energy consumption (excluding purchased reductions achieved. electricity) is not considered material for the SAS Group. In regards to employee business travel, a vast majority of all flights conducted by employees are accounted for in direct greenhouse gas emissions and all employee business travel is CO2 -compensated. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR11 pages 1, 24–25, 27 Water withdrawal as a total figure is disclosed on page and 33–34. 24–25, 27 and 34 (SR11). Dividing it by source is not deemed material. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, SR11 pages 6–7 and 11. The SAS Group’s impact on biodiversity is described or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high bioon page 11 (SR11). The SAS Group does in general not diversity value outside protected areas. own land. On locations where the SAS Group’s operations can have an indirect significant impact on biodiversity the Group involves in dialogues with the airport operators as described on pages 6–7 (SR11). The SAS Group, through Star Alliance, has a partnership agreement Biosphere Connections – with a group of international organizations such as UNESCO, IUCN and Convention of wetlands (Ramsar) as described on http://www.staralliance.com/en/about/ initiatives/environment/ EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, prodSR11 pages 6–7 and 11. The SAS Group’s impact on biodiversity is described ucts, and services on biodiversity in protected areas on page 11 (SR11). The SAS Group does in general not and areas of high biodiversity value outside protectown land. On locations where the SAS Group’s operaed areas. tions can have an indirect significant impact on biodiversity the Group involves in dialogues with the airport operators as described on pages 6–7 (SR11). Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR11 pages 1, 21–27, 29 The SAS Group reports on direct greenhouse gas by weight. and 31–32. emissions for the airlines on pages 1, 21–27, 29 and 31–32 (SR11). EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions The SAS Group does not consider other indirect by weight. greenhouse gas emissions to be material in comparison to the direct emissions which is the most significant environmental impact of the SAS Group’s operations. In regards to employee business travel, a vast majority of all flights conducted by employees are accounted for in direct greenhouse gas emissions. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and SR11 pages 15, 17 and 19–27. Greenhouse gas emissions are the most significant reductions achieved. environmental impact of the SAS Group. Thus, initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are presented throughout the report. Reductions achieved, both absolute and relative, are presented on pages 15, 17 and 19–27 (SR11). EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. SR11 page 13. SAS Airline operations have an exemption to use halons and submit annual reports to the authorities. The reason for the exemption is that there are no safe alternatives to halons as a fire extinguishant. The amount of halons used is disclosed on page 13 (SR11). Any emissions of halons will be disclosed in the Sustainability Report. AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported 50 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments EN20 NO X , HC and other significant air emissions by type SR11 pages 1, 23, 24 and 27. The SAS Group reports NO X emissions. Other types and weight. of emissions are not considered material in relation to the emissions of CO2 and NO X . EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. The SAS Group does not report on discharges to water due to the fact that the Group’s normal operations does not cause any material discharges. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR11 pages 1, 25, 27 and Waste is separated into unsorted waste and hazardous 34–35. waste. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. AR11 page 50. SR11 pages All significant spills are disclosed in the Sustainability 22, 24, 26 and 28–29. report and/or the Report by the Board of Directors. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of prodSustanability Report 2011 The purpose of the SAS Group’s environmental efforts ucts and services, and extent of impact mitigation. pages 12 and 14–35. are all focused on reducing the environmental impact of the services provided. Examples are SAS goal to reduce total flight emissions by 20% in 2015 compared with 2005 can be found on page 17 (SR11) and SAS work on alternative sustainable jet fuel can be found on page 20 (SR11). EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging The products sold by the SAS Group are not considmaterials that are reclaimed by category. ered material. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR11 pages 50–51. SR11 The SAS Group discloses significant fines subsidiary of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with pages 22, 24 and 26. by subsidiary and/or in the Report by the Board of environmental laws and regulations. Directors. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting SR11 pages 1 and 21–35. The fuel consumption of SAS ground operations’ vehiproducts and other goods and materials used for the cles contains transportation of goods on the airports organization’s operations, and transporting memwhere SAS ground operations operates. The transbers of the workforce. portation of workforce members is included in the figures for the environmental impact of the SAS Group. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and inSR11 page 44. SAS Group discloses sustainability-related charges, vestments by type. costs and investments on page 44 (SR11). Due to long history of reporting on internal definitions that are similar but not exactly as prescribed in the indicator protocol. Social Performance: Labor Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, AR11 page 64. Sustanability The workforce, in terms of number of employees, employment contract, and region. Report 2011 pages 37–38. are reported in accordance with the SAS Group’s Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011. The SAS Group does only report total workforce by region, not by employment type and contract. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age The SAS Group does not report detailed turnover figgroup, gender, and region. ures. Employee turnover is not deemed an significant key performance indicator on aggregated group level. Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective barSustanability Report page 37. In general, all SAS Group employees are covered by gaining agreements. collective bargaining agreements. The main exception is top management on group level. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operSustanability Report 2011 Information, consultation and negotiation procedures ational changes, including whether it is specified in page 39. with employees over significant operational issues are collective agreements. regulated by national laws and regulations. Thus, minimum notice periods are not reported. Specific examples of negotiations are specified on page 39 (SR11). Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Sustanability Report 2011 Joint management-worker health and safety commitjoint management-worker health and safety commitpage 39. tees covers all employees in the SAS Group. tees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and AR11 pages 1 and 26–29. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Sustanability Report pages region. 37–38 and 44. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskSustanability Report 2011 The HMS-department described on page 39 (SR11) control programs in place to assist workforce mempage 39. assists all SAS Group personnel regarding health bers, their families, or community members regarding issues, for example stress or HIV/AIDS. serious diseases. Training and Education LA10 A  verage hours of training per year per employee by Sustanability Report 2011 The SAS Group report total hours of training, not per employee category. page 44. employee or employee category. AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 51 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learnSR11 pages 37, 39 and 44. The SAS Group’s efforts on skills management is deing that support the continued employability of emscribed on pages 37, 39 and 44 (SR11). Programs to ployees and assist them in managing career endings. support employees in career transitions is available through both the SAS Group’s own effort and programs provided by local/regional/national governments. Sabbatical periods and severance pay is regulated through national laws and regulations. Since the Scandinavian countries have a long history of close cooperation between businesses, trade unions and government the solutions regarding restructuring etc. is handled in a dialogue with the parties concerned. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforSR11 page 39. All employees have the right to get annual performance and career development reviews. mance and career development reviews. The percentage of employees receiving annual performance and career development reviews is provided on page 39 (SR11). Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown AR11 pages 64 and 96–99. The board of directors and management is presented of employees per category according to gender, age Sustainability Report 2011 on pages 96–99 (AR11). Gender breakdown of emgroup, minority group membership, and other indipages 37–38. ployees is presented on pages 64 (AR11) and 37–38 cators of diversity. (SR11). No further indicators of diversity is aggregated on group level. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee SR11 page 39. A vast majority of all SAS Group employees are subject category. to collective bargaining agreements where the salary and other benefits are defined, equal for both women and men as described on page 39 (SR11). Thus, no indicator on salary ratio is reported. Social Performance: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investSR11 page 33. The SAS General Terms & Conditions includes clauses ment agreements that include human rights clauses regarding Global Compact’s 10 principles. or that have undergone human rights screening. A specific review of the most significant supplier contracts has been initiated to evaluate how the suppliers are working with sustainability related issues as described on page 33 (SR11). It is the SAS Group’s intention to report this indictor in more detail in coming years. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors SR11 page 33. The SAS General Terms & Conditions includes clauses that have undergone screening on human rights and regarding Global Compact’s 10 principles. actions taken. A specific review of the most significant supplier contracts has been initiated to evaluate how the suppliers are working with sustainability related issues as described on page 33 (SR11). It is the SAS Group’s intention to report this indictor in more detail in coming years. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and proSR11 page 5. The SAS Group provides an e-learning program recedures concerning aspects of human rights that are garding Code of Conduct. The percentage of employrelevant to operations, including the percentage of ees that have completed the program is reported on employees trained. page 5 (SR11). Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and acAR11 page 94. Incidents can be reported three ways. Through the tions taken. whistleblower function which is described on page 94 (AR11), through safety representatives and through management and HR represantatives. Due to the potential confidentiality of the information incidents reported is not publicly reported. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise SR11 page 5. The SAS Group endorses the UN Global Compact, freedom of association and collective bargaining may whose ten principles are based on the UN Declaration be at significant risk, and actions taken to support on Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental these rights. Principles and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. The SAS Group endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where the Group operates. This means, among other things, that the Group is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self assessment regarding the Global Compact principles (among them human rights) is done by each subsidiary every year as described on page 5 (SR11). AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported 52 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for SR11 page 5. The SAS Group endorses the UN Global Compact, incidents of child labor, and measures taken to conwhose ten principles are based on the UN Declaration tribute to the elimination of child labor. on Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. The SAS Group endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where the Group operates. This means, among other things, that the Group is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self assessment regarding the Global Compact principles (among them human rights) is done by each subsidiary every year as described on page 5 (SR11). Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for inciSR11 page 5. The SAS Group endorses the UN Global Compact, dents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to whose ten principles are based on the UN Declaration contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory on Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamenlabor. tal Principles and Rights at Work, the UN Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the UN Convention against Corruption. The SAS Group endeavors to act responsibly in the countries and contexts where the Group operates. This means, among other things, that the Group is always to be associated with respect for human rights, acceptable labor standards, social considerations and sustained environmental work. A self assessment regarding the Global Compact principles (among them human rights) is done by each subsidiary every year as described on page 5 (SR11). Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the orgaThe SAS Group does not in its operations employ nization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects security personnel since it is the responsibility of the of human rights that are relevant to operations. airport operators. However, the personnel at central security department at the SAS Group, that are responsible for group-wide security, are, as all SAS Group employees, introduced to the SAS Group’s Code of Conduct. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights No incident of violations involving rights of indigenous of indigenous people and actions taken. people has been reported during 2011. Social Performance: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs SR11 pages 6–7. The SAS Group is constantly involved in stakeholder diand practices that assess and manage the impacts alogues to be able to assess and manage the impact on of operations on communities, including entering, communities which is described on page 6–7 (SR11). operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units SR11 page 5. The SAS Group considers all business where valuable analyzed for risks related to corruption. resources are handled to be at risk related to corruption. Thus, all employees are covered by the Group’s Code of Conduct. Moreover, comprehensive guidelines are available for all employees regarding situations where risks related to corruption and other issues of unethical behavior is present. Hence, all business units are continuously analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s SR11 page 5. The SAS Group provides an e-learning program reanti-corruption policies and procedures. garding Code of Conduct. The percentage of employees that have completed the program is reported on page 5 (SR11) All key personnel have been educated in SAS Competition Law Compliance Program SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. AR11 pages 33 and 50. The SAS Group discloses all significant legal actions, including corruption, see pages 33 and 50 (AR11) for further details. The SAS Group takes substantial measures to ensure that ethical behavior is a core value in all business relationships through the Code of Conduct and SAS Competition Law Compliance Program. AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 53 Performance Indicators Page reference Reported Comments Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public SR11 pages 5 and 14. The SAS Group’s Code of Conduct states that “commupolicy development and lobbying. SAS Group’s Code of Conduct nication work is to be conducted on a high, professional level and follow the laws and regulations that apply to listed companies. Internal and external communication is used to create insight, understanding, motivation, strength, willingness to change, sound labor standards and a good reputation. The main principle is that central Group functions are responsible for all communication affecting overarching issues in the SAS Group.” Moreover, the public affairs department manage all communication activities with authorities and politicians. Many of the organizations in which SAS Group is a member (AEA and IATA) carry out lobby activities. However, the SAS Group does not make any contributions or give other support, direct or indirect, to political parties or individual politicians. Nor are you allowed to make contributions at the Group’s expense or provide assistance in the form of funds or resources from the Group. For more information, see also the SAS Group’s Code of Conduct available at www.sasgroup.net under the heading “Sustainability”. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive AR11 pages 33 and 50. The SAS Group has an extensive program, SAS Compebehavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their tition Law Compliance Program, to ensure that profesoutcomes. sional business relations are conformed to in the SAS Group. The SAS Group discloses all significant legal actions, including anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices, see pages 33 and 50 (AR11) for further details. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number AR11 pages 33 and 50. The SAS Group discloses significant fines subsidiary of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with SR11 page 22. by subsidiary and in the Report by the Board of Direclaws and regulations. tors. Social Performance: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of AR11 page 30. SR11 pages The SAS Group does mainly offer services. Thus, life products and services are assessed for improvement, 18, 20 and 21–27. cycle analysis per se is not performed. However, the and percentage of significant products and services SAS Group’s environmental impact chiefly compromiscategories subject to such procedures. es air emissions from the airline operations, see pages 21–27 (SR11) for further details. To reduce the environmental impact the SAS Group is, among other things, involved in the development of jet fuel based on renewable resources, as described on page 20 (SR11) and co-operation with Air Traffic Control, as described on pages 18 and 20 (SR11). Flight safety is a main concern of the SAS Group, where all SAS Group airlines are certified in accordance to IOASA (IATA Operational Safety Audit). Further details about the SAS Group’s approach to customer safety can be found on page 30 (AR11). PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regAR11 page 30. The SAS Group reports a risk index for SAS Scandinaulations and voluntary codes concerning health and vian Airlines and deviations in accordance with ICAO’s safety impacts of products and services during their rules and regulations on page 30 (AR11). The SAS life cycle, by type of outcomes. Group consider flight safety to be the most relevant indicator for customer health and safety. Products and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by All airline travel have substantial information requireprocedures, and percentage of significant products ments. The SAS Group strives to adhere to all laws and and services subject to such information requireregulations regarding service information. However, ments. data on information requirements are not publicly communicated. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including AR11 pages 9 and 26–29. The SAS Group publishes results of their customer results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. SR11 pages 2 and 15. satisfaction surveys or other measures on customer satisfaction per entity and in total. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and volSR11 page 5. The SAS Group Code of Conduct and SAS Competiuntary codes related to marketing communications, tion Law Compliance Program both include the subincluding advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. ject of marketing and communications. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliAR11 pages 33 and 50. The SAS Group discloses all significant legal actions, ance with laws and regulations concerning the proviincluding fines for non-compliance concerning the sion and use of products and services. provision and use of services, see pages 33 (AR11) and 50 (AR11) for further details. AR11 = SAS Group Annual Report 2011 SR11 = SAS Group Sustainability Report 2011 Reported Partially reported Not reported 54 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Auditors Report Auditor’s Review Report on the SAS Group’s Sustainability Report (This is the translation of the original signed auditor’s report in Swedish.) c. an assessment of the outcome of the Company’s stakeholder dialogue, To the readers of the SAS Group’s Sustainability Report d. interviews with the responsible management, at group level, subsidiary level, and at selected business units in order to assess if the Introduction qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Sustainability We have been engaged by the Executive Management of the SAS Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, Group to review the SAS Group’s Sustainability Report for the year e. shared internal and external documents in order to assess if the in2011. Our review covers the Sustainability Report 2011, pages 1–54 formation stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and 56–58. The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are and sufficient, responsible for ongoing activities regarding the environment, health & f. an evaluation of the design of the systems and processes used to safety, quality, social responsibility and sustainable development, and obtain, manage and validate sustainability information, for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in acg. analytical procedures of the information stated in the Sustainability cordance with the applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a Report, conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. i. a reconciliation of financial information with the Company’s Annual Report for the financial year 2011, The Scope of the Review j. an assessment of the Company’s declared application level accordWe have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of ing to GRI guidelines, Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making inquik. an assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Report, ries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainand its format, taking into consideration the consistency of the stated ability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A information with applicable criteria, review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accorl. a reconciliation of the reviewed information with the sustainability indance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and othformation in the Company’s Annual Report for the financial year 2011, er generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we Conclusion would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. to believe that the information in the SAS Group’s Sustainability Report The criteria on which our review are based are the parts of the Sushas not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the tainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by The Global Reporting above stated criteria. Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has deStockholm, March 30, 2012 veloped and disclosed. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Deloitte AB Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, e.g. included the following procedures Elisabeth Werneman Sofie Wadstein a. an update of our knowledge and understanding of the SAS Group’s Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of Far organization and activities, b. an assessment of suitability and application of the criteria regarding the stakeholders’ need for information, Bureau Veritas’ statement to the sustainability report 2011 Bureau Veritas Certification has performed EMAS verification on SAS report as well as the nature and correct presentation of all the data Group against the verification criteria REGULATION (EC) No against the key performance indicator requirements in EMAS III, annex 1221/2009 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL IV. Bureau Veritas has got an external verifier to verify – on a spot check of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation by organisations basis – the data in the report versus original vouchers, measurements in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS), repealing etc. and got their documentation for their verification. Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 The verification has proved that the SAS Group fulfills all EMAS The requirements for the system elements have been audited requirements. through our contract and certification of SAS Group against ISO 14001 certified for the first time September 2010. The extra system requirements in EMAS with respect to ISO 4001 have been audited together March 30, 2012 with the verification of the SAS Annual Sustainability report 2011. Bureau Veritas Certification (accreditation number 6002) has veriKlaus Behrndt fied the SAS Annual Sustainability Report 2011 against the EMAS III EMAS verifier requirements. All the substantially statements in the sustainability Bureau Veritas Certification SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 55 Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting 2011 The SAS Group’s airlines, Scandinavian Airlines, Widerøe and Blue1 transported 3. Sustainability context: The report should present the organization’s perfor27.2 million passengers to 128 destinations in 2011. The Group’s home market mance in the wider context of sustainability. is the Nordic Region. The Group also comprises of operations for aircraft mainteThe SAS Group’s Approach: The SAS Group has decided to describe its susnance, ground handling and post/air freight. tainability aspects in a context of external interest and stakeholder demands For the financial year of 2011, the SAS Group reports its general sustainability on the Group’s operations as well as SAS’ opinion of its own impact. Due to results divided into same segments as reported in the Annual report: stakeholder demands, environmental responsibility is given the most space • Scandinavian Airlines comprises all operations within the SAS Consortium, in SAS’s Sustainability Report. including SAS Ground Handling (SGH), SAS Technical Operations and SAS Cargo Group (SCG). 4. Completeness: Coverage of the material areas and indicators and definition • Widerøe including ground operations. of the report boundary should be sufficient to reflect significant economic, • Blue1 including ground operations. environmental, and social impacts and enable stakeholders to assess the reporting organization’s performance in the reporting period. ”SAS” or ”SAS Group” is used throughout the report when the total operations The SAS Group’s Approach: SAS’ ambition to report a fair and complete picare referred to. Within environmental responsibility the SAS Group strive to sepature of the operation is based on the stakeholders demands and expectarate between airline and ground operations. Thus, the following divisions have tions that the group’s material financial, environmental and social impact is been made: presented. This is clear from the stakeholder dialogues that SAS carry out. In • Scandinavian Airlines comprises the airline operations in the SAS Consortium, order to achieve this SAS have an internal network, SAS Group Sustainability i.e., airline operations under the brand SAS. Network that contains representatives from the companies and units with • Widerøe comprises Widerøe’s airline operations. The environmental impact of the biggest sustainability impact. Furthermore, SAS have since many years a Widerøe’s ground operations is accounted for in SAS ground and office activities. well developed organization and process for how the sustainability work is • Blue1 comprises Blue1’s airline operations. The environmental impact of carried out and reported. Blue1’s ground operations is accounted for in SAS ground and office activities. • SAS ground and office activities include the activities in SAS Ground Handling Reporting Principles for Defining Quality (SGH), SAS Technical Operations and SAS Cargo Group (SCG) and the ground 5. Balance: The report should reflect positive and negative aspects of the orgaoperations of Widerøe and Blue1. In addition, the premises used by the SAS nization’s performance to enable a reasoned assessment of overall perforGroup in Scandinavia are included. mance. The SAS Group’s Approach: The SAS Group disclose both success and failure During 2009 and 2010 there has been a substantial reorganization within SAS. regarding the Group’s approach to sustainable development. The SAS The Sustainability report is structured in order to mirror the new organization. Group has a tradition of openly disclose all material issues and performances, This includes presenting Scandinavian Airlines environmental impact in both positive and negative. total and not divided on country organizations. However, the environmental index will be presented divided into the previous country organizations up until 2011. 6. Comparability: Issues and information should be selected, compiled, and SAS still holds interests in Air Greenland and Estonian Air but as SAS is no lonreported consistently. Reported information should be presented in a manner ger majority shareholder and is divesting the current holdings they are not presentthat enables stakeholders to analyze changes in the organizations perfored. The SAS Group’s structure is presented on page 95 in the Annual Report 2011. mance over time, and could support analysis relative to other organizations. The SAS Group’s Approach: The purpose with these accounting principles is Sustainability reporting to make the reported information as comparable as possible. Limitations in The SAS Group’s Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the scope and changes in accounting principles are described. In some cases, SAS Accounting Principles for Sustainability Reporting. The presentation and disindicators are not perfectly translatable to GRI’s “Indicator Protocols”. The closures are partly based on Deloitte’s (Sweden) Checklist for preparation and reason is usually that the SAS Group for a long time have used uniform defievaluation of voluntary reporting of environmental, ethical and social information nitions of social and environmental indicators that might not conform com(”Checklista för upprättande och utvärdering av information om miljö, etik, socialt pletely to GRI principles. In other circumstances, it can be attributed to the ansvar och bolagsstyrning” Utgåva 2008, www.deloitte.se). SAS Group has also fact that the SAS Group has not historically reported on the demanded data. applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainable Reporting Guidelines, In “Cross reference list for GRI” all deviations from GRI’s “Indicator Protocols” version 3.0. GRI cross-references are available on page 46–56. These indicate are explained. where the GRI-indicators are found in the SAS Sustainability Report 2011, and also comment on non-applicable GRI-indicators. The Sustainability Report also covers 7. Accuracy: The reported information should be sufficiently accurate and deall important principles in the UN Global Compact. GRI’s Sustainability Reporting tailed for stakeholders to assess the reporting organization’s performance. Guidelines, version 3, contains 10 reporting principles as disclosed below, that has The SAS Group’s Approach: It is important that the information reported is as been taken into account in preparing the SAS Group’s Sustainability Report 2011. correct as possible. See the description in the segment “10. Reliability” below, for how the SAS Group ensures the accuracy of reported information. Reporting Principles for Defining Content In these accounting principles it is possible to find accounting and compila1. Materiality: The information in a report should cover areas and indicators that tion principles for most of the indicators disclosed in the SAS Group’s Susreflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social tainability Report as well as the definitions of concepts used in the Sustainimpacts or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions ability Report. of stakeholders. The SAS Group’s Approach: In the preparation of the Sustainability Report 8.  Timeliness: Reporting occurs on a regular schedule and is available in time all information considered material, by external or internal factors, has been for stakeholders to make informed decisions. included. Materiality can be defined by stakeholder requests but also by the The SAS Group’s Approach: The SAS Group’s Sustainability Report is distribSAS Group’s most important aspects of sustainability or the SAS Group’s uted annually. approach to responsibility for sustainable development. 9. Clarity: Information should be made available in a manner that is understand2. Stakeholder inclusiveness: The reporting organization should identify its able and accessible to stakeholders using the report. stakeholders and explain in the report how it has responded to their reasonThe SAS Group’s Approach: The ambition is to briefly describe the most imporable expectations and interests. tant impacts on the operations by environmental and social aspects, which is The SAS Group’s Approach: The SAS Group has identified its most important considered to be of interest for the major stakeholder groups. Due to the stakeholders from a sustainability perspective. These are described on pagnumber of different stakeholders, complex operations, and limited space the es 6–7 in the Sustainability Report together with main communication chanSAS Group has chosen to use a non-technical language and avoid detailed nels for each stakeholder group. The sustainability report includes the infordescriptions. Furthermore, the structure of the Sustainability Report is similar mation deemed most important for the main stakeholders. from year to year. 56 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 10. Reliability: Information and processes used in the preparation of a report Principles for reporting and calculation of environmental data should be gathered, recorded, compiled, analyzed, and disclosed in a way Reported environmental information is based on the following calculations and/ that could be subject to examination and that establishes the quality and or factors: materiality of information. • Distance, based on WGS84 Great Circle Distance (GCD) calculations between The SAS Group’s Approach: Formally, the managing director (MD) of each airport reference points as defined in national AIPs. legal unit has the main responsibility for the sustainability reporting. They • Passenger weight for TK calculations in 100 kg for any person with hand luggage are in general assisted by HR and/or sustainability coordinators who are and checked luggage transported. Does not including active crew. responsible for analyzing and reporting data from their respective units into • Cargo and mail, actual weight is used. reporting templates, which are sent to the Group’s environmental and sus• Fuel density (kg per liter): tainability function. – Jet A/A-12): 0.8 or actual density. – Diesel: 0.84 The central environment and sustainability function consolidate the information – Petrol: 0.73 for the whole Group and review and analyze the information and compares it with – Heating oil: 0.84 data from previous years. Certain information, primarily related to production • CO2 factor (per weight unit of fuel): data, taxes and charges are collected from other group functions. – Jet A/A-12): 3.15 Assessment of sustainability goals and the fulfillment of these goals according – Diesel: 3.17 to the Global Compact principles are made by self-assessments on entity-level in – Petrol: 3.12 conjunction with a dialogue with the Group´s environment and sustainability – Heating oil: 3.17 function. • Energy conversion of fuels (GWh per 1,000 tons): The Group’s external auditors have performed an independent review of the – Jet A/A-1: 12.0 SAS Group’s Sustainability Report. The review was conducted in accordance with – Diesel: 12.0 Far (the institute for the accountancy profession in Sweden) “RevR 6 Assurance – Petrol: 12.2 of sustainability reports”. The scope of the auditors’ independent review is de– Heating oil: 12.0 scribed in detail in their Review Report on page 55. • Nitrogen oxides (NO X), factors (per weight unit of fuel): – Jet A/A-11) Between 0.00694 and 0.01932 Scope of the sustainability report – Heating oil: 0.005 The SAS Group’s Sustainability Report should contribute to the evaluation and • Unburnt hydrocarbons (HC) factors (per weight unit of fuel): understanding of the SAS Group’s operations. The report is an overview of the – Jet A/A-11) Between 0.0 and 0.0318 SAS Group’s structured sustainability work. The goal of the SAS Group’s Sustainability Report 2011 is to disclose all information necessary to provide the reader 1. Varies per aircraft/engine combination. 2. Fuel density and CO 2 factor for Jet A/A-1 is calculated according to approved MRV-plan. with a fair overview of the Group’s environmental, social, and financial responsibilities. Environmental index The SAS Group has a long tradition of reporting on environmental indicators. SAS have set goals for the airline operations for environmental index until 2011 The Group, which work within several different countries with several different relating to an organizational division that no longer exists, where Scandinavian companies constantly works to achieve comparable environmental and social inAirlines is divided into four production units. To uphold the comparability to previdicators. In the SAS Group’s opinion, deviations in reported data with regards to ous years the environmental index will be reported based on production units the principles described by the Group are not material, and the information prountil 2011. For the environmental index RPK will still be used as the production vided gives a fair presentation of the Group’s sustainability approach and impact. factor to uphold comparability. Due to the characteristics of the Group’s operaTo the extent possible, entities within the SAS Group report on financial imtions, SAS has chosen to construct an environmental index for flight operations. pacts of environmental and social responsibilities. Based upon the estimated environmental impact the factors have, a weighting The SAS Group Annual Report 2011 includes a general overview of the has been assigned which affect the impact that factor has on the entity’s eco-effiGroup’s environmental work and the sustainability information in the Board of ciency. This weighting is based upon scientific findings and the SAS Group´s own Director’s Report on pages 50–51 in the Annual Report 2011 is tailored to the notion on the factor’s environmental impact. requirements prescribed by EU directive (2003/51/EC). The environmental index (eco-efficiency) is calculated in two steps: The utmost responsibility for the sustainability aspects of the SAS Group, and their integration in operational activities, lies with Group Management. The SusVariable 1 current year Variable Z current year tainability Report was approved by the SAS Group Management in March 2012. Environmental impact = a x ––––––––––––– […]+n x ––––––––––––– The SAS Group Board of Directors submitted the annual report in March 2012, Variable 1 base year Variable Z base year and was informed of the sustainability report. Where a...n is the assigned weighting (see below) and 1...Z is the significant enviLimitations ronmental aspect in question. The main principle for sustainability reporting is that all units and companies controlled by the SAS Group are accounted for. This means that sustainabilityProduction base year related data for divested companies owned by the Group during the period will be Environmental index = Environmental impact X ––––––––––––----------– reported wherever possible. The same accounting principles as for financial inProduction current year formation in the Annual Report are intended to be used for financial information in the Sustainability Report. The lower the value, the lower the environmental impact per unit produced. The SAS Group has a number of production indicators (such as passenger kilometers and available seat kilometers). In some cases there will be differences Flight operations regarding definitions, resulting in reduced possibility to compare information Environmental aspect Weighting Production factor between the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. Standard definitions for environmental and social data have been applied Carbon dioxide 50% Revenue Passenger Kilometer (RPK) throughout the entire Group. Some minor limitations have been made regarding Nitrogen oxides 40% the information provided in the Sustainability Report. None of the limitations are Weighted noise contour 10% considered to have substantial significance. The high weightings for carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxides are based on the scienChanges in accounting and calculating principles tific findings summarized in the IPCC report Aviation and the Global Atmosphere. The sustainability information in the Sustainability Report is affected by the following changes: Climate index Sick leave for Blue1 have been adjusted for 2010 due to change of method. The climate index is calculated by taking the quantity of emissions of carbon dioxEnergy figures have been adjusted for 2010 due to improved data capture and ide and nitrogen oxides in relation to production. Even though there are no conreporting from suppliers. sensus regarding the weighting between the different greenhouse gases’ effect FTE in the tables regarding key environmental figures for Scandinavian Airon total impact on climate change, SAS have chosen to base the calculation on lines, SAS Ground Handling and SAS Technical Operations has been changed in the assumption from, among others, Cicero that 1.5 is a reasonable multiplicator 2010 from average number of employees during the year to total number of emgiven the knowledge available “today”. Read more about Cicero, that has e.g. proployees in December. The figures used in these tables now reflect the figures vided basic data for IPCC, on www.sasgroup.net under the headline Sustainabilipresented in the social data. ty. This gives a relationship of 2/3 carbon dioxide to 1/3 other climate changing For previous changes, see Accounting Principles for previous periods. emissions such as nitrogen oxides, water vapor and particulates. Nitrogen oxides have been chosen as a non-CO2 indicator for the climate index. Until clearer directives are given regarding how the total climate effect should be calculated every emission is reported separately. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 57 Environmental aspect Weighting Production factor Data sources for Fuel Efficiency Index Carbon dioxide 67% Revenue Passenger Kilometer (RPK) The FEI for each flight is calculated with data from the following sources: Nitrogen oxides 33% • The “Flight Summary Report” transmitted by Data Link after each flight provides the actual fuel burn. Both the Environmental index and Climate index are designed for SAS to present • The PALCO load control system provides actual payload, which is used to correct year-to-year development. This assumes that no changes to methodology are for variations in payload. made. • The Flight Planning System provides the average forecast wind, which is used to correct for the influence of wind. Principles for reporting and calculation of social data • Figures from the FMIS database on average normalized burn figures, per city The following principles for calculating and reporting of social data have been used. pair and aircraft type during the base period is used as reference when calculatOccupational injuries (H-value): ing the FEI value for individual flights. The city pairs in the database have been Frequency of occupational injuries (H value) is calculated using the following formula: selected as the most frequently operated city pairs per aircraft type. These city pairs are assumed to be a representative sample of all flights, which allows the No. of occupational injuries with minimum 1 day’s absence x 1,000,000 assumption that the measured FEI improvement is valid for all flights. total number of performed working hours per year FEI values outside the range 0.7–1.4 (0.8–1.2 for long haul flights) are regarded as outliers and are not included in averages. Less than 0.5% of the FEI values are Number of employees: outside the range. In the Sustainability Report the number of employees for Scandinavian Airlines is based on the number of persons during the month of December and sick leave statistics calculated for the whole year. This being employees having a budgeted or actual schedule and/or have been sick during the period. For Widerøe and Blue1 average number of employees (FTE) is reported in the Sustainability Report. Sick leave: Sick leave for Scandinavian Airlines is reported as the number of hours being sick in relation to actual or planned working hours. For Widerøe and Blue1 sick leave is reported as the percentage of sick leave in relation to planned work time. For sick leave, absence due to sick children is excluded. Long term sick leave (more than 59 days in Scandinavian Airlines and Blue1. 56 days in Widerøe) is reported as a percentage of total sick leave. Principles for reporting and calculation of external and other environmentally related costs Where it is possible environmentally related costs are based on information directly from the accounting system. When this has not been possible, e.g. for calculations of certain charges and taxes that are included in landing charges, estimates have been used based on the number of passengers to a certain destination and the charge or tax per passenger. Fuel efficiency index Scandinavian Airlines Fuel efficiency on existing aircraft types is calculated using a fuel efficiency index (FEI), that compares fuel consumption on comparable flights over time. The index is constructed so that the average of FEI for all flights of a given aircraft type equals 1 during a base period selected as June 2005–July 2006. When tracking FEI over time for comparable flights with the same aircraft type, it is possible to monitor the development of fuel-saving. Calculation method FEI can be calculated for individual flights and is then calculated as an average for an aircraft type, a production unit or all of Scandinavian Airlines. The FEI is calculated for individual flights covering about 35% of all Scandinavian Airlines flights, selected as the most frequently flown routes for each aircraft type and considered to be a representative sample of all flights. To account for the fuel-saving during a given period expressed in kilos of fuel, Scandinavian Airlines considers the fuel actually burned during the period and the FEI improvement since base period and calculates the fuel that would have been burned if there had been no FEI improvement. The difference is the estimated saving volume. As an example, assuming an actual burn of 1,000,000 tons of fuel in a 12-month period and average FEI was 0.96 in the same period, the calculation will be as follows: Savings (ton) = 1,000,000/0.96 – 1,000,000 = 41,666 tons when using 2005–2006 as base period. Savings in relation to another period can also be calculated. For example, Scandinavian Airlines can compare fuel-savings in 2010 due to FEI improvement since 2009. Assuming there was an average FEI of 0.958 in 2009 and 0.954 in 2010 and an actual burned volume of 1,000,000 tons in 2010, the calculation of saved volume in 2010 (compared with 2009) is as follows: Savings (ton) = 1,000,000 x (0.958/0.954) – 1,000,000 = 4,192 ton. By considering the individual months separately, it is possible to arrive at slightly different numbers. 58 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Sustainability-terms, definitions & concepts A Environmentally related investments Investments in assets to prevent, reduce or restore environmental damage arising from operations and/or are aimed at Acetate Acetic acid (CH3 COOH). Used by airport operators to deice takeoff and meeting upcoming, more stringent environmental requirements. landing strips. Environmentally related provisions Provisions for liabilities and allocations for ASK Available Seat Kilometers, the available (offered) number of passenger known undertakings and requisite measures to prevent, reduce or restore enviseats multiplied by the distance flown. ronmental damage arising from operations. ATAG Air Transport Action Group is an independent coalition of organization and Environmentally related taxes Taxes which, in contrast to other corporate taxacompanies throughout the air transport industry . tion, are motivated by environmental grounds. Examples are the environmentally ATK Available Ton Kilometers, available (offered) capacity for passengers and motivated passenger charge in Great Britain and the environmentally related fiscargo expressed in metric tonnes, multiplied by the distance flown. cal CO2 -charge in Norway. The charge on glycol in Norway is also included as a Average number of employees Average number of employees is defined as the part of the environmentally related taxes. average number of employees expressed in full time equivalents, excluding leave External environmentally related costs The sum of environmental charges and of absence, parental leave and long-term sick leave. This definition is also used in environmentally related charges and taxes. the financial reporting. Sometimes the term FTE (Full Time Equivalent) is used. F B Fossil fuels Fuels consisting of organic carbon and hydrogen compounds in Biofuels Solid or liquid fuel with biological origin. Liquid fuels for vehicle/ship/ sediment or underground deposits – especially coal, oil and natural gas. aircraft engines. To various degree considered carbon neutral. EU’s renewables directive (2009/28/EC) and biofuels directive (2003/30/EC) defines EU’s manG dates on biofuels and degree of carbon neutrality. Germicides Chemicals used to kill or prevent the growth of harmful microorganC isms such as bacteria, virus or fungus. Added to the sanitizing liquid in aircraft lavatories reduce the risk of infection. CAEP Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection, technical committee Global Compact A challenge from the former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan of the ICAO (see definition) charged with developing and establishing rules and to business and industry to live up to ten principles of human rights, employee recommending measures to reduce the environmental impact of aviation. rights, the environment and anti-corruption, as formulated by the UN. Carbon dioxide (CO2) A colorless gas that is formed in combustion of all fossil www.unglobalcompact.org fuels. The airline industry’s CO2 emissions are being reduced through a changeGlycol An alcohol that is sprayed on the aircraft in cold weather to prevent ice forover to more fuel-efficient aircraft, something that is also desirable from a finanmation. Today, a non-toxic propylene glycol is used. Some 80% of the glycol runs cial standpoint since lower fuel consumption automatically means lower costs. off the aircraft when applied, and seeps into the ground unless collected. A further Carbon monoxide (CO) A toxic and combustible gas formed by incomplete burn15% is emitted into the air and is thus dispersed in the vicinity of the airport. The ing of substances containing carbon, e.g. fossil fuels. airports are responsible for collecting the glycol runoff for reuse. Certification requirements The ICAO’s minimum requirements for certification GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An organization aiming to provide companies and of aircraft types, such as limits for noise and emissions of carbon dioxide, organizations with a global sustainability reporting framework and thereby facilinitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons (see Chapter 2, 3). tate comparisons between companies from a social, environmental and economCFCs A group of clorofluorocarbons that may also contain hydrogen and /or broical perspective. www.globalreporting.org mide. A class of stable chemical compounds mostly known under trade names Green Approach In a Green Approach, the approach begins from from the Top of freon or halon. Manufacture prohibited by Montreal Protocol because of negative Descent (ToD) using a Continuous Descent Approach (CDA) with minimum thrust. effect, depletion, of the Ozone Layer. Aviation has exception for use under a critical Greenhouse effect Carbon dioxide and other gases trap and reradiate incoming use clause due lack of approve alternatives. Research for alternatives is ongoing. solar radiation that would otherwise be reflected back into space. The problem is Charges for the infrastructure Charges imposed by the operators of the infrathat emissions of greenhouse gases have increased. Most scientists agree that structure and which are intended to cover operating and capital costs for airlines heavy human use of fossil fuels is causing global warming. Carbon dioxide is and air traffic management. formed in combustion of all fossil fuels, but burning of biofuels only emits an CO2 Carbon dioxide (see definition). amount of carbon equal to that absorbed during growth, producing no net emisCode of Conduct Business ethics rules and guidelines. sions. However, use of coal, oil and natural gas produce a net increase, since they D release carbon that has been bound in the earth’s crust. The freon substitute HFC, methane and nitrous oxide are other powerful greenhouse gases. Other dB Decibel, a logarithmic unit of measurement that expresses the magnitude of a gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect are CFCs (see definition), methane physical quantity relative to a specified or implied reference level. and nitrous oxide. Drop-in fuel A fuel that is chemically indistinguishable from conventional jet fuel. This means that no changes would be required in aircraft or engine fuel systems, H distribution infrastructure or storage facility. It can be mixed interchangeably Halons See CFCs. with existing jet fuel. HC Hydrocarbons (see VOCs). E Heavy metals Certain high density metals, such as cadmium and mercury, that have both acute and chronic toxic effects. Ecoefficiency A term launched primarily by the environmentally oriented busiHydrocarbons See Volatile organic compounds. ness organization WBCSD. Ecoefficiency is defined as a tool that companies can use to measure their environmental performance relative to how market demands I are met and the company’s financial performance is improved. The goal of eco­ IATA The Air Transport Association represents, leads and serves the airline inefficiency is to generate qualitative growth where value is created instead of dustry. Its members comprise all major passenger and cargo airlines transforming unnecessary volumes of material and energy into waste. ISO 14000 A series of international environmental standards developed by the EMAS EU Eco Management and Audit Scheme. EMAS is based on ISO 14001. International Organization for Standardization. The general guiding principles for Two of its requirements are publication of an environmental audit and employee ISO 14000 are identical to those in the quality standard ISO 9000. There are sevinvolvement. Current edition is EMAS III (2009). eral environmental standards in the ISO 14000 family, such as for environmental Environmental impact of leased aircraft Fuel consumption and emissions management systems (ISO 14001), environmental labeling, environmental audits from leased aircraft and aircraft leased including the crew (wet lease), are includand life cycle analyses. ed in the reported data for Scandinavian Airlines. Environmentally related charges Charges imposed by the airport operators J for the purpose of motivating aircraft operators to operate aircrafts with high ecoJet A-1 Common jet fuel specification outside North America. (Jet A and Jet A-1 efficiency with respect to noise and other emissions such as of NOX as well as surare very similar and throughout this sustainability report the term jet fuel is used charges imposed by airport operators to motivate aircraft operators to avoid takedescribe fuel used by aviation. offs and landings at night. In some cases the environmentally related charges are considered income-neutral, i.e. the total income of the airport remains unK changed by decrease in other charges. The methods for classifying aircraft differ Kerosene The common name for petroleum-derived jet fuel such as Jet A-1. between countries as well as airports within countries. Although the charges are Kerosene is one of the fuel sources that can be made by refining crude oil. It is differentiated based on the ecoefficiency of the aircraft, all in all they are balanced also used for a variety of other purposes. out in such a way as to amount to the total cost determined by the airport operator. Environmentally related contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities pertaining M to possible future costs for measures to prevent, reduce or restore environmental MRV Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of CO2 emissions and production in damage arising from operations. tonne-kilometers in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme. SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 59 N S N-ALM The Nordic Working Group for Environmental Issues in Aviation, comSAFUG Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group. Aviation industry organization posed of civil aviation, environmental and communication authorities and airlines focused on accelerating the development and commercialization of sustainable in the Nordic countries. aviation fuels. Nitrogen oxides (NO X) Formed during combustion in all in engines. For aircraft SO2 Sulfur dioxide (see definitinon). engines since the high temperature and pressure cause the atmospheric nitroSulfur dioxide (SO2) Formed in combustion of fossil fuels if containing sulfur. A gen and oxygen to react with each other, mainly during takeoff and ascent when colorless gas with an acrid odor that is toxic when inhaled in large quantities. Avithe engine temperature is at a maximum. With effect from 1996 the ICAO has ation fuel contains a minute proportion of sulfur, and, accordingly, causes only tightened the requirements for nitrogen oxide emissions, and these are expected minor emissions of this substance. The same applies to the “green” diesel used to be made even stricter. New engines with double annular combusters (DAC), for in ground vehicles. In the airline industry, as in many others, sulfur dioxide emisexample, reduce emissions by up to 40% compared with the previous generation sions come largely from oil-fired heating. of engines. (See also Acidification and Ozone layer.) Sustainable development means that when mankind satisfies its needs to toNoise Environmentally detrimental, undesirable sounds. The environmental imday, it does so without limiting the opportunities for future generations to satisfy pact of air traffic in the form of noise is primarily of a local nature. Noise is normally theirs. described and measured in dB(A), an A-weighted sound level. T NO X Nitrogen oxides (see definition). Tonne kilometers The number of transported metric tonnes of passengers and O cargo multiplied by the distance flown. Occupational injuries Occupational injuries is the number of injuries employU ees incur by accidents at the workplace resulting in at least one day of absence. Oil aerosols Oil emitted from the aircraft engines during operation under high Urea A urine substance synthetically produced from carbon dioxide and ammopressure. Upon contact with air they form a fine mist, which is then broken down nia that is used by airport operators for deicing of runways. Contributes to nutrifiprimarily into carbon dioxide. cation/ eutrophication. See also Acetate. Other environmentally related costs Costs for waste management, purificaV tion plants, permits, any fines and charges for permit deviation, costs for remediation measures, etc. as well as internal reported costs for environmental work, Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Emitted during incomplete combustion of e.g. costs for persons and organizations working with environmental issues, fossil fuels – in aviation mainly when the engine is run at low speed and the temcosts for sustainability reporting etc. perature in the combustion chamber is low. This category also includes all types of solvents that evaporate from detergents and paints, among other things. With P effect from April 1, 2002, only aircraft with low VOC emissions will be permitted PFOS: Perfluorooctane sulfonate. A substance used as fire-fighting foam among in the EU. other uses and prohibited for use in in concentrations of 0.005% per weight or W higher since 2007 in Norway. Regulation work ongoing in EU and USA. PULS The Swedish acronym for SAS´s employee surveys, conducted via individWeighted noise contour The weighted noise contour is calculated based on ual questionnaires. the number of takeoffs per day at a given airport, with regard to the aircraft types the airline uses at that airport. The weighted noise contour defines the area in R km2 that is subjected to a noise footprint of 85 dB(A) or more in connection with RPK (used in the financial reporting) Revenue Passenger Kilometers, utilized takeoff. (sold) capacity for passengers expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the distance flown. Revenue passengers include only those paying at least 25% of the regular ticket price. RPK (used in the sustainability-related reporting) Revenue Passenger Kilometers, utilized (sold) capacity for passengers expressed as the number of seats multiplied by the distance flown in scheduled traffic, charter, ad hoc flights and bonus trips. RTK Revenue Ton Kilometers, utilized (sold) passenger and cargo capacity expressed in metric tonnes, multiplied by the great circle distance flown. Revenue passengers and cargo over a certain payment limit. PK Passenger Kilometers, includes all passengers excluding active crew multiplied by the great circle distance flown for all flights performed. 60 SAS Group Sustainabilit y Repor t 2011 Our vision: Our mission: Our brand promise: To be valued for excellence by We provide best value for time and Service And Simplicity all stakeholders money to nordic travelers whatever the purpose of their journey We have ambitious targets Our goal is to achieve sustainable profitability through: • S  AS is to be Number 1 – The Nordic region’s most valued airline by reaching new heights in customer satisfaction ratings • Unit cost shall be reduced 3–5% annually • O  ur employee satisfaction is to be in the Top Five in the entire Nordic transportation sector • We are to reduce our flight emissions by 20%. To secure an efficient return on investment. We will achieve this with our 4Excellence strategy: Commercial Excellence Operational Excellence – Continue to offer most – Increase efficiency and value for time and money reduce CASK Sales Excellence People Excellence – Promote loyalty among – Conditions for change companies and customers work Accelerated 4Excellence in 2012–2013 Some 30 initiatives will generate SEK 5 billion SAS is increasing the tempo within the framework of 4ExcelOf the total earnings effect of SEK 5 billion, SEK 3.5 billion perlence, which will generate a total of SEK 5 billion in revenue and tains to cost savings in all of the four areas. Activities in Comcost improvements in 2012–2013, and achieve an earnings mercial Excellence and Sales Excellence will generate revenue effect of SEK 2 billion by 2012. of SEK 1.5 billion. Production: SAS Group and Intellecta Corporate Design: Intellecta Corporate Photography: SAS image bank www.sasgroup.net SAS AB (publ) • Corp. Reg. No. 556606-8499 • Domicile: Stockholm • Street address: Kabinvägen 5, Arlanda, Sweden • Postal address SE-195 87 Stockholm, Sweden • Telephone +46 8 797 00 00
