UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT BOURNS, INC. 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer November 14, 2012 To whom it may concern, As Chairman of the Board and CEO of Bourns, Inc. (“Bourns”), I am pleased to confirm Bourns’ continued support of the United Nations Global Compact (“UN Global Compact”) and its principles regarding human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Bourns voluntarily adopted the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in furtherance of our commitment to conduct business with the highest standard of ethics and in accordance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. Bourns has a Code of Ethics and Conduct (the “Bourns Code”) which is available on Bourns’ website at http://www.bourns.com/data/global/pdfs/bourns_code_of_ethics.pdf. All Bourns employees worldwide are required to comply with the Bourns Code in the performance of their daily work tasks and responsibilities. Additionally, Bourns requires its subcontractors to comply with the Bourns Code which may involve higher standards than required by local law. Bourns’ continued commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles is demonstrated by the following actions:  The Bourns Code supports and respects, within its reasonable ability to influence, the protection of international human rights set forth in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s fundamental conventions. Bourns’ corporate policy prohibits the use of Conflict Minerals, (specifically coltan, niobium, tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, and their derivatives which are mined in areas of armed conflict and human rights abuses, notably in the eastern provinces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo) in any of its products. In furtherance of this policy, Bourns has established a database to record its sub-suppliers’ sourcing of such Conflict Minerals.  The Bourns Code prohibits the use of forced labor and/or child labor in violation of international standards. Bourns also has a corporate policy which prohibits harassment, discrimination and retaliation. Bourns provides its employees with both an Ombudsman program as well as an Ethics Hotline in most of the world so employees can report suspected violations of (i) law, (ii) Bourns’ policies or (iii) the Bourns Code in a confidential manner (to the extent permitted by local law).  In 2012, Bourns issued a formal statement regarding its efforts to use suppliers which act in a responsible manner including those having no involvement with slavery, human trafficking, forced labor or child labor in violation of international standards. This document is posted on Bourns website at: http://www.bourns.com/data/global/pdfs/CA_Transparency_in_Supply_Chain_Act_Statement_12_2011.pdf  In 2012, Bourns was a sponsor and host for the local Science and Technology Education Partnership (STEP) program that, in part, educated 4,500 students from kindergarten through grade 12 about the development and use of environmentally friendly technologies. Information about STEP is available at the following link: http://myscienceeducation.com/  Bourns continues to be a proud supporter of the University of California Riverside (UCR), the UCR Marlan and Rosemary Bourns College of Engineering, as well as its research centers which include the Center for Environmental Research & Technology, which is located adjacent to Bourns, Inc., as well as the Center for Nanoscale Science & Engineering, and the Center for Research in Intelligent Systems, all of which are involved in the development and advancement of environmentally friendly technologies.  Bourns’ continuing commitment to education and betterment of the world is further demonstrated through Bourns’ involvement with California Baptist University’s School of Engineering which renamed its engineering building as Bourns Laboratories in 2009. The Bourns Foundation has established and continues to support annually a scholarship endowment program at California Baptist University.  Bourns has an Environmental, Health & Safety policy, which is available on Bourns’ website at http://www.bourns.com/RoHS.aspx?name=EnvPolicy. Bourns endeavors to undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility and encourage the development and implementation of environmentally-friendly technologies, processes and products. In this regard, the Bourns facility located in Tijuana, Mexico received its ISO 14001 certification in October 2012. This is the sixth (6th) Bourns facility to received ISO 14001 certification. Additionally, in keeping with Bourns emphasis on ISO 14001, Bourns facilities continuously review and identify environmental conditions and take action(s) to mitigate the adverse impact of such conditions. The results of these reviews and analyses have resulted in documented reductions of energy consumption and/or hazardous waste(s) in Bourns facilities.  In July 2012, Bourns updated its corporate policy regarding anti-bribery and anticorruption. This policy provides guidance to assure that all Bourns employees worldwide maintain high ethical standards and protect Bourns’ reputation against allegations of bribery and corruption. Previously, in 2010, Bourns updated its corporate policy that pertains to conflicts of interest. That policy requires management worldwide to establish an environment that supports and confirms the Chairman of the Board’s commitment to maintain the highest standard of business conduct and ethics throughout the company. The above highlights reiterate Bourns’ commitment to the UN Global Compact and its ten (10) principles. Bourns looks forward to continuing its support of the UN Global Compact during the next twelve (12) month period. Sincerely, Gordon Bourns Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer -2-
