erved industries illerud aims to lead the development of future packaging solutions with a focus on function, esign and sustainability. Billerud is increasingly working directly with brand owners and argeting four segments of the market in order to better meet demand for smarter packaging. ocus on four served industries ood & consumer & medical & everages industrial luxury goods hygiene rotecting and romoting flavour Optimising demanding Giving a positive Safeguarding health nd nutrition production buying experience and lives reater prosperity and globalisaThe Industrial segment demands The battle for consumers is The world’s growing middle on are increasing transports in-depth process expertise and increasingly fought in store and class and an ageing population in om producer to consumer. products of high quality and producers are placing a major the West are driving demand for ackaging therefore has to strength that offer good run­ emphasis on attractive packaging medical and hygiene products. ithstand longer periods in ability and efficient filling. that helps their goods to stand Demands for purity and safety ansit and at the same time help out and strengthens their brands. are high. reduce environmental impact. 40%* 41%* 7%* 12%* UGAR & FLOUR PACKAGING | CUPS | SACKS | RELEASE LINERS | STEEL INTER­ CARRIER BAGS | CONSUMER BAGS | MEDICAL PACKAGING | RELEASE LINERS | LISTER PACKS | TRAYS | FLEXIBLE PACKLEAVING | CORRUGATED BOXES | FLEXIBLE PACKAGING | TRAYS | BOXES | CORRUGATED BOXES GING | SACKS | CONSUMER BAGS | SPECIALITY PAPER CORRUGATED BOXES | DISPLAYS | SACKS ORRUGATED BOXES | DISPLAYS | QUID PACKAGING Share of Group net sales our served industries B I LLERU D ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 1 1 2011 in brief  Net sales rose by 6% to SEK 9 343 million, largely due to improved prices and higher sales volumes Operating profit totalled SEK 978 million (1 037), which equates to an operating margin of 10%. Lower operating profit for the Market Pulp business area was partly offset by an improved operating profit for the packaging paper segments The net debt/equity ratio was -0.05 (0.03) Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide in the manufacturing process were 39% lower than the base year 2008 The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 3.50 per share (3.50) Billerud received several international awards within packaging materials and design Investment in PACCESS Packaging aims to strengthen Billerud’s B  illerud celebrated ten years as a listed position in Asia company and had the honour of opening the NASDAQ OMX in New York  February 2012 saw an agreement with UPM-Kymmene to purchase their packaging operations in Pietarsaari and Tervasaari, Finland NET SALES OPERATING PROFIT AND MARGIN EMISSIONS OF FOSSIL CARBON DIOXIDE SEKm SEKm % % 10 000 1 200 12 0 7 500 900 9 -10 5 000 600 6 -20 2 500 300 3 -30 0 0 0 -40 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 Net sales, SEKm Operating profit, SEKm Reduction in fossil carbon dioxide emissions Operating margin, % Previous target 2013 = -15% New target 2013 = -30% The Natural Part in Smarter Packaging Of the fruit and vegetables transported in Europe, around 10% never reaches consumers. Billerud’s service concept SoliQTM reduces wastage by optimising the whole supply chain – from grower to retailer. SoliQTM provides purposebuilt packaging using the right material and the right design, with sensors that monitor conditions in transit. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 The year in brief 1 Ready for growth 2011 was a good year for Billerud. We started the year on full throttle with very strong order books and good prices, before being drawn into the general uncertainty and economic pessimism that prevailed towards the end of 2011. Our operating margin reached 10%, cash flow from operating activities hit SEK 1 272 million and we ended the year as a debt-free company. This is a sound basis on which to start the coming year. The economic situation in recent years has Customer benefit IS key an extremely interesting opportunity for proven a challenge for all industrial busiOur packaging material is world-class and Billerud to expand in all these markets. nesses, including Billerud. Financial crises our expertise in packaging optimisation is have come thick and fast, accompanied by getting stronger. Our long-term success Best in industry and strong waves of pessimism and optimism in the relies on us developing brand new products financial position markets. Interest rates and currencies are up and packaging solutions that meet the needs We have a great deal still to do, but I believe and down like a yo-yo. Stocks are run down, and wishes of the market. What we are able that we are already seeing the effects of what filled up and run down again. Customers and to give customers is a total solution compriswe have done so far. We have higher margins consumers are cautious and future is very ing materials, advanced advice and global than most of our competitors, we have better diffucult to assess. reach. stability than before and we have shown a We engage with the market in four core capacity for innovation that few others in the Exciting journey segments: Food & Beverages, Industrial, industry are able to match. We have also had 2011 marked Billerud’s 10th anniversary, and Consumer & Luxury goods and Medical & the industry’s best total annual shareholder celebrations included opening the NASDAQ Hygiene. Our customers face challenges on return, averaging +6.3% per year since 2001. OMX in New York on 26 September. This was several fronts. The demand to cut resource While this is a level that can and should be an honour, and proof of Billerud’s current wastage at every level means that all procimproved on, it compares favourably with status – a status attained via a conscious and esses have to be run in a modern and conthe rest of the Nordic forest industry, which consistent journey from a company with scious way. Billerud is able to play a key averages -7.2% per year over the same good products but limited capacity to develop role in this through our expertise in material period. What is more, our strong balance sheet either the business or the products to a cuschoice, packaging design and supply chain makes us well placed to grow through tomer and solution-driven company. Having optimisation. By specialising in the endacquisitions. built up our innovation system, over the past user’s specific needs, we can help improve five years we have launched several new business for our customers. Strategy for growth products and business development initiatives, We have worked actively on acquisitions in including NINE, Fresh Services, Sack New platform in Asia two areas, one being knowledge and services Solutions and FibreForm. We’re not blind adherents to the conventional and the other being production. business wisdom in the industry – to produce Growing in the area of services and High rate of innovation the largest possible volumes for a broadly solutions makes us a more valuable partner We continued with our new launches in 2011, defined market. Our strategy is to find a for our customers. Our investment in one of which was a unique service concept position where we have access to endPACCESS Packaging is an example of this. SoliQ™, which focuses on optimising the customers and where we can specify the On 1 February 2012, we entered into supply and logistics chain for fruit and packaging and produce materials. I believe an agreement with UPM-Kymmene to vegetables. Alongside the right materials and this gives us the potential to achieve higher purchase their packaging paper operations design, we also embrace the latest in sensor long-term growth and better margins. in Pietarsaari and Tervasaari, Finland. This technology to drive up efficiency and quality One aspect of this is our acquisition of a business had sales of around SEK 2 billion in the transport chain. 30% stake in PACCESS Packaging in 2011, in 2011. I see this deal as opening up signifiAnother example is our subsidiary NINE, with an option on becoming a majority cant potential for Billerud to develop its which received an award for its design of stakeholder at a later date. PACCESS offering in smarter packaging solutions. We Ramlösa’s new premium water bottle – a Packaging designs, procures and quality are also reducing our pulp exposure considPET plastic bottle that has better eco-credenassures packaging primarily for American erably and shrinking our currency exposure, tials than glass. Ramlösa enjoyed a successbrands who produce their products in Asia. which I see as a positive move. Lower expoful launch, with customer numbers up 16%. Local knowledge and access to quality sure to the pulp market means that, on comThis shows how crucial packaging design is assured packaging suppliers in Asia gives pletion of the acquisition, we will not be for our customers’ products and the value PACCESS Packaging a platform for expanreporting sales of market pulp separately. we at Billerud can add in the form of smarter sion into new customer segments in North packaging solutions. America and Europe, and also into new supply markets in Asia. This move opens up 2 C E O ’ s s tat e m e n t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 +6% +10% +14% Net sales growth Operating margin Return on equity We CAN give customers a total solution comprising materials, advanced advice and global reach The Natural Part in Smarter development and the economics of producand our shareholders to be proud of what we Packaging tion have been put ahead of customer focus. do and what we stand for. That will be the With Billerud channelling its energies and The upshot of this is an industry where, in guiding light on our journey into the future. focusing on the customer, we also need to many cases, new investment is unviable. make our own brand more defined and have Here at Billerud, we have a different take on Next step a clear strategy both externally and internally. success and this is what we want to define We will strengthen Billerud by focusing on We have done this over the year under the Billerud’s next 10 years. our customers’ packaging solution needs. banner of The Natural Part in Smarter It may sound trivial, but it represents a major Packaging. We will give customers what they Sustainability as a guiding light job for us in continuing our extensive process need in the way of packaging – stronger, I also think it is important for a company of change. We must secure our position more attractive, more cost-effective and with such as Billerud, with customers in over 100 among customers and brand owners as the a lower environmental impact. countries, to maintain a deep commitment to natural partner in their development, working I see building a Billerud that can succeed the society around us. We set our environwith renewable materials and solutions. in this as our core challenge for the coming mental sights higher in 2011, with targets for years. Naturally, we also face challenges on further cuts in carbon emissions by 2013, a the purely operational front; managing the decision to invest in Skärblacka to reduce its Solna, March 2012 twists and turns of the economy, investments, environmental impact and improve energy cost-efficiencies, environmental work and efficiency, and a continued concentration on quality assurance. But we must never lose renewable materials. We also managed to our focus on development work. After all, recruit two highly competent women to the this is the foundation on which we will build senior management team during the year, the future. and we are continuing to work with Action Billerud is set to continue on its own Aid to promote direct initiatives in the path. I believe that developments in the developing world. Per Lindberg industry are heading in entirely the wrong Our motto Embracing the {Goods} President and CEO direction. Further capacity has been added to expresses our desire to embrace our customers’ markets plagued by narrow margins, a focus products and values. I want Billerud’s on volumes has replaced a focus on product employees, our customers and suppliers, BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 C E O ’ s s tat e m e n t 3 strategic focus Billerud is a leading global supplier of primary fibre-based packaging paper that is strong and eco-friendly, with unique properties. The focus on smarter packaging solutions provides packaging manufacturers and brand owners with added value that boosts their competitiveness and their brands. GROWTH Strategy for profitable growth Billerud’s objective is to generate profitable growth. This will be achieved by increasing CULTURE the proportion of paper in relation to market pulp, improving the product mix and customer VALUES structure and developing smart new packaging solutions for different market segments. EMPLOYEES The strategy is built on two cornerstones: • Customer-focused development With a strong focus on customer benefit, innovation and sustainability, Billerud is at the very cutting edge when it comes to understanding and meeting every aspect of WORLD-CLASS PROCESS CUSTOMER-FOCUSED the market’s need for smarter packaging. DEVELOPMENT EFFICIENCY Customer benefit means that each customer • Customer benefit • Production is able to exploit the benefits of Billerud’s • Sales materials and services to achieve an optimal • Innovation and profitable packaging solution. Billerud’s • Sustainability • Administration primary fibre-based packaging paper gives attractive, strong and efficient packaging. Innovation underpins the development of Positioned for the future the Billerud brand the company’s offering. A comprehensive The repositioning from a production-focused Billerud is a strong and well known brand in understanding of the whole value chain to a customer and solution-driven company, the market for packaging paper and packaging. allows Billerud to offer packaging solutions that begun in 2006, means that Billerud is A customer survey conducted in 2010 shows and materials with new properties, alongside now increasingly focusing directly on brand a high level of trust in the company’s prodnew business models and services. owners. This creates new business opportuniucts and expertise. ties and growth with higher and more stable Culture, values and employees are key Sustainability underpins all product develmargins. to the way a brand is perceived. In 2011, a opment and manufacture. Billerud develops Billerud’s vision to set the highest global drive to further streng­then the brand and sustainable and attractive solutions that help standards for renewable, protective and enable the company to act in a clear and to reduce environmental impact. attractive packaging solutions ties in with coherent way globally was therefore initiated. the increasing interest globally in environA new profile was launched under the • World-class process efficiency mental issues, and thus offers major concept “Embracing the {Goods}”, which Billerud will work systematically to continuopportunities for growth. sums up the company’s culture and values: ously improve process and cost-efficiency, in The company is also actively seeking embracing what is important to our customers, order to ensure long-term competitiveness acquisitions that support its strategy and can our company, our colleagues and the and the ability to generate strong cash flow, contribute to greater growth. environment. By always giving back more and to optimise resource use in production. than it takes, Billerud is building a company This is to be achieved with a keen focus on for future generations. quality at every level. 4 s t r at e g i c f o c u s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 NETWORK CUSTOMERS MATERIALS SOLUTION SERVICES Business model based on materials, solution services and network Billerud has built up a solid offering of products and services, and is a natural partner to the packaging market and brand owners. The offering is summed up by the concept “smarter packaging” – solutions that attract more consumers, increase productivity, lower transportation costs, reduce waste and lower environmental impact. Billerud’s business model centres around the customer, with high-quality materials, an in-depth understanding of the whole value chain and a global network of customers and packaging partners. High-quality materials Knowing the value chain Global Network Billerud offers sustainable and renewable Billerud’s in-depth knowledge of the value With over 1 000 customers and packaging paper based on the essential primary fibre chain for packaging encompasses everything partners in 100 countries, Billerud has a needed to achieve strong and functional from sustainability, efficient production and global network, providing benefits such as packaging. The long list of packaging applitransport optimisation to consumer behaviour global reach, shorter time to market and cations ranges from food, building materials and the role of packaging in the customer’s reliable quality and delivery. and transportation to exclusive goods such business and marketing of its products. Working more closely with selected as jewellery, perfume and wine. Billerud’s Fresh Services has specialist expertise in packaging manufacturers enables Billerud to packaging materials are used on a daily fruit and vegetables, while Billerud’s develdeliver smart packaging solutions to brand basis, all over the world. The product port­ opment centres – Pack Lab, Box Lab and owners and end-users. The network also folio includes the innovative, elastic material Sack Lab – experiment on, test and develop includes other suppliers to the packaging FibreForm, high-porosity sack paper, strong packaging solutions as well as contributing industry, such as manufacturers of packaging fluting and bioplastic – a plastic material to product development and customer support. and filling machines. based on renewable raw materials. Billerud is also the principal owner of the innovation and design agency NINE, and co-owner of the packaging company PACCESS Packaging. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 STRATEGIC FOCUS 5 innovation Customer benefit Alongside technical advances, as far as Billerud is concerned, Billerud works closely with its customers in its role as adviser, innovation is just as much about developing new business models and is constantly developing value-added services. Networks and and services. This work is conducted in cross-functional teams alliances increase reach and extend the scope to supply markets together with customers and suppliers, as well as stakeholders from with different paper grades and services. other industries and networks. Implemented 2011 Implemented 2011 • The Fresh Box Alliance was formed – a global network of • FibreForm received numerous awards, both directly and indiquality assured packaging companies with customers in the fruit rectly via customers’ product launches and vegetables segment, where alliance members can use the • Innovation and design agency NINE was awarded two of the packaging concept SoliQ™ packaging world’s most prestigious design prizes for work on • Investment in PACCESS Packaging to strengthen Billerud’s the Ramlösa premium PET plastic bottle: Diamond Pentawards position in Asia Best of Show and the red dot award: communication design • Several industry seminars were organised in order to deepen 2011 – packaging relations with packaging manufacturers and brand owners • Plans to establish large-scale production of pyrolysis oil at • A successful marketing campaign was completed – six crystal Skärblacka mill were made public. The green oil will replace glasses were sent around the world in a specially designed fossil oil in contexts such as oil-fired power stations corrugated board box using Billerud materials, to test and dem• Several products were developed, including: onstrate the strengths of corrugated board Billerud Centre Liner, used as a separating layer in double wall • Launch of targeted offers to different customer segments: corrugated board for demanding packaging applications Axello, Xpression and Basix A silicone-coated kraft paper for baking • Billerud took the initiative in raising the quality of paper carrier Transparent paper for waxing bags in Italy by working with the industry to introduce a • Installation of test equipment for carrier bags at Pack Lab, European measurement standard equipment for high-speed measurement using an infrared camera • An agreement was entered into with packaging group at Sack Lab and equipment for thermoforming of FibreForm Chesapeake regarding exclusive rights to certain applications and markets for FibreForm, in a move to speed up wider use of Focus next 5 years the material • Produce innovative new packaging materials and solutions in • Billerud implemented several initiatives to increase interest in partnership with brand owners and retailers paper as a packaging material among design students • Continue the development of FibreForm to move into additional applications in more segments Focus next 5 years • Continue to develop barriers in bioplastic that, combined with • Increase sales to consumer segments in Europe and to industry paper, create fully biodegradable packaging in Asia and the Middle East • Seek out new acquisitions that may increase the pace of growth • Build up deeper relations with brand owners to optimise packaging for business development solutions for end-users • Establish a position in the biorefinery field – production of • Increase sales of packaging solutions to the world’s major fruit forest-based fuels and new raw materials from the forest markets • Integrate and combine PACCESS Packaging’s offering with Billerud’s smart packaging solutions • Continue optimising the customer and market mix 6 STRATEGIC FOCUS BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 sustainability Process efficiency Billerud’s processes focus on sustainability in everything from Systematic work to continuously improve process and cost-efficiency renewable materials, in the form of wood fibre, to optimised proin production, sales and administration will secure Billerud’s longduction and transport. Billerud contributes to sustainable developterm competitiveness and ability to generate strong cash flow. This ment in the world by using renewable, fossil-free raw materials as is to be achieved with a keen focus on quality at every level. the chief ingredient in its paper-based packaging materials. The company works to achieve constant energy efficiencies and optiImplemented 2011 mised use of resources. This contributes to the company’s profit• Optimised the new logistic system ability, while at the same time benefiting the global climate. • Introduced joint financial reporting system • Continued work on improvement programme IMPLEMENTED 2011 • Quality project launched at the mills • Carbon emissions from production fell by 39% in 2011. The target • Continued strengthening of the organisation from a productivity for 2013 was revised to -30% from -15% compared with the and quality perspective figure for 2008 • Bottlenecks in pulp production at Gruvön mill were eliminated • The purchase of fossil fuels was further reduced. Billerud uses • An energy efficiency programme was launched 96% biofuel in production • A focus on work environment management, including increased • The number of accidents leading to sick leave was down 20% reporting compared with 2010 • Management reorganisation in Karlsborg • Increased marketing of FibreForm and other climate smart pack• Refit of the packing station in Skärblacka aging solutions to brand owners and end-customers • Continued development of cement sacks with low material use, Focus next 5 years as a result of close collaboration with the world’s major cement • Continued energy efficiencies manufacturers • More efficient production by identifying and eliminating • 60% of participants in Billerud’s latest trainee programme are bottlenecks in production women • Modernising of chemicals recovery in Skärblacka • Billerud’s head office moved to one of Stockholm’s most climate• Improved reliability of deliveries to customers smart office buildings, that is also part of the EU’s Green • Quality improvements to the customer offering Building programme • Improvement and provision of skills FOCUS NEXT 5 YEARS • The materials and solutions offered to customers must be ecofriendly and resource-efficient • Further reductions in emissions of fossil carbon dioxide in the manufacturing processes and in transport • Ongoing assessment of business partners from a sustainability perspective • Improve the work environment, with a core focus on safety • Greater diversity at all levels of the organisation • Improve employee skills and focus on leadership development BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 STRATEGIC FOCUS 7 FINANCIAL TARGETS Billerud will create value for shareholders and other stakeholders through sustainable profitability and growth. The business is driven by financial targets and sustainability targets. 3% ORGANIC GROWTH % 16 The company’s target is to establish long-term organic growth in the order of 3% per year from 12 2008 onwards. 8 Growth will be generated from increasing the proportion of paper in relation to market pulp, improving the product mix and customer structure and from new growth projects in the value 4 chain. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Performance 2011 Organic growth Target = 3% Organic growth was 6% in 2011, compared with 14% the previous year. Over a five-year period, the annual growth rate has been approximately 5%. ≥10% OPERATING MARGIN % 15 Over an economic cycle, the operating margin should be at least 10%. Historically, the development of the pulp and paper industry has followed a cyclical pattern, 10 with corresponding swings in the earning capabilities of the actors in the industry. When setting 5 a profit target for Billerud, the Board of Directors considered the company’s profit history, average exchange rates and price trends for pulp and paper in recent years. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Performance 2011 Operating margin Target = 10% The operating margin was 10% in 2011, compared with 12% the previous year. >WACC RETURN ON INVESTMENTS % 24 Completed investments are to provide a return that is significantly above the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). 16 Billerud is to ensure a return on investment that meets the demands of shareholders while 8 more than covering the company’s costs for liabilities. In practice the company will apply different return requirements depending on the risk level of the investment, with a basic requirement that 0 return on investment is significantly above WACC. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Return on capital WACC before tax employed Performance 2011 Return on capital employed was 20% in 2011, exceeding the company’s WACC of 11%. 8 ta r g e t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Billerud will create value for shareholders and other stakeholders 0.6–0.9 NET DEBT/EQUITY RATIO multiple 1.0 Over an economic cycle, the net debt/equity ratio should be between 0.6 and 0.9. Billerud’s business is influenced to a large extent by general economic conditions, which 0.5 means that the operating risk is considerable. Strengthening the financial position in good years 0.0 is therefore essential in order to sustain the company in bad years. -0.5 Performance 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The net debt/equity ratio was -0.05 in 2011, compared with 0.03 in the previous year. Net debt/equity ratio Target = 0.6 – 0.9 50% DIVIDEND POLICY SEK 8 % 100 SEK 8 Over an economic cycle, the dividend should average out at 50% of net profit. The dividend paid to shareholders will be dependent on, among other factors, Billerud’s 4 50 4 profit level, financial position and future development opportunities. 1 Performance 2011 0 0 0 The Board’s proposal at the 2012 AGM is for a dividend per share of SEK 3.50, which equates 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 to a dividend payout ratio of around 53% of net profit. Earnings per share, SEK Dividend per share, SEK Dividend payout ratio, % 1 Board’s proposal BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 ta r g e t s 9 sustainability targets EMISSIONS OF FOSSIL CARBON DIOXIDE IN THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS % 0 Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from the manufacturing process per tonne of product will be cut by 30% by 2013 (base year 2008). -10 Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide are considered to have a major impact on climate change. -20 Billerud’s aim is to cease using fossil oil in manufacturing processes in the long term. -30% -30 Performance 2011 -40 Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide per tonne of product 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 were 39% lower in 2011 than in the base year of 2008, Reduction in fossil carbon dioxide emissions exceeding the long-term target for 2013. Previous target 2013 = -15% New target 2013 = -30% TRANSPORT 90% of contracted domestic lorry transport is to be carried out by drivers trained in eco-driving % by 2013. 100 Billerud is to develop the most efficient transport solutions possible for raw materials and 80 other materials into the factories and products out of the factories, with a view to cutting 1 60 emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from transport. 40 90% Performance 2011 20 80% of Billerud’s deliveries of pulp and paper within 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 Sweden and 85% of domestic deliveries of wood to Share of contracted domestic transport Billerud’s mills were transported by drivers trained in Target = 90% eco-driving. 1 Applies to delivery of products BUSINESS PARTNERS No. At least five business partners must be audited annually from a sustainability perspective. 10 In addition to being evaluated on the basis of commercial targets, business partners must 8 also be evaluated from an environmental and social perspective. The aim of the audit is to ensure 6 that Billerud’s supply chain meets sustainability standards. 4 ≥5 Performance 2011 2 Seven business partners were audited in 2011. The audit shows that they are 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 working actively in areas such as transport optimisation, cutting energy Number of business partners audited from consumption, strategic HR issues, including safety, and developing codes of a sustainability perspective conduct. Target 2013 ≥ 5 partners WORK ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY No. 100 The number of work-related accidents is to fall constantly through a focus on safety and through 80 incident reporting on an ongoing basis. 60 A safe and smoothly functioning workplace is always paramount. Billerud constantly strives to 40 develop a way of working and a follow-up system that will prevent all work-related accidents in 20 the long term. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Performance 2011 Work-related accidents with sick leave There were 35 work-related accidents leading to sick leave, a drop of eight compared with 2010. at the Swedish mills 10 ta r g e t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY % 50% of managers recruited in 2013 for jobs with personnel management duties are to be women. 100 It is important for Billerud to create an organisation that makes the most of the full potential of 80 its employees, irrespective of their sex, age or ethnic background. This diversity must be found at all 60 levels in the organisation. 50% 40 20 Performance 2011 In 2011, 36% of managers recruited were female, 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 compared with 29% in the previous year. Proportion of female managers recruited Target 2013 = 50% SKILLS % 100 All employees must be able to develop their skills and receive personal feedback on their development 80 and performance. 60 Since skills are such a key factor for motivated employees, improving skills is a constant area 40 100% of focus. 20 Performance 2011 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 In 2011, 75% of employees received personal feedback Proportion of employees who had a in a performance review, compared with 59% in the performance review previous year. Target 2013 = 100% % 100 80 60% of the employees recruited in 2013 must have completed post-upper secondary education. 60 Performance 2011 40 60% The proportion of new recruits with post-upper 20 secondary education was 58% in 2011, compared 0 with 65% in 2010. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 Proportion of employees with post-upper secondary education Target 2013 = 60% LEADERSHIP Every manager must receive personal feedback on their leadership and access to tools to help % them develop. 100 The world around us is constantly changing and this demands modern, situational leadership. 80 This means that leadership development is a prioritised and strategic issue that will contribute towards 60 the company’s success and profitability. 40 20 Performance 2011 100% 2 2 0 One way of providing managers with feedback is the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 staff survey carried out every two years. There was no Proportion of managers who received staff survey in 2011. However, new appointees to feedback on their leadership management positions received training in leadership, Target 2013 = 100% 2 No staff surveys were carried out communication and Billerud’s business. in 2009 and 2011 No. 5 4 3 When recruiting managers, three candidates must always be internal to increase development 2 3 opportunities and internal mobility. 1 0 Performance 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 When recruiting managers in 2011, an average of 2.2 candidates were internal Average internal applicants per applicants, which is the same as in the previous year. manager recruitment Target 2013 = 3 candidates BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 ta r g e t s 11 The global packaging market The world market for packaging continues to grow as a consequence of globalisation, increasing prosperity and changes in consumption patterns. Paper and board are currently the most widely used packaging materials. The global packaging market continued to around 3% per year until 2016. The highest GLOBAL PACKAGING MARKET, grow in 2011, amounting to just under growth is expected in Asia, the Middle East, USD BILLION USD 700 billion. Pira International forecasts Africa, South and Central America and that the market will continue to grow, reach­ Eastern Europe, with China and India the 800 ing USD 820 billion by 2016. That repre­ fastest growers among the larger national sents expected annual growth of over 3%.1 markets. This is in line with the way that the 600 The single largest packaging market is global packaging market is expected to 400 Europe, closely followed by Asia. Europe is develop. Billerud’s most important market. The 10 200 largest packaging markets in the world, by Several drivers 0 country, include five of Billerud’s key The three key drivers of growth in the pack­ 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 markets. These are Germany, France, Italy, aging market are globalisation, increasing the UK and Spain. prosperity and changing patterns of con­ sumption. GLOBAL PACKAGING MARKET, Greater demand for packaging As a result of globalisation, production BY REGION Over the past five years, Asia has seen the and consumption take place in different greatest rise in the use of packaging, with an locations, which in turn brings increased Europe, 33% average annual growth of around 11%. In transport needs and thus an increased Asia, 30% 2011, China accounted for just over a ninth demand for packaging. North America, 24% South and Central America, 5% of the global packaging market, making it As global prosperity has risen, consump­ Middle East, 3% second only to the USA. The growth rate in tion in the growth regions has approached Africa, 3% Asia is expected to remain high over the that of the West. The middle-class in the Pacific region, 2% next five years, at about 6% per year. Asia-Pacific region is expected to increase Growth in Europe and North America is esti­ from 0.5 billion people in 2009 to 3.2 billion mated to be a little under 2% per year. people in 2030.2 Increased consumption GLOBAL Medelklass definieras somMARKET, PACKAGING personer i hushåll med BY MATERIAL en daglig köpkraftsjusterad inkomt per capita om Food & beverage packaging is the largest brings increased use of and demand for USD 10-100. area of use, followed by packaging for packaging. Källa: OECD 2010. industrial applications and transport. Demand for packaging is also increasing Paper and board, 36% due to rising real incomes and changing Hard plastics, 22% Paper and board comes top consumption habits in the West. Changing Flexible materials excl. paper, 15% Metals, 15% In 2011, packaging in paper and board lifestyles and greater time-pressures have GLOBAL MEDELKLASS Glass, 7% accounted for 36% of the global packaging prompted more and more people to opt for Other, 5% Miljoner människor market, making it the most common type of portion-packed and take-away food and 6 000 material. Hard plastic made up 22%, flexible beverages, while at the same time e-com­ materials and metals 15% each and glass 7%. merce is on the rise. GLOBAL 4 500 PACKAGING MARKET, Globally, packaging made from paper and BY MARKET SEGMENT 3 000 board is forecast to grow by an average of 1 500 Food & Beverages, 42% Industrial, 40% 0 Consumer & Luxury goods, 14% 2009 2020 2030 Medical & Hygiene, 4% Världen totalt Source: Pira International (2011). Asien-Stillahavsregionen The diagrams show the global packaging market in USD billion. 1 Pira International (2011). Calculated at 2010 prices and exchange rates 2 OECD 2010 12 market and trends BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 China – a key sack paper market The construction industry continues to grow, in turn creating rising demand for packaging. Asia is a significant producer of cement, while China alone accounts for 56% of global cement consumption. Plastic sacks currently dominate the Chinese market. China is also the world’s second-largest sack paper market. Around 95% of sack paper comes from local producers and this is much lower in strength and porosity than high-quality sack paper. Despite this, cement is packed in 50 kg sacks in China, which puts the sacks under extreme strain. This situation offers great potential for Billerud, as the quality leader in strong, high-porosity, brown sack paper for the Asian sack market. The market potential for manufacturers of high-quality sack paper is as much as 350 000 tonnes per year, which equates to almost 10% of the global market for brown sack paper. This is more than Europe’s current exports of high-quality sack paper to the whole of Asia. Over two thirds of Billerud’s brown sack paper is used for cement packaging, with a large proportion of the paper going to growth markets in Asia and North Africa. Primary fibre-based fluting saves fruit The European fruit and vegetable market turns over around EUR 100 billion per year. The goods are fragile and as much as 10% is destroyed during transit and handling between the grower and the consumer. The most common causes for these losses are inferior packaging and logistics. Today, around two thirds of Billerud’s fluting, the middle layer in corrugated board, is used in this market. Fluting affects the compression strength of the packaging. Primary fibre-based fluting is particularly suited to transport packaging in humid environments, since it is stronger and has better long-term performance than recycled fibre-based grades. Despite this, much of today’s transport packaging is largely based on recycled fibre and this market also makes use of other packaging solutions such as plastic or wooden trays. Billerud therefore sees large potential for primary fibre-based fluting and the SoliQTM service concept, which provides smarter packaging solutions for the fruit and vegetable market and minimises losses in transit. Read more on page 15 about what Billerud is doing in this area. Almost half of all fruit and vegetables for the European market comes from the Mediterranean. Spain is the single biggest exporter, with 25% of the total flow, and a key market for Billerud, with well established customers and contacts. Other major exporters of fruit include Italy, South and Central America and Africa. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 market and trends 13 FOCUS ON FOUR served industries Billerud offers innovative and specially optimised solutions for customers. The repositioning from a production focus to a focus on customers and solutions has led to closer customer collaboration, as well as a refreshed and improved range of products and services. In order to better meet brand owners’ needs, the company engages with the market in four segments with varying needs for smarter packaging solutions: Food & Beverages, Industrial, Consumer & Luxury goods and Medical & Hygiene. 14 served industries BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Strong and hygienic packaging that saves on resources and materials – FOOD & BEVERAGES SUGAR & FLOUR PACKAGING | CUPS | BLISTER PACKS | TRAYS | FLEXIBLE PACKAGING | SACKS | CONSUMER BAGS | CORRUGATED BOXES | DISPLAYS | LIQUID PACKAGING The global market for the Food & Beverages as much as they can. This has a knock-on When it comes to food, hygienic packaging segment amounted to around USD 290 billion effect on packaging, which has to tolerate is an extra challenge. Billerud has seen in 2011, which equates to 42% of the pack­ longer periods in transit, help ensure trans­ growing demand for its pure papers based aging market worldwide.1 Europe is the big­ port viability and be manufactured with entirely on primary fibre which, thanks to its gest market. great resource efficiency. Surveys show that strength, considerably reduces material use Food & Beverages made up about 40% consumers prefer packaging made from in manufacture. The papers are approved for of Billerud’s net sales in 2011. renewable materials over fossil plastics. direct contact with food by the FDA and BfR, the US and German bodies responsible Greater consumption Pre-packed fresh foods for food safety. Increasing prosperity is leading to greater Supermarket chains prefer to sell pre-packed Via the subsidiary NINE, design of retail consumption and more transportation of fresh foods for the sake of improved efficiency packaging for Food & Beverages is offered. goods. At the same time, more and more in store and a longer shelf life, and this is a people want to help protect the environment driving force behind sales of food packaging. SoliQtm optimises the supply chain The European market for fruit and vegetables is valued at around EUR 100 billion, but around 10% of the produce never reaches consumers, in part due to inferior packaging. Billerud has a solution to the problem: SoliQTM – a unique service concept aimed at optimising the supply chain specifically for fruit and vegetables. The starting point is always what needs to be transported and how. Different fruit has different requirements in terms of humidity, temperature and ventilation while in transit. The longer the time spent in transit, the higher the demands on the packaging solution. Billerud’s primary fibre-based fluting is particularly suited to this application as it resists moisture well for prolonged periods. Choosing Billerud’s fluting and the right design can cut material use by around 15% and still give better performance. SoliQTM solutions are delivered by members of the Fresh Box Alliance – a network of quality assured packaging manufacturers that Billerud is building up in all the major fruit export markets. The design and specification rely on the expertise at Billerud’s development centre, Box Lab. The concept also includes sensors that monitor whether the transport conditions are correct for the produce in question. As a by-product, Billerud is constantly building up its knowledge of actual transport conditions. 1 Pira International (2011) BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 served industries 15 Optimised packaging solutions and process efficiency – INDUSTRial SACKS FOR CEMENT AND POWDERED GOODS | RELEASE LINERS | STEEL INTERLEAVING | CORRUGATED BOXES | SPECIALITY PAPER The global market for the Industrial segment Billerud’s offering meets, and indeed Speciality paper with added value amounted to around USD 275 billion in exceeds, these criteria as well as contributing Another example where Billerud creates 2011, which equates to 40% of the packaging to further efficiencies through reduced added value for customers is the specialist market worldwide.1 Asia is the biggest market material use. paper interleaving for steel. The paper and is expected to see annual growth of just In the Industrial market segment, sack protects reels of high-gloss steel, for the under 7% until 2016. paper is Billerud’s largest product area. The automotive industry and others, which needs Industrial made up about 41% of customers are manufacturers of powdered to be kept extremely clean to ensure abso­ Billerud’s net sales in 2011. products for the global construction industry, lutely no risk of contaminants or damage to such as cement and plaster, where Billerud’s the steel. Sack paper most important strong, high-porosity sack paper increases The paper is extremely thin, down to Industry demands in-depth process knowl­ customers’ productivity through efficient 35 grams per square metre, but strong enough edge and products of high quality and filling. to be re-used. The paper is also able to absorb strength that provide increased productivity. oil and can thus help to keep the steel clean and ready for coating. Breakthrough for high-quality sacks in China Over two thirds of Billerud’s brown sack paper is used for cement packaging. Asia is a significant producer of cement, while China alone accounts for 56% of global cement consumption. Billerud Sack Solutions has made a breakthrough in the Chinese market with QuickFill – a range of high-quality sack paper. A major manufacturer of cement sacks in southern China has installed a modern sack line to produce doublewall sacks, and thus draw maximum benefit from Billerud’s strong, high-porosity paper. Stronger, lighter sacks The manufacturer has replaced triple-wall designs using locally produced paper with two layers of QuickFill paper, which has led to a saving of over 20% on the use of materials. The paper’s porosity means that the sack is ventilated during filling without the perforations previously required. This gives faster filling, a dust-free environment and a smaller sack, which makes for more efficient transport. Billerud works in a network that includes the customer, cement manufacturer and machine supplier, sharing its expertise in sack construction, design, printing, production, filling and logistics and providing advice regarding the purchase of machinery. 1 Pira International (2011) 16 served industries BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Attractive packaging strengthens the brand – CONSUMER & LUXURY GOODS CARRIER BAGS | CONSUMER BAGS | FLEXIBLE PACKAGING | TRAYS | BOXES | CORRUGATED BOXES | DISPLAYS | SACKS The global market for the Consumer & Billerud’s strong papers are turned into Luxury goods segment amounted to around attractive packaging with distinctive printing. USD 100 billion in 2011, which equates to Kraft paper may become exclusive carrier 14% of the packaging market worldwide.1 bags or gift bags for luxury items such as Growth regions such as Asia and Africa are jewellery. Billerud’s white liner becomes expected to see the highest growth in the packaging for cosmetics, watches or trainers. future. With its unique elasticity, FibreForm offers Consumer & Luxury goods made up almost infinite opportunities for special about 7% of Billerud’s net sales in 2011. shapes and embossing that can help differen­ tiate a product. Battle in store Via its subsidiary NINE, Billerud offers The battle for the attention of consumers is expertise in both design and consumer intensifying. In retail, the majority of behaviour relating to packaging. PACCESS purchase decisions are taken in store and Packaging offers packaging services to lead­ With its extremely high elasticity, producers are putting increasing resources ing multinational brand owners, often with FibreForm opens the way for brand new into attractive packaging that makes their their manufacturing in Asia and global mar­ packaging solutions. The material can be shaped into creative and distinctive designs goods stand out and strengthens their brands. keting for their products. and is also a green choice. Pictured is a box with the shape of the champagne bottle inside embossed on the packaging. Packaging that safeguards health and lives – MEDICAL & HYGIENE MEDICAL PACKAGING | RELEASE LINERS | CORRUGATED BOXES The global market for the Medical & Hygiene Hygiene and safety segment amounted to around USD 30 billion Customers demands are high in terms of in 2011, which equates to 4% of the packaging hygiene and safety. In many cases, the pack­ market worldwide.1 This segment is expected aging is required to be sterile or even to to grow faster than the packaging market as enable the instrument to be sterilised inside a whole. the packaging. The products and their hand­ Medical & Hygiene made up about 12% ling are often expensive, which makes get­ of Billerud’s net sales in 2011.2 ting the packaging right crucial. With this in mind, the market for healthcare packaging is Growing segment highly specialised and change takes place The segment of Medical & Hygiene is grow­ slowly. In this area, there are also regulations ing in importance. Increasing prosperity is requiring precision and checks, which slow driving up the use of hygiene products and things down further. Billerud adopts an healthcare. In the West, with its ageing pop­ extremely specialised development process ulation, the need for healthcare is set to for new packaging materials and solutions in become increasingly important. The use of this segment. disposable packaging for medical products Billerud Sterikraft is Billerud’s leading has risen considerably in recent years. range of paper tailored to the market’s most The end-users in this segment are the common sterilisation methods. The segment In healthcare, sealing and opening properties are vital in keeping the contents pharmaceutical industry, the medical tech­ also offers opportunities for FibreForm, sterile. Market leader Billerud Sterikraft nology industry, clinics and manufacturers which can be barrier coated and shaped into Peelclean is the fourth generation of paper of tissue products. blister packs, for example. Release liner is for medical packaging. used for self-adhesive products such as plasters and sanitary pads. 1 Pira International (2011) 2 Pulp accounts for approximately half of net sales within Medical & Hygiene BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 served industries 17 Smarter packaging With a mix of high-quality materials, extensive know-how and a broad network, Billerud meets the needs of packaging manufacturers and brand owners for smarter packaging that attracts consumers, increases productivity, lowers transportation costs, reduces waste and lowers environmental impact. attracts consumers Lowers transportation costs value of high-quality packaging to protect With most purchasing decisions taken in the Using paper based on primary fibre instead products. In Europe, fruit and vegetables store, the packagings’ function in making of recycled fibre generally allows the packworth around EUR 10 billion are damaged goods stand out is becoming increasingly aging to be manufactured using less material in transit every year. Inferior packaging is important. New media and new technology while retaining or improving both function one of the causes of this waste. allow consumers to skip advertising, which and strength. Less material in turn means Most foodstuffs have a considerably increases the significance of the packaging lower weight, which lowers transportation greater negative environmental impact than as a marketing channel. costs. the packaging that surrounds them. Producing There is therefore a growing move Using the right packaging for a specific food often involves high energy and water towards brand owners investing more transport chain can help to prevent the colconsumption as well as sizeable emissions. resources in packaging as the best way of lapse of packaging in transit and the resulting Reducing waste therefore also leads to a presenting their products. The design is damage to the goods. The size and design of more sustainable food industry. crucial, of course, but so is a surface that the packaging also has a bearing on the offers crystal clear colour reproduction and number of goods that can be packed into Lowers environmental impact high text readability. each consignment. As much as 87%1 of consumers in Europe Optimised packaging also brings with it prefer paper over plastic for their packaging, Increases productivity increased profitability at every stage of the due to environmental concerns. And yet, Smarter packaging is designed for smooth chain – from the packaging manufacturers, paper accounts for only 12% of the flexible and efficient handling by customers and logistics companies and brand owners to the packaging market in Europe. increases productivity throughout the logistics retailers and consumers. Strong action is being taken around the chain from paper mill to end-customer. The world to reduce the amount of plastic, above material must offer high runability during Reduces waste all the use of fossil plastic carrier bags, printing and production of the packaging. It is becoming ever clearer that both the finanwhich is creating an opening for paper and The packaging must then be easy to pack cial and environmental costs are high if packbioplastics. The growing market in Asia is of and fill efficiently and to seal effectively. aging fails in its most fundamental task of particular interest in terms of paper packagHigh-porosity paper can be filled more protecting goods. ing, since fossil plastics are currently quickly, which increases capacity utilisation Many packaging manufacturers, brand entirely dominant as packaging materials. and thus profitability. owners and retailers are appreciating the Lowers Lowers Attracts Increases transportation Reduces environmental consumers productivity costs waste impact 1 IPSOS 2007 18 S M A R T E R PA C K A G I N G BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Smarter packaging – HIGH-QUALITY MATERIALS multi-functional Strong, attractive increased profitability unique properties Packaging for medicines, food and Billerud’s paper is made using Billerud is well placed to benefit Billerud’s range includes many building materials, robust transprimary fibre from slow-growing from the underlying drivers of the examples of smarter materials port packaging or exclusive packNordic forests. This ensures packaging market and the widewith unique properties. Strong, aging for goods such as perfume strong, hygienic, food-safe paper spread interest in renewable and high-porosity sack paper with and wine – the list of applications with good printability – sustaineco-friendly materials. An increasexcellent air release for efficient is long and Billerud’s packaging able paper that contributes to a ing number of companies are filling, the incredibly formable materials are used on a daily basis, resource-efficient society. demanding high-quality materials FibreForm, the world’s strongest all over the world. that form sustainable, attractive fluting that handles long periods packaging solutions, reduce losses in transit even in humid environalong the logistics chain and conments, liners in exceptionally low tribute to increased profitability. grammages, and so on. Product Brand Properties type of packaging served industries Kraft paper Billerud AxelloTM Strength, high quality and purity Packaging for sugar, flour and grain Food & Beverages, Billerud XpressionTM Carrier bags for consumer products and foods Industrial, Billerud BasixTM Open bags for products such as bread Consumer & Luxury goods, Billerud ConflexTM Flexible packaging Medical & Hygiene Billerud Medikraft® Medical packaging Billerud Sterikraft® Release liners for stickers, stamps or hygiene products Billerud ReleaseTM Steel interleaving Billerud InterleavingTM Sack paper Billerud QuickFill® High strength, performance and Valve sacks for building materials, minerals and chemicals Food & Beverages, Billerud PerformanceTM efficient filling Open sacks for animal feed, foods, etc. Industrial Billerud Billerud FibreForm® Uniquely formable paper that can Consumer packaging Food & Beverages, FibreForm® replace fossil plastics Thin trays for sliced cold meats, for example Consumer & Luxury goods, Paper cups Medical & Hygiene Blister packs Suitable for embossing and relief printing Fluting Billerud Flute® Extremely high strength, good longCorrugated board boxes for fruit, vegetables, medical Industrial, Billerud Flute STM term performance, purity products, etc. Food & Beverages, Billerud Flute LightTM Transport and consumer packaging in corrugated board Consumer & Luxury goods, Corrugated board packaging for heavy products and Medical & Hygiene industrial purposes White liners Billerud Pure White® High purity and good printability Secondary and primary packaging in corrugated board Food & Beverages, Billerud Pure Bright® Shelf-ready packaging Consumer & Luxury goods, Medical & Hygiene Liquid Board Billerud Liquid BoardTM Purity, high rigidity, low grammage Portion-packed drinks Food & Beverages Cup Stock Billerud Pure Board ® Purity, high rigidity, low grammage Paper cups Food & Beverages BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 S M A R T E R PA C K A G I N G 19 Smarter packaging – SOLUTION SERVICES Billerud possesses in-depth knowledge of customer needs – whether the customer is a packaging manufacturer or a brand owner. Everything from how best to protect their products and what it takes to ensure efficient Needs assessment and Lab analysis and Smart solution production, to transport optimisation and how verification development implementation the packaging can successfully contribute to their marketing. With its focus on sustainability and innovation, Billerud employs a three-step process to improve packaging solutions and explore new options: Own packaging labs Billerud has its own labs out at the mills, with broad expertise in packaging and advanced technical equipment: • Pack Lab assesses the strength • Box Lab designs, optimises • Sack Lab optimises all stages and performance of carrier and tests corrugated board relating to sack function along bags and other consumer packboxes so that they work well the value chain, such as design, aging solutions, as well as in the real world. The goal is filling and logistics. developing packaging designs, to optimise a box’s ability seals and barrier coatings. to withstand all the stresses Billerud also offers technical New packaging solutions based and strains that it is exposed support for the customer’s manuon FibreForm are just one to. Box Lab has a climate facturing process. example. chamber for compression tests under varying air humidity and temperature conditions. development close to the customer Billerud’s expertise in designing packaging, corrugated board boxes and sack solutions is at the very cutting edge. Business development and innovation are conducted in cross-functional teams that bring together a range of skills, in partnership with customers and suppliers. Billerud also collaborates with stakeholders not usually associated with its own industry, such as design agencies, brand owners, supermarket chains, research institutes and universities. In order to build long-term relations and increase knowledge about the importance of material choice for packaging performance, Billerud also regularly invites packaging manufacturers and brand owners to special seminars and courses. Optimising the logistics chain Its close interaction with customers means that Billerud knows its customers’ logistics chain well. This makes Billerud a valuable partner, able to provide advice on optimal processes and cost-effective solutions from the paper mill to transport and delivery to the end-customer. attractive design sells Innovation and design agency NINE won two of the packaging world’s most prestigious design prizes for its work on Ramlösa’s new premium bottle: Diamond Pentawards Best of Show and the red dot award: communication design 2011 – packaging. NINE is a Billerud subsidiary that works closely with brand owners on design and innovation projects associated with packaging and consumer behaviour. The brief was to come up with a smart new packaging solution in a material other than glass, which still retained the premium feel that the previous glass bottle had. The shape was borrowed from the world of cut crystal to give the bottle an exclusive feel despite it being made from PET plastic. “The successful launch of Ramlösa in a unique premium PET bottle has increased our numbers of customers with 16%, and the more environmentally-friendly packaging has been an important step in our CSR work,” says Paul Davies, Marketing Director, Carlsberg Sweden. 20 S M A R T E R PA C K A G I N G BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Smarter packaging – NETWORK 1 000 customers and packaging partners in 100 countries Billerud’s network of customers to brand owners and end-users. The network also includes other competitive advantage when and packaging partners offers Transporting empty packaging suppliers to the packaging developing packaging materials numerous benefits – global reach, is inefficient, so manufacture industry, such as manufacturers and solutions. shorter time to market, reliable always takes place locally. The of packaging and filling machines. Billerud’s local market presquality and delivery, and so on. extensive network of over 1 000 Billerud enjoys a mutual exchange ence, with ten sales offices in Working more closely with packaging manufacturers in over of expertise with these partners, nine countries, is crucial to the selected packaging manufacturers 100 countries makes Billerud’s as well as joint development implementation of solutions. enables Billerud to deliver smart materials available around the projects. Sound knowledge of packaging solutions of high quality globe. packaging machines is a FibreForm extends reach British packaging group Chesapeake has developed FibreForm into a unique three-dimensional board concept. Named ImpressionsTM, the concept won the Design Challenge award at the Nordic region’s leading packaging exhibition, Pack & Emballage. “We have pioneered a completely new way of shaping board,” explains Bob Houghton, Marketing & Communications STRONGER PLATFORM IN ASIA Manager at Chesapeake. “We have been able to take advantage In 2011 Billerud invested in PACCESS Packaging in order to establish a strong platform in the growing Asian market. of the unique flexibility of Billerud’s PACCESS Packaging offers packaging services for leading multinational companies with branded products, often manu­ FibreForm to create shapes and factured in Asia and marketed globally. These brand owners all have one thing in common – they use the packaging to effects that simply are not possible support their marketing and to optimise the flow of products along the supply chain. with conventional board. And we are developing new technology Marketing platform in Asia to make large-scale production of PACCESS Packaging quality assures all the elements, from packaging performance and design, via planning and purchas­ Impressions™ both fast and costing to delivery and ongoing quality control, with a view to ensuring that the goods are delivered in a coherent manner efficient.” around the world. In this they are aided by an established network of local, quality-controlled packaging manufacturers. The collaboration with ChesaThe collaboration gives Billerud access to PACCESS Packaging’s customer base and broad expertise in packaging peake allows Billerud to extend its development and local market conditions in Asia. This establishes a strong platform in the growing Asian market for reach to more brand owners and Billerud, whose intention is to increase its stake in PACCESS Packaging over time. increase its opportunity to get more FibreForm packaging onto Major cost savings and higher profile the market. One of PACCESS Packaging’s customers is a growing US company that markets sportswear, shoes and accessories globally. The task for this assignment involved analysing the supply chain with a focus on minimising material consumption, increasing cost efficiency, systematising the company’s packaging development and producing a comprehensive pack­ aging programme for consumer sports shoes. The end result was a cost saving of 30%. Stronger packaging paper and improved design cut material consump­tion by 12%, with the reduced volume of the packaging also leading to more efficient shipments. A system was also developed to purchase packaging from a single source in order to shorten development time and achieve a coherent graphic identity. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 S M A R T E R PA C K A G I N G 21 Focus on productivity and quality Integrated production gives complete control over the production process and high product quality. Another key competitive advantage is a high level of self-sufficiency in electricity. An unwavering focus on process efficiency ensures long-term competitiveness. Billerud’s paper is based on primary fibre very high standard of technology, productivEfficiency programmes from Nordic forests. The northerly climate ity and environmental awareness. They have Billerud works constantly to improve process makes the trees grow more slowly, so that ISO 9001 quality certification and ISO efficiency in order to secure long-term comthey develop long, strong fibres. The result is 14001 environmental certification. petitiveness and to control the environmental one of the world’s strongest packaging papers, Production at the three Swedish mills is impact of its production. Several efficiency with high whiteness, purity and quality. integrated, which means that they combine programmes have been implemented since Since Billerud does not own any forest both pulp and paper production. Integrated 2005, resulting in cost savings of SEK 750 of its own, it buys all its wood raw materials mills have several key advantages: million. These savings break down into on the timber market. • High product quality: Complete control reduced consumption of inputs such as Billerud produces pulp for use in its own over the production process ensures high chemicals, energy and wood (SEK 150 milpaper manufacturing. Any surplus pulp is sold product quality. lion), a rise in electricity self-sufficiency mainly to manufacturers of tissue, printing • High level of self-sufficiency in electricity: from 30% to 60% at full production paper and writing paper. Pulp production produces an energy surplus, (SEK 250 million) and a reduction in which is used in the paper manufacturing employee numbers (SEK 350 million). Integrated production process. Developing quality and sustainability, Production takes place at four mills: Gruvön, • Reduced energy consumption: The pulp teamed with efficient production and logisSkärblacka and Karlsborg in Sweden and can immediately be used in the paper tics, enables Billerud to offer customers the Beetham in the UK. All the mills maintain a production process. best possible products and solutions. PRODUCTION AT FOUR MILLS IN TWO COUNTRIES Gruvön, Sweden Skärblacka, Sweden Karlsborg, Sweden Beetham, United Kingdom Production capacity: Production capacity: Production capacity: Production capacity: 685 000 tonnes/year 400 000 tonnes/year 300 000 tonnes/year 45 000 tonnes/year Products: Products: Products: Products: Kraft paper, sack paper, container­ Kraft paper, sack paper (brown), Kraft paper, sack paper (white), Kraft paper board (fluting, liner), liquid containerboard (fluting), market pulp board, Cup Stock, market pulp market pulp 22 production and quality BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business Reported in three business areas Billerud has three business areas: Packaging & Speciality Paper, which offers technically advanced kraft and sack paper; Packaging Boards, which offers containerboard; and Market Pulp, which is responsible for pulp sales. Packaging & Speciality Paper 46% OF GROUP NET SALES Packaging & Speciality Paper, 46% Packaging Boards, 30% Market Pulp, 19% Other, 5% Packaging Boards 30% of Group net sales Market Pulp 19% of Group net sales BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business areas 23 business area Packaging & Speciality Paper The Packaging & Speciality Paper business area offers customers technically advanced kraft and sack paper, as well as smart solutions in function, design and material NET SALES AND NETT OPERATING MARGIN OCH choice. All the grades are strong, with the highest SEKm MSEK % standards of printability and runability, and are made 5 000 15 5 000 4 000 12 4 000 from 100% primary fibre. 3 000 9 3 000 2 000 6 2 000 Offering for fossil plastic trays, for example for sliced 1 000 3 1 000 Packaging & Speciality Paper develops and cold meats. The paper can also be compres0 0 0 markets primary fibre-based kraft and sack sion moulded, embossed and laminated with 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 paper, alongside services and solutions for the appropriate barrier. Other areas of use Net sales, SEKm packaging optimisation. include heat-insulating cup sleeves with Operating margin, % embossing and packaging for luxury and Kraft paper consumer goods. A broad range of kraft paper solutions is FibreForm offers an alternative to variSHARE OF GROUP offered for different customer segments. The ous plastic packaging. It is eco-certified by OPERATING PROFIT food industry dominates with 63% percent FSC and is made from a renewable material, of volume. Areas of use include bags for which makes it compostable and recyclable. flour, spices and powdered food, plus carrier bags. The kraft paper is also used for medical Customers 46 % packaging, as steel interleaving and as a release liner that protects the adhesive layer Mainly located in Europe and Asia, the core customers are packaging manufacturers and SEK 450 million on items such as stickers. Primary fibre-based converters that finish the paper, for example kraft paper has several competitive advanwith print and barrier coatings, and then Packaging & Speciality Paper’s net sales rose by 3% tages, such as efficient packaging manufacproduce packaging or sell the product on to in 2011 to SEK 4 293 million compared with 2010. ture, high strength, purity and good other packaging manufacturers. The year’s operating profit increased 8% to printability. In certain customer segments, the brand SEK 450 million, compared with 2010, chiefly as a owner both manufactures and fills the packresult of improved prices that offset higher variable costs and lower sales volumes. The operating marSack paper aging, known as “form & fill”. This is the gin for 2011 was 10% (10). Billerud is the global market leader in both case with the cement industry, which makes white sack paper and high-porosity brown its own sacks, manufacturers of medical sack paper. products and sugar and flour producers. The paper is used to make sacks for NET SALES BY powdered products such as building materials, Smarter packaging SERVED INDUSTRY minerals and chemicals, as well as foods. Packaging & Speciality Paper consolidates The company’s strong, high-porosity sack its role as an adviser to customers and brand 417 (10 %) paper is a premium product with added owners through a broad spectrum of services Industrial, 58% value from material savings – since the that benefit the customer. Suggested technical Food & Beverages, 24% strength of the paper allows sacks to be improvements regarding material, function RÖRELSERESULTAT, MSEK Consumer & Luxury goods, 9% made using fewer layers – faster filling procand construction, coupled with design solu(RÖRELSEMARGINAL) Medical & Hygiene, 9% esses and a dust-free work environment. tions, help to increase the customer’s proBillerud’s white sack paper is a world ductivity, improve the performance of the leader in function and performance. It propackaging, reduce environmental impact, vides a good print surface and is therefore in make the packaging more unique and particular demand for building materials for increase the consumer’s urge to buy. NET SALES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA the growing DIY (Do-It-Yourself) market, The calculation model TCV, Total where distinctive packaging is a competitive Customer Value, is used to work out the advantage. added value for the customer and cost per Europe, 64% sack. The model shows that Billerud’s highAsia, 18% FibreForm porosity sack paper produces savings of up Africa, 12% The business area also sells the entirely to 20% per sack. South America, 3% unique material FibreForm, a highly elastic, A number of customer seminars were North America, 1% primary fibre-based paper that is approved held over the year to enhance relations with Middle East, 1% for contact with food. It can be shaped in the customers and brand owners and to increase Other, 1% same thermoforming machines that are used packaging expertise in the industry. 24 Pa c k a g i n g & S p e c i a l i t y Pa p e r BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 SACK PAPER Kraft paper FibreForm With its good printability, white sack paper’s applications include building Kraft paper is the perfect material for FibreForm is a uniquely highly elastic materials for the DIY market, animal feed and bakery products such as packaging all sorts of goods, from material that is able to replace fossil flour and sugar. Brown sack paper is used for, among other things, cement bread, sugar and flour to ice cream plastics in many applications, such as and other powdered materials, where strong, high-porosity paper is required. and medical products, to name but thin trays for sliced cold meats and a few. blister packs. FibreForm is also suitable for embossing. Innovative product development cement. Billerud’s brown high-porosity sack The business area places great emphasis on paper has a leading position globally in this product development, with a focus on strength segment. properties, production efficiency, attractiveness and sustainability. Billerud wants its paper to • Increased demand for product optimisation reduce environmental impact and support The business area’s products are benefiting customers’ environmental work. FibreForm from industry demands for product optimisahas attracted a great deal of interest, not least tion that concentrates on cost-efficiency and because of its ability to replace fossil plastics high runability. In this area, Billerud’s sack in many applications, and Billerud sees great paper offers improved functionality and potential in the material. more rapid air release, amongst other benefits. During 2011, Pack Lab started testing the durability of carrier bags and Sack Lab in• Packaging as a marketing tool stalled infrared camera technology to show The market’s increased focus on product differwhere a sack is strong or weak. entiation and attractive packaging is driving demand for white kraft and sack paper with Greater focus on growth countries good printability. Appreciation of and interest in The business area is focusing on increasing the marketing power of packaging has grown, sales of sack paper outside Europe, particuparticularly in consumer markets. larly in Asia and North Africa. In these markets, building materials such as cement • Environment increasingly important are packed in 50 kg sacks, which demands a Care for the environment is gaining ground and high degree of strength and porosity from market interest in sustainable packaging is the sack paper, and gives Billerud’s primary rising. This is particularly prominent in confibre-based sack paper a competitive edge. sumer goods, which is good news for Billerud’s Kraft paper makes white kraft paper and FibreForm. strong, resilient carrier bags Trends and drivers Restrictions on non-biodegradable plastic • Increasing global prosperity carrier bags are being proposed in many places Billerud has initiated that Italy start using the European testing standard1 for carrier bags for Global prosperity is increasing and driving around the world. Italy is one of Europe’s bigfood. Legislation has already been proposed demand for hygiene products, medical prodgest users of plastic bags, at 20 billion bags per in Italy to ban non-biodegradable plastic carrier ucts and disposable consumer packaging. year or around 20% of Europe’s total consumpbags. This opens the way for paper carrier bags, but also creates opportunities for new All these areas require pure and safe prodtion. However, it is now being proposed that the players offering biodegradable plastics, etc. ucts made from primary fibre, which opens country should ban them entirely. Another alternative is fine papers that break up a growing market for Billerud. The proposed legislation has not yet been up easily. Kraft paper, on the other hand, makes strong, resilient carrier bags that will adopted, but many stores are already looking not fall apart on the way home and that can • Growing construction industry for greener alternatives. Paper bags made from enhance the buying experience through highThe construction industry is continuing to grow kraft paper have a major advantage in that they quality print. in Asia, North Africa and the Middle East, are stronger than both biodegradable plastics which affects demand for sack paper for and other paper alternatives on the market. 1 The European testing standard (SS-EN 13 590) was developed in Sweden by Innventia (formerly Packforsk) in collaboration with retailers and the packaging industry BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Pa c k a g i n g & S p e c i a l i t y Pa p e r 25 business area packaging boards Corrugated board is the most commonly used packaging material in the world, with 90% of all consumer goods packed in corrugated board for transport. The Packaging NET SALES AND OPERATING MARGIN Boards business area offers primary fibre containerboard SEKm % – a pure, strong material that meets tough demands for 3 000 15 2 400 12 strength, hygiene and good printing. Wide-ranging advice 1 800 9 on packaging optimisation helps brand owners identify the 1 200 6 600 3 right packaging for each item and logistics chain. 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net sales, SEKm Operating margin, % Paper for durable packaging Customers The Packaging Boards business area sells The vast majority of customers are manufacprimary fibre-based containerboard such as turers of corrugated board for particularly SHARE OF GROUP fluting, the middle layer, and white liner, the demanding applications and for the premium OPERATING PROFIT outer layer, of corrugated board. Packaging segment. Boards is the market leader in Europe for Europe is the business area’s most imporboth pure white liner and primary fibre-based fluting. tant market, benefiting from well developed customer relations and geographic proximity. 38% Billerud’s fluting is the strongest in the world, with excellent long-term performance, Around two thirds of Billerud’s fluting is used in packaging for fruit and vegetables, with the SEK 370 million ensuring that packaging made using it is Mediterranean region dominating. extremely resilient to high humidity, long Cup Stock is purchased by disposable cup periods in transit and high stacking. This producers, while liquid board is sold to Packaging Boards’ net sales rose in 2011 by 14% to SEK 2 772 million compared with 2010. The year’s makes the material particularly suitable for manufacturers of portion packs for drinks. operating profit was up 37% on 2010, at SEK 370 transporting fragile goods such as fruit, million, due to improved prices and higher sales vegetables and capital goods, as well as heavy Smarter packaging volumes. The operating margin for 2011 came in goods such as automotive components. The goal for Packaging Boards is to develop at 13% (11). Billerud’s pure white liner comes in a materials and services that are appreciated by wide range, from really low grammages of customers. The business area is increasingly 80 grams to 190 grams per square metre. It is approaching brand owners directly or in partalso one of the world’s whitest liners. The nership with a packaging manufacturer, in NET SALES BY packaging can therefore easily carry clear print order to combine knowledge and experience SELECTED INDUSTRY to help differentiate and market the goods to find optimum solutions for a specific logisinside, which makes the paper popular for tics chain. Packaging Boards works on product Food & Beverages, 82% luxury and consumer items. optimisation – finding the right packaging for Industrial, 8% Packaging Boards also markets Billerud’s the right goods and for different modes of Consumer & Luxury goods, 8% liquid board for portion-packed drinks and transport. Medical & Hygiene, 2% Cup Stock – board for paper cups. Knowledge transfer Services and solutions The business area is active in striving to Packaging Boards offers its customers increase the market’s awareness that primary services and solutions in areas such as matefibre offers a better, stronger, purer and often NET SALES BY rial choice and structural design. Customers material-saving alternative at a lower overall GEOGRAPHIC AREA and brand owners can turn to Box Lab for cost. help in evaluating the function and performOne way of convincing customers is to Europe, 81% ance of materials and packaging, and in use scientific testing methods. One example Asia, 9% achieving fibre-optimised packaging. is the Corrugated Crush Test that Billerud’s Africa, 8% Whether the focus is on replacing packBox Lab introduced in 2010 to measure the South America, 1% aging that currently uses a material other than durability and long-term performance of Other, 1% paper or on adjusting a design that is not different grades of corrugated board. The durable enough, the starting point is always method has gained a great deal of attention the specific needs of the customer or and customers have started requesting this brand owner. data to an increasing extent. 26 pa c k a g i n g b o a r d s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Picture from Tetra Pak FLUTING WHITE LINER LIQUID BOARD CUP STOCK Fluting is the rippled middle layer Billerud’s white liner is the outer Liquid board is used for portionCup Stock is board for paper cups. in corrugated board and is used to layer of corrugated board and the packed drinks such as milk and juice. New consumption patterns, with transport sensitive goods such as middle layer in micro corrugated Increasing global prosperity is fuelling growing purchases of take-away fruit and vegetables and capital board, which is popular with manudemand for disposable packaging, drinks, is driving up demand for goods. Billerud’s fluting is the world’s facturers of luxury goods and gift particularly in Asia, which is seeing a paper cups. Billerud’s Cup Stock strongest, with high long-term items. Billerud’s primary fibre-based growing market for portion-packed offers low grammage plus high purity performance. liner is also perfect where pure, drinks. Billerud’s liquid board is and rigidity. hygienic packaging is required for characterised for its purity, high contact with food. rigidity and low grammage. Another approach is the regular seminars on improving the strength of the box. • Demand for purity and hygiene the subject of packaging optimisation, which Other strategic initiatives include the Primary fibre also benefits from the demand provide a forum for exchanging experience increasing integration of design agency for product safety and pure, hygienic packand networking with customers and brand NINE in collaborations with customers and aging, as knowledge about the effect of owners. brand owners, and the co-operation with packaging on its contents grows. In Italy, for PACCESS Packaging in Asia. example, recovered fibre-based pizza boxes Exploiting competitive advantages are banned. Consumers continue to demand The business area is also focused on increasing Trends and drivers eco-friendly, renewable packaging, which is sales outside Europe. Actively selecting new • More numerous and more efficient good news for paper packaging. markets offers an opportunity for niching transportation and differentiation where Packaging Boards’ Overall, globalisation has led to more trans• The marketing power of packaging containerboard can be of most benefit to portation of goods over longer distances, Customers and brand owners are becoming customers, for example leading markets for which increases demand for corrugated increasingly aware that the appearance of exports of fruit and other foods. packaging. The market’s constant need for the packaging is crucial to the sale of the Sales of Cup Stock continued to develop efficient handling and lower levels of waste goods. Billerud’s white liner is well placed well over the year, leading to increased profavours Packaging Boards’ primary fibrein this respect, with its first-class printability duction. This is one example of how Packaging based containerboard, which allows cost to make the brand stand out. Boards is working to optimise the product mix. savings to be made thanks to reductions in New consumption patterns are also having 2011 saw the launch of SoliQTM, a brand materials, while also improving the strength a positive impact on the business area, not new concept for improving the efficiency of of the packaging. For the food industry in least growing sales in take-away food and the logistics chain in the fruit and vegetable particular, efficient transportation and strong drinks. market. Using primary fibre in the packaging packaging that protects the goods is becoming can cut material use by around 15% while more and more critical. STRONG PACKAGING PROTECTS During the year, Packaging Boards conducted perhaps the most realistic packaging test ever when, over five months, six fragile crystal champagne glasses were packed off on a journey to 12 destinations around the world. The packaging was made from Billerud’s containerboard, and also carried a sensor to measure the actual stresses encountered – temperature, knocks and air humidity. The box of glasses was transported by air and road, without any labels saying that the goods were fragile, in a test that involved 14 journeys rather than the usual one. All the glasses came back to Sweden whole and intact. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 pa c k a g i n g b o a r d s 27 business area market pulp Billerud produces high-quality, long-fibre pulp primarily for its own needs, with the surplus sold on the global market. The Nordic climate produces slow-growing coniferous NET SALES AND NETTO OPERATING MARGIN OCH R forest, with the resulting pulp ideal for making high-quality SEKm % MSEK paper, which is why it is in such demand. 1 800 20 1 800 1 500 15 1500 1 200 10 1200 900 5 900 600 0 600 Offering system. Asia, with its growing economy and 300 -5 300 Billerud’s market pulp is known as NBSK, living standards, is also an increasingly 0 -10 0 Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft, a highimportant market for the business area. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 quality, long-fibre pulp. The pulp is produced Having a presence in several markets also Net sales, SEKm primarily to meet Billerud’s own needs, with extends the scope to redirect volumes if a Operating margin, % the surplus, which amounted to 343 000 tonnes particular market drops. in 2011, or around 25% of Billerud’s total The key customer groups are producers sales volume, being sold by the Market Pulp of tissue – mainly for toilet paper and business area. kitchen paper – writing and printing paper, SHARE OF GROUP OPERATING PROFIT The Nordic climate makes conifers grow packaging paper and board. slowly and develop long, slender fibres, which gives the resulting pulp superior strength. Strategy This in turn produces high-quality paper and The Market Pulp business area strives to be 7% ensures a cost-effective process for the paper a strategic partner for its customers, consoliproducers, since they can run the paper dating its position by offering a mix of high SEK 64 million machines at higher speeds. product quality, an environmental profile and effective logistical solutions, together Specific properties with expert advice on the optimal pulp mix Market Pulp’s net sales rose in 2011 by 1% to SEK 1 752 million compared with 2010. The year’s The pulp from Billerud’s three Swedish for each customer’s end-product. operating profit was down 77% on 2010, at mills has different properties, depending on Tissue is growing fastest, which is why SEK 64 million. The fall is chiefly attributable to a the area in which the trees grew. This allows the business area has a long-term focus on less favourable currency situation. The operating Billerud to offer its customers the properties increasing sales to this segment. In 2011, margin for 2011 was 4% (16). that are most suitable for their end-products the tissue segment accounted for around – high tear and tensile strength for packaging 35% of the business area’s sales compared and fine paper, high bulk for board and with 34% in 2010. printing paper, high durability for tissue and The focus is also on increasing sales for NET SALES BY high porosity for specialist products such as end-uses in other industries where Billerud’s SELECTED INDUSTRY vehicle air filters. three grades can provide the greatest benefit, such as niche products including paper for Industrial, 55% Well positioned vehicle air filters. Medical & Hygiene, 35% Billerud is well positioned in the pulp market. In response to the strong environmental Food & Beverages, 10% NBSK is a premium pulp that is strengthentrend, particularly in consumer industries, ing its position through its potential to inBillerud is looking to increase its proportion crease customers’ productivity. Over the long of certified market pulp. term, the global growth rate for this pulp has remained quite stable at around 1–2% per Trends and drivers year. At the same time, growth in capacity, • Tissue continues to grow NET SALES BY and thus availability of this high-quality pulp, Growing global prosperity is increasing GEOGRAPHIC AREA remains limited. consumption of paper products in general. While digital media are having a negative Europe, 83% Customers impact on printing and writing paper, Asia, 14% The majority of Market Pulp’s customers are changing consumption patterns are driving South America, 2% in Europe. Billerud has longstanding and up demand for hygiene products, since Africa, 1% well developed customer relations in this higher living standards increase the use of market and is also able to benefit from its products such as toilet paper, kitchen paper geographic proximity and efficient logistics and so on. 28 market pulp BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 PRINTING AND PACKAGING AIR TISSUE WRITING PAPER PAPER FILTERS Higher living standards are having a NBSK pulp is perfect as a reinforceBillerud’s pulp is ideal for manuHigh porosity is vital for paper used positive impact on the tissue market. ment pulp for improving the strength facturing packaging paper, where in vehicle air filters, which is why the Billerud’s pulp is particularly well of printing and writing paper. good tear strength is an important properties of Billerud’s pulp make it suited to the manufacture of tissue property. so well suited to this product. products, as it offers high quality and durability. NBSK pulp has a strong competitive advantogether with a certain slowdown in demand, However, the pulp market grew globally tage here, since it is ideal for manufacturing meant that prices came under a certain over the year. China accounted for the entire tissue products. With its unique fibres, the amount of pressure from autumn 2011. growth, with consumption up 30%, while pulp from Billerud’s mill in Karlsborg is Over the year, the paper producers gradEurope and North America fell back in 2011. particularly well suited to this area. ually ran down their pulp stocks, which The long-term forecast for global growth weakened demand. The price level in Europe in tissue is 3–4%, despite the market remaindropped to around USD 825 per tonne by the ing largely flat during 2011. end of 2011. • Strong environmental trend Demand for eco-certified end-products is being driven by ever increasing environmental awareness – a trend that remains strong, especially in consumer segments. This is particularly true in the growing tissue sector. In this area too, Billerud has competitive advantages, since its pulp is made using sustainable raw material from Swedish forests, where replanting is enshrined in law. 2011 saw Billerud work to increase the proportion of eco-certified raw material through a model for group certification that allows small private forest owners to obtain FSC certification for their forestry. Around 50% of Billerud’s market pulp is eco-certified with Chain of Custody certification from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), or PEFC. market The year started strongly with a good balance between supply and demand globally. The world market price for NBSK initially hovered at the level at which it started 2011, USD 950 per tonne, before rising to USD 1 010 per tonne in April. A few older optimum pulp for tissue factories upping their production in the secThe market for tissue products continues to grow, as higher global living standards lead to greater use ond half of 2010, when the economy started of products such as toilet paper and kitchen paper. The long-term strategy of the Market Pulp business recovering, led to increased supply which, area is to increase sales to the tissue market. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 market pulp 29 PACKAGING & SPECIALITY PAPER PACKAGING BOARDS products & markets Products Kraft paper Sack paper Fluting (19% of volumes) (19% of volumes) (25% of volumes) Customers Converters and producers of Converters and sack manufacturers Producers of packaging for the food industry that supply producers of powdered • Corrugated boxes for fruit and vegetables, – 63% of volume goods such as about 2/3 of the fluting volume Packaging for flour, sugar, grain, etc. • Building materials • Packaging for components for the automotive • Open bags (bread, etc.) • Minerals and chemicals industry, white goods and electronics • Carrier bags • Food • Packaging for directly-packaged fast food • Flexible packaging • Transport packaging in corrugated board The cement industry, with its own Converters and producers of sack production and integrated industrial applications filling processes – 37% of volume Around 2/3 of sack paper sales relate to • Medical packaging sacks for building materials, industrial • Release liners for stickers, stamps or minerals and chemicals hygiene products The majority of Billerud’s white sack paper • Steel interleaving is sold in Europe, while 70% of brown sack paper is sold to growth regions outside Europe, predominantly North Africa and South-East Asia Market segments Driving forces Increased demand for kraft paper Good sack quality provides greater Strong structure cuts wastage • Eco-awareness and political decisions profitability • Increased demand for stronger packaging that against fossil plastics are strengthening • Increased construction in growth regions protects the goods the position of paper packaging is boosting demand • Increased awareness of the importance of • Increased demand for product optimisation • Requirements for cost reduction, packaging for the environment • Prosperity is increasing and driving improved functionality and more rapid • Globalisation has brought about increased demand for hygiene products, medical air release are boosting demand for transportation of goods products and disposable consumer high-porosity sack paper packaging • In-store sales are placing greater • The economic growth in Asia is driven demands on the appearance and printby manufacturing, with China now the ability of sacks world’s biggest steel producer • Increased demand for attractive packaging Market and 2011: Stable position with gradual 2011: Good demand in growing 2011: Good demand and stable market capacity weakening of orders market • Improved prices and good demand • The market for products relating to retail • The growth regions continued to see • Sales of fruit and vegetables less sensitive to is relatively consolidated. The market for strong growth in the construction economic fluctuations packaged food and industrial applications market, which increased demand prima• More customers are seeing the added value of is more fragmented rily for brown sack paper high-quality packaging • Good development in the first half-year, • The European market is choosing white • Reduced production capacity since one probut gradual weakening of orders in the sack paper to improve attractiveness and ducer shut down their production in 2010 second half of the year boost in-store sales • Improved price situation in all segments Long term: Large potential for growth compared with 2010 Long term: Stable volumes with • The demand for strong packaging is being potential to increase paper use pushed up by rising populations, stricter Long term: Environmental arguments • Continued expansion in the construction environmental requirements and a greater in favour of kraft paper industry, with increased consumption of focus on profitability and reducing wasteful • Increased interest in FibreForm cement, etc. particularly in Asia use of resources • Increased global demand for packaging • Increased globalisation has led to increased solutions transportation of goods • Paper has unique environmental properties • More widespread political moves to cut back on non-degradable plastic packaging • Increased competition from non-traditional kraft paper players Billerud’s Leading producer of strong, high-quality Global market leader in white and highQuality leader and market-leading producer in position kraft paper in Europe porosity brown sack paper top segment with strong position in fruit and vegetables Main The primary competition comes from plastic The primary competition comes from The primary competition comes from recovered competitors packaging solutions plastic sack solutions fibre-based fluting Packaged food: Highly fragmented kraft Major sack manufacturers are Canfor, Major manufacturers of primary fibre-based paper market where the main competitors Korsnäs, Mondi, Segezha, Smurfit Kappa, fluting are Stora Enso, Powerflute, Mondi are Mondi and UPM UPM Paper carrier bags: UPM, Korsnäs Industrial applications: Ahlstrom, Arjowiggins, Mondi, Nordic Paper, Paper Aralar, UPM 30 business areas BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 MARKET PULP Liner Liquid board Cup Stock Nordic long-fibre (9% of volumes) (2% of volumes) (1% of volumes) bleached sulphate pulp (25% of volumes) Producers of Producers of portion-packed drinks Producers of paper cups mainly for Producers of • Secondary and primary packaging in • Milk drinks • Hygiene products (tissue) corrugated board • Juice • Writing and printing paper • Shelf-ready packaging • Packaging paper • Speciality products such as vehicle air filters Increased focus on the sales value of Increased demand for portion-packed Increased demand for paper cups Primary fibre ensures high quality packaging drinks • Changed consumption patterns with • Long-fibre sulphate pulp results in • Consumers’ changing purchasing choices • Rising global prosperity and new higher sales of take-away drinks good strength and good runability at require packaging with excellent print­ consumption patterns are increasing the paper mills ability that stands out on the store shelf demand for portion-packed drinks • Billerud’s pulp is an eco-friendly • Increased demand for sustainable alternative and is also available with packaging solutions environmental certification • Greater focus on product safety and hygiene 2011: Demand still good Short and long term: Short and long term: 2011: Weaker market • Smart and attractive packaging is Increased global prosperity boosts Changing patterns of consumption becoming increasingly important demand are driving demand Long term: Positive trend in the • Stable customer relations and more • Increasing prosperity in Asia and • Broad demand and few suppliers global market, particularly for stable demand elsewhere is leading to greater consump• Promising future segment, the market is NBSK tion of single-portion packs expected to increase steadily • The market for Nordic long-fibre Long term: Outlook still good market pulp remains fragmented • Increased focus on material savings, • Increased global demand in long term packaging appearance and good quality • Limited addition of new capacity for gives continued stable development long-fibre market pulp • Product safety is expected to be a key • Changed communication patterns are issue for the future, which bodes well for having a negative impact on printing demand for primary fibre-based liner and writing paper but increased demand for hygiene products is compensating for this Market leader in Europe for pure white liner Leading supplier of materials for individual New product launched in 2009 Strategic supplier to large parts of the drink packaging in lower grammage segment European paper industry. Many years of business relations with and geographic proximity to customers who have high quality demands A small number of specialised players in the Korsnäs Stora Enso Södra market, including Stora Enso M-real Botnia Korsnäs Mercer Group Mondi UPM BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 business areas 31 contents Sustainability report 32 Billerud contributes to sustainable development 34 Code of Conduct a cornerstone of sustainability 36 Billerud interacts with the world around it 38 Committed employees 40 Billerud takes responsibility for its products 44 Forest products are good for the environment 46 Reporting at GRI level A 51 GRI index 52 32 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t c o n t e n t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Billerud’s offering “The Natural Part in Smarter Packaging” emphasises the company’s focus on sustainability, combined with innovation and design. In close cooperation with packaging manufacturers and brand owners alike, Billerud develops sustainable materials and packaging solutions. ETERNALE N RT OF -CYCLE A P A CO Billerud’s products are developed in harmony with Several new trees are planted for every one customers and based on renewable raw materials. tree harvested Using wood as an input leads to solutions that largely replace fossil-based packaging. This Growing forest binds carbon dioxide enables Billerud to contribute towards a reduced climate impact. 40% of wood purchased comes from FSC® The right packaging for the right purpose and/or PEFC-certified forestry means more efficient use of resources and a lower environmental impact through reduced waste, The fibres in the packaging can be recycled lower transport costs and higher production four or five times capacity, which attracts customers. Used fibre is used as biofuel BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 33 Billerud contributes to sustainable development Billerud’s offering to the market is founded on a way of working that is sustainable in the long term. The products, manufactured from renewable raw materials using a large proportion of bioenergy, contribute to sustainable development. Billerud offers smarter packaging solutions Skärblacka mill prior to the application – resource efficient, renewable and innovafor a new permit. Risk analyses regardtive solutions in other words. ing the spreading of legionella bacteria Billerud’s values and approach are from the biopurification plants are summed up in “Embracing the {goods}” and on­going. At Gruvön the risk of serious seek to highlight what is important for the flooding was analysed following the customer, for colleagues, for the company publication by the Swedish Meteorological and for the environment. Combined with the and Hydrological Institute of new calcucompany’s values, the offering to the market lations concerning future water levels in creates a clear image and direction for the Lake Vänern. future. Billerud part of the solution Challenges and opportunities Billerud manufactures paper-based packThe greenhouse effect is one of the biggest aging material made from renewable global challenges of our time. Fossil raw forest raw materials capable of replacing materials need to be phased out as sources of fossil-based materials. Packaging made energy and as production inputs for packaging, from paper has a lower greenhouse effect for example. This will boost demand for new than equivalent plastic packaging. fossil-free packaging materials. With its Innovation is crucial to Billerud and Renewable raw materials – Billerud uses paper-based packaging material, Billerud is involves customer-oriented development of raw materials that largely comprise primary well placed to become part of the solution. products and solutions. The packaging profibre from the forest. Active forest managePaper-based packaging is biodegradable and duced from Billerud’s pulp and paper is ment that involves replanting and growing is not associated with the problems of littering recyclable. trees contributes towards greater absorption or damage to animals and aquatic life Billerud has excellent opportunities to of carbon dioxide. All wood purchasing at created by plastic packaging. optimise every step of the product’s lifecycle. Billerud complies with the criteria for FSC Billerud is striving to reduce fossil carbon The forest raw materials are purchased as Controlled Wood. Used packaging can either dioxide emissions. Emissions of fossil carlocally as possible, which is efficient in be recycled or incinerated as a source of bon dioxide per tonne of product have fallen terms of transport. All production takes energy. Primary fibre is often a requirement steadily from 104 to 60 kg between 2008 place in Billerud’s own mills, giving the for use in the food industry, for example, and 2011. The target is for the business to be company complete control of energy effiwhich is one of Billerud’s main markets. completely fossil free in the long term. In ciency, emissions and resource optimisation 2011 96% of Billerud’s heat energy requirein general. The very close relationship with Strong packaging material – Primary fibrement was met by biofuels such as black liquor customers ensures that Billerud’s packaging based paper is strong, which means it can be and bark. The heat energy was used for material is also efficient in the usage phase. thinner while still providing high strength. process heating and to generate approxiBillerud’s products have a positive A lighter material demands lower inputs, mately 60% of the plants’ electrical energy impact on the environment and on use of while strong packaging protects the contents, consumption. resources in several ways: so minimising waste. This reduces the overBillerud is involved in emission rights all environmental impact, particularly in the trading, which seeks to lower the industry’s Customer-oriented innovation – Billerud food industry. carbon dioxide emissions. works very closely with its customers on Strong materials also make transport Environmental risks are constantly product development. The Group has special more efficient, as the packaging can be filled analysed. In general, all mills conduct envilaboratories that work to develop various matewith a larger amount and stacked to a greater ronmental risk analyses before construction rials, functions and designs in line with cusextent. The result is a higher packing rate, projects, when changing procedures and tomers’ requirements. The result is new, smart lower transport costs and lower emissions. working methods and before introducing packaging capable of meeting the market’s new chemicals. In 2011 a major environgrowing needs for paper-based packaging mental risk analysis was carried out at capable of replacing plastic in many cases. 34 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Important events in 2011 The target for carbon dioxide emissions per tonne of product was revised from -15% to -30% by 2013 (base year 2008). Carbon dioxide emissions fell by 39% Close collaboration with one of the world’s major cement manufacturers resulted in cement sacks with low material use, saving 20% of materials during manufacture, becoming standard in Indonesia The number of work-related accidents resulting in sick leave fell by 20% compared with 2010 60% of the trainees recruited for Billerud’s trainee programme in 2011 were women A new environmental permit at Skärblacka requires investments to reduce emissions to air, which will also result in major energy savings Billerud’s corporate headquarters moved to one of Stockholm’s greenest office buildings. The property is part of the EU’s Green Building programme and is rated Gold by the Swedish Green Building Council Billerud reduces its environmental information and labelling of products within service, as two employees are part-time fireimpact the EU (REACH). The employees who work fighters during working hours. They may be The business is energy intensive, and over in the chemicals groups and in production at called out during the working day. Such many years this has led to investments to the respective mills play a decisive role in arrangements are common in the UK and improve efficiency. Billerud uses 96% biomonitoring use, complying with the law and have been part of Beetham for 40 years. The fuel to meet its heat energy requirement, evaluating new alternative chemicals. Skärblacka mill also pays for three out of which is reflected in its carbon dioxide emisBillerud’s transport of inputs predomieight part-time fireman on duty at the local sions, which amounted to 82 000 tonnes nantly involves wood from the Nordic and fire station. from fossil sources and 3 200 000 tonnes Baltic countries. Local raw materials are The mill is often consulted when major from bio-generated sources. The aim is to transported by road. Transport over longer investments are planned in the municipality. introduce ongoing efficiency ­improvements, distances is by rail and by sea. The aim is to In Kalix municipality this is currently the so developing the business to run entirely purchase wood as locally as possible. In case as the port is to be expanded, while without fossil energy. 2011 80% of all wood came from Sweden. Norrköping municipality is planning an iniProduction causes emissions to air and Transport of products from the various mills tiative to make Skärblacka more attractive as water. Operations require a permit under the is 80% by sea or by rail, partly coordinated a place to live. The mills are involved in the Swedish Environmental Code. Billerud within the industry to achieve efficient collaborative process in both cases. applies a certified environmental managetransport. In general, Billerud is involved in trainment system in all mills to ensure constant ing initiatives, cultural events and sport at its improvements and compliance with its An active role in local communities mills. One example is Karlsborg, which permits. During the year the company has Billerud is the largest employer in all the sponsors one of Kalix’s women’s football not been found guilty of any breach of its communities in Sweden where its mills are teams, which reached Division I this year. permits. The permit for Skärblacka was located. This brings with it a major responsiAnother is Gruvön, which is working to renegotiated during 2011, which involved bility as a company but also an opportunity increase contacts with Karlstad University the introduction of more stringent criteria for for influence. Billerud has always prided and Chalmers University of Technology some emissions to air. itself on its long-term, trusting ­relations with with the aim of spreading awareness of the Chemicals are an important input in the County Administrative Board, the mill’s operations and need for expertise. Billerud’s production and are associated municipality, local residents, the local media with stringent requirements in terms of and schools. safety and risk management. Billerud comBeetham, the mill in the United plies with the EU’s chemicals legislation on Kingdom, has close links with the local fire BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 35 Code of Conduct a cornerstone of sustainability Billerud’s work on sustaina­bility is governed by a number of policies and guidelines, where the Code of Conduct is the predominating standard. 130 managers increased their awareness of the code at the management conference. Code of Conduct up and running • The OECD’s guidelines for multinational Conduct and guiding policies, such as the polAt this year’s management seminar managers companies. www.oecd.org icy for quality, the environment and social were able to apply the Code of Conduct in • The ILO’s conventions on decent working responsibility, the personnel policy and the practice. Managers were given an introducconditions. www.ilo.org sponsoring policy. There are also a number tion to the code and then worked on a Billerud also complies with Principle 15 of of more detailed guidelines. All the policies number of scenarios on issues such as bribthe Rio Declaration on the Precautionary and guidelines are available on the intranet ery, employee harassment, risk behaviours Approach, which means taking a preventive and are revised as necessary by the senior and alcohol consumption in the workplace and risk-minimising approach to environmanagement team. and invitations to collaborate with competimental issues throughout the business. Various management systems are applied tors on pricing. Their task was to use the Compliance with the Code of Conduct is in operational work at the mills. All the mills Code of Conduct to recommend solutions. monitored by Billerud’s Ethics Council. The have a certified quality and environmental The aim is to increase awareness among council, which is headed by the Director of management system (ISO 14001 and ISO managers of the extent of the code and its Human Resources and also comprises the 9001) and the Swedish mills also have usefulness as a staff guideline. mills’ HR managers, is tasked with following energy management systems in place. The Other employees were also familiarised up reported infringements of the code. Beetham mill in England applies a certified with the Code of Conduct through local staff Employees who discover infringements can occupational health and safety management meetings. report them, anonymously if they so wish, to system (OHSAS 18001). The management the Ethics Council or to the audit committee. systems ensure the systematic development international guidelines No incidents were reported during 2011. of the business. The Swedish mills and the The Code of Conduct is a summary of the purchasing company Billerud Skog also hold company’s responsibility, guidelines, proceIntegrating work on sustainability Chain of Custody certification from FSC and dures, values and goals and was adopted by Billerud’s work on sustainability is headed by PEFC. the Board in 2010. The aim is for it to serve the company’s Sustainability and Energy as a guideline for all employees in their dayDirector, who reports directly to the President good compliance to-day work. The code sets out Billerud’s and CEO. The CSR manager heads a CSR • In 2010 Billerud was ordered to pay a fine core values: professionalism, efficiency and Committee tasked with ensuring that sustainof SEK 19.5 million due to an administracreativity. Customers must be treated in a ability work is as efficient, professional and tive error regarding the reporting of emisprofessional manner, characterised by comintegrated in the day-to-day work of the comsion rights in 2007. Billerud has appealed petence, experience and good business ethics. pany as possible. The CSR Committee drafts to the Supreme Court but a decision on What Billerud delivers must exceed the proposals for the management and is responleave to appeal has not yet been issued. market’s expectations. The code covers areas sible for monitoring work on sustainable • No incidents of corruption such as compassion, relationships with various development, quarterly in some cases and were reported in 2011. stakeholders, business ethics, consideration otherwise annually. Billerud has Group-wide • Billerud has not had to investigate any of for the environment and social responsibility. targets for the environment and human its business units or business partners on The Code of Conduct is based on the resources. corruption grounds as no suspicions of UN Declaration on Human Rights and other irregularities have arisen. international guidelines, such as: Development via management • Billerud has not been the subject of any • The UN’s Global Compact on sustainable systems legal measures for anti-competitive behavbusiness practices. Billerud’s work on sustainability rests on the iour, antitrust or monopoly practices. www.globalcompact.org firm foundation provided by the Code of 36 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 POLICIES AND GUIDELINES Code of Conduct Policy for quality, the environment and social responsibility Personnel policy Sponsoring policy Guidelines for energy consumption Environmental guidelines for purchasing wood Product safety and hygiene guidelines Purchasing guidelines Finance policy Credit policy “We have been members of the UN’s Global Compact since 2009. Our membership shows the world around us that we have adopted and support the ten global business principles drawn up by the Global Compact.” Per Lindberg, President and CEO Active in the industry The 10 principles of the Global Compact Billerud actively participates in various col Human rights laborative ventures and networks that seek Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally to exchange knowledge and experiences and proclaimed human rights and to lobby on particular issues, for example Principle 2. make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. within the EU. One of these is the Labour Confederation of European Paper Industries, Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective a lobbying organisation at EU level, which recognition of the right to collective bargaining champions the interests of the pulp and Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour paper industry. The European Federation of Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labour and Corrugated Board Manufacturers, of which Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Billerud is a member, also carries out lobbyEnvironment ing at EU level. Another joint initiative is Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Miljöpack, a group of Swedish companies challenges that work together for environmentally Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and efficient packaging. “Normpack”, “Paper Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Province” and the Swedish Forest Industries technologies. Federation are other examples of organisaAnti-corruption tions in which Billerud plays an active role. Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Best Corporate website SWEDEN 2011 Awards and prizes 2011 Award Recipient Awarded by Premier Prix Innovation technologique FibreForm Packinnove Europe Pentawards Best of the Show NINE Pentawards Pack & Emballage Design Challenge FibreForm/Impression Pack & Emballage Red dot award: communication design 2011 NINE red dot Best MidCap company – financial communication Billerud AB IR Nordic Markets Best IR manager MidCap Companies Sophie Arnius IR Nordic Markets 3rd place – Best financial communication web Billerud AB The Swedish Shareholders’ Association/Kanton 3rd place – Female manager of the future Annica Bresky Shortcut & Chef Top ten best Swedish websites www.billerud.com Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Top ten most responsible companies Billerud Folksam’s Corporate Responsibility Index 2011 Environment prize of the year Skärblacka mill Norrköping environmental network BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 37 Billerud interacts with the world around it Openness towards all stakeholder groups and good contacts create a firm footing for a Billerud that is sustainable in the long term. The mills place great emphasis on fostering good relations with local communities. Dialogue for development Billerud’s operations at the mills have a local information. All the mills also encourage It is important for Billerud to conduct an impact in the form of smell and noise, which contacts with schools to spread information open dialogue with its stakeholders to ensure means that local residents in the communities and to inspire and attract future employees that the company’s development is heading surrounding the mills are an important staketo work in the mill. in the right direction. holder group for the company. Billerud has daily contact with customers, CONSULTATION AT SKÄRBLACKA suppliers and employees plus more formal CONTACT WITH LOCAL RESIDENTS Skärblacka mill has undergone the process meetings such as local consultation in mills’ All the mills welcome the views of local of renewing its environmental permit under local communities. residents on Billerud’s operations and have the Swedish Environmental Code. Consul­ Meetings are also one way of canvassing established procedures for dealing with tation with local residents, the Environmental the opinions and meeting the communication complaints. One example is the Skärblacka Protection Agency and the County Admini­ expectations of investors. As far as sustainmill, which has had an environment panel strative Board has been a natural and important ability reporting is concerned, investors have for the past 20 years, comprising people who part of this process. The authorities primarily made it clear that it is important to report live or work close to the mill. They contact required reduced emissions of dust, which relevant key issues such as how strategies the mill if they are troubled by smells or will be tackled by major investments at the and business models impact on Billerud’s other environmental issues. The system works mill. Local residents highlighted noise as an work on sustainability. well and the panel is a supportive element in important issue, and the mill is working to Shareholders are able to voice their opindevelopment work at the mill. improve this in its daily operations. The ions on Billerud’s operations at the annual The Gruvön mill has a tradition of invitinvestments at Skärblacka will also result in general meeting. At last year’s annual general ing the general public in for guided tours in greater energy efficiency and an increase in meeting questions were asked about the way the summer. These events enable Billerud production capacity. the company addresses equality and diversity. and local people to exchange opinions and  illerud supports many clubs and organisations in its local communities. The women’s football team in B the picture has been sponsored by Billerud for several years and has reached the women’s Division I. 38 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Stakeholdergroups Definition Type of dialogue Sustainability issues Result INVESTORS Shareholders Annual report including sustainability Economic value development sustain­ Sustainability report, OMX GES Analysts report, interim reports, able in the long term, Nordic Services Sustainability Index, Potential investors Website, Business and product development IR Nordic Markets, best MidCap Investor meetings, perspective linked to sustainability company financial information and Press conferences, trends. best IR manager, Meetings with analysts, Folksam’s Corporate Responsibility Questionnaires from ethical and environ­ Index, 5th place. mental investment funds. CUSTOMERS Existing customers Personal meetings, daily contact, General requirements for sustainable Environmental brochure, Potential customers Fairs, seminars & customer meetings, corporate management and Code of Carbon footprint study, Customers’ customers Customer surveys/questionnaires. Conduct, Sales material on environmental End-consumers Specific questions, such as: certified issues, volumes of forest, illegal felling, Product and business development. key biotopes, carbon footprint, REACH, groundwater. Existing suppliers Supplier evaluations. Have discussed codes of conduct and Revised sustainability evaluation sustainability issues with suppliers template. during procurement. Lenders Personal meetings, Economic value development Sustainability report. Financial communication. sustainable in the long term. EMPLOYEES Existing employees Workplace meetings, Code of Conduct, Skills development model, Management meetings, Business ethics questions, Extensive work on the work environ­ Internal training, Skills development, ment and safety, Staff surveys, Work environment and safety, Action plan for victimisation at Incident follow-up, Fitness measures, work, Performance reviews. Diversity. Diversity survey, Extended trainee programme. Union Local joint meetings, Work environment and safety, Open and constructive dialogue, representatives Collaborative forum at Group level, Skills development, Greater respect and understanding European Works Council. Terms of contract. of each other’s situation. Future employees Mill visits, Environmental issues, Employer branding, Careers fairs at colleges and universities, Ethical issues, Trainee programme. Student magazine. Terms of employment. BUSINESS Partners Close contacts and development projects. Developing sustainable and New products and packaging PARTNERS resource-efficient packaging, solutions, such as FibreForm, Developing bioplastic barriers. New business approach, e.g. SoliQ. SOCIETY Local residents and Focus groups, Information meetings, Emissions to air and water, What has Greater respect and understanding local associations Environmental reports at mill level, happened, Plans for the future at mills. of each other’s situation and actions. Environment panels. Schools and Close contact with educational institutions, Regional skills-boosting initiatives: train­ Built a basis for future recruitment, universities Study visits. ing, work placements. Greater range of technical vocational training courses. Authorities Contact with County Administrative Boards Emissions to air and water, noise, energy, Better understanding of each other’s and municipalities in conjunction with land issues, waste, use of chemicals. points of view on environmental supervision, issues, Statutory environmental reports, New environmental permit at Consultations in conjunction with environ­ Skärblacka. mental licensing. Certification bodies On-site visits and other kinds of dialogue in Legislation and criteria of the standard Requirements and proposals for External auditors conjunction with audits. in question. improvements. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 39 committed employees During the year Billerud developed its strategic process to achieve greater clarity internally and in the market. Defining the strategy as “The Natural Part in Smarter Packaging” paves the way for a common image of Billerud. nally and internally. It will reinforce the long-term skills supply. Following a mapinternal culture and emphasise the value of ping of retirements coming up in 2011-2015, having motivated, satisfied and competent work is underway to recruit and pass on employees. The aim of this more distinct skills to new employees. Billerud also message is to make Billerud an even more attended careers fairs and industry evenings attractive employer and attract the best to attract skilled employees for the future. entrants to the company. The trainee programme launched in 2010 was developed further in 2011. The Strategic HR most important new element is that employees The Director of Human Resources is the from different functions in the company are person ultimately responsible for developing now participating in training. This mix of strategic work on HR and ensuring that the people with and without experience of regulatory framework is followed with Billerud and with different skills has led to regard to employees. At each mill there are constructive discussions, new networks and human resources functions responsible for a learning process. operational human resources work at local Since Billerud set the target of 60% of level. At strategic level, the work is headed all new recruits having post-upper secondary by the Director of Human Resources in close education by 2013, the trend has been dialogue with HR managers and business growing. In 2011 58% of all new employees managers. had post-upper secondary education. To ensure systematic work on safety in the mills, the Swedish mills comply with the increased customer focus Work Environment Act’s guidelines on Every other year Billerud carries out a staff systematic work environment management, survey, most recently in 2010. The result led to which serve as a work environment managea list of actions to be taken in three priority ment system. The Beetham mill is certified areas. One area is customer focus and several under the standard OHSAS 18001. initiatives were carried out during the year to increase awareness of Billerud’s end-customers. ongoing skills development With the new brand strategy, communication Billerud works systematically to develop will more clearly be linked to demonstrating expertise and increase the level of education the value Billerud creates for its end-customers of its employees. Guaranteeing the right and consumers. skills is essential for success today and into The two other areas are leadership and Similarly, the values and behaviour of the future. The aim is for Billerud’s employees skills, which are constantly in focus in employees have been encapsulated in the to be able to develop their skills on an ongoing Billerud’s work on HR. phrase Embracing the {goods}. This means basis and receive personal feedback on their that Billerud embraces what is valuable for development and performance. Performance Training new managers its customers, its business, its employees reviews are used to identify any skills gaps Skilled managers are crucial to Billerud’s and the environment. in relation to the organisation’s goals and an success. One leadership development target Billerud’s competent employees are action plan is drawn up to meet needs that is that every manager must receive personal determined and highly motivated to fulfil arise. To place performance reviews on the feedback on their leadership and access to customers’ desire to develop smarter packright footing, Billerud has offered performtools to help them develop. The staff survey aging solutions. ance review training to managers and is a good tool for encouraging this. Billerud began the launch of its offering employees. In 2011 75% of employees During the year, new appointees to man“The natural part in smarter packaging” and received personal feedback in the form of a agement positions received training in leaderits values statement “Embracing the {goods}” performance review, compared with 59% in ship, communication and Billerud’s business. at the end of 2011. In the future this will be the previous year. This investment is expected to reap rewards in a visible part of all communication exterBillerud works systematically on its the form of managers who are better prepared 40 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 sustainability target Parameter 2011 2010 2009 2013 falling The number of work-related accidents is to fall constantly through Work-related accidents with sick leave, a focus on safety and incident reporting on an ongoing basis Swedish mills 35 43 26 50% 50% of the managers recruited in 2013 must be women Proportion of female managers recruited 36 29 50 100% All employees must be able to develop their skills and receive Proportion of employees who received personal feedback on their development and performance performance reviews 75 59 55 60% 60% of the employees recruited in 2013 must have completed Proportion of employees with post-upper post-upper secondary education secondary education 58 65 55 All managers must receive personal feedback on their leadership Proportion of managers who received 100% and access to tools to help them develop feedback on their leadership (measured every other year) – 66 – 3 candidates When recruiting management, three candidates must always be Average number of internal applicants internal to increase development opportunities and internal mobility per management post 2.2 2.2 1.8 to lead, develop and motivate their staff. Senior tion of women 25%. In the category The system has been very positively received managers were also offered skills development “Top 150” leaders, 25% were women. by the employees, who find it easy to use. training. To retain and recruit more women, This means that Billerud can now work more In 2011 selected employees were invited Billerud is actively working on gender preventively to stop accidents occurring. to participate in the “Aktivt vägval” proequality. The company attends university Further development of safety inspecgramme in which they were given an opporfairs and arranges information evenings to tions has reinforced work to ensure a safe tunity to develop a platform for their own market Billerud to young women. Informa­ work environment. Representatives of the development within the company. In consultion on opportunities to write dissertations company and its employees work together to tation with their line manager and an external and carry out work experience at Billerud is survey risks and analyse incidents and accicoach, they each drew up a plan for their shown on the website and information dents that have occurred. The results must own personal development at Billerud. about Billerud is provided in magazines be documented in the new PIA tool to make Leadership and skills development initiadistributed to students. These initiatives have them accessible to the whole organisation. tives are important if Billerud is to meet its paid off and the new trainee programme is This year’s figure for work-related target of three internal candidates for each 60% female. accidents with sick leave has fallen to 35, management post by 2013. In 2011 2.2 of Billerud carries out ongoing pay surveys compared with 43 last year. No fatal accidents the candidates for various management posts every three years in line with Swedish legisoccurred during the year. were internal, the same as in 2010. lation. Very few cases of significant genderMany stakeholders in the Swedish forest based pay differences have been identified industry, including Billerud, have biopurifica25% of “Top 150” Leaders women and these have been tackled with action plans. tion plants that use bacteria and micro-organIn December 2011 the average age of Under Swedish legislation there is no statuisms to break down pollutants in the water. employees was 47 and 19% were women. tory obligation to report on other diversity It has been found that legionella bacteria 36% of new managers appointed to jobs factors. flourish in this environment, resulting in a with personnel management duties were risk of employees developing Legionnaire’s women. The long-term aim is for this figure A safer work environment disease. Billerud is involved in industryto be at least 50% for new appointments. During the year Billerud stepped up its safety wide collaboration to address this risk. The distribution between women and men work throughout the company. The PIA Billerud has never had any known case of and the age distribution within Billerud information system is now used in all mills, Legionnaire’s disease and has procedures in needs to be tackled. The average age of the making it easy for employees to document place to inform employees of how to protect Board of Directors was 49 and the proporincidents and risks in the work environment. themselves. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 41 subsidised bikes Billerud offers its employees a fitness grant on an annual basis that can be used for exercise or other healthy activity. All Swedish mills also have exercise facilities in the workplace or provide group activities aimed at getting employees exercising. Approximately half of the employees make use of these opportunities. The most common option is to buy a gym membership card or visit the swimming pool. As part of a major fitness campaign at the Beetham mill, staff were offered a chance to buy subsidised bikes, and many employees now cycle to work as a result. Another example of a popular health initiative during the year was a step counting contest run at Billerud Skärblacka. One aim of these fitness initiatives is to prevent sick leave, which in 2011 amounted to 3.2%, slightly up on 2010. Total sick leave remains low, however, and it can particularly be noted that long-term sick leave is falling. active co-determination Billerud is keen to maintain a good dialogue with the unions. All employees are entitled to join the union of their choice and collective agreements are in place at Billerud. At Group level there is a collaborative forum whose members include the CEO, ­the Director of Human Resources and the employee representatives on the Board of Directors. The forum meets before each  pening of a new school in Kenya funded by ActionAid. Two Billerud employees, Ulla Gälman O Board meeting for a dialogue on the issues and Magdalena Finné, spent a week there helping with the building work. that are important for relations between employer and employees. A union reference group comprising representatives of all collective agreement also judges the risk of child labour to be employees. The company’s intranet and staff areas and mills meets before each Board minimal on the same grounds. magazine also play an important role in work meeting. In addition to these meetings, For the past few years, Billerud has had on values and employees from different units dialogue is carried out within the framework an action plan in place against victimisation are included on the editorial boards of the of European Works Councils (EWC). in the workplace. There is zero tolerance for intranet and the magazine. discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin, The contributions and commitment of all Billerud’s role in the world nationality, sex, religion, sexual orientation, employees are encouraged by checks against Billerud has been supporting the organisaage, disability or political inclination. Audits the targets set. The purpose is to create a tion ActionAid since 2010. Employees are of suppliers and internal monitoring in the working climate in which every employee is offered an opportunity to donate a monthly form of reports to the Ethics Council have encouraged to take active responsibility for sum of SEK 60 to the organisation, which not identified any cases of discrimination their day-to-day work by clearly recognising Billerud tops up with an additional SEK during 2011. the results of what they do. All employees at 100. So far, between them, Billerud and its Billerud have a flexible pay component employees have donated over SEK 1 million Motivated employees linked to the company’s profitability and to various activities in developing countries. Billerud’s staff are the greatest standard bearers local targets. The money goes, for example, towards for the brand and thereby a highly prioritised direct support for seeds or aid in the form of target group in the company’s communication education or building houses. The majority on the new brand promise. The communication of the aid is paid to women, because experiplan is divided into three phases. The first is ence has shown that when women receive that all employees must feel involved and the money the whole family benefits. Every understand the business strategy and thus year two of Billerud’s employees who Billerud’s offering to the market. In autumn participated in the scheme join a project in 2011 all employees were invited to meetings on the country concerned. the strategy. In phase two Billerud’s offering to the market will be described in more detail and no discrimination the business strategy will be presented to a All Billerud’s suppliers are located in Europe. wider group of stakeholders. This means that generally the risk of human The purpose of internal communication rights violations is relatively low. Billerud is to create participation and thereby motivated 42 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 SkärKarlsBillerudSales Employee statistics 2011 Total Gruvön blacka borg Beetham Skog HQ offices Tenova Employees Average number of employees1 (LA1) 2 2772 878 635 431 142 36 59 71 15 No. of employees at year-end 2 2873 878 651 420 141 36 67 69 14 of whom women (LA13) % 19 19 18 14 6 33 48 58 7 of whom blue collar (LA4) % 66 72 71 81 67 0 0 0 50 of whom white collar % 34 28 29 29 33 100 100 100 50 Average age, years 47.1 48.4 45.8 49.4 48.3 35.3 42.6 42.7 38.6 Employee turnover % 4.5 3.7 4.5 3.5 2 11 15.3 13 21.4 Sick leave (LA7) Total sick leave as % of hours worked % 3.2 3.5 3.6 2.1 3.6 2.4 0.8 3.3 0.6 Work-related injuries No. of work-related injuries 40 10 16 9 5 0 0 0 0 Work-related injuries with sick leave % 1.8 1.1 2.5 2.1 3.5 0 0 0 0 1 100% of employees in Sweden and at Beetham are covered by collective agreements (LA4). 2 Includes also NINE with 10 employees. 3 Includes also NINE with 11 employees. Five-year overview, employee statistics 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Average number of employees 2 277 2 240 2 232 2 322 2 364 No. of employees at year-end 2 287 2 263 2 214 2 281 2 352 Employee turnover, % 4.5 2.8 6 5.2 2.3 Average age, years 47.1 46.5 46.9 46.1 45 Work-related injuries4, % 1.8 2.1 1.3 2 1.9 Total sick leave, % 3.2 2.9 2.8 3.5 3.8 Of which long-term leave (> 60 days) of total sick leave, % 36.3 38.7 40.7 47.5 49 Details of work-related injuries, sick leave and average age are for the Group’s Swedish companies up to and including 2008. 4 Number of injuries resulting in sick leave as % of total no. of employees. Industry average 1.7%. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AGE DISTRIBUTION (%) SICK LEAVE AS % OF HOURS WORKED (LA 1, LA 13) (LA 4) (LA 7) 2 500 50 10 2 000 40 8 1 500 30 6 1 000 20 4 500 10 2 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 -29 År 30-39 År 40-49 År 50-59 År 60År 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Short-term sick leave, up to 59 days Men Women White collar Collective agreement Long-term sick leave, 60 days or more Total sick leave The proportion of employees aged 50 or older was 40% (43) Sick leave increased by 0.3% in 2011 and is 3.2% among white collar staff and 47% (44) among blue collar staff. The proportion of employees under 40 was 28% (26) among white collar staff and 20% (21) among blue collar staff. SICK LEAVE DIVIDED BY AGE AS SICK LEAVE DIVIDED BY GENDER AS % OF HOURS WORKED % OF HOURS WORKED POLICIES AND (LA 7) (LA 7) GUIDELINES 10 10 Personnel policy Alcohol and drugs policy 8 8 6 6 Guidelines on: Work environment 4 4 Diversity 2 2 Skills development 0 0 Fitness 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Rehabilitation Maternity/paternity pay 50Sick leave women 30-49 Sick leave men Recruitment -29 Sick leave increased by 0.1% for men and 0.2% for women in 2011. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 43 Billerud takes responsibility for its products In practice this means that the packaging material delivered to different customers the world over must be free from hazardous substances, that the product information is correct and that the right product is sold for the right purpose. Management systems that safeguard product responsibility: ISO 14001 (Environment) ISO 9001 (Quality) BRC IoP (Hygiene) FSC/PEFC (Raw materials) Billerud provides large amounts of packaging material for the food industry and for medical use. The food sector is responsible  ygienic products are of the utmost importance when they are being used for food or medical applications. H This makes high demands of the way in which Billerud manages quality, safety and the environment. for approximately 50% of Billerud’s production.Both these areas are subject to specific product safety criteria. This means that In 2011 Billerud trained employees from FSC or PEFC-certified products.The business Billerud sets stringent requirements on checks production, marketing, including sales staff, areas are responsible for ensuring that sales of inputs such as chemicals. Finished prodpurchasing and development on product of certified products do not exceed the percentucts undergo testing for chemical and microresponsibility, safety and FSC/PEFC forest age of certified raw materials.The mills are biological purity, smell and flavour. certification. Billerud works systematically responsible for providing correct information to increase employees’ awareness of product about FSC and PEFC respectively on invoices clear PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY safety. and transport documents to customers. To The product safety group, whose members are Billerud complies with the relevant increase awareness of the criteria for using drawn from all of Billerud’s production units, legislation and regulations on product safety. certified raw materials, FSC and PEFC were was formalised during the course of 2011. The integrated management systems faciliincluded in product safety training in 2011. This Group-wide network of product safety tate good control of production management, engineers further reinforces Billerud’s work on quality control, traceability and documentaMarket communication product safety. The group keeps up to date on tion to verify that the products are safe for There are a wealth of laws and standards legislation and regulations on product safety in consumers and the environment. The comgoverning market communication that comthe markets in which Billerud operates and pany also hires third-party laboratories to panies like Billerud must follow. To ensure efficiently handles customer enquiries. carry out analyses, check documentation and compliance, central purchasers of market The group reports to the product safety issue third-party certificates. During the year communication are trained in European council, whose members include the Billerud was not involved in any incidents marketing law and general rules on good Production Director, the mill managers and regarding product safety or incorrectly marketing practice. Billerud has never been the heads of the business areas. labelled products leading to complaints, reported for any form of infringement in the The mills are responsible for ensuring fines or legal action. field of market communication. The Code of that product safety requirements are met at Conduct contains principles for how the production stage, while the business areas certified forest raw materials Billerud’s employees are to relate to different are responsible for ensuring that the right In 2011 41% of the forest raw material that stakeholder groups such as customers, which product is sold in the respective market. Billerud bought in was FSC or PEFCmakes it relevant as a guiding principle for Different markets can have different requirecertified, which means that the company is market communication too. ments on product safety and information. able to sell a corresponding proportion of 44 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Pictures from Tetra Pak Tetra Pak checks Billerud Customers too help to ensure that Billerud maintains its focus on responsibility for the environment, business ethics and product safety. One example is the inspection that Tetra Pak carried out at Gruvön mill over two days in March 2011 to assure itself that Billerud was fulfilling its undertakings as a supplier. “Of course the most important thing is product safety,” say the Tetra Pak representatives. But Tetra Pak also looked at how Billerud works on other priority issues such as sustainable forestry and low carbon dioxide emissions. Tetra Pak sets a number of requirements for its suppliers, covering everything from environmental responsibility and product safety to business ethics. Each supplier is audited every three or four years. The visit to Gruvön was one such planned audit. It involved examining documents, visiting the control room and a number of conver­ sations with employees at the mill. Using random sampling techniques, Tetra Pak gained an insight into the way quality management and product safety work. Tetra Pak also tested Billerud Gruvön’s traceability. In November Tetra Pak made a follow-up visit to see how non-compliances and suggested improvements from the audit in the spring had been tackled and they were pleased with the results. It is quite common for customers to carry out audits like these, which support Billerud’s improvement-oriented approach. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 45 Forest products are good for the environment Bans on fossil-based plastic bags are becoming increasingly common across the world. Billerud’s packaging solutions based on renewable raw materials replace fossil-based material. The packaging is innovative, often weighs less, protects the goods better and requires less material for its manufacture. The environmental standard at Billerud’s green liquor filter was taken into operation FSC is an independent, international membership mills is high, as a result of continuous work to provide cleaner green liquor, less lime organization that promotes environmentally on the environment spanning many years. consumption and thus less waste product appropriate, socially responsible and economically All the mills have certified environmental, being sent to landfill. viable management of the world’s forests. FSC quality and energy management systems. stands for Forest Stewardship Council. The mills each have an environment manNew permits at Skärblacka ager responsible for operational work and Pulp and paper manufacturing involves a FSC’s main tool is the development of rules and contact with the supervisory authorities. risk of impacts to health and the environment recommendations for responsible use of forest. The mill manager bears main responsibility and consequently a permit is required under Anyone who wants to follow the rules can certify for ensuring that the mill complies with the the Swedish Environmental Code. Billerud their forestry. The system is voluntary and globally. permit criteria, while other managers in the FSC’s ten basic principles apply to all certifications has permits for the production of all its mills, worldwide. line organisation are responsible for work on covering maximum production volumes, emisthe environment in their respective areas. sions to air and water and dealing with FSC’s rules states among other things: The mills work together in an environmental noise, chemicals and waste. – protect endangered animals and plants network. In 2011 Billerud renegotiated its produc– soil’s future ability to bear forest Employees at Billerud have undergone tion permit for Skärblacka mill. Skärblacka – safe and healthy working conditions training in basic environmental knowledge, is the second-largest mill in the Group with for those working in the woods and this also forms part of the induction annual production of 400 000 tonnes.The – rights of Indigenous Peoples. training for new employees. Key personnel new permit tightens up the requirements receive more in-depth environmental training governing the mill’s emissions to air, which www.fsc-sverige.org to enable them to tackle environmental will involve investments on site. Billerud is issues on an ongoing basis. planning redevelopment work to a cost of Over the years Billerud has invested in approximately SEK 900 million and will measures primarily to use resources and take the opportunity at the same time to energy more efficiently and drive work on improve energy efficiency at the mill. The The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest the environment forward. In the new energy investment is anticipated to cut energy costs Certification schemes, PEFC, is an international efficiency plan for the period 2011 to 2014 considerably, partly by reducing the amount system for sustainable forestry. The Swedish PEFC Billerud estimates cutting electricity use by of oil bought in, which is expensive. The has grown from a standard that was developed by approximately 24 GWh per year. investment will also increase production the forest owners’ organisations during the 1990s and was approved by the international PEFC in In 2011 total environmental investments capacity, paving the way for higher income. 2000. It covers forestry standards, environmental amounted to SEK 95 million, an increase on standards and social standards. PEFC has mainly the previous year. Other investments made sustainable purchasing been used by smaller forest owners but has during the year include additional electrical The dominant raw material for production is gradually also been adopted by several of the filters after the recovery boiler in Karlsborg wood. Billerud owns no forest land of its own large forestry companies. to reduce emissions of dust to air. A new and all wood is bought via its subsidiary www.pefc.se sustainability targets Parameter 2011 2010 2009 2013 -30% Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from the manufacturing process per tonne of product will be cut by 30% between 2008 and 2013 Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide -39% -21% -12% 90% 90% of contracted domestic lorry transport is to be carried out by drivers trained in eco-driving by 2013 Proportion of contracts 83% 61% 61% In addition to being evaluated on the basis of commercial targets, at least five business partners must also be evaluated from an environmental and social perspective No. 7 5 0 5 partners 46 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 41% of raw materials come from FSC and/or PEFC-certified forests. 100% of raw materials meet the criteria for FSC Controlled Wood. FUEL CONSUMPTION 2011 Biofuel, 95.8% Proportion fossil fuel, 4.2% CARBON DIOXIDE FOSSIL KOLDIOXID PER PER TONNE OF PRODUCT TON PRODUKT(KG/TONNE)(KG/TON) 150 120 120 90 90 60 60 30 30 00 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011  illerud is one of the owners of Kalix Vindkraft AB, which owns eight wind turbines. B The picture shows three of the turbines with Billerud Karlsborg in the background. PRODUCTION AND Billerud Skog AB. Wood raw materials come under Billerud’s FSC certificate, continued ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS solely from forests managed sustainably and during 2011 and is expected to be complete with a long-term approach. 100% of wood in the first quarter of 2012. This will improve 2011 2010 2009 purchased complies with the criteria for FSC Billerud’s opportunity to increase its proporProduction* Controlled Wood. In 2011 41% of wood bought tion of certified wood. Packaging & in was also FSC and/or PEFC-certified. Billerud has Chain of Custody certifiSpeciality Paper, ’000 tonnes 508 526 516 Purchased volumes from FSC or PEFCcates under both FSC and PEFC for Gruvön, Packaging Boards, ’000 certified suppliers in 2011 almost met the Skärblacka, Karlsborg and Billerud Skog. tonnes 505 483 505 demand from Billerud’s customers for certiChain of Custody certification means that Market Pulp, ’000 tonnes 353 321 315 fied pulp and paper. The exception is Billerud is able to confirm the origin of its Total 1 353 1 330 1 336 Karlsborg, which was not quite able to deliver timber. the volumes of certified pulp and paper The majority of the wood is harvested Environmental demanded due to a lack of local availability. and transported by the supplier. Billerud investments (EN30) The need for certified wood has in principle Skog harvests a small amount. There is a Environmental investments, remained the same over the past two years. limited risk of a threat to biodiversity from SEK million1 95 53 32 The proportion of purchased wood which harvesting in protected areas by mistake. is not certified is checked under the FSC Billerud addresses this risk and safeguards 1 Process changes that reduce emissions Controlled Wood standard through Billerud’s its supplies by demanding that all its suppli* The figures refer to production units at Billerud management system. Work towards what is ers comply with the criteria for FSC known as umbrella certification, in which Controlled Wood. several small suppliers can be grouped Billerud’s total purchasing in 2011 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 47 amounted to 5.35 million cubic metres sub Today 96% of Billerud’s heat energy and selfimproving the efficiency of pumps and fans (solid under bark), which is slightly up on generated electricity requirements are already and other process optimisation. the previous year. The reason for this is that met by biofuel from forest raw materials. The Electricity consumption calculated as all mills increased production during 2011. long-term target is to be completely inde­pendent kWh/produced tonne fell successively in the Billerud always seeks to buy as much of its of fossil fuels. period 2008–2011 from 1 203 kWh/tonne to raw materials as possible locally. Billerud produced 805 GWh of self-gen1 163 kWh/tonne. This reduction is the In 2011 the proportion from Sweden erated electrical energy in 2011, an increase result of high and efficient production and increased slightly, reaching 80% compared of 11% compared with the previous year. direct energy efficiency measures. The with last year’s figure of 75%. Norway and This was due to high and stable production improve­ment in efficiency roughly correFinland accounted for 10% of bought-in levels during the year. sponds to the electricity generated by wood between them, while purchasing in the Heat energy is primarily generated by 25 1MW wind turbines. Baltic countries fell compared with the combustion of black liquor and bark from In 2011 Billerud replaced three old previous year from 15% to 10% in 2011. the pulp manufacturing process and from boilers at Beetham in the UK with two new The timber market remained stable external biofuel, with less than 5% coming ones. The verdict is that the new boilers, during 2011, but with a slightly higher price from fossil fuels. Billerud’s consumption of which run on natural gas, will lead to a level than 2010. Over time prices have risen fossil fuels in its production fell during reduction in emissions of fossil carbon dioxide somewhat due to increased demand. Billerud 2011, thanks to continued process optimisaof approximately 2 500 tonnes/year. judges that this trend is likely to continue tion and high and stable production levels. in the long term, which may result in a conSurplus heat from Skärblacka and carbon dioxide emissions down tinued increase in wood prices. Gruvön was diverted to the local district The process of manufacturing pulp and paper heating network, equivalent to 16 400 m3 of results in emissions to air which are regulated Evaluating suppliers oil in 2011. This is up on 2010, when the by the permits for each mill. This means that All joint agreements within Billerud are surplus amounted to 16 000 m3 of oil. Billerud must constantly measure and control evaluated every year on quality, the environthe content of various substances in output air. ment and sustainability. This might involve Billerud investing in wind power and In 2011 emissions were kept within applicable analysis of non-compliance during the year, green oil limits at all mills. environmental management systems, energy Billerud is a shareholder in two wind power Emissions of greenhouse gases calcuuse, product safety, compliance with the law, companies: VindIn, owned by a number of lated per tonne of product fell by 39% in the control environment, logistics, the work energy intensive Swedish companies, and 2011 compared with 2008, and by 23% environment, finance and human rights. Kalix Vindkraft AB. In total Billerud will compared with 2010, largely due to continued Any non-compliances and comments are own 21.3 GWh/year once the most recent energy efficiency measures and optimised documented and used to determine whether installation is up and running in 2012. operations resulting in the mills being able the supplier should undergo further checks. Billerud has applied for an EU grant to cut their consumption of fossil fuels. The Additionally, at least five suppliers are (NER 300 initiative) to build a full-scale target for reducing carbon dioxide emissions selected to be checked in an on-site audit plant to produce pyrolysis oil, a green fossilset in 2008 was met by a good margin as addressing the same factors as the evaluation free oil that can replace heavy fuel oil. The early as 2010. above. oil is made from waste forest products. In 2011 seven suppliers were audited from a sustainability perspective, together Energy efficiency improvements Emissions to air mainly consist of dust, sulphur dioxaccounting for 13% of Billerud’s purchased The Energy Agency’s PFE programme ide and nitrogen oxides, which are formed during combustion in boilers and kilns. These two gases volumes. (Programme for energy efficiency improveare acidifying for the environment, while nitrogen ments) launched in 2005 has driven energy oxides also cause eutrophication. The mills also emit 96% biofuel efficiency measures in all of Billerud’s mills. malodorous gases such as hydrogen sulphide and Billerud’s operations are energy intensive, Work on PFE is underway at Billerud and for organic sulphur compounds. which means that the company constantly 2011 it can be reported that 2.4 GWh/year needs to improve the efficiency of its processes. was saved in electricity consumption by  anufacturing biofuel from M untrimmed tops and branches at one of Billerud’s mills. 48 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Other emissions to air such as sulphur, nitroenvironment, the external environment and 2011 2010 2009 gen oxides and dust also exhibited a downproduct safety. If a new chemical is suggested, Purchase of raw materials* ward trend in 2011. it must first be approved by the chemicals (EN1) group before use. Wood, million m3sub 5.2 5.2 5.1 Emission rights trading Handling chemicals requires sound risk Recovered paper, ’000 tonnes1 18 15.1 24 Billerud participates in European trading in management. Billerud handles relatively Pulp, ’000 tonnes 42 37 34 carbon dioxide emission rights. In 2011 the large amounts of chemicals that are classiHeat energy* (EN3) company was allocated more rights than it fied under the Seveso Directive, such as Biofuels: required and was therefore able to sell its sulphur dioxide, turpentine and hydrogen Recovered liquor, GWh 5 260 5 230 5 360 surplus rights. peroxide. Leaks of these may have major Bark, wood residuals, GWh 1 760 1 700 1 650 consequences in the event of an accident. Tar oil/tall oil, GWh 500 420 340 Good access to surface water Consequently, Billerud surveys and prevents Fossil fuels*2: Pulp and paper production demands large risks of accidents in consultation with the Oil, GWh 190 247 298 amounts of water. Because there is good County Administrative Board and the LPG, GWh 37 38 41 access to water close to all its mills, Billerud Swedish Work Environment Authority. Natural gas, GWh 101 115 108 is able to use what is known as surface water Electrical Energy* in its processes. This means that the water Waste is sorted Electricity purchased for the comes from lakes and watercourses. The Source sorting is applied at all plants. Waste manufacturing process, GWh 736 822 777 process water is treated in biological plants from operations is divided into four main Self-generated electricity, GWh 807 731 800 before being returned to these bodies of water. categories: In 2011 total water use was in principle Combustible organic process waste, Use of chemicals* (EN1) the same as the previous year, at 116 million which is mainly incinerated to produce Chemicals, ’000 tonnes 150 151 148 cubic metres. heat energy. Emissions to air* Waste that can be used in alternative areas. (EN20, EN16) For example, fibre sludge from purificaSulphur dioxide Emissions to water primarily comprise oxygention plants is composted to create soil (calculated as S), tonnes 225 260 275 consuming substances, nitrogen, phosphorus and which is used to cover former landfill Nitrogen oxides, tonnes 1 620 1 670 1 700 metals that come from the timber. sites. Dust, tonnes 660 840 880 Waste sent to landfill in Billerud’s own Carbon dioxide, fossil, ’000 tonnes3 82 104 117 Emissions to water landfill sites in line with permits, these Carbon dioxide, bio-generation, Emissions to water such as nitrogen, phosamounts have been reduced over time. ’000 tonnes 3 200 3 200 3 200 phorus and COD remained at the same level Finally there is a fraction of hazardous as the previous year or slightly lower in waste comprising chemicals, fluorescent Water consumption* (EN8) 2011. At the start of the year Gruvön had a lights and waste oil. These are recycled Water consumption, problem with the microbiology of its waste or destroyed by authorised companies. million m3, 4 116 116 116 water treatment plant, resulting in too high a Emissions into water* nitrogen content in its waste water. Phos­ Source sorting is applied at all plants. (EN21) phorus content was also exceeded on one Process waste water, occasion at the same mill. With the excepTransport limited million m3 91 93 92 tion of the problems at Gruvön above, the The transportation needs of Billerud’s operaCOD, ’000 tonnes 22 22 21 mills’ treatment plants functioned satisfactotions are considerable, as large amounts of Substances in suspension, rily in 2011. wood and other inputs are transported to the tonnes 2 400 2 500 2 600 Nitrogen, tonnes 270 290 270 mills primarily from the countries bordering Phosphorus, tonnes 35 35 34 all chemicals checked the Baltic, while large volumes of finished The chemicals used in production are primaproducts are transported to Europe and the Other outward deliveries* rily sodium hydroxide and sodium chlorate, rest of the world. Heat energy, GWh5 167 163 199 which are needed in the cooking and bleachThe basic philosophy for purchasing Tall oil, ’000 tonnes 46 42 43 ing processes. In addition to these, a number wood is that it is to be bought as locally as Turpentine, ’000 tonnes 2.8 2.6 2.6 of additives and auxiliary chemicals are also possible. 80% of wood was bought in from Key ratio* used. The cooking chemicals used in the Sweden in 2011. The industry works together Share of fossil fuel, %3 4.2 5.2 5.7 pulp manufacturing process can be recycled to minimise transport by exchanging timber, Fossil carbon dioxide per at least 10 times. whereby a company can swap its own raw tonne of product, kg/tonne6 60 78 87 The EU Regulation REACH has tightmaterials for those owned by other compaCOD per tonne of product, ened up the requirements made of manufacnies that have been felled close to its own kg/tonne 16 16 16 turers and importers of chemicals to assess mills, such that all the companies benefit in Nitrogen oxides per tonne of health and environmental risks. Billerud has the same way. The wood which Billerud purproduct, kg/tonne 1.2 1.3 1.3 drawn up procedures and set out responsichases is usually transported by road or rail, 1 Recovered paper 1.8% of total fibre requirement bilities for ensuring that the new requirethe exception being wood bought from the 2 Fuel consumption from transport and vehicles is not included ments of REACH legislation are complied Baltic countries, which is transported by sea. 3 Emissions from transport and vehicles are not included with. To improve efficiency when transporting 4 Surface water Purchasing of chemicals is coordinated finished products, the industry has joined 5 District heating for local community and industry to a high degree between the Swedish mills. forces to create ScandFibre Logistics, a 6 Emissions from transport and vehicles are excluded * The figures refer to production units at Billerud. The mills’ chemicals groups play an imporcompany that optimises rail transport. This tant role in deciding which chemicals are to brings environmental and financial gains. be used. The groups examine the chemicals Billerud ships 80% of its finished products from the point of view of health, the work by rail or by sea. In 2011 the Swedish Rail BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 49 Administration electrified lines in the northpaper packaging replaces fossil-based plastic reduced wastage in the value chain. east of Sweden and diesel engines were packaging. Today paper packaging accounts Examples of smart packaging solutions: replaced by electric engines. This will reduce for only 12% of the total European flexible Billerud’s emissions of carbon dioxide from packaging market, indicating that there is Under the SoliQTM brand, Billerud Fresh rail transport of finished goods by 16%. major potential to increase volumes. Services offers a service concept that Billerud sets environmental requirements Billerud uses large amounts of primary seeks to optimise the fruit and vegetable for lorry deliveries within Sweden by requiring fibre in its production as only primary fibre delivery chain to reduce unnecessary fuel in environmental class 1 and that drivers meets the requirements for strong and hygienic waste and extra handling costs. It also are trained in eco-driving. The proportion of packaging paper. The environmental burden is creates major environmental gains drivers trained in eco-driving increased from reduced when packaging material protects without increasing costs. 61% in 2010 to 83% in 2011. products such as food, medical instruments Total emissions of carbon dioxide caused and building materials so effectively that fewer Launched back in 2009, FibreForm® has by transport are an estimated 91 000 tonnes, goods are destroyed during transport. Wasted become a successful alternative to plastic 4% down on 2010, largely due to an increased food is a major waste of resources. packaging for ready meals and fresh proportion of rail transport. This year’s A market survey conducted by IPSOS in foods. This solution helps to reduce the emissions are divided between 40 000 tonnes Europe shows that 87% of consumers prefer carbon footprint by 75% and use of plastic for transport to Billerud and 51 000 tonnes paper to plastic packaging. Several countries by 65%. for transport from Billerud. now have restrictions and bans on the use of plastic for carrier bags. This trend benefits QuickFill® is an innovative, sustainable Sustainable products several of Billerud’s market segments. In 2011 sack solution. One of its uses is for Billerud’s products are made from renewable Billerud formulated its “Smarter Packaging” cement and Billerud supplies materials raw materials grown in sustainable forests. The strategy, which exploits the collective experfor the sacks, which are both thinner and products can also be recycled and become new tise of the entire organisation to highlight the stronger. They have been developed in material, or be used as bioenergy and incinerenvironmental advantages of renewable close cooperation with customers and ated to produce heat. Billerud’s products help materials, efficient production, innovative save 20-50% on material resources. to reduce climate emissions, for example when and smart packaging and transport and Under the SoliQTM brand, Billerud Fresh Services offers a service concept that seeks to optimise the fruit and vegetables delivery chain. 50 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 A Reporting at GRI level A Billerud’s sustainability report aims to annually report results and strategic work from an environmental, social and financial perspective. The report covers the Group’s entire operations. Billerud’s sustainability report covering the Encompassing all operations quarterly. The measuring and reporting results for 2011 has been drawn up in line This report includes the results of all systems and the auditing principles have not with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Billerud’s operations and majority-owned changed since the previous year. A large G3 guidelines. It meets the criteria for a companies. Companies in which Billerud proportion of the results reported here are level A report and Billerud has chosen to has too small a stake have been excluded generated by the various management have a third party check of the report carried because Billerud’s control over sustainability systems. Content is also based on oral inforout. This means that a third party, in this issues is limited, as is the potential impact of mation from key people within the company case Billerud’s auditor, has confirmed these units on environmental and social and other written documentation. Billerud Billerud’s own assessment that the report aspects. The following companies are not has calculated carbon dioxide emissions on contains the information that corresponds to included in this report: BaseEL i Sverige the basis of the company’s transports into the standard for level A. AB, Vindln AB, Kalix Vindkraft AB and the mills and from the mills in accordance Because Billerud is a member of the PACCESS LLC. with NTM’s basic freight calculation UN’s Global Compact initiative, this report Billerud’s manufacturing is located in formula (www.ntmcalc.org). Otherwise, the also serves as its annual Communication on Europe, as are all its suppliers, and this has GRI guidelines have been followed in Progress (COP) disclosure. had a bearing on the relevant indicators calculating results and indicators. selected by Billerud for inclusion in the Target group report. Reporting of the human rights dimenContact information As was the case with last year’s sustainability sion has been limited for this reason. report, the target group for the report is Freedom of expression and freedom of Stina Blombäck, restricted to capital market investors. A strict association, zero tolerance for discriminaSustainability and analysis was carried out to select the relevant tion, requirements governing a safe working Energy Director +46 8 553 335 57 indicators which form the basis of the report. environment and other issues pertaining to Anders Snell, During the year, Billerud held discussions human rights are governed by and communiEnvironment and with investors and analysts to determine the cated in Billerud’s Code of Conduct. Energy Manager +46 8 553 335 13 indicators to be selected. This means that In 2011 no major purchases or sales Karin Hågfeldt, information and indicators relevant to other were carried out which might affect the Director of stakeholders may be reported via other comparability of the results with the previHuman Resources +46 8 553 335 06 information channels, such as the website. ous year. Elisabet Olin, The reporting of sustainability factors is Head of Corporate integrated throughout the annual report and Reporting system Communications +46 8 553 335 18 is also concentrated in this section on pages Billerud monitors its work on sustainability Sophie Arnius, 32–53. and reports the results as a rule on an annual Investor Relations basis, while in some cases follow-up may be Manager +46 8 553 335 24 OMX GES Swedish and Nordic Sustainability Index. This index was set up in 2008 and ranks the 50 leading companies in the Nordic region in terms of environmental responsibility, social responsibility and corporate governance. indexes.nasdaqomx.com BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 51 gri index 2011 is the third year that Billerud has reported its sustainability work in line with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version 3.0). Billerud applies reporting level A, as confirmed by Billerud’s auditors Ernst & Young. Work on determining the content of the report is based on weighing up year as an integrated part of the annual report and on the company’s what is important to Billerud’s business, the company’s responsibility website. Billerud applies GRI’s performance indicators and reports on for the rights of its employees, its impact on society and the environall key indicators that are relevant to its business. For complete GRI mental responsibility incumbent upon a pulp and paper manufacturing index, please visit www.billerud.com. industry. Billerud intends to report sustainability in line with GRI each Part of GRI Page Part of GRI Page 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 1.1 CEO’s statement 2-3, 37 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 98-105 risks, and opportunities 34-35, 69-73 Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2 executive officer 98-99, 102 2. Organisational profile 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive Board members 102-103 2.1 Name of the organisation 55 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 19, 30-31 recommendations or direction to the Board or the company's Operational structure of the organisation including main Flap, 87-89, 4.4 company’s management 42, 98-99 2.3 divisions, operating companies subsidiaries and joint ventures 99-100, Cover Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Cover governance body, senior managers and executives, and the 56-58, 84, 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Flap, 22, Cover 4.5 organisation’s performance 93, 100, 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 58, 98, Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest 98-100, 110 4.6 are avoided 104-105 2.7 Markets 12-17, 24-31 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the 2.8 Scale of the organisation Flap, 43 4.7 Board (regarding sustainability) 98-99 Significant changes during the reporting period Flap, 51, Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 2-3, 8-11, 2.9 (regarding size, structure or ownership, etc.) 55-60, Cover conduct and principles relevant to economic, environmental and 32-51, 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 37 4.8 social performance 99-100 Procedures of the Board for overseeing economic, environmental 36-37, 3. Report parameters and social performance and compliance with internationally 99-100, Report profile 4.9 agreed standards, codes of conduct, etc. 104-105 3.1 Reporting period 51 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance, 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 51 particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social 3.3 Reporting cycle 51 4.10 performance 99 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 51 Commitments to external initiatives Report scope and boundary 4.11 Application of the precautionary principle 36 3.5 Process for defining report content 51 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives 36-37 3.6 Boundary of the report 51 4.13 Memberships in industry and business associations 37 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Stakeholder engagement 3.7 of the report 51 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisations 38-39 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 51 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 38, 52 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 51 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 38-39 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stake­ 3.10 provided in earlier reports 51 holder engagement, and how the organisation has responded 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 51 4.17 to those key topics and concerns 38-39, 51 GRI, Global Reporting Initiative 3.12 GRI content index 52-53 Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 assurance for the report 51 52 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Part of GRI Page Part of GRI Page 5. Management approach and performance Human rights indicators Performance indicators Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have ECONOMIC IMPACT HR2 undergone human rights screening and actions taken 10-11, 48 Governance 4-5, 8-9 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective Performance indicators HR4 actions taken 36, 41 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 18-22, HR6 Significant risk of incidents of child labour 42 EC2 due to climate change 34-35 Role of the organisation in society Governance 34-39, 48 Environmental impact Performance indicators 36-37, SO1 Management of the impacts of operations on communities 34-35, Governance 46-47, 57, 71 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks Performance indicators SO2 related to corruption 36 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 48-49 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 36 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 49 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 46, 48 SO7 anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes 36 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 49 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 49 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent SO8 regulations 36 EN11 to areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 34, 47 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY EN14 on biodiversity 34, 46-47 36-37, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 48-49 Governance 44-45 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Performance indicators EN18 achieved 48-49 Type of product and service information required, and percentage of EN20 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions by type and weight 48-49 PR3 products and services subject to such requirements 44 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 49 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and related to marketing communications, including advertising, EN26 services, and extent of impact mitigation 35, 50 PR6 promotion and sponsorship 44 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of EN28 laws and regulations 36 PR9 products and services 44 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments EN30 by type 46 Social impact Labour practices and decent work Governance 36-37, 40-41 Performance indicators Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and LA1 region 43, 84 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 agreements 43 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and LA7 number of work-related fatalities by region 41-43 Education and programmes to assist workforce members or their LA8 families regarding serious diseases 41-42 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 development reviews 40-41 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group 41, 84, LA13 membership and other indicators of diversity 102-103 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t 53 2011 2011 contents Directors’ report Directors’ report 55 Financial statements Consolidated profit and loss accounts 61 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 61 Consolidated balance sheet 62 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 63 Consolidated cash flow statement 64 Profit and loss accounts for parent company 65 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for parent company 65 Balance sheet for parent company 66 Statement of changes in parent company equity 67 Cash flow statement for parent company 68 Risk management and sensitivity analysis 69 Notes and accounting policies 74 Proposed allocation of profit 96 Auditors’ report 97 54 directors’ report BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Directors’ report The Board and CEO of Billerud AB (publ), corporate identity number 556025-5001, herewith submit the annual report and consolidated annual accounts for the 2011 financial year. Billerud’s operating profit deteriorated in 2011 and decreased by SEK 59 Billerud’s expertise within renewable materials and PACCESS million, or 6%, to SEK 978 million compared to 2010. A substantially Packaging's established customer base, extensive expertise in packaging poorer operating profit for business area Market Pulp was partly offset by development and in-depth local market knowledge in Asia, create a a better operating profit for the packaging paper segments. strong platform for future growth. The investment strengthened Billerud’s Billerud’s corporate governance report is presented separately on position in Asia, which is an important growth market. pages 98-105. Efforts relating to strengthening the Billerud brand, such as “The Natural Part in Smarter Packaging” was launched in connection with Markets Billerud opening on the NASDAQ OMX in New York on 26 September Billerud offers the global packaging market innovative and sustainable 2011. Through this initiative, Billerud clarified its ambition of being a products and services. The Group has a leading position in primary fibremore customerand solution-driven company, offering packaging manubased packaging paper. The packaging market continues to show a posifacturers and brand owners clear-cut added value thanks to its packaging tive trend in the long term, thanks chiefly to increased globalisation, solutions that strengthen brands, enhance productivity and support the greater prosperity and changed consumer patterns. Besides packaging environment. paper, Billerud sells the surplus of long-fibre pulp, Northern Bleached Billerud also gained recognition during the year in the form of the Softwood Kraft (NBSK), that it does not use in its own production procmost prestigious design award in the packaging industry, the Pentaward esses. Billerud's customers are primarily in Europe, although an increasBest of the Show, awarded to NINE, Billerud’s innovation and design ing share of deliveries is made to other parts of the world. agency. Also, in the Design Challenge 2011 at the largest packaging Billerud’s activities are divided into three business areas: Packaging trade fair in the Nordic region, an award went to Chesapeake's new pack& Speciality Paper, Packaging Boards and Market Pulp. aging range Impressions™, which is based on Billerud FibreForm®. The year got off to a very positive start, with demand remaining In 2011, Billerud's total sales volumes amounted to 1 354 000 good or very good in all packaging paper segments. During the second tonnes, an increase of 4% from the previous year. The increase is chiefly quarter, demand was healthy in most of Billerud's packaging paper segattributable to market pulp, which increased from 301 000 tonnes to ments with order bookings remaining good. The second half of the year 343 000 tonnes, or by 14% compared to the previous year. This is in line started with uncertainty on the market, resulting in lower demand and order with market-related production shutdowns having been implemented to bookings for sack and kraft paper. This trend was partly due to seasonal an increasing extent. This had a negative impact on packaging paper volpatterns. Order bookings for primary fibre-based containerboard also deteumes, but increased the volumes of market pulp. The purpose of the marriorated slightly during the third quarter. At the end of the year, order ket-related production shutdowns was to restore the market balance, and bookings for sack and kraft paper stabilised at a lower level than normal, mainly affected the Packaging & Speciality Paper business area, whose and order bookings for primary fibre-based containerboard continued to sales volumes decreased by 3% from 524 000 tonnes in 2010 to 507 000 weaken. Prices in local currencies for the packaging segments increased tonnes in 2011. Business area Packaging Boards increased sales volumes in the first half of the year by around 5%, were stable in the third quarter by 5% from 482 000 tonnes in 2010 to 504 000 tonnes in 2011. and decreased in the last quarter by around 4% compared to the previous quarter. Sales volumes by business area As a result of the worse market conditions in the second half of the year, Billerud implemented several market-related production shutdowns, '000 tonnes 2011 2010 mainly regarding sack and kraft paper, in order to restore the market Packaging & Speciality Paper 507 524 balance. Packaging Boards 504 482 In the market for Nordic long-fibre sulphate pulp, demand remained Market Pulp 343 301 robust in the first half of the year. In the third quarter, pulp inventories Total 1 354 1 307 among producers increased, resulting in the pulp market weakening. Nonetheless, demand was relatively healthy at the beginning of the second half of the year. In the last quarter, the market weakened further. Prices Net sales by business area of NBSK pulp in Europe increased continually during the first half of the year, from USD 950 per tonne at the beginning of the year to SEKm 2011 2010 USD 1 025 per tonne at the end of the second quarter. In poorer market Packaging & Speciality Paper 4 293 4 166 conditions in the second half of the year, prices dropped to USD 950 per Packaging Boards 2 772 2 428 tonne at the end of the third quarter, and continued downwards to USD 825 Market Pulp 1 752 1 731 per tonne at the end of the year. Currency hedging, etc. 230 153 Billerud bolstered its position in the packaging industry by investing Other1 and eliminations 296 350 in a minority position in PACCESS Packaging, a US-based company Total 9 343 8 828 with several operations on Asian markets. Through this investment, 1 Relates to external sales from the wood supply operation as well as for Tenova Bioplastics AB Billerud took a further step to becoming an even more customerand and Nine TPP AB. solution-driven company. Optimising packaging in terms of function, material, design and sustainability is gaining importance for brand owners. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 directors’ report 55 Net sales by geographic area Profit and loss accounts, summary SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Germany 1 334 1 338 Net sales, SEKm 9 343 8 828 Italy 1 135 1 083 Operating profit/loss, SEKm 978 1,037 Sweden 995 870 Operating margin, % 10 12 United Kingdom 732 711 Profit/Loss before tax, SEKm 933 960 France 479 507 Net profit/loss, SEKm 683 705 Rest of Europe 2 286 2 302 Earnings per share, SEK 6.63 6.84 Rest of the world 2 382 2 017 Total 9 343 8 828 Return on equity for the period was 14% (17) and return on capital employed was 20% (21). A dividend of SEK 3.50 per share is proposed Net sales and profits (3.50). Net sales totalled SEK 9 343 million, up 6% from the previous year. Operating profit/loss AND Margin per business area Despite market-related production shutdowns, sales volumes for 2011 amounted to 1 354 000 tonnes, 4% higher than 2010. 2011 2010 Billerud’s operating profit deteriorated in 2011 and decreased by SEKm % SEKm % SEK 59 million, or 6%, to SEK 978 million compared to 2010. A subPackaging & Speciality Paper 450 10 417 10 stantially poorer operating profit for business area Market Pulp was Packaging Boards 370 13 271 11 partly offset by a better operating profit for the packaging paper segments. Market Pulp 64 4 276 16 For information about change in operating profit see table below. Currency hedging, etc. 230 153 Variable costs increased by SEK 243 million, of which SEK 212 million Other and eliminations -136 -80 was attributable to changes in wood prices. Total 978 10 1 037 12 For quarterly data see page 108. CHANGE IN OPERATING PROFIT FROM CORRESPONDING PERIOD PREVIOUS YEAR Earnings per operating segment SEKm 2011-2010 2010-2009 Since 2009 Billerud has applied IFRS 8 Operating Segments, which Sales and production volumes, replaced IAS 14 Segment Reporting. Billerud has identified its operating including product mix 22 61 segments in accordance with IFRS 8 to reflect Billerud’s three business Selling prices areas: Packaging & Speciality Paper, Packaging Board and Market Pulp. (in respective sales currency) 943 1,387 See Accounting policies on page 74. Compensation for strike -77 77 Change in variable costs -243 -228 Change in fixed costs -92 -99 Packaging & Speciality Paper Change in depreciation, amortisation and impairments -4 -49 Operating profit increased SEK 33 million, or 8%, to SEK 450 million Effects of exchange rate fluctuations, including hedging1 -608 -412 compared with the previous year. The reason for the increase is improved Total change in operating profit -59 737 prices, which compensated for higher variable costs and lower sales volumes. The operating margin was 10% (10). 1 Effects of exchange rate fluctuations totalling SEK -608 million comprise the following components: change in spot rates SEK -683 million, currency hedging SEK -154 million and Market trend exchange rate effects from revaluation of accounts receivable and customer payments, etc. SEK 229 million. At the beginning of the year, order bookings for sack paper remained robust for the season, and slightly under the level of the corresponding Net financial income/expense amounted to SEK -45 million (-77); an period the previous year for kraft paper. In general, order bookings for improvement of SEK 32 million as a result of lower debt. sack and kraft paper weakened in the second quarter and returned to a more normalised level. Customers’ inventory levels, which had been Profit before tax was SEK 933 million and estimated tax was SEK -250 gradually built up in the first quarter, were reduced in the second. million. Net profit thus totalled SEK 683 million. Further weakening occurred in the third quarter, due in part to seasonal variations. Customers continued to reduce their inventory levels, Change in profit/loss by business area which mainly affected the sack paper market and, to a certain extent, some kraft paper grades. In the quarter, market-related production shutOperating profit/loss, Business area Operating margin, % SEKm Change downs were carried out, mainly regarding sack paper, aimed at restoring (share of sales) 2011 2010 2011 2010 SEKm the market balance. Packaging & Speciality Paper In the final quarter, order bookings for both sack and kraft paper and Packaging Boards were lower than usual, yet stable compared with the preceding quarter. Packaging paper At the end of the year, order bookings for sack paper improved slightly. (around 80%) 12 10 820 688 132 As in the previous quarter, customers continued to focus on reducing tiedMarket Pulp up capital in inventories. Market-related production shutdowns were carried Market pulp 4 16 64 276 -212 out also in the fourth quarter, aimed at restoring the market balance. ( around 20%) Currency hedging and other1 94 73 21 The price level in local currencies increased for the majority of Total 10 12 978 1 037 -59 products in the first half of the year. Price pressure emerged in the third quarter and continued throughout the rest of the year. This led to price 1 Currency hedging and other relates to the lines Currency hedging, etc. and Other and increases coming to an end in the third quarter, and at the end of the eliminations according to the specification on page 108. year prices dropped in local currencies for all products. 56 directors’ report BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Packaging Boards Cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK 1 272 million in 2011 Operating profit increased by SEK 99 million to SEK 370 million com(1 393). Operating cash flow in 2011 amounted to SEK 762 million pared with the previous year, following improved prices and higher sales (1 062). volumes. The operating margin was 13% (11) Interest-bearing net cash stood at SEK 233 million at 31 December 2011, compared with interest-bearing net debt of SEK 155 million on Market trend 31 December 2010. The Group’s net debt/equity ratio at the end of the Order bookings remained healthy in the first half of the year, although a period was -0.05 (0.03). Billerud’s financial target for the debt/equity certain seasonal slowdown occurred towards the end of the first half of ratio is between 0.60 and 0.90 over a business cycle. Thus the current net the year. In the third quarter, order bookings weakened slightly, with debt/equity ratio is substantially less than the target level. Cash and cash increased uncertainty regarding demand compared to the previous period. equivalents were SEK 929 million (740) at 31 December 2011. Towards the end of the year, order bookings continued to weaken and were at lower levels than normal in the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter, Significant risks and uncertainties customers reduced their inventories to a greater extent. Billerud’s products are generally dependent on the business cycle in terms The price level in local currencies increased for the majority of prodof both price trends and potential sales volumes. The Group is exposed to ucts in the first half of the year. In the third quarter, prices in local currency changes in exchange rates because most of its revenues are invoiced in for primary fibre-based containerboard were stable. However, towards the foreign currency while a large proportion of operating expenses are end of the quarter, price pressure heightened for primary fibre-based incurred in SEK. containerboard as a consequence of lower prices for recycled fibre-based Billerud’s mills have higher capacity for production of sulphate pulp grades. The price pressure continued in the fourth quarter, resulting in than it requires to produce packaging paper. To produce in a cost-effective poorer price levels in local currency for most products compared with the way, Billerud is largely dependent on being able to sell surplus as market previous quarter. pulp. Changed conditions from the Swedish Energy Agency regarding the Market Pulp allocation of electricity certificates after 2012 could affect earnings. The Operating profit decreased by SEK 212 million to SEK 64 million comeffect of sold electricity certificates impacted operating earnings by pared to the previous year, chiefly because of less favourable exchange SEK 131 million (162) in 2011. rates. The operating margin was 4% (16) For a further description of risks and a sensitivity analysis, see pages 69-73. Market trend Demand for NBSK pulp remained robust in the first half of the year. Tax position Stocks among pulp producers increased in the second half of the year, The Group’s effective tax rate is normally about 26.5%–27%. Effective resulting in the market weakening. However, demand was relatively 1 January 2009, the Swedish statutory tax rate was reduced, from 28%, healthy to start with. The market for NBSK pulp continued to weaken in to 26.3%. The tax rate in the foreign subsidiaries is on average somewhat the fourth quarter. During the quarter, several non-integrated producers of higher than the Swedish tax rate. The tax expense for 2011 is estimated NBSK pulp carried out market-related production shutdowns aimed at at SEK 250 million, equivalent to a tax rate of 26.8% (26.6). restoring the market balance. The price level in Europe increased to USD 1 025 per tonne at the end Parent company of the second quarter, compared to USD 950 per tonne at the beginning of Billerud AB comprises the Gruvön mill, the sales organisation for the the year. In the second half of the year, the price level in Europe dropped Nordic markets and markets outside Europe and the head office functions. to around USD 825 per tonne at the end of the year. In 2011, net sales totalled SEK 4 151 million (3 760). Operating profit amounted to SEK 529 million (525). This profit included SEK 20 Investments and capital employed million (9) in dividends received from subsidiaries. Gross investment in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The parent company hedges its own net currency flows and those of including company acquisitions totalled SEK 512 million (334). the Group. The parent company’s profit includes the results of these Billerud's capital employed was SEK 4 639 million (4 792) at 31 hedging measures which totalled SEK 190 million (344). December 2011. Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Return on capital employed, calculated over the past 12-month period, excluding shares amounted to SEK 201 million (128) in 2011. The average amounted to 20% (21). If the effects of currency hedging are excluded, return number of employees was 937 (924). Cash, cash equivalents and investon capital employed was 16% (14). Return on equity after tax was 14% (17). ments in securities etc. equalled SEK 842 million (644). Cash flow and financial position Environment and permit issues Billerud has three operations in Sweden and one in the UK that require Statement of cash flows, summary permits under Swedish and UK environmental legislation. These permits apply for the production of pulp and paper. Billerud has all permits SEKm (positive figure indicates reduction in debt) 2011 2010 necessary to conduct operations at the volumes produced in 2011. Operating surplus, etc. 1 604 1 625 The environmental impact of operations is mainly in the form of Change in working capital, etc. -113 -147 emissions to air and water and the creation of waste and noise. Net financial income/expense, taxes, etc. -219 -85 In 2011 Skärblacka mill was granted a new environmental permit Cash flow from operating activities 1 272 1 393 including stricter regulation of emissions to air. A new environmental Current net investments -510 -331 permit has also been granted for Gruvön regarding landfill expansion. Operating cash flow 762 1 062 Billerud’s Swedish mills have been awarded emission rights for carbon Dividend -361 -52 dioxide within the EU. The allocation for the five-year period starting in Other items, not affecting cash flow -13 -13 2008 exceeds the calculated emissions in total. Change in net debt during the period 388 997 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 directors’ report 57 Long-term incentive programme (LTIP 2010) allocated at no charge one right to matching shares and three rights to The 2010 AGM agreed to introduce a long-term incentive programme performance shares for each saving share. These rights entitle holders to (LTIP 2010) for Billerud and a related transfer of shareholdings. Billerud shares provided certain criteria are met. For both types of rights, The Board’s main objective in proposing LTIP 2010 is to strengthen throughout the vesting period the participant must remain an employee of the Billerud’s ability to retain the best talent for key leadership positions. Billerud Group and must not divest the saving shares. The rights are personal The purpose is also to encourage greater efforts among senior management and cannot be transferred or pledged. They do not entitle shareholder rights and other key individuals whose input has a direct impact on Billerud’s and no adjustment for dividend is made. For the rights to performance earnings, profitability and growth in value, by aligning their interests and shares, additional financial performance targets must be met. The requireperspectives with those of the shareholders. ments are based on: (a) Billerud’s average operating margin for the period LTIP 2010 comprises in total a maximum of 90 senior managers and 2011-2013 in absolute terms; (b) Billerud’s operating margin in relation to other key individuals in the Billerud Group, who are deemed to have a sigthat of a benchmark group consisting of specially designated listed Nordic nificant impact on the future development of the Group. To participate in companies for the same period; (c) Billerud’s total return for the period LTIP 2010, a person must own Billerud shares referred to as “saving 2011-2013 in comparison with that of a benchmark group consisting of shares”. Following a three-year vesting period that begins on the date the listed Nordic companies. The performance requirements (a) and (c) give agreement for LTIP 2010 takes effect and ends when Billerud releases its shares on a straight-line basis between minimum and maximum levels, while interim report for the first quarter of 2013, the participants will be alloperformance requirement (b) involves a digital procedure. cated at no charge one right to matching shares and three rights to LTIP 2011 consisted per 31 December 2011 of 22 056 saving shares performance shares for each saving share. These rights entitle holders to in total, which entail the allocation of in total a maximum of 88 224 Billerud shares provided certain criteria are met. For both types of rights, Billerud shares. Moreover LTIP 2011 consists of an additional 64 000 throughout the vesting period the participant must remain an employee of Billerud shares that are related to shares that can be transferred by the Billerud Group and must not divest the saving shares. For the rights to Billerud for the purpose of covering certain costs, chiefly social fees. performance shares, additional financial performance targets must be Thus the maximum number of Billerud shares included in LTIP 2011 is achieved. These performance targets are related to Billerud’s average 152 224, which corresponds to about 0.1% of the total number of operating margin for the period 2010–2012 in absolute terms and in Billerud shares and votes outstanding. comparison with a benchmark group consisting of specially designated Based on a theoretical assumption of an annual 10% increase in companies, as well as Billerud’s total return for the period 2010–2012 in share price, from SEK 64 when the programme started, and a vesting comparison with the total return for the same period for a benchmark period of three years, the cost of LTIP 2011 including social fees of group consisting of specially designated listed Nordic companies. SEK 6 million, is estimated at about SEK 10 million. For 2011, operating At 31 December 2011, LTIP comprised a total of 58 773 saving profit was charged SEK 1 million. shares, which entail the allocation of in total a maximum of 235 092 For further information about LTIP 2011, please refer to the press Billerud shares. Moreover, LTIP 2010 consists of an additional 109 000 release dated 30 March 2011 and the documents for the 2011 AGM, Billerud shares that are related to shares that can be transferred by which are available on Billerud’s website. Billerud for the purpose of covering certain costs, chiefly social fees. Thus the maximum number of Billerud shares included in LTIP 2010 is Product and process development 344 092, which corresponds to about 0.3% of the total number of Billerud The costs of product and process development, to the extent attributable shares outstanding. On the allocation date, the programme comprised to research activities, are charged to profit/loss in the year that they occur 67 150 saving shares, which initially entitled their owners to an allotment and in the past year they have corresponded to about 0.5% of Billerud’s of a maximum of 268 600 Billerud shares in total. operating costs. Based on a theoretical assumption of an annual 10% increase in share price, from SEK 47.2 when the programme started, and a vesting Seasonal factors period of three years, the cost of LTIP 2010 including social fees is estiBillerud’s activities are relatively unaffected by seasonal variations. Order mated at about SEK 10 million, which, on an annual basis, corresponds flows are usually highest during the spring but, because available capacity to about 0.3% of Billerud’s total employee benefits expense during finandetermines deliveries, they are relatively constant over the year. Periodical cial year 2009. The maximum cost of LTIP 2010 based on the above maintenance shutdowns have the largest impact, as each mill stops assumptions is estimated at about SEK 33 million, including SEK 22 million production for around one week. This means that deliveries are somein social fees. For 2011, operating profit was charged SEK 3 million. what lower for quite some time before, during and after the shutdown. For further information about the content of the programme, please Billerud’s costs are relatively stable throughout the year. Fixed costs are refer to the press release dated 24 March 2010 and the documents for the slightly lower in the summer, when fewer maintenance jobs are performed. 2010 AGM, which are available on Billerud’s website. Energy costs are slightly higher in the winter because of higher energy consumption and normally higher energy prices, especially for electricity. Long-term incentive programme (LTIP 2011) The 2011 AGM resolved to introduce a long-term incentive programme Maintenance shutdowns (LTIP 2011) for Billerud and a related transfer of own shareholdings. In addition to continuous maintenance while machines are running, Billerud already had an incentive programme underway (LTIP 2010). Billerud’s mills normally require more extensive maintenance at some LTIP 2011 aims to strengthen Billerud’s ability to retain the best talent point during the year. To perform this maintenance, production of pulp and for key leadership positions, and to encourage greater efforts of participaper is stopped – known as a maintenance shutdown. The cost of a pants by aligning their interests and perspectives with those of shareholders. maintenance shutdown chiefly consists of lost volumes related to the The programme includes in total a maximum of 20 senior managers and shutdown and fixed costs, primarily in the form of costs of maintenance other key individuals within the Billerud Group. LTIP 2011 has a term of and overtime. It also comprises variable costs to a certain extent, for three years starting in 2011 and the outcome depends on meeting different instance higher consumption of electricity and wood when production financial and share price performance requirements that are deemed to be starts up again. The estimated cost of the shutdown is an assessment of of great significance in terms of the future development of the Group. the impact on earnings of a normal shutdown in relation to a quarter To participate in LTIP 2011, a person must own Billerud shares referred to without a periodical maintenance shutdown. as “saving shares”. Following a three-year vesting period that begins on the date the agreement for LTIP 2011 takes effect and ends when Billerud releases its interim report for the first quarter of 2014, the participants will be 58 directors’ report BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Estimated Estimated distribution Planned times matching accounts receivable affected earnings in the fourth quarter. Other shutdown of shutdown cost of maintenance contracts had a market value of SEK 17 million. cost by business area shutdowns For its Swedish operations, Billerud hedges around 50% of forecast net Mill SEKm PSP PB MP 2012 2011 2010 flows over the coming 12-month period, but in line with its financial policy Approx Approx Approx the Company also has the possibility to increase currency hedging to 100% Gruvön Approx. 100 30% 60% 10% Q4 Q4 Q2 of net flows over the coming 15 months. Approx Approx Karlsborg Approx. 40 50% 0% 50% Q3 Q3 Q3 The hedged amount of currency flows and the SEK exchange rates for Approx Approx Approx EUR, USD and GBP at 31 December 2011 are shown in the table below. Skärblacka Approx. 60 70% 15% 15% Q3 Q2 Q3 Billerud Beetham Ltd hedges part of its net flow of USD and EUR against GBP. Maintenance shutdowns at Beetham have an insignificant effect on Billerud’s overall earnings. The effect of the shutdown on earnings varies depending on the extent of Hedged proportions of currency flows for EUR, USD and GBP measures carried out, their character and the actual length of shutdown. and exchange rates against SEK Billerud works continually to spread the cost of maintenance shutdowns more evenly over the year. Total 12 Currency Q1 -12 Q2 -12 Q3 -12 Q4 -12 months Other seasonal factors EUR Proportion of flow 92% 68% 41% 17% 54% A significant amount of Billerud Flute® volumes are used for packaging Rate 9.35 9.19 9.22 9.19 9.26 in fruit exports from the Mediterranean region. Demand from this USD Proportion of flow 92% 60% 41% 19% 53% customer group varies with the fruit seasons and is normally highest Rate 6.65 6.71 6.79 6.90 6.71 from September to March. A significant amount of Billerud’s sack paper GBP Proportion of flow 85% 60% 38% 15% 50% Rate 10.59 10.56 10.68 10.75 10.61 and QuickFill® sack paper goes to packaging for cement and building Market value, forward currency materials. Demand for building materials in Europe is generally higher contracts 21 7 5 2 35 during the period May to October. The table shows the situation as of 31 December 2011. Financing In the first quarter of 2011, the SEK 1 200 million syndicated credit Share structure facility maturing in 2012 was replaced by a new five-year facility of At 31 December 2011, the share capital totalled SEK 774 173 065, divided SEK 801 million with a consortium of banks. among 104 834 613 shares. There were 103 114 299 shares in the market. In the third quarter of 2011, a bond loan of SEK 150 million was Since the end of 2004 there have been no share buy backs. repaid. Interest-bearing loans amounted to SEK 819 million at 31 December DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES 2011. Of this amount, utilisation of the syndicated credit facility (maximum: SEK 801 million) accounted for SEK 117 million, bond loans for 31 Dec 2011 SEK 675 million, utilisation of Billerud’s commercial paper programme Registered number of shares at beginning of the year 104 834 613 (maximum: SEK 1 500 million) for SEK 0 million and other interestBought-back shares in Company ownership -1 720 314 bearing liabilities for SEK 27 million. Shares on the market 103 114 299 FINANCING AT 31 DECEMBER 2011 Financial targets Maximum credit Utilised In November 2006 Billerud’s Board established the following long-term Loans SEKm SEKm Maturity financial targets. Syndicated credit facility 801 117 January 2016 Commercial paper – 1–6 months Organic growth of at least 3% on average per year. Bond loan 4 300 February 2013 Operating margin of 10% over a business cycle. Bond loan 7 225 June 2013 Investments shall produce a return well above the Company’s weighted cost of capital. Debt/equity ratio of between 0.60 and 0.90 over a business cycle. Bond loan 8 150 March 2016 Over the business cycle, 50% of net profit to be allocated as dividends to shareholders. SEK credit facility 800 – July 2017 Total 1 601 792 The targets focus on long-term growth. The target for operating margin creates greater transparency in the governing of the Company and a better link between internal operational financial targets and those communicated Capital structure, summary externally. 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Capital employed, SEKm 4 639 4 792 The Billerud share Financing: The share capital of Billerud AB is divided among 104 834 613 ordinary Interest-bearing net debt, SEKm -233 155 shares, of which 1 720 314 are owned by Billerud AB. Each share entitles Shareholders' equity, SEKm 4 872 4 637 one vote at the AGM. Transfer of shares is not restricted by law or by the Net debt/equity ratio, multiple -0.05 0.03 Company’s articles of association. The 2011 Annual General Meeting (AGM) authorised the Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of own Currency hedging shareholdings. During 2011, net flows were hedged at EUR/SEK 9.28 (10.56), USD/ The largest shareholder, Frapag Beteiligungsholding AG, owned SEK 6.92 (7.56), GBP/SEK 10.71 (11.46). In 2011, currency hedging 21 621 400 shares, corresponding to 21% of shares in the market, as of had an earnings impact of SEK 190 million (344) (compared to no 31 December 2011. No other shareholder owned 10% or more of the total hedging having been in place). number of shares at 31 December 2011. The Company knows of no agreements Billerud AB's forward currency contracts outstanding at 31 between shareholders that may restrict the right to transfer shares. Appoint­ December 2011 had a market value of SEK 35 million. The contracts ment and dismissal of Board members, and changes to the articles of associaBILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 directors’ report 59 tion, are made by the AGM. No significant agreements to which the Currency exposure Company, or other Group company, is a party would come into effect, be All forward foreign exchange contracts for the Swedish operations are changed or cease to be valid if control of the Company changed as a result taken out by the parent company, while the exposure to payment flows in of a public acquisition bid. There are agreements between the Company, foreign currency is borne by all the Swedish mills. Exposure for the parent other Group companies and senior mangers that entail compensation if company is thus less than that of the forward contracts taken out. This applies they were to resign, be dismissed without reasonable grounds or if their up to the invoicing date, because the parent company takes over the accounts employment were to end due to a public bid to acquire shares in the receivable for the Swedish mills. At year-end 2011, foreign exchange conCompany. These agreements are described in note 24. Agreements tracts not yet recognised in the parent company’s profit and loss statement between the Company and other employees that regulate their own resigtotalled a nominal SEK 2 094 million (2 633), all of which will be recognation or dismissal by the Company follow normal labour market practice. nised in 2012. The corresponding net currency flows in the parent company in 2012 are estimated at approximately SEK 7 300 million (7 200). Guidelines for remuneration to senior managers The Board proposes that the 2012 AGM approve the following guidelines Interest rate risk for remuneration to senior managers. Senior management includes the The Group’s borrowing is conducted primarily via the parent company and CEO and other members of the senior management team. accounted for 90% of the Group’s total borrowing at 31 December 2011. As Billerud shall apply market-related remuneration levels and employa result, the parent company has largely the same exposure to changes in ment terms that are appropriate in order to recruit and keep a senior interest rates as the Group. All interest derivatives are attributable to the management team that has the competence and capacity to achieve set parent company. goals. Remuneration forms shall motivate Group management to do its best to secure shareholders’ interests. Remuneration may be in the form Expenses of fixed or variable salary, long-term incentive programmes and other Energy benefits such as company car and pension. Fixed and variable salary shall The parent company is the contracted party in all electricity hedging contracts, be determined in relation to expertise, area of responsibility and performwhich are based on electricity consumption at the three Swedish mills. ance. Variable remuneration shall be based on meeting clearly set targets, The parent company’s exposure is therefore less than the total hedged and shall be a maximum of a fixed percentage of fixed annual salary and amounts. However, when the contract is settled, any profit or loss on the vary between 30% and 45%. However, variable salary shall be paid only contract is distributed in proportion to the forecast consumption of each if the Company makes an operating profit. Long-term incentive programmes mill. Consequently the parent company’s earnings are only affected by the shall primarily be linked to certain pre-determined financial and share amount corresponding to the parent company’s (Gruvön mill) electricity price related performance criteria. The programs shall ensure long-term consumption. During 2011, the Company had no electricity hedging commitment to the development of the Company and shall be implecontracts. At the end of 2011, electricity hedging contracts for 2012 had a mented on market terms. Long-term incentive programmes shall have a market value of SEK 0 million. term of at least three years. For further information about the current long-term incentive programmes adopted by the 2010 and 2011 AGMs, Proposed allocation of profit see the Billerud website as well as the section “Long-term incentive proAs reported on page 96 of this annual report, non-restricted equity in the gramme (LTIP 2010)” and “Long-term incentive programme (LTIP parent company, Billerud AB, amounted to SEK 2 168 million at 31 2011)”. Pension benefits shall either be defined-benefit or defined-contriDecember 2011. bution plans and will normally give a pension entitlement after age 65. In According to Billerud’s financial targets, the dividend shall equal 50% certain cases, the age may be reduced but never lower than 62. Notice of of the net earnings per share and the net debt/equity ratio shall be between termination is normally 6–12 months, and if the Company gives notice 0.60 and 0.90 over a business cycle. At the end of 2011, the Company’s severance pay shall be a maximum of 12 months’ salary. net debt/equity ratio was -0.05, a decrease of 0.08 compared with the end Remuneration and other employment terms for the CEO are prepared of 2010 and significantly less than the target range. Billerud’s Board proposes by the compensation committee and decided by the Board. Remuneration that, of the earnings per share of SEK 6.63, SEK 3.50 per share be paid to and other employment terms for members of the senior management shareholders and that the remaining amount be carried forward. team are determined by the CEO following approval by the compensation committee. Events after the close of the financial year The Board of Directors is entitled to deviate from these guidelines if On 1 February 2012, Billerud Finland Oy, a wholly owned subsidiary of there is good reason in individual cases. See note 24 for 2011 guidelines. Billerud AB, reached an agreement with UPM-Kymmene (UPM) regarding the acquisition of UPM's packaging operations in Pietarsaari and Tervasaari, Risk management, parent company Finland. For further information, see note 27. For a description of the Group’s risk management, see the section titled “Risk management and sensitivity analysis”. The description applies, Outlook where appropriate, to both the Group and parent company. Specific  Uncertainty prevails in terms of Group order bookings for the first part differences concerning the parent company receive comment under this of 2012. However, the market is showing signs of stabilising. heading. Price pressure is expected to persist in the packaging paper segments at For an understanding of the risk exposure in the parent company, the beginning of 2012. the following should be taken into account. If needed, market-related production shutdowns will take place in order to restore the market balance. Customer credit The parent company’s accounts receivable represent more than 90% of the Group’s accounts receivable, because the mills’ accounts receivable are taken over by the parent company after invoicing and the monies collected by the parent company. However, the risk of any bad debts remains with the invoicing company. Of total provisions within the Group for doubtful accounts receivable in 2011, SEK 7 million (15) was attributable to the parent company. 60 directors’ report BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS SEKm Notes 2011 2010 1, 23 Net sales 2, 34 9 343 8 828 Other operating income 3 18 85 Total operating income 9 361 8 913 Operating expenses Change in inventories 1 105 Raw materials and consumables -4 480 -4 241 Other external costs 4 -1 863 -1 753 Employee benefits expense 5 -1 427 -1 377 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-current assets 10, 11 -614 -610 Profit/Loss from participations in associated companies 14 0 0 Total operating expenses -8 383 -7 876 Operating profit/loss 2, 34 978 1 037 Financial income and expenses 6 Financial income 22 5 Financial expenses -67 -82 Net financial income/expense -45 -77 Profit/Loss before tax 933 960 Taxes 8 -250 -255 Profit/Loss for the period 683 705 Profit/Loss attributable to: Owners of the parent company 683 705 Non-controlling interests 0 – Profit/Loss for the period 683 705 Earnings per share, SEK 9 6.63 6.84 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 9 6.61 6.83 Dividend per share is reported in note 17. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEKm Notes 2011 2010 Profit/Loss for the year 683 705 Other comprehensive income Differences arising from the translation of foreign operations’ accounts for the year 3 -15 Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets during the period 0 0 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges -312 -315 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit/loss for the year 186 313 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income 33 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 593 689 Attributable to: Owners of the parent company 593 689 Non-controlling interests 0 – Comprehensive income for the period 593 689 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s 61 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SEKm Notes 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 ASSETS 1, 23 Non-current assets Intangible assets 11 52 77 Property, plant and equipment 10 5 054 5 177 Participations in associated companies 14 29 4 Other holdings 15 30 11 Deferred tax assets 8 1 1 Long-term receivables 23 342 261 Total non-current assets 5 508 5 531 Current assets Inventories 16 1 135 1 070 Tax assets 17 21 Accounts receivable 1 391 1 412 Receivables from associated companies 30 3 7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 76 69 Other receivables 276 350 Cash and cash equivalents 25 929 740 Total current assets 3 827 3 669 Total assets 9 335 9 200 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1, 23 Shareholders’ equity 17 Share capital 774 774 Additional paid-in capital 903 903 Reserves -16 74 Profit brought forward 3 210 2 886 Total shareholders' equity attributable to owners of the parent company 4 871 4 637 Non-controlling interests 1 – Total shareholders’ equity 4 872 4 637 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 20 819 798 Provisions for pensions 18 219 207 Other provisions 19 36 27 Deferred tax liabilities 8 1 467 1 434 Total non-current liabilities 2 541 2 466 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 20 0 150 Accounts payable 1 210 1 155 Liabilities to associated companies 30 17 2 Tax liabilities 171 174 Accrued expenses and deferred income 22 439 527 Other liabilities 84 88 Provisions 19 1 1 Total current liabilities 1 922 2 097 Total liabilities 4 463 4 563 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 9 335 9 200 See note 29 for information on the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities. 62 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Profit brought Total Additional Trans­ Fair forward incl. NonshareShare paid-in lation value Hedge profit/loss controlling holders’ SEKm Notes capital capital reserve reserve reserve for the year Total interests equity 17 Opening balance, 1 January 2010 774 903 -4 – 94 2 228 3 995 – 3 995 Total comprehensive income for the year -15 0 -1 705 689 – 689 Dividends paid -52 -52 – -52 Share-based payments to be settled in equity instruments, IFRS 2 0 0 – 0 Sale of shares, incentive programme 5 5 – 5 Closing balance, 31 December 2010 774 903 -19 0 93 2 886 4 637 – 4 637 Profit brought Total Additional Trans­ Fair forward incl. NonshareShare paid-in lation value Hedge profit/loss controlling holders’ SEKm Notes capital capital reserve reserve reserve for the year Total interests equity 17 Opening balance, 1 January 2011 774 903 -19 0 93 2 886 4 637 – 4 637 Total comprehensive income for the year 3 0 -93 683 593 0 593 Acquisition of partly ownedsubsidiaries, already with noncontrolling interests 1 1 Dividends paid -361 -361 – -361 Share-based payments to be settled in equity instruments, IFRS 2 2 2 – 2 Closing balance, 31 December 2011 774 903 -16 0 0 3 210 4 871 1 4 872 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s 63 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEKm Notes 2011 2010 25 Operating activities Profit/Loss after financial income and expenses 933 960 Adjustments for non-cash items 632 592 Tax paid -180 -12 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1 385 1 540 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories -64 -11 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables -11 -218 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities -38 82 Cash flow from operating activities 1 272 1 393 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets -1 -1 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -465 -333 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 3 Acquisition of financial fixed assets -127 -261 Cash flow from investing activities -591 -592 Cash flow after investing activities 681 801 Financing activities Dividend -361 -52 Transfer of own shares, incentive programme – 5 New borrowings 25 25 Repayment of borrowings -157 -845 Cash flow from financing activities -493 -867 Cash flow for the year 188 -66 Cash and cash equivalents, opening balance 740 818 Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents 1 -12 Cash and cash equivalents, closing balance 929 740 64 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS FOR PARENT COMPANY SEKm Notes 2011 2010 1, 23 Net sales 2 4 151 3 760 Change in inventories -1 54 Other operating income 3 35 67 Total operating income 4 185 3 881 Operating expenses Raw materials and consumables -1 797 -1 641 Other external costs 4 -947 -851 Employee benefits expense 5 -650 -608 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-current assets 10, 11 -262 -256 Total operating expenses -3 656 -3 356 Operating profit/loss 529 525 Financial income and expenses 6 Profit/Loss from participations in Group companies 1 061 -201 Interest income and similar items 20 4 Interest expenses and similar items -30 -74 Total financial income and expenses 1 051 -271 Profit/Loss after financial income and expenses 1 580 254 Appropriations 7 -2 212 2 098 Profit/Loss before tax -632 2 352 Taxes 8 168 -618 Profit/Loss for the year -464 1 734 Financial income and expenses and Taxes for 2010 have been recalculated following new policies for reporting group contributions. Statement of comprehensive income for parent company SEKm Notes 2011 2010 Profit/loss for the year -464 1 734 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income for the period – – Total comprehensive income for the year -464 1 734 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s 65 Balance sheet for parent company SEKm Notes 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 ASSETS 1, 23 Non-current assets Intangible assets 11 12 17 Property, plant and equipment 10 2 582 2 638 Participations in Group companies 12 1 220 1 195 Participations in associated companies 14 1 6 Other holdings 15 25 7 Other long-term receivables 23 358 283 Total non-current assets 4 198 4 146 Current assets Inventories 16 390 376 Accounts receivable 1 273 1 338 Receivables from Group companies 13 1 232 454 Receivables from associated companies 30 – 4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 44 51 Other receivables 150 60 Cash and bank balances 25 842 644 Total current assets 3 931 2 927 Total assets 8 129 7 073 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1, 23 Shareholders’ equity 17 Restricted equity Share capital (104 834 613 ordinary shares) 774 774 Statutory reserve 149 149 Total restricted equity 923 923 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 827 827 Profit/Loss brought forward 1 804 431 Profit/Loss for the year -464 1 734 Total non-restricted equity 2 167 2 992 Total shareholders’ equity 3 090 3 915 Untaxed reserves 26 2 212 – Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 18 210 196 Deferred tax liabilities 8 333 673 Total provisions 543 869 Non-current liabilities Syndicated loans 21 58 58 Bond loans 21 675 675 Other interest-bearing non-current liabilities 21 1 3 Liabilities to Group companies 13 675 341 Total non-current liabilities 1 409 1 077 Current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 21 – 150 Accounts payable 235 224 Liabilities to Group companies 218 426 Liabilities to associated companies 30 5 – Tax liabilities 165 167 Accrued expenses and deferred income 22 235 221 Other liabilities 17 24 Total current liabilities 875 1 212 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 8 129 7 073 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities of parent company Pledged assets 29 18 23 Contingent liabilities 29 72 97 66 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Statement of changes in parent company equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Profit/Loss Net profit/ Total Share Statutory premium brought loss for shareholders’ SEKm Notes capital reserve reserve forward the year equity 17 Opening balance, 1 January 2010 774 149 827 1 986 -1 508 2 228 Previous year’s profit/loss brought forward -1 508 1 508 – Net profit/loss for the year1 1 734 1 734 Dividends paid -52 -52 Sale of shares, incentive programme 5 5 Closing balance, 31 December 2010 774 149 827 431 1 734 3 915 1 Recalculated following new policies for reporting group contribution. Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Profit/Loss Profit/loss Total Share Statutory premium brought for shareholders’ SEKm Notes capital reserve reserve forward the year equity 17 Opening balance, 1 January 2011 774 149 827 431 1 734 3 915 Previous year’s profit/loss brought forward 1 734 -1 734 – Profit/loss for the year -464 -464 Dividends paid -361 -361 Closing balance, 31 December 2011 774 149 827 1 804 -464 3 090 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 f i n a n c i a l s tat e m e n t s 67 Cash flow statement for parent company SEKm Notes 2011 2010 25 Operating activities Profit/Loss after financial income and expenses 1 580 254 Adjustments for non-cash items 280 253 Tax paid -173 0 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1 687 507 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories -14 -50 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables -1 075 471 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities -182 231 Cash flow from operating activities 416 1 159 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets 0 – Acquisition of property, plant and equipment -201 -128 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 0 Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries -29 – Acquisition of financial fixed assets -98 -260 Change in financial receivables 5 4 Cash flow from investing activities -322 -384 Cash flow after investing activities 94 775 Financing activities Dividend -361 -52 Sale of shares, incentive programme – 5 New borrowings 616 99 Repayment of borrowings -151 -924 Cash flow from financing activities 104 -872 Cash flow for the year 198 -97 Cash and cash equivalents, opening balance 644 741 Cash and cash equivalents, closing balance 842 644 68 fl ionraenmc i a l s t a t e m e n t s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 RISK MANAGEMENT AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Billerud is affected by the general economic climate, changes in exchange rates and other factors more specific to the Company. This section describes the most important risks that influence Billerud’s ability to achieve the goals set for the Group and the management of each risk. Billerud actively seeks to minimise risk through preventive measures. Wherever this is not possible, risk is hedged or insured against. Many of the risks discussed below can influence Billerud positively or negatively. Risk management is governed at the overall level by the Board and audit committee and at an operational level by the CEO, senior management team and other staff. The risk management process pays special attention to achieving a balance between the control activities and the development of an effective control environment with individual accountability throughout the organisation. OPERATIONAL RISKS Description of risks Risk management Comments on 2011 Variations in market prices and volumes for Billerud’s There are various pricing models for packaging paper, the most common In 2011, Billerud increased prices for packaging products being interim pricing. Fixed price contracts over a long period only occur paper, in line with the market. Average prices to a limited extent. in local currency for Billerud’s packaging Billerud’s products are generally dependent on the business cycle in The price of market pulp is determined by the current market price. paper segment rose 15% compared to 2010. terms of both price trends and potential delivery volumes. Market pulp, Billerud’s mills have higher capacity for production of sulphate pulp than However, poorer exchange rates counteracted which accounts for around 20% of Billerud’s sales, is considerably more it requires to produce packaging paper. To produce in a cost-effective the price increases. sensitive to the business cycle than packaging paper is. Variations in way, Billerud is largely dependent on being able to sell surplus sulphate The market price of market pulp decreased, the market prices of Billerud’s products can influence Billerud’s profit pulp as market pulp. from USD 950 per tonne at the end of 2010, to or loss unless the price variations are related to changes in Billerud’s Billerud works continually on its process efficiency to adapt its costs, USD 825 per tonne at the end of 2011. costs. Demand for Billerud’s products is among other things influenced to counteract the negative influence that lower market prices have on by the behavioural patterns and attitudes of Billerud’s customers and Billerud’s operating profit. end-customers. Nearly all sales are based on framework agreements specifying general delivery terms and planned delivery volumes. A minor portion of sales consists of spot sales, that is, sales not subject to a framework agreement. Spot prices may be higher or lower than framework agreement prices. Spot sales occur above all in the market pulp sector. Billerud works continuously to increase product differentiation based on customers’ needs and to boost the proportion of sales to consumerrelated industries, for example to reduce cyclical fluctuations. Customer dependence and customer credit risk Customers are chiefly producers of packaging, and the relationship with At year-end 2011, accounts receivable the customer is usually long-lasting. To a growing extent, Billerud is totalled SEK 1 391 million, representing an Billerud has about 1 000 active customers in about 100 countries, the offering packaging solutions directly to end-customers and brand owners. average customer credit period of about five largest customers accounting for 23% of the Group’s sales in 2011. By expanding its customer base, Billerud can reduce its dependence on a 56 days. In 2011, about 88% of sales were If Billerud cannot live up to the demands made by its largest customers, small number of customers. insured through a credit insurance agreement. and if the customers do not fulfil their payment obligations, Billerud could The granting of credit to customers varies, depending on the market ­Confirmed bad debts totalled SEK 10 million be adversely affected. and the product. The Group has developed a special credit policy to in 2011. manage customer credit, with the policy of insuring all customer credit that can be insured. Billerud’s excess on credit losses is a maximum of SEK 5 million as of 1 January 2011. Provision for bad debts Breakdown of accounts receivable by age SEKm SEKm Group 2011 2010 Group 2011 2010 Provision at beginning of year 27 16 ImpairImpairProvision for anticipated bad debts 3 12 Gross ment Net Gross ment Net Confirmed bad debts -10 -1 Accounts receivable not due 1 362 -1 1 361 1 359 -1 1 358 Provision at year-end 20 27 Accounts receivable overdue 0–30 days 30 0 30 71 – 71 Accounts receivable overdue >30–90 days 22 0 22 9 – 9 Accounts receivable overdue >90–180 days -1 -2 -3 -2 – -2 Accounts receivable overdue >180–360 days -2 -1 -3 2 -10 -8 Accounts receivable overdue >360 days 0 -16 -16 0 -16 -16 Total 1 411 -20 1 391 1 439 -27 1 412 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 RIS K M ANA G E M ENT AND SENSITI V IT Y ANA LY SIS 69 OPERATIONAL RISKS cont. Description of risks Risk management Comments on 2011 Risk at production facilities Extensive effort is devoted to developing production plants so as to In 2011, the operations ran well without any ensure operational reliability. This is in addition to structured work on disruptions. Billerud has four production facilities whereof three operate round the documentation, skills development for employees, a well thought-out clock, every day of the year. The only planned shutdown is the periodic approach to preventive maintenance and careful follow-up and analysis maintenance shutdown at each mill. Continual operation means high of deviations. To protect Billerud in the event of serious breakdowns or efficiency in the utilisation of capital, but it also raises sensitivity to other production problems, the facilities are insured against disruptions. unplanned disruptions to production. If disruptions in operations occur For disruptions that result from serious breakdowns or other damage, that lead to major production losses, they may result in loss of income such as a fire, power failure and water damage, Billerud will be compento Billerud. sated by the insurance company for damages beyond the excess. Billerud is also insured for property up to replacement costs. Supplies of wood raw materials These purchases are made from a small number of major suppliers, such Production limitations in the industry led as Stora Enso, Holmen and Sveaskog, as well as from a large number to a certain surplus of wood during the Supplies of fresh fibre are vital to Billerud’s production of paper. Billerud of private landowners in northern Sweden. In addition, about 20% second half of the year. Otherwise, the does not own any forest; it buys all its wood raw materials on the timber of the Company’s timber requirements are imported, mainly from the wood market was in balance in 2011. market. Baltic states. Billerud’s assessment is that its partnership with the major suppliers will account for the main share of wood raw material deliveries for the foreseeable future. Wood price risk In general, prices in contracts with major suppliers are set each quarter The cost of wood raw materials increased or six months. This may create problems with deliveries to Billerud if the in 2011 compared to 2010. In the latter Market prices for wood vary over time, which can affect Billerud’s parties cannot reach agreement on the market price that is to apply. part of 2011, a surplus of softwood built up earnings. These prices are influenced by demand from the pulp industry, and market prices consequently fell. indicating that changes in the overall output of the pulp industry in the Nordic region may subsequently affect the level of costs of wood raw materials. Demand in other sectors such as in sawn timber and wood WOOD PRICE 160 used for combustion, especially in connection with the use of biofuels INDEX 140 BILLERUD 120 for generating electricity and heat, may also indirectly affect the price of 100 pulp wood. Changes in customs duties may also impact on the price of 80 imported timber. 03/04 04/05 05/06 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 Energy price risk In 2005 and 2006, Billerud carried out a comprehensive investment In 2011, total electricity consumption was programme in the energy sector, which reduced the amount of electricity about 1.5 TWh, of which about 53% was Energy costs represent a major component of the manufacturing costs. it needed to purchase from 1.2 TWh, to approximately 0.8 TWh since the generated in-house, about 29% was basic Billerud consumes electricity, biofuel, oil and small amounts of other start of 2007. Thus, Billerud’s self-sufficiency in electricity is around 60% power purchased from Vattenfall at fixed types of energy. Higher energy prices could result in higher operating at full output. In May 2007, Billerud signed a 10-year supply agreement prices and about 18% was purchased in expenses for the Group and have a negative effect on operating earnings. for electricity at fixed prices with Vattenfall. The agreement covers basic the spot market. As of 1 November 2011, Sweden is divided into four bidding areas power requirements of around 0.4 TWh per year for the period 2008– Sold electricity certificates impacted for electricity. Karlsborg Mill is in the LUL bidding area and Skärblacka 2017. Through this agreement and its own power generation capacity, operating earnings by SEK 131 million and Gruvön are in the STO bidding area. Prices can vary between the Billerud has secured, since the beginning of 2008, approximately (162) in 2011. areas and, as an estimate, prices will be lower in the north and higher in 80% of its electricity energy requirement in a satisfactory manner, with the south. a balanced combination of in-house generated electricity and long-term Billerud is entitled to the allocation of electricity certificates for the supply agreements. The remainder of the external energy requirement electricity produced at the Company's biofuel plants until the end of will be bought on the spot market or reduced by further energy savings. 2012. Billerud sells the allocated electricity certificates on an ongoing Trading in electricity futures may also occur in order to secure a fixed basis. In 2005 and 2006, Billerud carried out energy investments in these price level for the variable part of consumption. biofuel plants to increase environmentally friendly electricity production, and thus increase its allocation of electricity certificates. Billerud has therefore applied to the Swedish Energy Agency for a higher allocation of electricity certificates so that the total allocation period amounts to 15 years. Since an amendment to the Electricity Certificates Act in June 2007, 15 years is the maximum period for which electricity certificates can be allocated to a plant owner. According to Billerud, the biofuel plants are entitled to allocation for 15 years. The agency has, however, decided not to approve Billerud's application for renewed allocation, and Billerud intends to appeal to the County Administrative Courts in the regions where each mill is located. This means that there is a risk that Billerud's energy costs will increase after 2012. Costs of other inputs Certain process chemicals are by-products from chemical processes and In 2011, chemicals accounted for 8% (7). their price can therefore vary significantly from year to year. Prices for Other inputs accounted for 4% (4). Besides wood and energy, many other inputs are used in the manuother chemicals have been much more stable. Overall, however, chemical facture of Billerud’s products. Market prices for these inputs vary over price trends have been stable. time, which can affect Billerud’s earnings. Historically, prices for other inputs, such as packaging material and machine covers, have been stable. 70 RIS K M ANA G E M ENT AND SENSITI V IT Y ANA LY SIS s BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 OPERATIONAL RISKS cont. Description of risks Risk management Comments on 2011 Cost of purchased services Freight costs are fixed annually via agreements, and are affected by In 2011, freight to customers accounted for energy prices, wage costs and competition between freight companies. 11% (11) of Billerud’s total operating costs. Billerud purchases services such as freight to customers and maintenance Other purchased services mainly comprise maintenance services Shipments by railway accounted for 33% of services. Market prices for these services vary over time, which can affect in connection with the annual maintenance shutdowns, and regular freight costs incurred by Billerud’s mills, while Billerud’s earnings. maintenance. The prices of services are primarily affected by trends in shipments by sea accounted for 38% and road wage costs in Sweden. freight 29%. In 2011, other purchased services accounted for 5% (5) of Billerud’s total operating costs. Risks related to employees Billerud works continually to manage generational succession and the In 2011, the Group's second trainee conversion of skills. So as not to risk losing vital know-how, the Company programme commenced, aimed at continual Access to skilled and motivated employees and managers is a prerequineeds to attract skilled employees. To avoid a skills gap in the years long-term efforts to supply skills. Billerud also site for achieving the goals Billerud has set. ahead, Billerud is working now to strengthen its brand as an employer. works with employer branding, which aims to Personnel costs constitute the second largest expense item. Wages and salary costs are primarily regulated by collective agreprofile Billerud as an employer. ements, payroll taxes and other related legal requirements. In the last three years, wage costs have risen through agreements by around 3% per year. Environmental impacts and renewal of permits In 2010, Billerud introduced a code of conduct stipulating that employees Environmental efforts were carried out during must always act ethically, legally and with respect for its surroundings and 2011 in a satisfactory manner. Fossil oil Billerud’s operations are governed by extensive environmental legislation the environment. consumption decreased further compared to and require permits under current legislation. These permits entitle the To minimise negative environmental impact, Billerud has established the previous year. mills to produce a certain volume of pulp and paper but also stipulate a an environmental management system and an energy management Billerud Skärblacka received a new large number of conditions regarding, for example, emissions to water system at each mill. The systems are certified under ISO so that environenvironmental permit, which involves more and air, noise, and waste and chemicals management. Non-compliance mental and energy aspects are identified and assessed and goals set with stringent requirements for emissions to air. with the permits may incur costs for environmental restoration, environthe aim of reducing the environmental impact of the operation. Training, An investment project to cope with the new mental penalty charges or criminal liability. supplier assessments and extensive follow-up of environmental activities requirements has already commenced, and In Sweden and internationally, the trend is towards increasingly strict are also included. Follow-up includes measurements and analyses, the investment is expected to amount to environmental legislation, in which new permits normally stipulate lower periodic audits and an annual evaluation of the management systems. SEK 900 million in total. The planned investthresholds for maximum environmental impact. These rule changes can Operations at the Swedish mills are governed by the Swedish ments will also bring about reduced energy lead to requirements for major new investment to enable production to Environmental Code. Permits for conducting operations are obtained consumption. For more information, please continue and requirements under existing legislation being made more from the Swedish Environmental Court. The County Administrative Board read the Sustainability Report in this annual stringent. supervises compliance with the environmental permits obtained by each report. Even if the Company is meeting legal requirements, there is a risk of mill. This work is ongoing. If necessary, feasible investments are introdunegative reactions from the community. ced into the Group’s investment plan. Billerud works actively to reduce its impact on climate change by reducing energy consumption and emissions of fossil carbon dioxide in production and in transportation. Read more about these efforts in the Sustainability Report in this annual report. BREAKDOWN OF OPERATING COSTS Wood raw materials, 35% (32) Personnel, 17% (18) Freight to customers, 11% (11) Chemicals, 8% (7) Services purchased, 5% (5) Other inputs, 4% (4) Depreciation, 7% (8) Energy, 4% (5) Other, 9% (10) BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 RIS K M ANA G E M ENT AND SENSITI V IT Y ANA LY SIS 71 FINANCIAL RISKS Billerud has a number of financial risks to manage. Although these risks are reduced to a certain extent by the measures described below, there is no guarantee that the measures will not have a negative impact on Billerud’s financial position and earnings. Description of risks Risk management Comments on 2011 Currency risk – transaction exposure To reduce the consequences of currency exposure, Billerud continuously At year-end 2011, foreign exchange contracts hedges forecast net flows in foreign currencies. The finance policy adopnot yet recognised in profit/loss totalled a Transaction exposure is the risk of changes in exchange rates for export ted by the Board stipulates guidelines for currency hedging, entailing that nominal SEK 2 094 million (2 633), of which revenues and import expenses negatively affecting Billerud’s operating around 50% of net flows over the coming 12-month period must always foreign exchange contracts representing income and acquisition cost of its property, plant and equipment. The be hedged. However, this figure may rise to 100% of net flows over the SEK 2 094 million (2 633) will be recognised Group’s net currency exposure is considerable; the main currencies coming 15 months if it is deemed appropriate with regard to profitability in profit/loss in 2012. The corresponding net involved are USD, EUR and GBP. However, the majority of operating and the currency situation. currency flows for the Group in 2012 are estiexpenses are in SEK. The main exceptions are freight costs and the costs Control of Billerud’s business areas is based on exchange rates current mated at around SEK 5 200 million (5 800). of imported wood raw materials and chemicals, which are affected above at any one time, in order to continually adjust commercial terms to the At 31 December 2011, the market value all by fluctuations in EUR and USD exchange rates. prevailing currency situation. The main target for each business area is of Billerud’s outstanding forward currency the operating margin, which is measured net of the earnings effects of contracts was SEK 35 million. The contracts hedging currency flows. Since 2007, the earnings effects of exchange rate matched by accounts receivable affected changes in operating capital have been managed centrally and matched earnings. The market value of the remaining against earnings for currency hedging. contracts was SEK 17 million. Nominal amount of foreign exchange derivatives 2011 2010 EURm 203 254 USDm 138 136 GBPm 16 16 DKKm – 1 Market value of foreign exchange derivatives, SEK 2011 2010 Forward foreign exchange contracts 35 202 Currency risk – translation exposure Billerud also has assets in foreign currency mainly through its ownership As of 31 December 2011, total capital of Billerud Beetham Ltd. Net assets in GBP are partly hedged by loans in employed in foreign currency was Translation exposure is the risk that Billerud is exposed to when foreign the same currency. SEK 180 million, of which SEK 237 million was subsidiaries’ profit and loss accounts and balance sheets are translated financed by shareholders’ equity. Of total net into SEK. assets in GBP, corresponding to SEK 140 million, 30% was hedged through loans raised by the parent company. No hedging has been arranged for net assets in other currencies. Earnings are affected when the earnings of subsidiaries are translated at an exchange rate that differs from the one on the balance sheet date. This had an impact on earnings of SEK 0 million in 2011. SEKm Capital employed Net borrowings Net assets GBP 133 -7 140 EUR -5 -37 32 USD 27 0 27 Other currencies 25 -13 38 Total 180 -57 237 Financing risk To ensure that the Group always has access to external financing, the In 2011, Billerud's syndicated credit facility of finance department must ensure that shortand long-term credit commit­ SEK 1 200 million was replaced by a new such Financing risk is the risk that Billerud will have difficulty raising new ments are available. Maximum cost-efficiency within established limits facility of SEK 801 million maturing in 2016. loans. Access to further financing will be affected by a number of shall be the goal. At 31 December 2011, outstanding bond loans factors, including market conditions, the general availability of credit The lender base shall also be reasonably diversified to avoid excessive totalled SEK 675 million. See note 20 for more and Billerud’s creditworthiness and credit capacity. In addition, access dependency on individual sources of financing. The repayment structure information. to further financing will be affected by any negative perceptions that for loans shall be arranged such that the loan maturity is evenly spread At 31 December 2011, Billerud's net cash customers, suppliers or lenders may acquire about Billerud’s longand over a period. amounted to SEK 233 million compared to short-term financial prospects. Disruptions and uncertainty in the capital interest-bearing net debt of SEK 155 million at and credit markets may also limit availability to the capital needed to 31 December 2010. operate the business. 72 RIS K M ANA G E M ENT AND SENSITI V IT Y ANA LY SIS BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 FINANCIAL RISKS cont. Description of risks Risk management Comments on 2011 Interest rate risk To ensure cost-efficient financing for the Group and avoid excessive If the Group’s entire borrowing portfolio had a impacts on earnings from large negative changes in interest rates, the variable interest rate, the effect on earnings for The interest rate risk is the effect on earnings brought about by a change norm for Billerud is that the average refixing period for the loan stock one year from a 1 percentage point change in in interest rates. The speed with which a change in the interest rate trend shall be 18 months, with a permitted deviation of +/-12 months. interest rates would be SEK 8 million, based on affects earnings depends on the refixing periods for interest rates on The refixing period for an individual loan or interest swap shall not liabilities of SEK 819 million at year-end. loans and investments. exceed 10 years. To achieve this norm, interest rate derivatives, mainly The Group’s average interest rate refixing interest rate swaps, are used. Price risk is defined as the effect on earperiod was around 17 months at year-end. nings that may be caused by changes in the price of outstanding capital A change of 1 percentage point in interest instruments. Investments are made with minimal refixing of interest rates would have an annualised effect of rates, and interest rate-related risks are therefore limited in the investSEK 3 million on earnings given the current ments. refixing period. Nominal value of interest rate derivatives, SEKm 2011 2010 Interest rate swaps: Duration less than 1 year – 150 Duration 1–2 years 375 – Duration more than 2 years 150 525 Total 525 675 Market value of interest derivatives, SEKm 2011 2010 Interest rate swaps -16 -9 Financial credit risk To avoid this, Billerud’s finance policy defines clearly how any excess At year-end, total credit exposure was liquidity may be invested. SEK 1 271 million (1 000). Credit risk refers to situations such as when a counterpart in a financial When calculating credit risks, the positive effects on earnings of deritransaction cannot meet commitments. If measures taken by Billerud to vative contracts with counterparts are also taken into account. Billerud’s minimise credit risk are not sufficient, Billerud’s financial position and maximum credit risk exposure is equal to the fair value of financial assets, results may be adversely affected. disclosed in note 23. Sensitivity analysis Approximate effects on earnings before tax Variable Change SEKm Volume of sales +/10 % +/-350 Price of pulp +/10 % +/-175 Exchange rates, SEK1 +/10 % +/-600 Price of wood +/10 % -/+320 Price of electricity +/10 % -/+15 Interest rate on loans +/1 pctg. point -/+8 1 Excluding effects of currency hedging BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 RIS K M ANA G E M ENT AND SENSITI V IT Y ANA LY SIS 73 notes and accounting policies 1 significant accounting policies a significant impact on financial reports and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. The stanestimates made that may involve significant dard adresses the recognition of Joint Statement of compliance adjustments to subsequent financial reports Arrangements and will replace IAS 31 The consolidated accounts are prepared in are described in more detail in note 32. Participations in Joint Ventures. accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by Accounting policies applied in the reports IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other the International Accounting Standards The accounting policies specified below, Entities. Broader disclosure requirements Board (IASB) and interpretations made by excepting those described in greater detail, regarding subsidiaries, joint arrangements the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) have been applied consistently when reportand associated companies have been as endorsed by the European Commission ing and consolidating the parent company brought together in a standard. for application within the EU. In addition, and subsidiaries as well as when incorporating the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s associated companies in the consolidated IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. The recommendation RFR 1 concerning suppleaccounts. standard contains uniform rules for calmentary accounting rules for Groups has culation and disclosure of fair values. been applied. Changes in accounting policies The parent company applies the same Changes in IFRS applicable as of 2011 have Classifications etc. accounting policies as the Group except in not had any significant effect on the consoliNon-current assets and liabilities in the parent the cases indicated under “Parent company’s dated accounts. company and the Group consist largely only accounting policies”. of amounts that are expected to be recovered New IFRS and interpretations coming into or paid more than 12 months after the end of Basis of measurement in preparing the effect in future accounting periods the reporting period. Current assets and financial reports A number of new or changed standards and liabilities in the parent company and the Assets and liabilities are stated at historical interpretations will come into effect in coming Group consist largely only of amounts that cost, except for certain financial assets and financial years but have not been applied in are expected to be recovered or paid within liabilities that are measured at fair value or advance when preparing this report. New 12 months of the end of the reporting period. amortised cost. Financial assets and liabilities rules and changes applicable after 2012 are measured at fair value consist of derivatives not scheduled to be applied in advance. Operating segments as well as financial assets classified either as Billerud’s operations are divided into operating financial assets recognised at fair value IAS 19 Employee benefits amendment segments based on which parts of the operathrough profit and loss or as available for sale. (EU approval expected in first quarter of tions the Company’s ultimate executive 2012). The amendment entails the dis­ decision makers monitor, that is, according Functional and presentation currencies appearance of the so-called “corridor to the management approach. The functional currency of the parent commethod”. Actuarial gains or losses shall The Group’s operations are organised so pany is SEK, which is also the presentation be recognised in other comprehensive that the senior management team monitors currency used for the accounts of both the income. The amendments shall apply to the profit or loss and the operating margin parent company and the Group. Thus financial the financial year starting 1 January generated by the Group’s various goods and reports are presented in SEK. All amounts, 2012 or subsequently with retroactive services. Each operating segment has a unless stated otherwise, are rounded to the application. On 31 December 2011, manager responsible for the operations who nearest million. actuarial accumulated losses were periodically reports to the senior manageSEK 67 million, including special payment team the outcome of the operating segUse of estimates and judgments in the roll taxes and tax on returns. Had the ment’s efforts and its resource requirements. financial reports change been applied as of 2012, a oneThe senior management team monitors the Preparing financial reports in accordance time effect of SEK -67 million would operation’s profit or loss and determines with IFRS requires company management have been reported in other comprehenresource allocations based on the goods and to make judgments and estimates as well as sive income for 2011. services the Group manufactures and sells, assumptions that affect the application of so these constitute the Group’s operating accounting policies and the amounts disThe expected effects on the financial reports segments. Billerud’s operating segments closed for assets, liabilities, income and of the application of the following new or have been identified as per IFRS 8 and comexpenses. The actual outcome can differ amended standards and interpretations have prise the business areas Packaging & from the assumptions and estimates. been judged to have limited effects on the Speciality Paper, Packaging Boards and Assumptions and estimates are reviewed financial reports. Market Pulp. on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognised in the period the change occurs IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Basis of consolidation if the change only affects that period, or in Statements. The standard contains uniform Subsidiaries the period the change occurs and in future rules regarding the units that are to be Subsidiaries are companies in which periods if the change affects both current consolidated and will replace IAS 27 Billerud AB has a controlling influence. and future periods. Consolidated Financial statements and Controlling influence means the right to forJudgements made by the Company’s SIC 12, which adresses Special Purpose mulate, directly or indirectly, the company’s management when applying IFRS that have Entities. financial and operating strategies in order to 74 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 obtain financial advantages. This usually loss, less dividends received from the associthe exchange rate prevailing on the date the means that Billerud controls more than 50% ated companies, accounts for most of the fair value was determined. of the voting rights. An assessment of whether change in the carrying amount of the particior not a controlling influence exists must pations. Financial statements of foreign operations consider potential vote-entitling shares that Any differences at the time of acquisiAssets and liabilities of foreign operations, can be utilised or converted without delay. tion between the acquisition cost of the including goodwill and other fair value Subsidiaries are recognised using the holding and the owner’s share of the net fair adjustments, are translated from foreign purchase method. By this method, the acquivalue of the associated company’s identifioperations’ functional currency to the sition of a subsidiary is considered a transacable assets, liabilities and contingent liabiliGroup’s reporting currency, SEK, using the tion in which the Group indirectly acquires ties is recognised according to the same poliexchange rate prevailing at the end of the the subsidiary’s assets and takes over its cies as for the acquisition of a subsidiary. reporting period. Revenue and expenses of liabilities and contingent liabilities. The When the Group’s share of losses recogforeign operations are translated to SEK acquisition cost upon consolidation is deternised in an associated company exceeds the using an average rate approximating the mined using a purchase price allocation fair value of its participations in the associate, rates on each transaction date. Translation analysis in connection with the acquisition. the value of the participations is reduced to differences that arise when translating the This analysis establishes the acquisition cost zero. Losses may also be settled against financial statements of foreign operations for the participation or business and the fair long-term financial dealings without security are recognised directly in other comprehenvalue at the acquisition date of the acquired which in economic terms represent a part of sive income as a translation reserve. When a identifiable assets as well as assumed liabilities the owner’s net investment in the associate. foreign operation is sold, the accumulated and any contingent liabilities. The acquisiAdditional losses are not recognised unless translation differences attributable to the tion cost of the subsidiary company’s shares the Group has made guarantees to cover operation are recognised in the consolidated and the business consists of the total of the losses incurred by the associated company. profit and loss accounts. fair values at the acquisition date for assets The equity method is applied up to the date provided, liabilities arising or assumed and when the significant influence ceases. Hedging of net investments in foreign equity instruments on issue that are provided operations as consideration in exchange for the net assets Transactions eliminated on consolidation The Group has business in several countries. acquired. Transaction costs directly attributTransactions in foreign currency are transIn the consolidated balance sheet, investments able to the acquisition are recognised as an lated into the functional currency at the in foreign operations are recognised as net expense in the Group. If the acquisition cost exchange rate prevailing on the transaction assets in subsidiaries (including monetary exceeds the fair value of assets acquired, date. The functional currency is the currency items that constitute a part of the net investassumed liabilities and contingent liabilities of the primary economic environments in ments in the companies). To some extent, recognised separately, the difference is which the companies operate. Monetary assets measures have been taken to reduce currency recognised as goodwill. When the difference and liabilities in foreign currency are transrisk associated with these investments, by is negative, it is charged directly to profit lated to the functional currency using the raising loans in the same currency as the net and loss. exchange rate prevailing at the end of the investments (hedging instrument). At the Financial statements of subsidiaries are reporting period. Exchange rate differences close of accounts, these loans are recognised included in the consolidated accounts from arising from translation are recognised in the translated at the rate at the end of the period. the date of acquisition up to the date when profit and loss accounts. Non-monetary The effective part of the period’s changes in control ceases. assets and liabilities measured at historical exchange rates relating to hedge instruments cost are translated at the exchange rate is recognised directly in other comprehensive Associated companies prevailing at the time of the transaction. income in the translation reserve to meet and Associated companies are companies in Non-monetary assets and liabilities reported partly or wholly match the translation differwhich the Group has a significant influence, at fair values are translated into the funcences that are recognised for net assets in the but not control, over operating and financial tional currency at the exchange rate prevailing foreign operations that have been hedged. strategies, usually via a shareholding correon the date the fair value was determined. Translation differences from net investments sponding to 20%–50% of voting rights. and hedge instruments are reversed and From the time when the Group gains its Foreign currency recognised in profit and loss when the foreign significant influence, participations in the Transactions in foreign currency operation is sold. If hedging is not effective, associated company are recognised in Transactions in foreign currency are transthe ineffective portion is recognised directly accordance with the equity method. lated into the functional currency at the in profit and loss. By the equity method, the carrying exchange rate prevailing on the transaction amount of participations in associated comdate. The functional currency is the currency Revenue panies recognised in the consolidated accounts of the primary economic environments in Sale of goods and performance of services corresponds to the Group’s participation in which the companies operate. Monetary assets Billerud’s revenue is generated mostly from the associated companies’ equity, any goodand liabilities in foreign currency are transthe sale of manufactured products. Revenue will and any other remaining fair value lated to the functional currency using the from the sale of goods is recognised in the adjustments. In the consolidated profit and exchange rate prevailing at the end of the statement of comprehensive income provided loss accounts, Profit/Loss from participareporting period. Exchange rate differences that all significant risks and rewards related tions in associated companies includes the arising from translation are recognised in the to owning the goods have been transferred to Group’s participation in the earnings of asprofit and loss accounts. Non-monetary assets the buyer. Revenue from services is recogsociated companies net after tax attributable and liabilities measured at historical cost are nised in net profit/loss for the year based on to the parent company shareholders and after translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the degree of completion at the end of the adjustment for any depreciation, amortisathe time of the transaction. Non-monetary reporting period. Income is not recognised if tion, impairment losses or reversals of goodassets and liabilities reported at fair values it is probable that the economic benefits will will or negative goodwill. Such profit or are translated into the functional currency at not flow to Billerud. If there is significant BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 75 uncertainty concerning payment, associated present value estimates for provisions, losses probable that they can be utilised. The value costs or risk of return, and if the seller retains on the change in value of financial assets of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is an interest in the ongoing management measured at fair value through profit and no longer probable that they can be utilised. normally associated with ownership, no revloss, impairment of financial assets and losses Any additional income tax relating to enue is recognised. Revenue is recognised at on hedge instruments that are recognised in the dividend is recognised at the same time fair value of what is received, or is expected the profit and loss accounts. All borrowing as the dividend is recognised as a liability. to be received, less agreed discounts. costs are recognised in profit/loss with the application of the effective interest rate Financial instruments Government support method regardless of how the borrowed Financial instruments recognised in the Government grants are recognised in the funds have been used. Borrowing costs are balance sheet include, on the assets side, balance sheet as deferred income when there not recognised in profit/loss in the proporcash and cash equivalents, accounts receivis reason to assume that the conditions tion that they are directly attributable to the able, financial investments and derivatives. connected with receiving a grant will be acquisition, construction or production of The liabilities side has accounts payable, fulfilled and that the grant will be paid out. assets that take considerable time to complete borrowings and derivatives. Grants are distributed systematically in the for intended use or sale. In these cases, they profit and loss accounts in the same way and are included in the assets’ acquisition costs. Recognition on, and removal from, the over the same periods as the costs that the Exchange rate gains and losses are balance sheet grants are intended to compensate. Govern­ recognised net. Effective interest is the rate A financial asset or liability is recognised on ment grants related to assets are recognised used to discount estimated future receipts the balance sheet when the company becomes in the balance sheet as deferred income and and disbursements during the expected life a party to the contractual provisions of the are distributed as other operating income of the financial instrument to the net carrying instrument. Accounts receivable are recogover the useful life of the asset. amount of the financial asset or liability. The nised when the invoice is sent. Liabilities are calculation includes all fees paid or received recognised when the counterparty has perLeasing by contracted parties that are part of the formed and there is a contractual liability to Operating leases effective interest, transaction costs and all pay, even if the invoice has not been received. Expenses for operating leases are recognised other fair value adjustments. Accounts payable are recognised when the in profit and loss over the leasing period on a invoice is received. straight-line basis. Incentives received in Taxes A financial asset is removed from the connection with the signing of a lease are Incomes taxes comprises current tax and debalance sheet when the rights in the agreerecognised in the profit and loss accounts as ferred tax. Income taxes are recognised in ment are realised or expire or the company a reduction in the lease payments over the the profit and loss accounts except when the loses control over them. The same applies period of the lease on a straight-line basis. underlying transaction is recognised directly for portions of a financial asset. Variable expenses are recognised in the periods in equity whereupon the associated tax effect A financial liability is removed from the when they arise. is also recognised in equity. balance sheet when the obligation in the agreeCurrent tax is tax to be paid or recovered ment is discharged or otherwise expires. The Finance leases for the current year using the tax rates already same applies for portions of a financial liability. The minimum lease payments are divided enacted or substantially enacted at the end of A financial asset and a financial liability between interest costs and repayment of the the reporting period; adjustments of current are offset against each other and recognised outstanding liability. tax attributable to earlier periods is included. as a net sum on the balance sheet only when Interest costs are distributed over the Deferred tax is calculated using the there exists a legal right to offset the amounts period of the lease so that each accounting balance sheet method starting with the temand an intention to settle the items with a net period includes an amount corresponding to porary differences between the recognised amount or to simultaneously realise the asset a fixed interest rate for the liability recogand taxable values of assets and liabilities. and settle the liability. nised in each period. Variable payments are Temporary differences are not considered Acquisitions and sales of financial assets recognised in the periods when they arise. when the temporary differences arise from are recognised at the trade date, which is the the initial recognition of goodwill nor when date when the company commits to acquire Financial income and expenses temporary differences arise from initial or sell the asset. Financial income consists of interest income recognition of assets and liabilities in a on invested funds, dividend income, gains transaction which is not a business combinaClassification and measurement on changes in the value of financial assets tion and at the time of the transaction affects Financial instruments that are not derivatives measured at fair value through profit and neither recognised nor taxable earnings. are initially recognised at the acquisition loss and gains on hedge instruments recogIn addition, temporary differences are not cost, which corresponds to the instrument’s nised in the profit and loss accounts. recognised when attributable to participafair value including direct transaction costs Interest income from financial instruments tions in subsidiaries and associated compafor all financial instruments except those is recognised using the effective interest nies that are not expected to be reversed in belonging to the category financial assets method (see below). Dividend income is the foreseeable future. Measurement of measured at fair value through profit and recognised when the right to the received deferred tax is based on how the carrying loss, which are recognised excluding transpayment is established. Gains on the disamount of underlying assets and liabilities is action costs. A financial instrument is posal of financial instruments are recognised expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred classified upon initial recognition based on when the risks and benefits associated with tax is calculated using the tax rates and reguthe purpose of the acquisition of the instruowning the instrument are transferred to the lations enacted or substantially enacted at ment. The classification of a financial instrubuyer and the Group no longer controls the the end of the reporting period. ment determines how it is measured after instrument. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible initial recognition as follows. Financial expenses comprises interest temporary differences and loss carry-forDerivative instruments are initially costs for loans, the effects of reversals of wards are recognised only to the extent it is reported at fair value, meaning that transac76 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 tion costs are charged to profit/loss for the Held-to-maturity investments against currency risks, because a financial period. After the initial recognition, derivaHeld-to-maturity investments are financial hedge is reflected in the accounts by recogtive instruments are recognised as follows. assets and include interest-bearing securities nising the underlying receivable or liability If the derivative is used for hedge accounting, with fixed or determinable payments and a and its hedge instrument at the rate at the then to the extent that it is effective the fixed term that the company has clearly end of the reporting period and by recognising change in value of the derivative is recognised stated it intends to hold to maturity and has changes arising from exchange rate fluctuaon the same line as the hedged item in the the capability to do so. Assets in this catetions in the profit and loss accounts. profit and loss accounts. Even if hedge gory are measured at the amortised cost. accounting is not used, increases and Hedging of foreign currency – decreases in the value of the derivative are Available-for-sale financial assets Cash flow hedging recognised as income or expense in operating The category of available-for-sale financial Foreign exchange contracts used to hedge profit/loss or in financial income and expenses assets includes financial assets not included future cash flows and forecast sales and purbased on what the derivative is used for and in any other category or financial assets that chases in foreign currency are recognised at to what extent the use is related to an operating the company initially chooses to put in this fair value on the balance sheet. Changes in item or financial item. If hedge accounting is category. Holdings of shares and participavalue are recognised directly in equity in the used, the ineffective portion is recognised in tions not reported as subsidiaries or associhedge reserve until the time when the the same way as value changes in a derivaated companies are recognised here. Assets hedged flow is recognised in the profit and tive not used for hedge accounting. If hedge in this category are measured continually at loss, at which time the hedging instrument’s accounting is not used for interest swaps, fair value with value changes recognised in accumulated changes in value are transferred then the interest coupon is recognised as equity, though not those changes relating to to the profit and loss accounts, where they interest, and other changes in value of the impairment (see accounting policies for then meet and match the profit/loss effects of interest swap are recognised as other finanimpairment), nor interest on receivables the hedged transaction. cial income or other financial expenses. instruments or dividend income, nor exWhen the hedged future cash flow refers The fair value amounts are based on change rate differences for monetary items to a transaction capitalised on the balance directly observed market prices or derived recognised in profit and loss. Shares and sheet, the hedge reserve is reversed when the from market prices. participations of insignificant value are hedged item is recognised on the balance Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash recognised at acquisition cost. When the sheet. If the hedged item is a financial asset and funds immediately available at banks and investment is sold, accumulated gains or or liability, the hedge reserve is reversed similar institutions as well as current investlosses previously recognised in equity are gradually in the profit and loss accounts at ments with terms of less than three months transferred to the profit and loss accounts. the same rate as the hedged item affects at the acquisition date and which are exposed profit/loss. to an insignificant risk for changes in value. Other financial liabilities When a hedging instrument expires, is Loans and other financial liabilities, such as sold, terminated or exercised, or the comFinancial assets measured at fair value accounts payable, are included in this catpany revokes the designation of the hedge through the profit and loss accounts egory. Liabilities are measured at amortised relationship before the hedged transaction This category consists of two subcategories: cost. Liabilities shorter than three months occurs and the forecast transaction is still financial assets held for trading and other are recognised at acquisition cost. expected to occur, the accumulated profit/ financial assets that the Company initially The categories to which the Group’s loss remains in the hedge reserve in equity chooses to put in this category. A financial financial assets and liabilities belong are and is recognised in the same way as above asset is classified as held for trading if it is explained in note 23, Financial assets and when the transaction occurs. acquired with the aim of being sold in the liabilities. If the hedged transaction is no longer short term. Derivatives that are independent, expected to occur, the accumulated gains or as well as embedded derivatives, are classiDerivatives and hedge accounting losses on the hedge instrument are reversed fied as held for trading. Assets in this cateThe Group’s derivative instruments have immediately into the profit and loss accounts gory are measured continually at fair value, been acquired to hedge the interest, currency in accordance with the principles described and the changes in value are recognised in and pulp price risk exposure of the Group. above for derivatives. the profit and loss accounts, except for Embedded derivatives are recognised sepaderivatives that are identified as effective rately unless they are closely related to the Hedging of fixed interest – Cash flow hedge instruments. host contract. hedging To meet the requirements of hedge Interest rate swaps are used to hedge against Loan receivables and accounts receivable accounting in accordance with IAS 39 there the uncertainty of future interest flows related Loan receivables and accounts receivable are must be a clear connection to the hedged to loans carrying variable rates of interest. non-derivative financial assets with payments item. Furthermore, the hedging must protect Swaps are measured at fair value on the that are fixed or can be determined and that the hedged item efficiently, hedging docubalance sheet. The interest coupon is recogare not listed on an active market. These ments must be prepared and the efficiency nised in the profit and loss accounts continuassets are measured at amortised cost. The must be measurable. Gains and losses on ally as interest income or expense. Other amortised cost is determined based on the hedging are recognised in the profit and loss value changes in swaps are recognised directly effective rate of interest estimated at the time accounts at the same time as profit and loss in the hedge reserve in equity until the of acquisition. Receivables shorter than three are recognised for the items being hedged. hedged item affects the profit and loss accounts months are recognised at acquisition cost. and as long as the criteria for hedge accountAccounts receivable are recognised at the Receivables and liabilities denominated in ing and efficiency are fulfilled. The gain or amounts expected to be received, that is, foreign currencies loss attributable to the ineffective portion is after deductions for doubtful receivables. Forward contracts are used to hedge receivarecognised in the profit and loss accounts. bles and liabilities against foreign exchange risk. Hedge accounting is not used to protect BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 77 Hedging of fair value ognised continuously in operating profit/loss pay future lease payments is recognised as When a hedging instrument is used to hedge as a correction of raw material costs. current and non-current liabilities. The leased fair value, the derivative is recognised at fair Billerud also hedges a portion of its assets are depreciated over the period of use value on the balance sheet and the hedged external sales of pulp. These hedges are recof each asset, while leasing payments are asset/liability is also recognised at fair value ognised in the accounts in a way similar to recognised as interest and repayment of with regard to the risk being hedged. Changes purchases. The gains or losses realised on liabilities. in the value of the derivative are recognised these contracts are recognised continuously Assets hired in accordance with operating in the profit and loss accounts together with in operating profit/loss as a correction of leases are not normally recognised as assets changes in the value of the hedged item. operating income. on the balance sheet. Operating leases do not Hedging of fair values is used to hedge the result in a liability, either. value of assets and liabilities on the balance Property, plant and equipment sheet that are not recognised at fair value Owned assets Subsequent costs and of contracted flows. The Group recognises property, plant and Subsequent costs are added to the acquisition equipment at cost less deductions for accucost of an asset only if it is probable that the Hedging of fixed interest – Fair value mulated depreciation and any impairment future economic benefits associated with the hedging losses. Acquisition cost includes the purchase asset will accrue to the company and the Interest swaps are used as instruments to price and costs directly attributable to the acquisition cost can be measured reliably. hedge against the risk of changes in the fair asset in order to bring it into place in the All other subsequent costs are recognised as value of borrowings with fixed interest rates. right condition to be used as intended. expenses in the period when they occur. Thus fair value hedges are used in the Examples of directly attributable costs are A subsequent cost is added to the acquiaccounts, the hedged item is translated into costs for delivery and handling, installation, sition cost if the expenditure relates to the fair value regarding the hedged risk (risktitle registration, consulting services and replacement of identified components or free interest), and the change in value is legal services. Borrowing costs directly parts thereof. Even if new components are recognised in the profit and loss accounts in attributable to the purchase, construction or created, the expenditure is added to the cost the same way as the hedge instrument is. production of assets that take considerable of the asset. Any remaining carrying amount time to complete for intended use or sale are for replaced components, or parts of them, is Hedging of net investments capitalised starting in 2009, as per an scrapped and expensed in connection with See the description above for foreign amendment to IAS 23. the replacement. Repairs are expensed as currencies. The acquisition cost of internally proincurred. duced non-current assets includes costs for Maintenance stops are performed at the Electricity derivatives materials, employee benefits, other producpaper mills at regular intervals. The more Billerud buys electricity from external tion overheads directly attributable to the significant maintenance measures carried out suppliers. To continually hedge the electricity assets and estimated outlays for dismantling on these occasions are treated as a separate price, Billerud enters into derivative contracts and removing the assets and restoring the site component. Depreciation is recognised perifor electricity. Electricity derivatives that or area where they are located. Property, plant odically until the next maintenance stop, protect the forecast outward flow of electricity and equipment that consists of parts with difnormally after 12–18 months. expenses are recognised in the balance sheet at ferent useful lives is treated as separate comfair value. Changes in value are recognised ponents of property, plant and equipment. Depreciation policies directly in equity in the hedge reserve until the The carrying amount of property, plant Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis hedged outward flow is recognised in profit and equipment is removed from the balance over the estimated useful life of the asset, and loss, at which time the hedging instrusheet upon scrapping or disposal or when no though land is not depreciated. The Group ment’s accumulated changes in value are future economic benefit is expected from its applies component depreciation, which transferred to the profit and loss accounts, use, scrapping or disposal. Any gain or loss means that each component’s estimated usewhere they meet and match the profit/loss arising from the scrapping or disposal of an ful life is the basis for depreciation. impact of the hedged transaction. The gains asset is the difference between the sale or losses realised on these contracts are proceeds and the asset’s carrying amount The following depreciation periods are applied: recognised continuously in operating profit/ less deductions for direct selling costs. Gains Industrial buildings 20 years loss as a correction of electricity costs. and losses are recognised as other operating Residential and office income or expense. buildings 30–50 years Pulp derivatives The accounting policies for impairment Land improvements 20 years Billerud buys some of the pulp it requires are explained below. Machinery used for pulp from external suppliers. To continually and paper 20 years hedge pulp prices, Billerud enters into Leased assets Other machinery 10 years derivative contracts for pulp. Pulp derivatives Leases are classified in the consolidated Vehicles, equipment and that protect the forecast outflow of expenses accounts either as finance leases or operating components 1–5 years for pulp are recognised on the balance sheet leases. A finance lease substantially transfers The residual value and useful life of each at fair value. Changes in value are recogthe economic risks and rewards associated ­asset is assessed annually. nised directly in equity in the hedge reserve with ownership to the lessee; any other case until the hedged outward flow is recognised is an operating lease. Intangible assets in profit and loss, at which time the hedging Assets leased under finance leases are Goodwill instrument’s accumulated changes in value recognised as assets on the balance sheet and Goodwill is measured at acquisition cost less are transferred to the profit and loss accounts, are initially measured at the lease object’s any accumulated impairment. Goodwill is where they meet and match the profit/loss fair value or the present value of minimum distributed among cash-generating units and impact of the hedged transaction. The gains leasing payments at the start of the agreetested for impairment at least once a year or losses realised on these contracts are recment, whichever is less. The obligation to (see the accounting policies for Impairment 78 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 of property, plant and equipment and intanalso exceeded somewhat the expected emisImpairment of property, plant, equipment gible assets as well as participations in subsions. When emission rights are received, and intangible assets as well as participa­ sidiaries and associated companies). Goodwill they are recognised as intangible assets at tions in subsidiaries and associated arising upon the acquisition of associated market value and as grants received on the companies companies is included in the carrying liabilities side. If there is an indication that an asset is amount of the participations. As emissions are released, they are impaired, the recoverable amount of the expensed at market value, while this expense asset is calculated (see below). For goodwill, Research and development is reduced by the utilised portion of the other intangible assets with indefinite useful Billerud’s product and process development received contribution. When a surplus is lives and intangible assets not yet ready for focuses primarily on meeting customer sold, the income is recognised in profit/loss. use, the recoverable amount is assessed requirements on product characteristics and annually or as soon as the need is indicated. adaptations. Activities are divided into a Subsequent costs If it is not possible to establish significantly research phase and a development phase. Subsequent costs are added to the acquisiindependent cash flows for an individual Examples of expenditure included in the tion cost of an asset only if it is probable that asset, and if its fair value less selling costs research phase are costs related to acquiring the future economic benefits associated with cannot be used, the assets are grouped to test new knowledge and costs for the evaluation the asset will accrue to the company and the impairment at the lowest level at which it is of and search for alternative grades and acquisition cost can be measured reliably. possible to identify significantly independent processes. Costs for the research phase are All other subsequent costs are recognised as cash flows (a cash-generating entity). expensed continually in the profit and loss expenses in the period when they occur. An impairment loss is recognised when accounts as per IAS 38. the carrying amount of an asset, cash-generCosts for development, where research Amortisation policies ating entity or group of entities exceeds the results or other knowledge is applied to Amortisation is recognised in the profit and recoverable amount. Impairment is recogachieve new or improved products or procloss accounts on a straight-line basis through­ nised as an expense in the profit and loss esses, are recognised as an asset on the out the estimated useful life of an intangible accounts. Impairment identified for a cashbalance sheet, if the product or process is asset unless this period is indeterminable. generating unit (group of units) is applied technically and commercially feasible and Useful life is tested at least once a year. first of all to goodwill and then to other the company has sufficient resources to Goodwill and other intangible assets with an assets of the unit (group of units) pro rata complete the development and then use or indeterminable useful life or intangible assets based on the carrying amount of each asset. sell the intangible asset. The carrying not yet ready for use are tested for impairThe recoverable amount is the higher of amount includes costs for materials, direct ment annually and are also tested as soon as the fair value less selling costs and value in costs for salaries and indirect costs that can there is an indication that the value of the use. When calculating the value in use, be attributed to the asset in a reasonable and asset has decreased. An intangible asset with future cash flows are discounted using a consistent manner. Other costs for developa determinable useful life is depreciated discount factor taking into account risk-free ment are recognised in the profit and loss from the time it is available for use. The interest and the risk associated with the accounts as expenses when incurred. expected useful life of capitalised developspecific asset. ment expenditure and software is 3–7 years. Software Useful life is tested each year. Impairment of financial assets Costs for the development and maintenance At the end of each accounting period, the of software are expensed as incurred. Costs Inventories Company assesses whether there is any that are directly linked with the development Inventories are stated at the lower of cost objective evidence that a financial asset or of identifiable and unique software products and net realisable value. group of assets is impaired. Objective evidence controlled by the Group and likely to have The FIFO (first in, first out) method is may consist of observable events that have economic benefits for more than one year used to calculate the cost of inventories. occurred and that have a negative impact on that exceed the costs, are recognised as This includes costs arising upon the acquisithe feasibility of recovering the acquisition intangible assets. tion of the asset and transport to the current cost, or may consist of a significant or site. For manufactured goods and work in prolonged reduction in the fair value of a Electricity certificates progress, the cost includes a reasonable portion financial investment classified as a financial Electricity certificates are awarded for proof indirect costs based on normal capacity. asset available-for-sale. duction of renewable electricity. Electricity The net realisable value is the expected The value reduction recognised in profit certificates are valued at the estimated market selling price in the ordinary course of busiand loss is the difference between the acquivalue and recognised as a current intangible ness, less expected costs for completion and sition cost and the current fair value, less asset. Production entitled to electricity certifiselling. deductions for any previously recognised cates but which had not yet been awarded impairment. certificates at the end of the reporting period Impairment losses The recoverable amount of assets is recognised as accrued income and initially The carrying amounts of Group assets are belonging to the categories held-to-maturity, measured at the estimated market price. Cor­ tested at the end of each reporting period to loan receivables and accounts receivable that responding income is recognised in operating determine whether they are impaired. IAS are recognised at amortised cost is calculated profit/loss as a correction of electricity costs. 36 is applied to test if an impairment loss as the present value of future cash flows shall be recognised for assets other than discounted with the effective interest rate Emission rights financial assets, which are recognised in applied when the asset was initially recogBillerud’s Swedish mills have been allocated accordance with IAS 39, assets for sale, nised. Assets of short maturity are not emission rights for carbon dioxide within the inventories and deferred tax assets. For the discounted. Impairment is recognised as an EU. The allotment for the initial three-year excluded assets above, the carrying amount expense in the profit and loss accounts. period 2005–2007 exceeded the actual total is assessed in accordance with the relevant emissions. The allotment for 2008–2012 standard. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 79 Reversal of impairment losses price and increases as the difference between value of the commitment and the fair value Impairment of assets covered by IAS 36 is subscription price and market price increases. of related plan assets is recognised in the reversed if there is an indication that impairThe subscription price is adjusted by adding profit and loss accounts over the expected ment no longer exists and also there has the value of future service connected to the average remaining service period for the been a change in the assumptions on which equity-regulated employee share options employees covered by the plan. Actuarial the estimate of recoverable value was based. scheme, which is recognised as a sharegains and losses are otherwise not recognised. However, impairment recognised on goodbased payment in accordance with IFRS 2. The carrying amount of pensions and will is never reversed. A reversal is only Dilution attributable to convertible promissimilar commitments on the balance sheet performed to the extent that the asset’s sory notes is calculated by increasing the represents the present value of commitments carrying amount after reversal does not total number of shares by the number of at the end of the period, less the fair value of exceed the carrying amount that would have shares corresponding to convertibles and plan assets and unrecognised actuarial gains been recognised, minus appropriate depreincreasing earnings by the interest cost or losses. ciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised after tax. When there is a difference between how recognised. the pension cost is established for legal entiRecognised impairments of held-toEmployee benefits ties and the Group, a provision or receivable maturity investments or loan receivables and Defined-contribution plans is recognised for special payroll taxes based accounts receivable carried at amortised cost Pension plans in which the company’s comon this difference. The present value of the are reversed if a later increase in the recovery mitments are restricted to the fees the provision or claim is not calculated. value can be objectively attributed to an company has undertaken to pay are classiNet interest income on pension liabilities event that occurred after the impairment was fied as defined-contribution pension plans. and forecast returns on the related pension recognised. In those cases, the size of an employee’s plan assets is recognised in net financial Impairment of equity instruments classipension depends on the fees the company items. Other components are recognised in fied as available-for-sale financial assets, pays into the pension plan or to an insurance operating profit/loss. which were previously recognised in the company and the capital return on those Commitments for retirement pensions profit and loss accounts, are not reversed fees. Consequently it is the employee who and family pensions for white-collar through profit and loss. bears the actuarial risk (that the benefit is employees in Sweden are safeguarded via The impaired value is the value upon less than expected) and the investment risk insurance with Alecta. This is a multiwhich subsequent revaluations are based, (that the invested assets will be insufficient employer defined-benefit plan. The Company which are recognised directly in equity. to support the expected benefit). The comhas not had access to information for the Impairment of interest-bearing instruments pany’s commitments concerning fees paid to 2011 financial year to enable it to disclose classified as financial assets available-fordefined-contribution pension plans are this plan as a defined-benefit plan. ITP pensale are reversed in the profit and loss recognised as a cost in the profit and loss sion plans secured via insurance with Alecta accounts if their fair value increases and the accounts at the rate at which they are earned are therefore disclosed as defined-contribuincrease can be objectively attributed to an through the employee performing services tion plans. event that occurred after the impairment was for the company during a period. charged. Other long-term employee benefits Defined-benefit plans The Group’s net commitment for other longCapital payments to shareholders The Group’s net commitments for definedterm employee benefits, aside from pensions, Buy-back of own shares benefit plans are calculated separately for constitutes the value of future benefits that Acquisition of the Company’s own shares is each plan by estimating the future benefit the employee has earned through employment recognised as a deduction from equity. that each employee has earned through both in the current period and previous Consideration received from the sale of such employment both in the current period and periods. This benefit is discounted to its treasury shares is recognised as an increase previous periods; this benefit is discounted present value, and the fair value of any plan in equity. Any transaction costs are recogto its present value. The discount rate is the assets is deducted. The discount rate is nised directly in equity. interest rate at the end of the reporting period determined on the same basis as for definedfor a first class corporate bond with a durabenefit pension plans, and the calculations Dividends tion corresponding to the Group’s pension are performed using the projected unit credit Dividends are recognised as a liability after commitments. When there is no active marmethod. Any actuarial gains or losses are the AGM has approved the dividend. ket for such corporate bonds, the market rate recognised in the profit and loss accounts for for government bonds of corresponding the period when they arise. Earnings per share duration is used instead. The calculation is Calculation of earnings per share is based on made by a qualified actuary using the proTermination benefits the consolidated profit/loss attributable to jected unit credit method. In addition, the A provision is recognised in connection with parent company shareholders and on the fair value of any plan assets are calculated termination of staff only if the company is weighted average number of shares outat the report date. clearly committed, without a realistic posstanding during the year. When calculating In the determination of the present value sibility of reversal, to a formal and detailed diluted earnings per share, profit/loss and the of the commitment and the fair value of plan plan to terminate employment before the average number of shares are adjusted to assets, actuarial gains or losses may arise. normal time. When a termination benefit is take account of the dilution effects of potential They arise either because the fair value offered to encourage voluntary redundancy, ordinary shares, which during the reporting deviates from earlier assumptions or because a cost is recognised if it is probable that the period are linked to convertible promissory the assumptions change. The corridor rule is offer will be accepted and the number of notes and employee share options. Dilution applied for actuarial gains and losses. The employees who will accept the offer can be resulting from share options affects the total corridor rule means that the proportion of reliably estimated. number of shares and arises only when the the accumulated actuarial gains and losses subscription price is lower than the market that exceeds 10% of the larger of the present 80 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Short-term benefits publicly announced. No provisions are made Classifications and forms of presentation Short-term benefits to employees are calcufor future operating expenses. The parent company’s profit and loss accounts lated without discounting and are recognised and balance sheet are presented based on the as a cost when the related services are Recovery of contaminated land schedule in the Swedish Annual Accounts received. In accordance with the Group’s publicised Act. The differences from IAS 1 Presentation environmental principles and appropriate of Financial Statements, which is applied for Share-based payments legal requirements, a provision is recognised the consolidated accounts, mainly concern The long-term incentive programmes introfor recovery of land when it becomes reporting of financial income and expenses, duced in 2007 and 2010 are recognised as contaminated. non-current assets and equity and the use of share-based payments settled with treasury provisions in the balance sheet. shares in accordance with IFRS 2. This Contingent liabilities means that their fair value is calculated A contingent liability is recognised whenSubsidiaries and associated companies based on forecast achievement of targets set ever there is a possible obligation arising Participations in subsidiaries and associated for the measurement period. The value is from past events and whose existence is concompanies are recognised in the parent distributed over the vesting period. Once the firmed only by one or more uncertain future company in accordance with the cost method. fair value has been determined, it is not events, or there is an obligation not reported All dividends from subsidiaries and associated revalued, except for changes in the number as a liability or provision because it is not companies are recognised in the profit and loss of shares resulting from nonfulfillment of probable that resources will have to be used accounts for the parent company. Under special the condition on continued employment to settle the obligation. circum­stances, such dividends can serve as an during the vesting period. indication that the shares have declined in value Social fees attributable to share-based Parent company’s accounting policies and thus a test for impairment should be payments are recognised as per the Swedish The parent company prepares its annual performed. Financial Reporting Board’s statement UFR 7, report in accordance with the Swedish Annual which states that the cost shall be distributed Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial instruments and hedge among the periods when services are perFinancial Reporting Board’s standard RFR 2 accounting formed. The resulting provision is revalued at Reporting by legal entities. Statements pubBecause of the connection between accounting the end of each period to correspond to the lished by the Swedish Financial Reporting and taxation, the rules in IAS 39 concerning estimated fees that will be paid at the end of Board applicable to listed companies are also financial instruments and hedge accounting the vesting period. The incentive programme followed. Under RFR 2, the parent company in are not applied by the parent company as a introduced in 2007 was concluded in 2010. its annual report for the legal entity shall apply legal entity. all IFRS and interpretations endorsed by the The parent company measures nonProvisions EU as far as possible within the limitations of current financial assets at acquisition cost Provisions are different from other liabilities, the Annual Accounts Act, the Swedish law less any impairment losses and current because the time of payment or the size of safeguarding pension commitments and with financial assets at the lesser of cost or market. the payment are uncertain. A provision is consideration for the connection between The cost of interest-bearing instruments is posted on the balance sheet when the comaccounting and taxation. adjusted for the accrued difference between pany has an existing legal or informal comthe amount originally paid, after deducting mitment as the result of a past event and it is Differences between the Group’s transaction costs, and the amount paid on the probable that an outlay of resources will be accounting policies and those of the due date (at a discount or premium). required to settle the commitment and a reliparent company Forward contracts used to hedge changes able estimate of the amount can be made. The differences between the Group’s in foreign exchange rates for receivables and A provision is made based on the best accounting policies and those of the parent liabilities in foreign currency are measured estimate of what will be required to settle company are set out below. The accounting at the spot rate on the date the contract is the existing commitment at the end of the policies of the parent company described made for measurement of the underlying reporting period. When the effect of the time below have been applied consistently in all receivable or liability. The difference value of money is material, the amount of periods presented in the parent company’s between the forward rate and the rate the provision is calculated by discounting financial statements. prevailing when the contract is entered into forecast cash flows using a pre-tax interest (forward premium) is allocated across the rate that reflects current market assessments Changes in accounting policies period of the forward contract and is included of the time value of money and, if applicable, As the Swedish Financial Reporting Board in the net financial income/expense item. the risks specific to the liability. has withdrawn UFR 2 Group contributions Interest swaps that effectively hedge and shareholder contributions, and made cash flow risks in interest payments for Warranties amendments to RFR 2 regarding reporting liabilities are measured at the net of accrued A provision for warranties is recognised of group contributions, this entails that the receivables at variable interest and accrued when the underlying products or services are parent company has changed accounting liabilities with regard to fixed interest, and sold. The provision is based on historic data policies regarding the reporting of group the difference is recognised as either interest on warranties and a weighing of possible contributions. The new accounting policies income or expense. Hedging is effective if outcomes in relation to the probability of are stipulated in RFR 2 IAS 18 p. 3 (Group the economic outcome of hedging and the these outcomes occurring. contributions received) and RFR 2 IAS 27 p. 2 liability is the same as if the liability had (Group contributions paid). For Billerud AB, instead been reported at a fixed market interest Restructuring this means that received and paid Group rate when the hedge was made. Any premium A provision for restructuring is recognised contributions are recognised as financial paid for a swap agreement is allocated when the Group has established a detailed income and expenses as of 2011. Comparable across the contract period as interest. and formal restructuring plan, and the years have been adjusted. Derivatives not used for hedging are restructuring has either started or been measured in the parent company according BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 81 to the lower of cost or market. Recognition This normally means an amortisation period Taxes of derivatives used for hedging is governed of five years, but the period can be longer in In the parent company, untaxed reserves are by the hedged item. This means that the special cases. recognised on the balance sheet without derivative is treated as an off-balance-sheet dividing them into equity and deferred tax item as long as the hedged item is not on the Employee benefits – Defined-benefit plans liabilities, unlike in the consolidated accounts. balance sheet or is recognised on the balance The parent company uses different assumpCorrespondingly, the parent company does sheet at cost. tions than those set out in IAS 19 when not recognise in its profit and loss accounts calculating defined-benefit pension plans. deferred tax expense as a part of appropriaAnticipated dividends The parent company follows the Swedish tions. Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are law on safeguarding pension commitments recognised if the parent company has the and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Shareholder contributions sole right to determine the size of the dividend Authority’s rules, because they are a condiShareholder contributions are recognised and has determined the size of the dividend tion for tax deductions.The most material directly in the equity of the recipient and are before publishing its financial statements. differences compared to the IAS 19 rules are capitalised in shares and participations for the how the discount rate is determined, that the contributor, as far as no impairment is Intangible assets – Goodwill etc. calculation of the defined-benefit commitdetermined. Goodwill and other intangible assets with ment is based on current salary levels with an indeterminable useful life that are not no consideration of future increases and that normally subject to amortisation in the Group all actuarial gains and losses are recognised are amortised in the parent company in in the profit and loss accounts as they occur. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. 82 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Net sales by market and operating profit/loss Operating profit/loss by business area Group Parent company 2 by business area SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Packaging & Speciality Paper 450 417 101 104 Packaging Boards 370 271 331 251 External net sales are distributed among Billerud’s various markets as follows. Market Pulp 64 276 35 101 Packaging Currency Other and Currency hedging, etc. 230 153 202 161 & Speciality Packaging Market hedging, eliminaOther units 35 23 6 6 SEKm Paper Boards Pulp etc. tions Total Group staff and elimination -171 -103 -146 -98 2011 Group total 978 1 037 529 525 Group Sweden 206 176 126 230 257 995 Business area earnings are reported excluding the effects of currency hedging and also excludOther EU countries 2 315 1 920 1 142 39 5 416 ing the impact on earnings of revaluing accounts receivable in foreign currencies and currency Rest of Europe 223 149 178 550 effects in connection with payments. These effects are reported separately on the line “Currency Total Europe 2 744 2 245 1 446 230 296 6 961 hedging, etc.” The portion of foreign currency exposure attributable to changes in invoicing rates will continue to be included in business area earnings. Other markets 1 549 527 306 2 382 Group total 4 293 2 772 1 752 230 296 9 343 Non-current assets and capital investments cannot be broken down by operating segment, because the business areas are highly integrated in terms of production. Of net sales of SEK 9 343 million (8 828), SEK 9 million (1) was sales of services. Income in the Group related to the exchange of goods and services totalled SEK 238 million (293). For net 3 Other operating income sales by business area, see note 34. SEKm Packaging Currency Other and Group 2011 2010 & Speciality Packaging Market hedging, eliminaServices sold 4 3 SEKm Paper Boards Pulp etc. tions Total Damages – 77 2011 Other 14 5 Parent company Group total 18 85 Sweden 56 123 35 202 416 Other EU countries 684 1 659 241 2 584 Parent company Rest of Europe 28 121 114 263 Services sold 4 2 Total Europe 768 1 903 390 202 – 3 263 Commissions 24 21 Damages – 40 Other markets 237 494 157 888 Other 7 4 Parent company Parent company total 35 67 total 1 005 2 397 547 202 – 4 151 Of net sales of SEK 4 151 million (3 760), SEK 0 million (1) was sales of services. 4 Auditors’ fees and costs SEKm Group Parent company Packaging Currency Other and Ernst & Young 2011 2010 2011 2010 & Speciality Packaging Market hedging, eliminaAuditing assignments1 2 2 1 1 SEKm Paper Boards Pulp etc. tions Total 2010 Audit activities besides audit engagements 0 0 0 0 Group Tax consultancy – 0 – 0 Sweden 149 143 130 153 295 870 Other services 1 0 1 – Other EU countries 2 453 1 745 1 116 55 5 369 Total 3 2 2 1 Rest of Europe 241 128 203 572 Total Europe 2 843 2 016 1 449 153 350 6 811 SEKm Group Parent company Other auditors 2011 2010 2011 2010 Other markets 1 323 412 282 2 017 Auditing assignments1 0 0 – – Group total 4 166 2 428 1 731 153 350 8 828 Tax consultancy 1 0 0 0 Other services 1 2 0 0 Total 2 2 0 0 Packaging Currency Other and & Speciality Packaging Market hedging, elimina1A  udit assignments refers to the audit of the annual report and accounting records as well SEKm Paper Boards Pulp etc. tions Total as the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s administration of the Company, other tasks incumbent 2010 on the Company’s auditor and advice or other assistance resulting from observations made Parent company during audits or the performance of such tasks. Other assignments refer chiefly to remuneraSweden 50 97 66 162 1 376 tion for advisory services in accounting matters. Other EU countries 692 1 504 250 2 446 Rest of Europe 27 103 112 242 Total Europe 769 1 704 428 162 1 3 064 Other markets 177 383 136 696 Parent company total 946 2 087 564 162 1 3 760 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 83 5 Employees and employee benefits expense Number of women in management positions, % 2011 2010 Group Boards 11 12 Average number of employees 2011 Men, % 2010 Men, % Parent company CEO and management teams 21 12 Sweden 933 80 920 81 Parent company Other countries 4 100 4 100 The Board 33 18 CEO and management teams 18 12 Parent company total 937 80 924 81 For information about the benefits of senior managers in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, see note 24. Average number of employees 2011 Men, % 2010 Men, % Subsidiaries 6 Net financial income/expense Sweden 1 118 84 1 102 85 Germany 19 42 15 33 SEKm Netherlands 5 20 6 17 Group 2011 2010 France 11 36 11 36 Interest income on cash and investments in securities etc. 22 5 Italy 9 44 10 40 Financial income 22 5 Spain 9 33 10 30 United Kingdom 153 91 149 91 Interest expense for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost -37 -42 China 7 43 6 33 Interest expense for pension provision -9 -9 Lithuania 5 20 5 20 Net change in exchange rates 0 0 Latvia 3 67 2 50 Other financial expenses -21 -31 Estonia 1 100 – – Financial expenses -67 -82 Subsidiaries total 1 340 82 1 316 83 Net financial income/expense -45 -77 Group total 2 277 82 2 240 82 SEKm Parent company Group Parent company Profit/Loss from participations in Group companies 2011 2010 Employee benefits expense 2011 2010 2011 2010 Dividend 20 9 SEKm Impairment losses -10 – Salaries and other remuneration Group contributions received 1 062 – Board, CEO and management teams1 60 63 26 27 Group contributions paid -11 -210 of which bonus 7 10 4 5 Parent company total 1 061 -201 Other employees 955 915 416 398 Interest income and similar profit/loss items of which bonus 37 48 19 23 Interest income, Group companies 0 0 Total salaries and other remuneration 1 015 978 442 425 Interest income, other 20 4 Parent company total 20 4 Group Parent company Social security costs 2011 2010 2011 2010 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items Contractual pensions to the CEO Interest expense, Group companies 0 0 and management teams1 Interest expense for pension provision -8 -8 Defined-benefit pensions 3 2 2 1 Interest expense, other -33 -39 Defined-contribution pensions 9 11 4 4 Net interest income for derivatives in hedge accounting 33 -1 Contractual pensions, other Net change in exchange rates -1 5 Defined-benefit pensions 15 14 23 9 Other financial expenses -21 -31 Defined-contribution pensions 55 61 23 26 Parent company total -30 -74 Other social security costs 330 311 156 143 Net financial income/expense 1 051 -271 Total social security costs 412 399 208 183 Total employee benefits expense 1 427 1 377 650 608 1 F or the Group, CEO includes all staff with the chief executive role in any Group company. 7 Appropriations Board includes the members of all Boards of Group companies. Management teams includes all management teams in Group companies. In total, CEOs, Boards and management teams Parent company comprise 95 (84) people. SEKm 2011 2010 Difference between recognised and scheduled depreciation/amortisation Plant and equipment -2 212 2 098 Parent company total -2 212 2 098 At year-end 2011, the parent company switched from the residual value depreciation method to the theoretical method for tax depreciation of plant and equipment. 84 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 8 Taxes Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and loss carry-forwards Recognised Profit/Loss before tax Group Parent company Opening in other comClosing SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 balance Recognised prehensive balance Sweden, Group companies 890 912 -632 2 352 SEKm 1 Jan 2011 in profit/loss income 31 Dec 2011 Rest of world, Group companies 43 48 – – Group Total profit/loss before tax 933 960 -632 2 352 Deferred tax liability Other non-current assets 1 473 -25 1 448 Tax expense Group Parent company Hedge reserve 34 0 34 SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Total deferred tax liability 1 507 -25 0 1 482 Current tax Tax expense for the period -183 -177 -172 -167 Deferred tax asset Tax attributable to previous periods 0 0 0 – Buildings and land 33 -4 29 Total current tax -183 -177 -172 -167 Inventories 0 1 1 Accounts receivable 4 4 8 Deferred tax Provisions 23 -13 1 11 Deferred tax income/expense related to Loss carry-forwards 91 -91 0 temporary differences -67 -78 340 -451 Total deferred tax asset 151 -103 1 49 Total tax expense -250 -255 168 -618 Total net deferred tax liability 1 356 78 -1 1 433 In the parent company, Group contributions received and paid are recognised as financial income/expense in the profit and loss accounts as of 2011. 2010, the comparable year, has Portion recognised as deferred tax asset 1 been adjusted correspondingly. Portion recognised as deferred tax liability 1 434 Temporary differences and/or loss carry-forwards that are not balanced by recognised deferred Difference between nominal tax assets total SEK 13 million. The assessment is based on uncertainty whether this deferred and effective tax rate Group Parent company tax benefit can be claimed. % 2011 2010 2011 2010 Swedish income tax rate 26.3 26.3 26.3 26.3 Opening Recognised Closing Effect of other tax rates for foreign balance in profit and balance subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 SEKm 1 Jan 2011 loss accounts 31 Dec 2011 Tax-exempt dividends 0.8 -0.1 Parent company Tax income attributable to previous Deferred tax liability period -0.1 – 0.1 – Other non-current assets 694 -344 350 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses 0.5 0.1 -0.6 0.1 Total deferred tax liability 694 -344 350 Tax effect of tax-exempt income -0.1 0 0.1 0 Effective tax rate according to profit Deferred tax asset and loss accounts 26.8 26.6 26.7 26.3 Buildings and land 6 0 6 Accounts receivable 4 -2 2 Provisions 11 -2 9 Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and loss carry-forwards Loss carry-forwards 0 0 0 Total deferred tax asset 21 -4 17 Recognised Total net deferred tax liability 673 -340 333 Opening Recognised in other comClosing balance in profit/ prehensive balance SEKm 1 Jan 2011 loss income 31 Dec 2011 Participations in subsidiaries contain no material temporary differences. Group Deferred tax liability Opening Recognised Closing Other non-current assets 1 448 57 1 505 balance in profit and balance Hedge reserve 34 -33 1 SEKm 1 Jan 2011 loss accounts 31 Dec 2011 Total deferred tax liability 1 482 57 -33 1 506 Parent company Deferred tax liability Deferred tax asset Other non-current assets 339 355 694 Buildings and land 29 -3 26 Total deferred tax liability 339 355 694 Inventories 1 0 1 Accounts receivable 8 -2 6 Deferred tax asset Provisions 11 -5 1 7 Buildings and land 6 0 6 Loss carry-forwards 0 0 0 Accounts receivable 3 1 4 Total deferred tax asset 49 -10 1 40 Provisions 11 0 11 Total net deferred tax liability 1 433 67 -34 1 466 Loss carry-forwards 96 -96 0 Portion recognised as deferred tax asset 1 Total deferred tax asset 116 -95 21 Portion recognised as deferred tax liability 1 467 Total net deferred tax liability 223 450 673 Temporary differences and/or loss carry-forwards that are not balanced by recognised deferred tax assets total SEK 13 million. The assessment is based on uncertainty whether this deferred Participations in subsidiaries contain no material temporary differences. tax benefit can be claimed. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 85 9 Earnings per share Construction 2010 in progress 2011 2010 SEKm Buildings Plant and and advance Basic earnings per share Group and land equipment1 payments Total Profit/Loss for the period, SEKm 683 705 Acquisition cost Weighted number of outstanding ordinary shares 103 114 299 103 062 031 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 1 752 12 156 125 14 033 Basic earnings per share, SEK 6.63 6.84 Investments 4 206 123 333 Reclassifications 6 174 -180 – Diluted earnings per share Profit/Loss for the period, SEKm 683 705 Sales and disposals -17 -299 – -316 Adjusted profit/loss, SEKm 683 705 Translation difference -1 -41 – -42 103 114 299 103 062 031 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 1 744 12 196 68 14 008 Weighted number of outstanding shares Adjustment for assumed dilution from incentive programme 291 921 191 603 Accumulated depreciation No. of shares used to calculate earnings per share 103 406 220 103 253 634 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 6.61 6.83 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 -995 -5 692 – -6 687 Depreciation/Amortisation -53 -527 – -580 Sales and disposals 18 297 – 315 10 Property, plant and equipment Translation difference 1 36 – 37 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 -1 029 -5 886 – -6 915 Construction 2011 in progress Accumulated impairment losses SEKm Buildings Plant and and advance Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 -111 -1 792 – -1 903 Group and land equipment1 payments Total Impairment losses – -13 – -13 Acquisition cost Sales and disposals – – – – Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 1 744 12 196 68 14 008 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 -111 -1 805 – -1 916 Investments 38 279 148 465 Carrying amount on the balance Reclassifications 20 147 -167 – sheet, 31 Dec 2010 6042 4 505 68 5 177 Sales and disposals – -132 – -132 Translation difference 1 6 – 7 2010 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 1 803 12 496 49 14 348 Parent company Accumulated depreciation Acquisition cost Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 -1 029 -5 886 – -6 915 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 770 6 248 27 7 045 Depreciation/Amortisation -51 -536 – -587 Investments 2 111 15 128 Sales and disposals – 129 – 129 Reclassifications 1 23 -24 – Translation difference 0 -5 – -5 Sales and disposals – -1 – -1 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 -1 080 -6 298 – -7 378 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 773 6 381 18 7 172 Accumulated impairment Accumulated depreciation losses Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 -456 -2 929 – -3 385 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 -111 -1 805 – -1 916 Depreciation/Amortisation -26 -225 – -251 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 -111 -1 805 – -1 916 Sales and disposals – 0 – 0 Carrying amount on the Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 -482 -3 154 – -3 636 balance sheet, 31 Dec 2011 6122 4 393 49 5 054 Accumulated impairment losses 2011 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 – -898 – -898 Parent company Sales and disposals – – – – Acquisition cost Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 – -898 – -898 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 773 6 381 18 7 172 Carrying amount on the balance Investments 28 159 14 201 sheet, 31 Dec 2010 2913 2 329 18 2 638 Reclassifications 2 9 -11 – Sales and disposals – -10 – -10 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 803 6 539 21 7 363 1 L ight machinery and equipment represent only a minor proportion of the value of plant and equipment and thus are not disclosed separately. Accumulated depreciation 2 Including land totalling SEK 32 million (33). Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 -482 -3 154 – -3 636 3 Including land totalling SEK 8 million (8). Depreciation/Amortisation -25 -232 – -257 Sales and disposals – 10 – 10 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 -507 -3 376 – -3 883 Rental agreements and lease Future contractual operational lease commitments for the Group totalled SEK 142 million, Accumulated impairment losses SEK 43 million of which payable within one year and SEK 142 million within 1–5 years. The Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 – -898 – -898 corresponding figure for the parent company is SEK 103 million, SEK 27 million of which Sales and disposals – – – – payable within one year and SEK 103 million within 1–5 years. In 2011, operational leasing Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 – -898 – -898 expenses totalled SEK 53 million for the Group. For the parent company, the total was SEK 34 million. Carrying amount on the balance sheet, 31 Dec 2011 2963 2 265 21 2 582 1 L ight machinery and equipment represent only a minor proportion of the value of plant and equipment and thus are not disclosed separately. 2 Including land totalling SEK 39 million (32). 3 Including land totalling SEK 15 million (8). 86 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 11 Intangible assets 12 Participations in Group companies Intangible assets acquired SEKm 2011 2010 2011 Acquisition cost SEKm Other contractual Opening balance 1 January 1 315 1 315 Group Software Assets Goodwill Total Investments1 35 – Acquisition cost Closing balance 31 December 1 350 1 315 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 64 25 30 119 Investments 1 – 1 2 Accumulated impairment losses Translation differences – 0 – 0 Opening balance 1 January -120 -120 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 65 25 31 121 Impairment losses for the year2 -10 – Accumulated depreciation Closing balance 31 December -130 -120 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 -31 -11 – -42 Carrying amount on the balance sheet 1 220 1 195 Business combinations – – – – Depreciation/Amortisation -13 -4 – -17 1 Investments relate to Billerud Estonia OÜ, Billerud Holding AB, Billerud Finland Oy, Billerud Inc. and Nine TPP AB. Nine TPP AB has been reclassified from associated company to Translation differences – 0 – 0 subsidiary with 71.6% ownership. Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 -44 -15 – -59 2 Impairment relates to Tenova Bioplastics AB. Accumulated Impairment losses Impairment losses – – -10 -10 Specification of parent company’s participations in Group companies Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 – – -10 -10 Pctg. Carrying Carrying amount on the Subsidiary/Reg. office/Reg. no No. of shares participation3 amount balance sheet 31 Dec 2011 21 10 21 52 Billerud Karlsborg AB, Kalix 556310-4198 1 250 000 100 300 2011 Billerud Skärblacka AB, Norrköping Parent company 556190-3179 1 000 000 100 740 Acquisition cost Billerud Skog AB, Stockholm Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 23 5 – 28 556724-4641 1 000 100 1 Investments 0 – – 0 Billerud Fresh Services AB, Stockholm Sales – – – – 556459-7572 1 000 100 0 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 23 5 – 28 Billerud Holding AB, Stockholm 556876-2974 2 000 100 0 Accumulated depreciation Nine TPP AB, Stockholm Opening balance, 1 Jan 2011 -11 0 – -11 556724-5658 1 000 71.6 7 Depreciation/Amortisation -5 0 – -5 Tenova Bioplastics AB, Åby Closing balance, 31 Dec 2011 -16 0 – -16 556639-6197 2 500 100 32 Carrying amount on the Billerud Beetham Ltd, Cumbria 3 500 000 100 81 balance sheet 31 Dec 2011 7 5 – 12 Billerud Benelux B.V., Amsterdam 200 100 3 Billerud France S.A.S., Paris 4 000 100 1 2010 Billerud GmbH, Hamburg – 100 1 SEKm Other contractual Billerud Iberica S.L., Barcelona – 100 1 Group Software Assets Goodwill Total Billerud S.r.l., Milan – 100 0 Acquisition cost Billerud Sales Ltd, Nottingham 5 000 100 7 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 64 26 30 120 Billerud Trading Co Ltd, Shanghai – 100 4 Investments 0 – – 0 Billerud Mediena Uab, Klaipeda4 200 85 14 Investment through business – – – – combinations Billerud Wood Supply SIA, Dreilini 2 000 100 0 Translation differences – -1 – -1 Billerud Estonia OÜ, Pärnu 1 100 0 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 64 25 30 119 Billerud Inc., Delaware 100 100 28 Billerud Finland Oy, Helsinki 2 500 100 0 Accumulated depreciation Carrying amount, 31 Dec 2011 1 220 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 -18 -6 – -24 Business combinations – – – – 3 R efers to participating interest in capital, which is the same as the proportion of votes in the Depreciation/Amortisation -13 -4 – -17 total number of shares. Translation differences – -1 – -1 4 There is an option to purchase the remaining 15%. Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 -31 -11 – -42 Carrying amount on the Receivables from and liabilities to Group companies, balance sheet 31 Dec 2010 33 14 30 77 13 interest-bearing 2010 SEKm Parent company Parent company 2011 2010 Acquisition cost Receivables from Group companies Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 23 5 – 28 Carrying amount, 1 January 12 10 Investments – – – – Change for the year -12 2 Sales – – – – Carrying amount, 31 December – 12 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 23 5 – 28 SEKm Accumulated depreciation Liabilities to Group companies Opening balance, 1 Jan 2010 -7 – – -7 Carrying amount, 1 January 31 15 Depreciation/Amortisation -4 0 – -4 Change for the year 17 16 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2010 -11 0 – -11 Carrying amount, 31 December 48 31 Carrying amount on the balance sheet 31 Dec 2010 12 5 – 17 Interest-bearing receivables and liabilities refers to Group cash pools carrying intra-Group interest rates. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 87 14 Participations in associated companies 15 Other holdings SEKm SEKm No. of Pctg. Group 2011 2010 Group shares participation Carrying amount Carrying amount, 1 January 4 4 Name / Corp. id. no. Acquisition of associated companies 27 – 31 Dec 2011 Reclassification as subsidiary1 -2 – 1 tenant-owners' right 2 Participations in associated companies' profit/loss BasEl i Sverige AB, 556672-5858 50 5 0 after tax 0 0 VindIn AB, 556713-5172 100 7 23 Carrying amount, 31 December 29 4 Kalix Vindkraft AB, 556686-1729 20 000 10 5 Total 30 The Group's share of revenue, profit/loss, assets and liabilities through participations is SEKm No. of Pctg. specified below. Parent company shares participation Carrying amount Name / Corp. id. no. Associated companies 31 Dec 2011 Share1 tenant-owners' right 2 SEKm Liabiliholders' Pctg. BasEl i Sverige AB, 556672-5858 50 5 0 2011 Country Revenue Earnings Assets ties equity owned VindIn AB, 556713-5172 100 7 23 Total 25 ScandFibre Logistics AB Sweden 812 -2 142 134 8 20 Paccess Packaging SEKm No. of Pctg. LCC USA 55 -1 22 8 14 30 Group participations participation Carrying amount Total 867 -3 164 142 22 Name / Corp. id. no. 31 Dec 2010 2010 1 tenant-owners' right 2 ScandFibre BasEl i Sverige AB, 556672-5858 50 5 0 Logistics AB Sweden 860 1 98 90 8 20 VindIn AB, 556713-5172 100 7 5 Nine TPP Sweden 2 0 1 1 0 60 Kalix Vindkraft AB, 556686-1729 20 000 10 4 Total 862 1 99 91 8 Total 11 SEKm No. of Pctg. SEKm Parent company participations participation Carrying amount Parent company 2011 2010 Name / Corp. id. no. Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2010 Opening balance 6 6 1 tenant-owners' right 2 Investments – – BasEl i Sverige AB, 556672-5858 50 5 0 Reclassification as subsidiary1 -5 – VindIn AB, 556713-5172 100 7 5 Divestments – – Total 7 Closing balance 1 6 Specification of the parent company's directly owned holdings 16 Inventories of participations in associated companies Votes and capital, Group Parent company Name, corp. id. no. and registered office % Carrying amount SEKm 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 Raw materials and 389 372 111 96 Associated companies consumables ScandFibre Logistics AB, Finished goods 647 650 279 280 556253-1474 Stockholm 20 1 Work in progress 37 47 – – Parent company total 1 Advances from suppliers 62 1 – – Total 1 135 1 070 390 376 31 Dec 2010 Associated companies Operating costs include SEK 46 million (18) for impairment of inventories. SEK 216 million (25) ScandFibre Logistics AB of the inventory of finished goods has been measured at net realisable value. 556253-1474 Stockholm 20 1 Nine TPP AB, 556724-5658 Stockholm1 60 5 Parent company total 6 17 Shareholders' equity 1 In 2011, Billerud's participation in Nine TPP AB increased from 60% till 71.6% and is consolidated as a subsidiary. Share capital Owners of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend approved at a later date, and the shareholding entitles the owner to vote at the AGM, with one vote per share. All shares have the same rights to Billerud's remaining net assets. For shares owned by the Company (see under Shares bought back), all rights are waived until the shares are re-issued. 88 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Additional paid-in capital 18 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments Relates to equity paid in by the owners. This includes part of share premium reserves transferred to the statutory reserve on 31 December 2005. Provisions to the share premium reserve from 1 January 2006 onward are also recognised as paid-in capital. Billerud has defined-benefit pension plans for white-collar workers in Sweden (ITP plan) and to some extent for employees in the German subsidiary Billerud GmbH. These plans are unfunded. Some pension commitments for white-collar workers in Sweden are secured through provisions Reserves on the balance sheet in accordance with the FPG/PRI system. Billerud also has definedTranslation reserve contribution pension plans. Some pension commitments for white-collar workers in Sweden The translation reserve comprises all exchange rate differences resulting from the translation of are secured through insurance with Alecta. Alecta cannot provide sufficient information financial reports of foreign operations that have prepared their financial reports in a currency other to recognise the ITP plan as a defined-benefit plan, so the plan is recognised as a definedthan the Group's functional (reporting) currency. The parent company and Group present their contribution plan in accordance with UFR 3. The fee for pension insurance with Alecta totalled financial reports in Swedish kronor. In addition, the translation reserve consists of exchange rate SEK 28 million (27) for the year. differences resulting from the revaluation of debts raised to hedge net investments in foreign operations. Defined-benefit commitments SEKm Fair value reserve Group 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 The fair value reserve includes the accumulated net change in the fair value of available-for-sale Present value of unfunded defined-benefit financial assets until the asset is taken off the balance sheet. commitments 272 253 Hedge reserve Adjustments: The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of accumulated net changes in the fair value Accumulated unrecognised actuarial gains (+) of a cash-flow hedge instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet occurred. and losses (-) -53 -46 Carrying amount, 31 December 219 207 Profit brought forward Profit brought forward including profit/loss for the year includes profit earned by the parent The amount is recognised in the following item on the balance sheet. company and its subsidiaries and associated companies. Previous provisions to the statutory Provisions for pensions and similar reserve, excluding transferred share premium reserves, are included in this equity item. commitments 219 207 Shares bought back The net amount is divided Shares bought back comprises the acquisition cost of the Company's own shares held by the among plans in the following countries: parent company. At 31 December 2011, the Group’s holdings of its own shares totalled Sweden 210 198 1 720 314 (1 720 314). Germany 9 9 Commitments recognised on balance sheet 219 207 Dividend After the end of the reporting period, the Board of Directors proposed to the AGM a dividend of SEK 3.50 per ordinary share, totalling SEK 361 million. This proposal will be voted on at the Pension costs AGM on 9 May 2012. SEKm Group 2011 2010 2011 2010 Cost of defined-benefit plans earned during the year 18 16 Dividend, SEKm 361 52 Interest expense 9 9 Recognised dividend per ordinary share, SEK 3.50 0.50 Cost of defined-benefit plans 27 25 Parent company Cost of defined-contribution plans 64 72 Restricted reserves Payroll tax 21 20 Restricted reserves cannot be reduced by distributing them as dividends. Total cost of remuneration after employment ends 112 117 Share capital The cost is recognised in the following items in the profit The share capital at year-end consists of 104 834 613 (104 834 613) ordinary shares with a and loss account. quotient value of SEK 7.38 (7.38) and entitling holders to one vote per share. Employee benefits expense 103 108 Financial expenses 9 9 Statutory reserve Total cost of remuneration after employment ends 112 117 The purpose of the statutory reserve is to save a part of net earnings that is not needed to cover losses brought forward. Reconciliation of provisions for pensions on the balance sheet Non-restricted equity The following table explains how provisions for pensions on the balance sheet changed Share premium reserve during the period. When shares are issued at a premium, that is, at a price that is greater than the shares' quotient 2011 2010 value, an amount corresponding to the amount received in excess of the quotient value of the Commitments on the balance sheet at start of year 207 193 shares shall be transferred to the share premium reserve. Cost of defined-benefit plans 18 19 Pensions paid -6 -5 Profit/Loss brought forward Commitments on the balance sheet at year-end 219 207 This consists of the preceding year's non-restricted equity after payment of dividends, if any. Together with net profit/loss for the year and any fair value reserves, this constitutes Unrecognised actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) 2011 2010 non-restricted equity, that is, the amount available for distribution as a dividend to shareholders Carrying amount, 1 January 46 46 Changed assumptions for commitments 9 3 Amortisation for the year -2 -3 Translation differences for the year 0 0 Unrecognised actuarial losses at year-end 53 46 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 89 18 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments (cont’d.) 19 Provisions Actuarial assumptions 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 SEKm The following material actuarial assumptions have been used in Group 2011 2010 the calculation of commitments (weighted average). Provisions that are non-current liabilities Severance pay, lay-off pay 3 3 Discount rate 3.3% 3.8% Costs of environmental measures 33 24 Future salary increases 3.0% 3.0% Group total 36 27 Future increases in pensions 2.0% 2.0% Employee turnover 5.0% 5.0% Provisions that are current liabilities Expected remaining period of service 11 years 11 years Costs of restructuring measures 1 1 Group total 1 1 Present value of pension commitments Parent company SEKm Costs of restructuring measures – – Parent company 2011 2010 Parent company total – – Present value of pension commitments related to retirement under the management of the Company at the start of the year 163 153 Group Costs excluding interest expense charged to earnings 17 7 Costs of restructuring measures Interest expense 8 8 Carrying amount, 1 January 1 2 Pensions paid -6 -5 Provisions made during the year 0 0 Present value of pension commitments related to retirement Unutilised amount reversed during the year – 0 under the management of the Company at year-end 182 163 Amount utilised during the year 0 -1 Carrying amount, 31 December 1 1 Commitments paid to pension insurance held by Billerud 18 23 Other provisions 10 10 Severance pay, lay-off pay Commitments recognised on the balance sheet 210 196 Carrying amount, 1 January 3 3 Provisions made during the year 0 0 Of which covered by credit insurance with FPG/PRI 182 163 Amount utilised during the year 0 0 Carrying amount, 31 December 3 3 Costs relating to pensions SEKm Costs of environmental measures Parent company 2011 2010 Carrying amount, 1 January 24 24 Direct pensions Provisions made during the year 9 0 Cost excluding interest expense 17 7 Carrying amount, 31 December 33 24 Interest expense 8 8 Total cost of direct pension 25 15 Group's total provisions Total carrying amount, 1 January 28 29 Retirement through insurance Provisions made during the year 9 0 Insurance premiums paid 35 32 Unutilised amount reversed during the year – 0 Provision for future premiums 1 1 Amount utilised during the year 0 -1 Dissolution of provision for future premiums 0 – Total carrying amount, 31 December 37 28 Sub-total 36 33 Of which total non-current portion of provisions 36 27 Of which total current portion of provisions 1 1 Tax on returns from pension funds 1 1 Special payroll tax for pension costs 14 10 Parent company Cost of credit insurance 0 0 Costs of restructuring measures Pension cost for the year 76 59 Carrying amount, 1 January – 1 Unutilised amount reversed during the year – 0 Group 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Amount utilised during the year – -1 Assets pledged for pension commitments Carrying amount, 31 December – – Endowment insurance 25 29 Group total 25 29 Parent company's total provisions Total carrying amount at start of period – 1 Parent company Unutilised amount reversed during the year – 0 Assets pledged for pension commitments Amount utilised during the period – -1 Endowment insurance 18 23 Total carrying amount at end of period – – Parent company total 18 23 Group Amount of provision expected to be paid within 12 months 9 9 Payments, SEKm 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Amount of provision expected to be paid beyond 12 months 210 198 Group Amount of provision expected to be paid beyond 12 months 32 27 Parent company Amount of provision expected to be paid within 12 months 15 14 Parent company Amount of provision expected to be paid beyond 12 months 195 182 Amount of provision expected to be paid beyond 12 months – – 90 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 20 Interest-bearing liabilities 21 Liabilities to credit institutions SEKm SEKm Group 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Parent company 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Non-current liabilities Non-current liabilities Syndicated loans 117 121 Syndicated loans 58 58 Bond loans 675 675 Bond loans 675 675 Other interest-bearing liabilities 27 2 Other interest-bearing liabilities 1 3 Carrying amount, 31 December 819 798 Carrying amount, 31 December 734 736 Current liabilities Current liabilities Current portion of bond loans – 150 Current portion of bond loans – 150 Commercial paper – – Carrying amount, 31 December – 150 Other interest-bearing liabilities 0 0 Carrying amount, 31 December 0 150 All liabilities are due for payment within five years after the end of the reporting period. Terms and repayment periods 22 Accrued expenses and deferred income Syndicated loan 2010 On 12 July 2010, Billerud signed a new loan agreement with AB Svensk Exportkredit. This Group Parent company loan facility for SEK 800 million extends seven years. None of the loan had been utilised at 31 SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 December 2011. The terms of the loan facility follow those of Billerud's syndicated loan facility, Employee costs including see below. social fees 264 260 159 135 Excise duties 3 3 1 1 Syndicated loan 2011 Delivery costs 111 115 61 58 On 28 January 2011, Billerud signed a new loan agreement with a consortium of banks. This Wood costs 16 68 – – loan facility of SEK 801 million has a five-year term and replaces the syndicated credit facility of Energy costs 4 9 – – SEK 1 200 million from 8 April 2009 maturing in 2012. At 31 December 2011, GBP 11 million, Other information 41 72 14 27 corresponding to SEK 117 million, of the loan had been utilised. The parent company carries Total 439 527 235 221 GBP 5.5 million, or SEK 58 million, and the subsidiary Billerud Beetham Ltd GBP 5.5 million, or SEK 58 million. The terms for the loan include compliance with the following ratios: The net debt/equity ratio shall not exceed 1.1. The interest coverage ratio shall not be less than 4.0. Bond loan no. 2 (FRN loan) On 22 September 2011, Loan no. 2 matured and was repaid. The loan carried interest of STIBOR plus 0.85%. The loan amount was SEK 150 million. Bond loan no. 4 (FRN loan) Loan no. 4 runs from 23 February 2005 for eight years with interest of STIBOR plus 0.45 percentage points. The loan amounts to SEK 300 million. At 31 December 2011, SEK 300 million of the loan had been utilised. Bond loan no. 7 (FRN loan) Loan no. 7 runs from 27 June 2005 for eight years with interest of STIBOR plus 0.58 percentage points. The loan amounts to SEK 225 million. At 31 December 2011, SEK 225 million of the loan had been utilised. Bond loan no. 8 (FRN loan) Loan no. 8 runs from 10 March 2006 for ten years with interest of STIBOR plus 0.75 percentage points. The loan amounts to SEK 150 million. At 31 December 2011, SEK 150 million of the loan had been utilised. Commercial paper programme The programme runs from 18 June 2003 and enables Billerud to issue commercial papers with a nominal value of SEK 1 million, or EUR 100 000, up to a limit of SEK 1 500 million or the equivalent in EUR. The commercial papers shall run for at least one day and at most one year. At 31 December 2011, no commercial paper was on issue. There are no special conditions for renegotiation linked to the liabilities above. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 91 23 Financial assets and liabilities Fair value and carrying amount Derivatives Accounts AvailableFinancial liabilities Total are presented in the balance sheet below, SEKm in hedge and for-sale measured at carrying Fair Group 2011 accounting loan receivables financial assets amortised cost amount value Other shares and participations 30 30 30 Long-term receivables1 342 342 342 Accounts receivable 1 391 1 391 1 391 Other receivables 34 234 268 268 Cash and cash equivalents2 929 929 929 Total 34 2 554 372 2 960 2 960 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 819 819 819 Current interest-bearing liabilities 0 0 0 Accounts payable 1 227 1 227 1 227 Other liabilities 33 51 84 84 Total 33 2 097 2 130 2 130 Group 2010 Other shares and participations 11 11 11 Long-term receivables1 260 260 260 Accounts receivable 1 412 1 412 1 412 Other receivables 146 204 350 350 Cash and cash equivalents2 740 740 740 Total 146 2 356 271 2 773 2 773 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 798 798 798 Current interest-bearing liabilities 150 150 150 Accounts payable 1 157 1 157 1 157 Other liabilities 19 69 88 88 Total 19 2 174 2 193 2 193 Net changes in the value of cash flow hedges recognised in the profit and loss accounts totalled SEK 186 million (313) in 2011, of which SEK 190 million (344) is recognised in Net sales and SEK -4 million (31) in Raw materials and consumables. 1 Billerud has invested a total of SEK 342 (260) million in eight (six) different bonds. The bonds mature in 2012–2015 and carry a rating of AAor better. 2 Investments in securities etc. are classified as Cash and cash equivalents when they mature less than three months after the acquisition date and are exposed to only a minor risk of fluctuation in value. Fair value and carrying amount are presented in the balance sheet below Derivatives Accounts AvailableFinancial liabilities Total in hedge and for-sale measured at carrying Fair Parent company 2011 accounting loan receivables financial assets amortised cost amount value Other shares and participations 25 25 25 Other long-term receivables3 18 340 358 358 Accounts receivable 1 273 1 273 1 273 Other receivables 147 147 181 Cash and bank balances4 842 842 842 Total 2 280 365 2 645 2 679 Bond and syndicated loans 733 733 733 Liabilities to credit institutions – – – Other interest-bearing liabilities 1 1 1 Accounts payable 240 240 240 Other liabilities 17 17 50 Total 991 991 1 024 Parent company 2010 Other shares and participations 7 7 7 Other long-term receivables3 23 260 283 283 Accounts receivable 1 343 1 343 1 343 Other receivables 60 60 206 Cash and bank balances4 644 644 644 Total 2 070 267 2 337 2 483 Bond and syndicated loans 732 732 732 Liabilities to credit institutions 150 150 150 Other interest-bearing liabilities 3 3 3 Accounts payable 224 224 224 Other liabilities 24 24 43 Total 1 133 1 133 1 152 3 Billerud has invested a total of SEK 342 (260) million in eight (six) different bonds. The bonds mature in 2012–2015 and carry a rating of AAor better. 4 Investments in securities etc. are classified as Cash and bank balances when they mature less than three months after the acquisition date and are exposed to only a minor risk of fluctuation in value. 92 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 24 Remuneration to senior management Remuneration for Board The Annual General Meeting decides the fees to be paid to the Chairman of the Board and Board members. Additional fees are paid for work on committees. The Chairman received SEK 583 thousand in 2011, of which SEK 83 thousand was for committee work . Other Board members received a total of SEK 1 749 thousand, of which SEK 157 thousand was for committee work. Directors' fees SEK '000 Annual fee Annual fee Audit committee fee Audit committee fee Compensation committee Compensation committee Name 2010–2011 2011-2012 2010–2011 2011-2012 fee 2010–2011 fee 2011-2012 Fee paid 20111 Ingvar Petersson 450 525 30 40 40 50 583 Michael M.F. Kaufmann 350 400 – – – 25 400 Gunilla Jönson 225 250 – 40 – – 268 Ewald Nageler 225 250 – – – – 242 Yngve Stade 225 250 – – 15 25 264 Mikael Hellberg2 – 250 – 80 – – 220 Helena Andreas2 – 250 – – – – 167 Meg Tivéus3 225 – 30 – – – 85 Per Lundberg3 225 – 70 – 15 – 103 1 The fees decided by the Annual General Meetings in 2010 and 2011 2 Board member appointed at the Annual General Meeting 2011 3 Board member declined re-election and left his/her position on the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2011 Remuneration to the CEO and senior management The 2011 Annual General Meeting established the following guidelines for remuneration 1 This amount includes holiday pay supplement, allowances for expenses and lunch coupons to senior managers. Senior management includes the CEO and other members of the senior totalling SEK 125 thousand in addition to fixed salary. management team. Billerud shall apply market-related remuneration levels and employment 2 This amount includes holiday pay supplement, allowances for expenses and lunch coupons terms that are appropriate in order to recruit and keep a senior management team that has totalling SEK 100 thousand in addition to fixed salary. the competence and capacity to achieve set goals. Remuneration forms shall motivate Group 3 These amounts include remuneration and other benefits for two people who left the senior management to do its best to secure shareholders' interests. Remuneration may be in the form management team in 2011. The opening amounts refer to the period that person was a of fixed or variable salary, long-term incentive programmes and other benefits such as company member of the senior management team. car and pension. Fixed and variable salary shall be determined in relation to expertise, area 4 These amounts include remuneration and other benefits for a person who left the senior of responsibility and performance. Variable remuneration is paid depending on actual results management team in 2010. The opening amounts refer to the period that person was a compared to explicit targets, up to a maximum percentage of a fixed annual salary that may member of the senior management team. vary between 30% and 45%. However, variable salary shall be paid only if the Company makes a profit. The incentive programme shall primarily be related to financial performance criteria, ensure long-term commitment to the development of the Company and be implemented on Comments commercial terms. For more information about the current incentive programmes adopted • The variable remuneration for 2011 refers to amounts to be paid out in 2012 but charged to by the 2010 and 2011 AGMs, see the Company’s website. Pension benefits shall either be 2011, while the variable remuneration for 2010 refers to remuneration paid out in 2011 but defined-benefit or defined-contribution plans and will normally give a pension entitlement charged to 2010. The actual amounts are based on financial and individual targets linked to after age 65. In certain cases, the age may be reduced but never lower than 62. Notice of the development of the business and based on profit for 2011 and 2010. termination is normally 6–12 months, and if the Company gives notice severance pay shall be • Other benefits include company car, housing and other taxable benefits. a maximum of 12 months' salary. Remuneration and other employment terms for the CEO are • Pension plans are of the defined-benefit and defined-contribution types. Pension costs refers prepared by the compensation committee and decided by the Board. Remuneration and other to the costs charged to profit/loss for the year. employment terms for members of the senior management team are determined by the CEO • Billerud's long-term incentive programmes (LTIP 2010 and LTIP 2011) comprise no rights following approval by the compensation committee. to acquire Billerud shares at a discount during a redemption period after a vesting period. The Board of Directors is entitled to deviate from these guidelines if there is good reason in Instead, participants are allocated a certain number of Billerud shares free of charge after a individual cases. three-year vesting period, provided certain criteria are met. In 2011, the actual variable remuneration was 20.0% for the CEO and an average of In LTIP 2010, the CEO participates with 9 093 Billerud shares, referred to as “saving shares”. 12.96% for the senior management team. Other members of the senior management team participate with 18 357 saving shares. In LTIP 2011, the CEO participates with 7 089 Billerud shares, referred to as “saving shares”. Other members of the senior management team participate with 11 143 saving shares. Remuneration and benefits to the CEO All participants can achieve a 4:1 exchange ratio. Each saving share entitles the holder to: Gross Other Pension One right to matching shares SEK '000 Year salary Bonus benefits costs Total Three rights to performance shares (one share right for the operating margin, Per Lindberg 2011 5 1691 1 878 244 1 153 8 444 one share right for the relative margin and one share right for total return) Per Lindberg 2010 4 9662 1 946 519 761 8 192 Remuneration and other benefits to rest of senior management team during the year Gross Other Pension SEK '000 Year salary Bonus benefits costs Total Senior management team3 2011 11 554 3 124 703 3 965 19 346 Senior management team4 2010 10 662 3 304 1 216 3 963 19 145 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 93 25 Additional information for the cash flow statement 28 Investment commitments Group Parent company Group SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 In 2011, the Group signed agreements to acquire property, plant and equipment for SEK 128 Interest paid and received and dividends million (133). Of these commitments, it is expected that SEK 85 million (133) will be settled in Interest and dividends received 20 5 39 13 2012. Interest paid -59 -79 -27 -73 Total -39 -74 12 -60 Parent company In 2011, the parent company signed agreements to acquire property, plant and equipment for SEK 117 million (42). Of these commitments, it is expected that SEK 75 million (42) will be Adjustments for non-cash items, etc. settled in 2012. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets 614 610 262 256 Interest adjustment 7 4 2 0 Anticipated dividend – –  Pledged assets, contingent liabilities and Impairment of shares in subsidiaries 10 – 29 contingent assets Pensions and other provisions 11 -22 6 -3 Capital gains/losses 0 0 0 0 Group Parent company Total 632 592 280 253 SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Assets pledged for own liabilities Cash and cash equivalents1 and provisions The following are included in cash and cash Pledged endowment insurance 25 27 18 23 equivalents: Total pledged assets 25 27 18 23 Investments in securities etc. 250 – 250 – Cash and bank balances 679 740 592 644 Contingent liabilities Total 929 740 842 644 Guarantee commitment, FPG/PRI 4 3 4 3 Other guarantees 10 5 10 5 Warranties – – – 26 1 Investments in securities etc. are classified as cash and cash equivalents when they mature Guarantees for Group companies – – 58 63 less than three months after the acquisition date and are exposed to only a minor risk of Total contingent liabilities 14 8 72 97 fluctuation in value. 26 Untaxed reserves 30 Related parties Relationships SEKm The parent company has relationships with its subsidiaries subject to related party disclosure, Parent company 2011 2010 see note 12. Accumulated additional depreciation Plant and equipment Summary of related party transactions Carrying amount, 1 January – 2 098 Purchase of Change for the year in addition to plan 2 212 -2 098 Sales of goods goods and Receivables Carrying amount, 31 December 2 212 – and services services Debts to from to related from related related related Total untaxed reserves 2 212 – SEKm parties parties parties parties Group Relationships Year 27 Events after the closing date Associated companies 2011 – 386 17 3 Associated companies 2010 1 269 2 7 On 1 February 2012, Billerud Finland Oy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Billerud AB, reached an agreement with UPM-Kymmene (UPM) regarding the acquisition of UPM's packaging operaParent company tions in Pietarsaari and Tervasaari with net sales of around EUR 220 million (SEK 2 billion) in Relationships Year 2011. The purchase price is EUR 130 million (around SEK 1.2 billion). The transaction significantly Subsidiary 2011 9 1 297 893 1 232 reduces Billerud's pulp exposure and strengthens its offering in the packaging paper area. Subsidiary 2010 11 1 127 767 454 Currency exposure is also reduced. Associated companies 2011 – 143 5 – Long-term commercial agreements have been reached between the parties stipulating, Associated companies 2010 1 104 – 4 for instance, that UPM will deliver inputs such as pulp, steam and electricity to Billerud. The transaction is conditional upon the approval of the requisite competition authorities. The transaction will be financed through cash and cash equivalents, and through raising Transactions with key individuals in executive positions loans within existing credit frameworks. The impact of the acquisition on Billerud's net debt/ Recognition of salaries, remuneration and other benefits is found in notes 5 and 24. equity ratio will be +24 percentage points. Therefore, the net debt/equity ratio is still deemed to be below the Group's financial targets, all else being equal. In the event of the acquisition failing to complete, Billerud has undertaken to pay a one-time amount of EUR 5 million to UPM. 31 Business combinations For further information, please see the press release dated 1 February 2012 on the Billerud website, www.billerud.se. In 2011, Billerud has acquired 30% of the shares in associated company Paccess Packaging LCC through subsidiary Billerud Inc. Billerud has acquired 11.6% of the shares in Nine TPP AB, thus increasing its share of ownership of the company to 71.6%. On 1 February 2012, Billerud Finland Oy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Billerud AB, reached an agreement with UPMKymmene (UPM) regarding the acquisition of UPM’s packaging operations in Pietarsaari and Tervasaari. The purchase price is EUR 130 million (around SEK 1.2 billion). The transaction is conditional upon the approval of the requisite competition authorities. No business combinations were carried out in 2010. 94 notes and accounting policies BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 32 Key estimates and assessments 33 Information about the parent company The audit committee has discussed the application of the Group's accounting policies and Billerud AB is a Swedish limited liability company whose domicile is in Stockholm. The shares made assessments and estimates in connection with the application of these policies. The of the parent company are registered with NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB. The address of the following key estimates and assessments require further explanation. head office is Box 703, SE-169 27 Solna. The consolidated accounts for 2011 are for the parent company and its subsidiaries, which form the Group. The Group also includes owned participaPension liabilities tions in associated companies. The discount rate for calculating the commitment related to Billerud’s defined-benefit pension plans was reduced, from 3.8% in 2010, to 3.3% in 2011, which is consistent with the nominal Government interest rate on Sweden’s 10-year secured housing bond. For other actuarial assumptions, see note 18, pages 89-90. Valuation of subsidiaries Billerud's production of bioplastic products in Tenova Bioplastics AB yielded a loss during the year. An impairment test was performed for the capital employed in the company. According the the Company's calculations, the value of future payments is below the carrying amount, so a goodwill impairment of SEK 10 million has been carried out in the Group. Following a test for impairment, the parent company’s shareholding in the subsidiary Tenova Bioplastics AB has been impaired in the amount of SEK 10 million. 34 OPERATING SEGMENTS The Group's business is managed and reported by business area as set out below. The introducIn addition to the business areas, Billerud's operations include group-wide functions such tion of IFRS 8 did not lead to any change in accounting for the business areas. The main target as corporate headquarters, wood supplies and the sales organisations. These functions are for each business area is the operating margin, which is measured net of the earnings effects reported as Other business, which includes profit/loss in associated company ScandFibre of hedging currency flows. Billerud has identified its operating segments to reflect the three Logistics AB and subsidiaries Tenova Bioplastics AB, Nine TPP AB and Billerud Inc. Other business areas in the Group. business also includes gains/losses from hedging of the Group's net currency flows and The Packaging & Speciality Paper business area is responsible for sales of sack paper and eliminations. kraft paper with a focus on packaged food, paper carrier bags, sack solutions and industrial Non-current assets and capital investments cannot be broken down by operating segment, applications. because the business areas are highly integrated in terms of production. The Packaging Boards business area is responsible for sales of fluting, liner and liquid board Operating earnings for Other business consisted of SEK 230 million (153) for Currency with a focus on fruit and vegetables and consumer goods. hedging, etc., SEK -171 million (-103) for Group staff and eliminations and SEK 35 million (23) The Market Pulp business area is responsible for sales of long-fibre market pulp. for Other units. Packaging & Speciality Packaging Market Other Group Paper Boards Pulp business total SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Net sales 4 293 4 166 2 772 2 428 1 752 1 731 526 503 9 343 8 828 Other income – 40 – 26 – 12 18 7 18 85 Operating expenses, other -3 525 -3 461 -2 238 -2 023 -1 574 -1 352 -432 -430 -7 769 -7 266 Depreciation, amortisation and -318 -328 -164 -160 -114 -115 -18 -7 -614 -610 impairment Profit/Loss from participations in associated companies – – – – – – 0 0 0 0 Operating profit/loss 450 417 370 271 64 276 94 73 978 1 037 Operating margin 10% 10% 13% 11% 4% 16% 10% 12% Financial income and expenses -45 -77 Taxes -250 -255 Net profit/loss 683 705 BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 notes and accounting policies 95 Proposed allocation of profit Non-restricted equity in the parent company consists of: SEK Non-restricted funds 2 992 037 580 Dividend for 2010 -360 900 046 Profit/Loss for the year -463 618 474 Total 2 167 519 060 The Board proposes: SEK A dividend of 3.50 per share to be paid to shareholders 360 900 046 and that the remaining amount be carried forward 1 806 619 014 Total 2 167 519 060 The undersigned affirm that the consolidated accounts and the annual accounts, respectively, have been prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards and generally accepted accounting practices and give a true and fair view of the financial position and results for the Group and parent company, respectively. The Directors' report for the Group and the parent company includes a fair review of the operations, financial position and results of the Group and the parent company and describes the principal risks and uncertainties facing the parent company and the companies included in the Group. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved for publication by the Board on 13 March 2012. The consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated balance sheet, as well as the statement of comprehensive income for the parent company and balance sheet for the parent company will be subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 9 May 2012. Solna, 13 March 2012 Ingvar Petersson, Michael M. F. Kaufmann, Chairman Deputy Chairman Helena Andreas, Stewe Cato, Helén Gustafsson, Mikael Hellberg, Board member Board member Board member Board member Gunilla Jönson, Ewald Nageler, Yngve Stade, Per Lindberg, Board member Board member Board member CEO Our audit report was issued on 14 March 2012 Ernst & Young AB Lars Träff Authorised Public Accountant 96 p r o p o s e d a l l o c at i o n o f p r o f i t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Auditors' report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Billerud AB, corporate identity number 556025-5001 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial accounts position of the group as of 31 December 2011 and of their financial We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of performance and cash flows for the year in accordance with Inter­ Billerud AB for the year 2011. The annual accounts and consolidated national Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent document on pages 54–96. with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company Director for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and the group. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts and conReport on other legal and regulatory requirements solidated accounts in accordance with International Financial In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts accounts, we have examined the proposed appropriations of the comAct, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the pany’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of and the Managing Director of Billerud AB for the year 2011. annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Auditor’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaOur responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts tions of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit the Managing Director are responsible for administration under the in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally Companies Act. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit Auditor’s responsibility to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consoliaccordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. dated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstateappropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the Board ment of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presenthe Companies Act. tation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the we examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of of Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the company. accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Managing Director has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Association. and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance Opinions with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2011 be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adand of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ministration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and the consolithe Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Stockholm, 14 March 2012 Ernst & Young AB Lars Träff Authorised Public Accountant BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 auditors' report 97 Billerud’s corporate governance in 2011 This report on corporate governance in the Billerud Group for 2011 has been prepared in accordance with regulations in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, which took effect 1 July 2005 and was last revised on 1 February 2011. The Code was introduced at Billerud in spring 2005. In 2011, Billerud complied with the Swedish Composition of and voting representation on the nomination committee Code of Corporate Governance in all respects except for item 2.1.2 concerning the composiRepresentative Shareholder Share of voting power, %1 tion of the Board of Directors, the reason for Michael M.F. Kaufmann, Chairman Frapag Beteiligungsholding AG 21.0 non-compliance being, regarding composition Björn Franzon Swedbank Robur Fonder 2.4 of the nomination committee, that the 2011 Hans Ek SEB Fonder and SEB Trygg Liv 2.1 AGM resolved that the chairman of the nomiIngvar Petersson, Chairman of the Board of Billerud, Billerud – nation committee shall be the Board member convening but not a member representing the largest shareholder in terms of 1 As per 29 February 2012 the number of shares. Michael M.F. Kaufmann represents the largest shareholder and is thereRules for shareholders’ meetings 2012 Annual General Meeting fore chairman of the nomination committee. Under the Companies Act, the shareholders’ The 2012 AGM will take place on 9 May He is also a Board member and Deputy meeting is the Company’s ultimate decision2012 at 3 p.m. at Hotel Rival, Mariatorget 3, Chairman of the Board. Other exceptions to making body. Shareholders exercise their voting Stockholm. Billerud’s website contains inforthe Code were item 6.2 concerning the rights at the meeting. All shareholders entered mation about how to register to attend the Chairman of the Board and item 9.3 concernin the share register on the record date who AGM and how to submit a matter to be dealt ing remuneration of senior management. The have notified the Company in time are entitled with by the AGM. latter two items are not applicable to the to participate in the meeting and vote their total Billerud Group. holdings of shares. Resolutions are usually Nomination committee for the 2012 AGM passed at a shareholders’ meeting by simple Pursuant to a decision by Billerud AB’s AGM OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AND SHARES majority except in those cases when the held 4 May 2011, the Chairman of the Board At year-end 2011, the total number of shareCompanies Act stipulates a higher proportion contacted the largest shareholders, after which holders was 107 795, compared to 120 733 at of votes cast and shares represented at the a nomination committee was appointed. On the previous year-end. The proportion of formeeting. Resolutions passed at a shareholders’ 2 November 2011, the nomination committee eign ownership increased, to 48.6% (44.0), meeting are made public after the meeting in for the 2012 AGM was announced; see table excluding shares that Billerud bought back a press release, and the minutes of the meeting above. (1 720 314). Other groups of shareholders are published on the Company’s website. The No separate remuneration was paid to the consist of private individuals in Sweden, meeting decides on matters such as whether Chairman or any other members of the nomi34.5% (38.5), and legal entities in Sweden, to adopt the Company’s annual accounts, how nation committee. 16.9% (17.5). Further details about the to appropriate the Company’s profit/loss and Ahead of the 2012 AGM, the nomination Company’s shares, shareholders and the like whether to discharge the members of the committee held four meetings (with minutes are presented in the 2011 annual report, under Board and the CEO from liability for the year. taken), keeping in contact in between meetings “The Billerud share”, and on the Company’s The Annual General Meeting also elects by phone and e-mail. Shareholders have been website. members of the Board and auditors, and votes welcome to submit proposals and opinions to on the establishment of a nomination committhe nomination committee by e-mail or mail. SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS AND RELATED tee, fees for the Board of Directors and audiOn Billerud’s website, a section for the nomiMATTERS tors and guidelines for deter­mining the salanation committee in the corporate governance 2011 Annual General Meeting ries and other remuneration for the CEO and area provides information to shareholders The 2011 AGM took place on 4 May 2011 at senior management team. The AGM shall be regarding how they can submit proposals to 3 p.m. at Hotel Rival, Mariatorget 3, held in Stockholm within six months from the the committee. Stockholm. Among other matters, the AGM end of the financial year. Notice of the AGM voted to re-elect Ingar Petersson, Gunilla will be published as an advertisement in Post THE BOARD Jönson, Michael M.F. Kaufmann, Ewald och Inrikes Tidningar and an announcement Composition Nageler and Yngve Stade. Per Lundberg and in Svenska Dagbladet and be posted on the The articles of association stipulate that the Meg Tivéus declined re-election and Helena Company’s website. Information about Board of Directors of Billerud AB contain at Andreas and Mikael Hellberg were thus Billerud’s major shareholders is provided least six members and at most 10 members, elected new Board members. under “The Billerud share” in the Directors’ with at most six deputies. Board members are report. appointed for one year at a time. The 98 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT BILLERUD Shareholders through Nomination committee AGM Company’s CEO is not a member of the Auditors Compensation The Board Board. All but two members of the Board committee elected by the AGM are independent of the Company, senior management team and major Audit committee shareholders. Michael M. F. Kaufmann is the CEO and Ewald Nageler the CFO of the parent CEO and senior company of Frapag Beteiligungs-holding AG, management team Billerud AB’s largest shareholder, and are CSR committee thus not independent of the Company’s major shareholders, as defined by the Swedish Code Financial management of Corporate Governance and the regulations Finance committee of NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB. The Board also includes two members and two Ethics committee Human Resources deputies appointed by the trade unions in accordance with the Board Representation Technology and (Private Sector Employees) Act. These four R&D committee business development Board members are employees and thus not independent of the Company. Packaging & Purchasing committee Speciality Paper In 2011, the Board’s external secretary was Wilhelm Lüning, of the legal firm Advokatfirman Cederquist. IT committee Packaging Boards All Board members have completed NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB’s training for Human resources Market Pulp board members and senior executives at listed committee companies. Production Organisation of the work of the Board The work of the Board follows written rules of procedure and a meeting schedule, to ensure Primary external regulations affecting Billerud’s governance: that the Board receives comprehensive infor• Swedish Companies Act mation and that all Company activities con• Regulations of Euroclear and NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB for issuers • Swedish Code of Corporate Governance cerning the Board are dealt with. The rules of procedure prescribe the information to be supplied to the Board, among other things, and are available on the Company’s website, as are the instructions for Billerud’s CEO. J anuary/February: annual financial senior management have also made presentaThe Board has also established a number statements, year-end report, audits and tions about and discussed their areas of of general policies for the Company’s activisustainability responsibility with the Board. Minutes are ties. These policies are revised as necessary. March: AGM agenda, financing matters taken at all Board meetings and distributed to They include policies on corporate governance, April/May: AGM, interim report, Board members in compliance with the finance and communications and a single policy investments, audits and financing Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. covering quality, the environment and the comJune: mill visit, review of corporate munity. The latter policy covers Billerud’s governance, legal issues relating to Assessment approach to ethical business conduct and the competition and financing Billerud has routines for assessing the work environment. September: strategy, investments of the Chairman and members of the Board October: interim report each year. The assessment serves as input for Work of the Board in 2011 December: financing including finance an action plan for improvement as well as During 2011 the Board held 12 meetings, of policy, issues regarding the annual financial background for the nomination committee’s which two were per capsulam, in addition to statements and budget for 2012, audit, work as they assemble a Board. the constituent meeting. One meeting is sustainability report and evaluation of the The Board also continually evaluates the mainly devoted to strategy and one to finance work of the Board and CEO work of the CEO. Once a year an assessment issues. The Chairman leads the work of the is made of the CEO without the CEO being Board, monitors the business in dialogue with In 2011, extra emphasis was placed on the present. the CEO and is responsible for the other continued development of new products and Board members receiving the information and customer concepts in close cooperation with BOARD COMMITTEES documentation necessary for discussions and end customers, growth, sustainability issues, The Board currently has two committees: the decisions. During 2011 the work of the Board cost savings, wood supply as well as strategy audit committee, established in 2004, and the focused on managing, in addition to ordinary and brand building. compensation committee, established in agenda items: During the year, mill managers and other 2001. The Board appoints the members of BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t 99 these committees. The composition of these 24 in the 2011 annual report. The Board set week, alternate weeks in face-to-face meetcommittees in 2011 is presented on pages up a compensation committee tasked with ings and in videoor teleconferences. 102–103. proposing a general policy for salaries, In 2011, the senior management team remuneration and other general employment addressed issues concerning financing, acquiAUDIT COMMITTEE terms within Billerud as well as approving the sitions, crisis management, cost savings, The Board is ultimately responsible for ensurCEO’s proposal for salaries and remuneration wood supplies and wood prices, production, ing that satisfactory controls are in place for for the senior management team within the energy, markets and pricing, environmental risk management, accounting, financial framework of the policy. The committee also issues and permits, investments, strategy, reporting and similar issues. makes proposals to the Board, which decides human resources and brand building. The To support the Board in its supervisory on the salary and other remuneration for the executives also report on projects under way role, an audit committee was established in CEO. The rules of procedure for the compenin their areas of responsibility. At each meet2004. sation committee are presented in full on the ing, a situation report is presented for each The chief task of the committee is to conCompany’s website. The members of the unit in the Company and the current financial tribute to and adopt policies for financial committee are Ingvar Petersson, (chair), report is reviewed. reporting and internal control and to ensure Michael Kaufmann and Yngve Stade. Billerud is divided into three business compliance with those policies as well as to areas: Packaging & Speciality Paper, Pack­ maintain an appropriate relationship with the Work in 2011 aging Boards and Market Pulp. Each business Company’s auditors as per the Board of The committee held two meetings in 2011. area is responsible for sales, marketing and Directors’ instructions to the audit committee. The table on pages 102–103 presenting memdevelopment in its own product area, as well The audit committee is a preparatory body bers of the board shows meeting attendance as being accountable for its own profit, based and part of the Board. It continually reports by the committee members. In 2011, the on predetermined production costs. The the results of its work, in the form of observacommittee considered actual variable salaries Billerud mills are responsible for production tions, recommendations and proposed resoluin 2010, and salary reviews for the senior and efficiency, which is the basis for their tions and corrective actions, to the Board, management team in 2011. Further, the comfinancial accountability. The senior managewhich must make any decisions that result mittee addressed the evaluation of LTIP 2011 ment team has organised several group-wide from the committee’s work. Further, the comand the structure of LTIP 2012. networks, each of which is convened and mittee shall monitor the Company’s accounting The principles for remuneration to the chaired by a member of the team or some policies, risk management and internal control. CEO and other senior executives, as well as other person who reports directly to the CEO. Finally, it shall organise the election of the actual figures, are contained in note 24 of the auditors and their fees. Minutes are kept of the 2011 annual report. The following committees were meetings of the audit committee and provided active in 2011 to the Board. The rules of procedure for the AUDITORS audit committee are presented in full on the The accounting firm is Ernst & Young AB, CSR committee Stina Blombäck Company’s website. The audit committee represented by authorised public accountant Financial management consists of four members: Mikael Hellberg Lars Träff, managing auditor, for three years committee Susanne Lithander (chair), Ingvar Petersson, Kurt Lindvall and until the 2013 AGM. Ethics committee Karin Hågfeldt Gunilla Jönson. All members except one are R&D committee Magnus Wikström independent of the Company. Kurt Lindvall is Lars Träff Purchasing committee Per Lindberg a Billerud employee and thus not independent Born 1954. Authorised public accountant at IT committee Susanne Lithander of the Company. During 2011, the secretary Ernst & Young AB. Auditor of Billerud from Human resources of the audit committee was Wilhelm Lüning, 2009 until the financial year of 2012. committee Karin Hågfeldt of the legal firm Advokatfirman Cederquist. Public accountant for Boliden, Posten, Lantmännen, the ÅF Group, Scania and Work in 2011 Öresund. All members of the senior management team During 2011, the audit committee held seven To ensure that the work of the Board and have attended NASDAQ OMX Stockholm meetings, two of which were teleconferences. the audit committee is performed in a strucAB’s training for board members and senior The table on pages 102–103 presenting memtured manner and to satisfy the Board’s inforexecutives of listed companies. bers of the board shows meeting attendance mation requirements, Billerud’s auditors met by the committee members. During the year, with the audit committee on three occasions PRINCIPLES FOR REMUNERATION OF the committee addressed various accounting and with the Board on one occasion in 2011. SENIOR EXECUTIVES issues, the audit plan for 2011, risk analysis, The 2011 AGM adopted the principle that internal control and policy issues. The comCEO AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM remuneration and employment terms should mittee also met ahead of the publication of The CEO is appointed by the Board and is be market-based. Satisfactory work shall be each interim report and the year-end report, responsible for the ongoing management of remunerated with a fixed salary. when the members addressed accounting and the Company’s and Group’s business operaIn addition, variable remuneration may reporting issues related to the reports. The tions in accordance with instructions estabbe offered as a reward for achieving fixed chairman of the audit committee regularly lished by the Board. The CEO also chairs the targets. For the complete resolution on reports to the Board on committee meetings. senior management team and makes decisions principles for remuneration, see note 24 of The Board’s work on internal control related in consultation with the other senior executhe 2011 annual report. The Board’s proposal to financial reporting is summarised in tives. The senior management team has seven for guidelines in 2012 is presented in the “Internal controls and risk management for members in addition to the CEO: the Chief Directors’ report. financial reporting in 2011”. Financial Officer (CFO), Senior Vice President Corporate Human Resources, COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Production Director, Technical Director and The 2011 AGM voted on guidelines for the three Business Area Directors. The senior remuneration of senior executives; see note management team normally meets once a 100 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 senior management team From the left: Lennart Eberleh, Susanne Lithander, Per Bjurbom, Johan Nellbeck, Niklas Söderström, Karin Hågfeldt, Magnus Wikström and Per Lindberg. PER LINDBERG PER BJURBOM LENNART EBERLEH Karin Hågfeldt Position: President and CEO Position: Production Director Position: Business Area Director Position: Director of Human Resources Education: MSc, Chalmers University of TechEducation: MSc Mechanical Engineering, Packaging Boards Education: Executive MBA, Stockholm School nology PhD, Chalmers University of Technology Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm Education: MSc, Technische Universität Braunof Economics. Human resources and occupaYear employed: 2005 Year employed: 2007 schweig, Germany Executive MBA tional programme, Umeå University Year born: 1959 Year born: 1961 Year employed: 2001 Year employed: 2011 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Year born: 1969 Year born: 1970 Other assignments: Chairman of YKI Other assignments: – Nationality: German Nationality: Swedish Board member, VindIn AB and Middlepoint AB Background: Site mgr., Holmen Paper Hallsta; Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Background: CEO, Korsnäs AB; EVP, InvestSite mgr., Stora Enso Skoghall mill; Production Background: Product Area Mgr., ContainerBackground: HR Lead Global Supply Chain ment AB Kinnevik; Management and strategy Mgr., Stora Enso Skoghall mill; Production board, Billerud AB; Sales mgr., Containerboard, & Strategy, AstraZeneca. Head of Human consultant, Applied Value Corporation, US Mgr. PM53, Holmen Paper Braviken; Product Stora Enso Gruvön; Stora Support Team, Stora Resources Sweden Operations, AstraZeneca. Shareholdings*: 20 182 manager, Braviken Holmen Paper; Technical Kopparberg Bergslags AB; Product manager, Human Resources Manager, Ericsson mktg., telephone directory paper, Holmen Containerboard, Stora Gruvön Shareholdings*: 1 000 Paper; Operating engineer PM52, Holmen Shareholdings*: 4 000 Paper Braviken Shareholdings*: 6 000 Susanne Lithander JOHAN NELLBECK NIKLAS SÖDERSTRÖM MAGNUS WIKSTRÖM Position: CFO Position: Business Area Director, Packaging & Position: Business Area Director Position: Technical Director Education: MSc Business Administration, Speciality Paper Market Pulp Education: MSc Chemical Engineering University of Gothenburg School of Economics, Education: MSc Business administration, Education: Economics degree PhD Engineering, Senior Lecturer, Royal InstiBusiness and Law Uppsala University Executive MBA Year employed: 2001 tute of Technology Year employed: 2011 Year employed: 2006 Year born: 1950 Year employed: 2006 Year born: 1961 Year born: 1964 Nationality: Swedish Year born: 1963 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Other assignments: Chairman of the Board Nationality: Swedish Other assignments: Board member and Other assignments: Board member of CEPI of Bjurfors i Uppsala AB Other assignments: Board member, audit committee member of Acando. Eurokraft and PaperImpact Background: Market director, AssiDomän; Innventia AB Background: CEO, Mercuri International Background: Sales Mgr., Tele2 Stockholm; Market director, Rottneros; Sales mgr., Utansjö Background: R&D Director, Korsnäs AB; Group. EVP, Head of Product Area Advise, BU MD, AssiDomän Kraft Products Nordic Sales AB; Mill; Order/Logistics mgr., Värnamo Gummi Research Mgr., Korsnäs Development, Project Global Services, Ericsson AB. EVP Finance & Sales Mgr., AssiDomän Scandinavia Board member, ScandFibre Logistics Area Mgr., Swedish Pulp and Paper Research Operational Development, BU Global Services, Shareholdings*: 10 000 Shareholdings*: 7 423 Institute (STFI) Ericsson AB. EVP, Business Operations, Ericsson Shareholdings*: 3 000 Inc., TX, USA. EVP and general manager, Head of Business Unit Private Radio Systems, Ericsson Inc., VA, USA Shareholdings*: – * Own and related parties’ shareholdings at 1 March 2012. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t 101 board of directors Ingvar Petersson Michael M.F. Helena Andreas Stewe Cato Helén Gustafsson Mikael Hellberg Kaufmann Chairman of the Board Board member Employee representative, Employee representative, Board member Position: – Deputy Chairman Position: Head of Retail at Board member Board member Position: – Education: Business EconoPosition: CEO, Frapag Vodafone Group Position: Chair, Swedish Position: Production TechniEducation: BSc, Business mist. Studies at University Beteiligungsholding AG, Education: Master of BusiPaper Workers Union local cian, Process Development, Administration, University of Lund Vienna, Austria ness Administration, INSEAD, 96 Billerud Gruvön Billerud Skärblacka AB of Minnesota. Studies at Year elected: 2001 Education: MBA at France/Singapore. Master of Year elected: 2001 Year elected: 2010 the Stockholm School of Year born: 1941 universities in Stuttgart and Engineering Technical Physics, Year born: 1953 Year born: 1971 Economics Nationality: Swedish Erlangen-Nürnberg Lund University Faculty of Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Year elected: 2011 Other assignments: Chair, Year elected: 2005 Engineering LTH/Caltech. Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Year born: 1954 Econova AB and RAM One Year born: 1948 Economics degree, Lund Background: – Background: – Nationality: Swedish AB; Board member, Munksjö Nationality: Austrian University, Lund Shareholdings*: – Shareholdings*: 517 Other assignments: AB and other companies Other assignments: Board Year elected: 2011 Independent/Not indeIndependent/Not indeChairman of Delicato Background: Senior EVP, member, Hirsch Servo AG, Year born: 1975 pendent: Not independent pendent: Not independent Bakverk AB, NCS Colour AB, Stora Enso; First EVP, Stora Glanegg, Austria Nationality: Swedish of the Company (employee) of the Company (employee) Pelly Industrier AB, Berntson Group; CEO, Kopparfors AB Background: Formerly held Other assignments: Board Brands AB, Björnkläder AB, Shareholdings*: 16 000 various managerial positions member, Extenda AB Wallvision. Board member, Independent/Not indein Frantschach/Mondi, Background: Positions AB Annas Pepparkakor, pendent: Independent of Vienna, Austria in the retail and consumer Cederroth International AB, owners and of the Company Shareholdings*: 9 500 goods industry, including Color Processing Systems Independent/Not indethat of Head of Marketing and more pendent: Not independent Fresh Foods at Tesco UK. Background: CEO of Wasaof Billerud’s owners Management consultant bröd AB, Pripps Bryggerier/ Accenture Carlsberg Sverige AB and Shareholdings*: 5 000 Alcro-Beckers AB. Advisor Independent/Not indeto Ericsson's Business Unit pendent: Independent of Systems. Category Manager, owners and of the Company Procter & Gamble Norden. Shareholdings*: 10 000 Independent/Not independent: Independent of owners and of the Company Attendance at a total of Attendance at a total of Attendance at a total of Board members 12 Board meetings 7 audit committee meetings 2 compensation committee meetings Ingvar Petersson, Chairman 12 7 2 Michael M.F. Kaufmann, Deputy Chairman 11 – 1 (Elected after the 2011 AGM) Helena Andreas 9 (Appointed at the 2011 AGM) – – Stewe Cato 11 – – Helén Gustafsson 12 – – Mikael Hellberg 9 (Appointed at the 2011 AGM) 6 (Elected at the 2011 AGM) – * Own and related parties’ shareholdings at 1 March 2012. 102 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Gunilla Jönson Kurt Lindvall Ewald Nageler Fredrik Nordström Yngve Stade Board member Employee representative Board member Employee representative Board member Position: Professor, PackagPosition: Chair, Swedish Position: CFO, Frapag Position: Production ConPosition: – ing Logistics, Lund University Paper Workers Union local Beteiligungsholding AG, troller, Billerud Gruvön AB Education: MSc EngineerFaculty of Engineering LTH, 165 Billerud Karlsborg Vienna, Austria Year elected: 2011 ing and PhD (hc), Royal and Adjunct Professor, PackYear elected: 2001 Education: Economics Year born: 1972 Institute of Technology, aging Technology, Michigan Year born: 1951 degree, University of InnsNationality: Swedish Stockholm State University Nationality: Swedish bruck, Austria Other assignments: – Year elected: 2005 Education: MSc and PhD, Other assignments: – Year elected: 2006 Background: – Year born: 1947 Mech. Eng. and Transport Background: – Year born: 1950 Shareholdings*: 900 Nationality: Swedish Technology, Chalmers Shareholdings*: – Nationality: Austrian Independent/Not indeOther assignments: ChairUniversity of Technology, Independent/Not indeOther assignments: – pendent: Not independent man of RISE Holding AB; Gothenburg pendent: Not independent Background: CFO, Egger of the Company (employee) Member of the Royal SwedYear elected: 2003 of the Company (employee) Holzindustrie Beteiligungsish Academy of Engineering Year born: 1943 gesellschaft m b H, St Sciences and Mantex AB Nationality: Swedish Johann, Austria; 25 years’ Background: CEO, Stora Other assignments: Vice experience in banking; Enso AB, and member of chair, University Board of Member of the managing exec. mgmt., Stora Enso Oyj; Chalmers Board member, board of Creditanstalt AG, CEO, Kamyr AB; CEO, NLK SIK, Blekinge Institute of Vienna, Austria; Member of Celpap Engineering AB; VariTechnology, Invest in Skåne the boards of many financial ous production and technical AB and Invest Sweden. institutions and companies positions, Korsnäs AB and Member of the Royal Swedin Austria and elsewhere the Swedish Pulp and Paper ish Academy of Engineering Shareholdings*: 8 000 Research Institute (STFI); Sciences Independent/Not indeMember of the board of Background: Dean, pendent: Not independent MoDo Chemetics, Innventia Lund University Faculty of of Billerud’s owners AB, Swedish Forest Industries Engineering LTH; Various Federation and Chairman of directorships and other the board in several research positions in SCA Packaging, foundations associated in Sweden, Belgium and with forest industry issues; the UK; Research Director, Member of the board of Swedish Packaging Research Falu Rödfärgs AB/Stora Institute, Stockholm Kopparbergs Bergslags AB, Shareholdings*: 2 250 Mantex AB Independent/Not indeShareholdings*: 1 100 pendent: Independent of Independent/Not indeowners and of the Company pendent: Independent of owners and of the Company Attendance at a total of Attendance at a total of Attendance at a total of Board members 12 Board meetings 7 audit committee meetings 2 compensation committee meetings Gunilla Jönson 12 6 (Elected at the 2011 AGM) – Kurt Lindvall 12 7 – Ewald Nageler 9 – – Fredrik Nordström 8 (Appointed at the 2011 AGM) – – Yngve Stade 12 – 2 * Own and related parties’ shareholdings at 1 March 2012. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t 103 Internal controls and risk management for financial reporting in 2011 The report on internal control related to financial reporting for financial year 2011 was prepared and submitted by the Board in compliance with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the guidelines drawn up by FAR SRS and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and through the application of the instructions for 2007 issued by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board. The report describes how internal control related to financial reporting is organised. This year’s report is presented below.  In 2011, Billerud was commended for its financial communication. At IR Nordic Markets, an annual evaluation of the financial communication of listed Swedish companies, Billerud received the Best Mid Cap company award. Also, Billerud's INTERNAL CONTROL IR manager Sophie Arnius was named best IR manager in the Mid Cap category. Billerud has set the following goals for its internal control. opment of an effective control environment prepared in compliance with all laws, 1. Compliance with regulations with individual accountability throughout the applicable accounting standards and other Internal control shall ensure that Billerud organisation. requirements for listed companies. complies with applicable laws and regulations. PRIORITY AREAS IN 2011 Control environment Financial reporting Solid internal control is fundamental to the 2. Financial reporting During financial year 2011, work on the proper functioning of the Board. The rules of Internal control shall ensure that Billerud’s development of a common accounting model procedure for the Board and Board commitfinancial reporting is reliable and provides and account code structure for the Swedish tees as well as the instructions for the CEO managers, the Board and shareholders with units and a common accounting system has are intended to establish a clear division of information adequate for assessing the continued and reached completion. It has roles and responsibilities that will facilitate Company’s performance and development. enabled uniform routines and common the efficient management of risks identified in working methods in the Group, improving operations. The Board has also established a 3. Operational activities internal control considerably. series of fundamental policies significant to Internal control shall ensure that the internal control activities, such as accounting Company’s operational activities are effecOperational risks and reporting instructions, a finance policy tive, efficiently organised and performed in During the year, the Billerud Group has and financial goals, and has adopted a suitsuch a way that the risk of the business not worked with optimising a new logistics able organisation, including the Company’s achieving its financial and operational targets system, initiated a quality project at the mills senior management team. The senior manageis assessed and dealt with continually. To and launched a programme aimed at more ment team reports regularly to the Board achieve these goals, work is carried out in a efficient electrical energy. This enhances the based on predetermined procedures. The auprocess based on the framework for internal efficiency of routines and procedures, dit committee also reports to the Board. The control published by the Committee of the improving control of the Company's operasenior management team is responsible for Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway tional risks. ensuring that internal control is implemented Commission (COSO). The process includes a as necessary to manage significant risks in control environment that provides the disciEXTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING day-to-day activities. This includes guidelines pline and structure for the other four compoThe following report has been prepared in for how the individual employee shall undernents in the process – risk assessment, control accordance with the Swedish Code of stand his or her role in maintaining good activities, information & communication, and Corporate Governance and current instrucinternal control. monitoring – which are described in more tions to the Code and constitutes the Board’s detail below. It is governed at the overall level report on internal control for financial Risk assessment and control activities by the Board and audit committee and at an reporting. The purpose of internal control for The Company uses a model for assessing the operational level by the CEO, senior managefinancial reporting is to provide suitable saferisk of errors in financial reporting. It continment team and other staff. Special attention is guards as to the reliability of external ually monitors items where there is an paid in the process to ensuring that the applifinancial reports in the form of interim reports, aggravated risk of material error, and ensures cation of internal controls achieves a balance year-end reports and annual reports, and to that adequate control activities are in place. between the control activities and the develensure that external financial reports are For information regarding financial risk and 104 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Board • Accounting and reporting instructions adopts • Finance policy • Financial targets • CEO and Company management Risk assessment and Information and control activities communication TRANSPARENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Rules of procedure for the Board and its committees Instruction for the CEO Internal audit Monitoring important items subject to appraisal and communication ensure that the Company Internal audit assessment, please see the section Risk meets the strict requirements on accurate Considering the monitoring performed by the management and sensitivity analysis and note information for financial markets. accounting and controller organisation and 32 in the 2011 annual report. the organisation for internal control, the Monitoring Board has decided that a special internal Information and communication The audit committee prepares information audit or review function is not necessary at Key guidelines, manuals and the like that are that the senior management team and auditors present. significant to financial reporting are kept submit prior to the Board’s assessment. The up-to-date and communicated continually to audit committee’s tasks include ensuring, on the staff involved. Both formal and informal behalf of the Board, that actions are taken information channels carry important informa­ concerning the errors and proposed actions tion from staff to the senior management identified in the external audit. team and the Board. Guidelines for external AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT To the annual meeting of the shareholders in Billerud AB (publ), corporate identity number Stockholm, 14 March 2012 556025-5001. Ernst & Young AB The Board of Directors is responsible for the corporate governance report for the year 2011 on pages 98–105 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We have read the corporate governance report and based on that reading and our knowledge of the Company and the Group, we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinion. This Lars Träff means that our statutory examination of the corporate governance report is different and substanAuthorised Public Accountant tially smaller in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. In our opinion, the corporate governance report has been prepared and its statutory content is consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 C o r p o r at e g o v e r n a n c e r e p o r t 105 Five-year review Profit and loss accounts, summary SEKm 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales 9 343 8 828 7 760 7 792 7 758 Other income 18 85 32 15 12 Operating income 9 361 8 913 7 792 7 807 7 770 Operating expenses -7 769 -7 266 -6 931 -7 011 -6 707 Depreciation/Amortisation -614 -610 -561 -507 -473 Operating profit/loss 978 1 037 300 289 590 Net financial items -45 -77 -114 -165 -117 Profit/Loss before tax 933 960 186 124 473 Taxes -250 -255 -21 28 -137 Net profit/loss 683 705 165 152 336 Capital employed, summary 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Non-current assets excluding interest-bearing receivables 5 166 5 271 5 555 5 824 5 712 Inventories 1 135 1 070 1 065 1 091 936 Accounts receivable 1 391 1 412 1 152 1 294 1 486 Other current assets 372 447 491 270 350 Total operating assets 8 064 8 200 8 263 8 479 8 484 Less: Deferred tax liabilities 1 467 1 434 1 357 1 254 1 369 Non-interest-bearing provisions 36 27 27 37 42 Accounts payable 1 227 1 157 1 056 1 019 870 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 695 790 676 914 698 Capital employed 4 639 4 792 5 148 5 255 5 505 Statement of cash flows, summary SEKm 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating surplus 1 604 1 625 862 716 960 Change in working capital -113 -147 116 244 -102 Net financial income/expense -39 -73 -128 -141 -113 Tax paid -180 -12 4 -28 -15 Cash flow from operating activities 1 272 1 393 854 791 730 Cash flow from investing activities -591 -592 -292 -621 -656 Cash flow after investing activities 681 801 562 170 74 106 Five-year review BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Key financial ratios 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Margins Gross margin, % 17 19 11 10 14 Operating margin, % 10 12 4 4 8 Return (trailing 12 months) Return on capital employed, % 20 21 6 5 11 Return on total capital, % 11 12 3 3 7 Return on equity, % 14 17 5 5 12 Diluted return on equity, % 14 17 5 5 12 Capital structure at end of period Capital employed, SEKm 4 639 4 792 5 148 5 255 5 506 Shareholders' equity, SEKm 4 872 4 637 3 995 2 638 2 898 Interest-bearing net debt, SEKm -233 155 1 152 2 617 2 607 Capital turnover, multiple 2.0 1.8 1.4 1.4 1.5 Interest coverage, multiple 14.9 12.8 2.6 1.7 4.5 Net debt/equity ratio, multiple -0.05 0.03 0.29 0.99 0.90 Diluted net debt/equity ratio, multiple -0.05 0.03 0.29 0.99 0.90 Share of risk-bearing capital, % 68 66 59 41 46 Equity ratio, % 52 50 44 29 31 Diluted equity ratio, % 52 50 44 29 31 Self-financing ratio, multiple 2.5 2.5 3.3 1.6 1.3 Per share1 Earnings per share, SEK 6.63 6.84 2.04 2.07 4.56 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 6.61 6.83 2.03 2.07 4.55 Per share at end of period1 Shareholders' equity per share, SEK 47.24 44.97 38.80 35.79 39.32 Diluted shareholders’ equity per share, SEK 47.11 44.88 38.75 35.79 39.26 Dividend per share, SEK 3.50 3.50 0.50 – 2.45 Cash flow per share from operating activities, SEK 12.33 13.52 10.54 15.36 14.18 Operating cash flow per share, SEK 7.39 10.30 6.94 2.31 1.01 Investments Investments in non-current assets, SEKm 512 334 271 613 657 Acquisitions, SEKm – – 35 9 0 Human Resources Average number of employees 2 277 2 240 2 232 2 322 2 364 1 Historical figures recalculated taking into account the 2009 rights issue. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Five -year review 107 Quarterly data Billerud’s net sales and operating profit/loss by business area are presented below. The results of the business areas are reported excluding the effects of currency hedging and excluding the effect on profit/loss of the translation of trade receivables in foreign currency and currency effects in connection with payments. These effects are reported separately on the line Currency hedging, etc. The part of currency exposure relating to changes in invoicing rates is included in the business area's profit or loss. Quarterly net sales per business area and for the Group 2011 2010 SEKm Full year IV III II I Full year IV III II I Packaging & Speciality Paper 4 293 941 1 056 1 079 1 217 4 166 1 020 1 085 1 009 1 052 Packaging Boards 2 772 644 696 704 728 2 428 648 649 518 613 Market Pulp 1 752 416 465 435 436 1 731 450 452 445 384 Currency hedging, etc. 230 16 46 90 78 153 54 -17 52 64 Other and eliminations 296 69 64 75 88 350 107 82 84 77 Total 9 343 2 086 2 327 2 383 2 547 8 828 2 279 2 251 2 108 2 190 Quarterly operating profit/loss per business area and for the Group 2011 2010 SEKm Full year IV III II I Full year IV III II I Packaging & Speciality Paper 450 65 143 102 140 417 131 106 84 96 Packaging Boards 370 60 119 94 97 271 122 107 -14 56 Market Pulp 64 -24 30 20 38 276 53 92 100 31 Currency hedging, etc. 230 16 46 90 78 153 54 -17 52 64 Other and eliminations -136 -42 -42 -31 -21 -80 -34 -12 -21 -13 Total 978 75 296 275 332 1 037 326 276 201 234 Quarterly operating margin per business area and for the Group 2011 2010 % Full year IV III II I Full year IV III II I Packaging & Speciality Paper 10 7 14 9 12 10 13 10 8 9 Packaging Boards 13 9 17 13 13 11 19 16 -3 9 Market Pulp 4 -6 6 5 9 16 12 20 22 8 Group 10 4 13 12 13 12 14 12 10 11 Quarterly sales volumes per business area and for the Group 2011 2010 '000 tonnes Full year IV III II I Full year IV III II I Packaging & Speciality Paper 507 112 119 126 150 524 121 133 132 138 Packaging Boards 504 115 125 128 136 482 121 125 106 130 Market Pulp 343 88 91 81 83 301 81 74 71 75 Total 1 354 315 335 335 369 1 307 323 332 309 343 108 q u a r t e r ly d a t a BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Key figure definitions Margins Return Capital structure Per share data 1 Gross margin Return on capital Capital employed Diluted net Earnings per share Cash flow from operatOperating profit before employed Total assets less nondebt/equity ratio Profit/loss for the year, ing activities per share depreciation and Operating profit as a interest-bearing liabilities, Interest-bearing net debt attributable to parent Cash flow from operating amortisation (EBITDA) percentage of average non-interest-bearing divided by shareholders' company shareholders, activities divided by the as a percentage of net capital employed. provisions and interestequity plus the effect of divided by the average average number of shares sales. bearing assets. estimated participation in number of shares on the on the market during the Return on total capital the incentive programme. market. period. Operating margin Operating profit as a Shareholders’ equity Operating profit as a percentage of average total Shareholders’ equity at Share of risk-bearing Diluted earnings per Operating cash flow percentage of net sales. capital. the end of the period. capital share per share Shareholders’ equity plus Profit/loss for the year, Cash flow after investing Return on equity Diluted sharedeferred tax liability as a attributable to parent activities adjusted for Profit/loss for the year, holders' equity percentage of total assets. company shareholders, acquisition/divestment of attributable to parent Shareholders’ equity at divided by the average financial assets divided company shareholders, as the end of the period plus Equity ratio number of shares on the by the average number of a percentage of average the effect of estimated Shareholders’ equity as a market after estimated shares on the market during shareholders' equity, participation in the incentive percentage of total assets. participation in the the period. attributable to parent programme. incentive programme. company shareholders. Diluted equity ratio P/E ratio Interest-bearing Shareholders' equity plus Shareholders’ equity Share price at year-end Diluted return on equity net debt the effect of estimated per share divided by earnings per Profit/loss for the year, Interest-bearing provisions participation in the incentive Shareholders' equity at the share. attributable to parent and liabilities less interestprogramme, as a percentage end of the period, attributcompany shareholders, as bearing assets. of total assets plus the effect able to parent company EV/EBITDA a percentage of average of estimated participation in shareholders, divided by Market capitalisation plus shareholders' equity, Capital turnover rate the incentive programme. the number of shares on the interest-bearing net debt, attributable to parent Net sales divided by average market at the end of the divided by operating profit company shareholders, capital employed. Self-financing ratio period. before depreciation, amorplus the effect of estimated Cash flow from operating tisation and impairment participation in the Interest coverage ratio activities, excluding paid Shareholders’ equity losses (EBITDA = Earnings incentive programme. Operating profit plus and received financial items per share, diluted/full Before Interest, Tax, Depreciafinancial income divided by and paid tax, divided by conversion tion and Amortisation). financial expenses. investments in non-current Shareholders’ equity at the assets. end of the period, attribut1 F or number of shares, Net debt/equity ratio able to parent company see section Interest-bearing net debt shareholders, plus the effect The Billerud share . divided by shareholders’ of estimated participation equity. in the incentive programme, divided by the number of shares on the market at the end of the period plus the effect of estimated participation in the incentive programme. BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 k e y f i g u r e d e f i n i t i o ns 109 THE BILLERUD SHARE THE SHARE Ownership structure Dividend The Billerud share has been listed since At year-end 2011, the total number of shareThe goal is for the dividend to average 50% 20 November 2001 and traded on the Mid holders was 107 795, compared to 120 733 of net profit over a business cycle. The diviCap list of NASDAQ OMX Stockholm since at the previous year-end. The proportion of dend paid to shareholders will be dependent 2 October 2006. The share's ticker symbol foreign ownership increased, to 48.6% on, among other factors, Billerud’s profit is BILL. (44.0), excluding Billerud's own bought level, financial position and future developAt 31 December 2011, the share capital back shares (1 720 314). The largest groups ment opportunities. totalled SEK 774 173 065, divided among of shareholders registered outside Sweden The Board proposes a dividend of 104 834 613 shares. The number of shares are in Austria and the United States, repreSEK 3.50 per share (3.50) for financial year on the market totalled 103 114 299. Each senting 21.0% and 14.9% of the votes, 2011. The proposed dividend corresponds to share on the market entitles its holder to an respectively. Other groups of shareholders around 53% of net profit for 2011. equal right in the Company's earnings and are private individuals in Sweden, 34.5% capital. (38.5), and legal entities in Sweden, 16.9% (17.5). Share performance The Billerud share closed at SEK 58.50 on 30 December 2011, corresponding to a Distribution of shares at 31 December 2011 market capitalisation of SEK 6 133 million. Billerud's share price increased 0.4% during Registered number of shares 104 834 613 2011. During the same period, the NASDAQ Bought-back shares in Company ownership -1 720 314 OMX Stockholm forestry and paper products Shares on the market 103 114 299 index (Forestry & Paper_PI) decreased 19.5%, Number of shares on the market while the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm All Share Index (OMX Stockholm_PI) decreased 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 16.7%. Average 103 114 299 103 062 031 81 029 295 73 711 346 73 667 182 In 2011, the share recorded its highest Average after dilution 103 406 220 103 253 634 81 160 295 73 711 346 73 737 456 closing price, SEK 75.25, on 19 April, and Closing date 103 114 299 103 114 299 102 983 140 73 711 346 73 711 346 its lowest closing price, SEK 42.30, on Closing date after dilution 103 406 220 103 305 902 103 138 804 73 711 346 73 711 346 8 August. Trading volume 10 BIGGEST SHAREHOLDERS During 2011, 78 million Billerud shares were traded on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, Shareholders No. of shares, millions Share of votes, % worth SEK 4 606 million. The average Frapag Beteiligungsholding AG 21.6 21.0 DFA funds 2.9 2.8 number of shares traded each trading day Government of Norway 2.7 2.6 was about 310 000, corresponding to Swedbank Robur funds 2.6 2.5 SEK 18 million. On average, about 580 SHB funds 1.9 1.9 trades were made each trading day. SEB funds 1.9 1.8 AP4 (Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund) 1.5 1.5 Nordea funds 1.1 1.1 SHAREHOLDER CATEGORIES, VOTES Avanza Pension Försäkring AB 0.8 0.8 The Foundation for Baltic and East European Studies 0.8 0.8 Foreign shareholders, 48.6% Total top 10 shareholders 37.9 36.8 Swedish individuals incl. closely held companies, 34.5% Source: SIS Ägarservice, 30 December 2011 Swedish mutual funds, 8.8% Swedish institutions, 8.1% Source: SIS Ägarservice, 30 December 2011 Ownership structure 1 Shareholding No. of shares % No. of owners % GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF 1–100 2 399 773 2.3 37 624 34.9 SHAREHOLDERS, VOTES 101–500 13 434 648 12.8 60 280 55.9 501–10 000 16 037 866 15.3 9 458 8.8 10 001–50 000 5 801 740 5.5 286 0.3 Sweden, 51.4% 50 001– 67 160 586 64.1 147 0.1 Austria, 21.0% USA, 14.9% Total 104 834 613 100.0 107 795 100.0 Norway, 3.1% 1 Including Billerud's treasury shares. Source: SIS Ägarservice, 30 December 2011 UK, 2.9% Others, 6.7% Source: SIS Ägarservice, 30 December 2011 110 th e B i l l e r u d sh a r e BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Share performance 20 November 2001–30 December 2011 Share performance 2011 SEK SEK 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Billerud Billerud OMX Stockholm Forestry & Paper_PI OMX Stockholm Paper & Forest Products_PI OMX Stockholm_PI OMX Stockholm_PI Key figures per share SEK per share, unless stated otherwise 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Earnings 6.63 6.84 2.04 2.07 4.56 Diluted earnings 6.61 6.83 2.03 2.07 4.55 Dividend (for each financial year), actual 3.501 3.50 0.50 – 3.50 Dividend (for each financial year), adjusted for effect of rights issue 3.501 3.50 0.50 – 2.45 Dividend as pctg. of share price (dividend yield) 6.0 6.0 0.9 – 5.3 earnings 52.8 51.1 31.2 – 53.7 equity (closing balance) 7.4 7.8 1.3 – 6.2 Cash flow from operating activities 12.33 13.52 10.54 15.36 14.18 Operating cash flow 7.39 10.30 6.94 2.31 1.01 Shareholders’ equity 47.24 44.97 38.80 35.79 39.32 Diluted shareholders' equity 47.11 44.88 38.75 35.79 39.26 Share price/closing equity, % 124 130 137 41 118 P/E ratio 8.8 8.5 26.1 7.2 10.2 EV/EBITDA 3.7 3.7 7.7 4.7 5.7 Share price 2 Closing price, last trading day 58.50 58.25 53.25 15.00 47.04 Highest closing price for year 75.25 64.00 53.75 52.00 86.66 Lowest closing price for year 42.30 40.90 9.51 14.79 45.28 Share turnover 0.76 1.10 1.25 0.78 1.15 1 Board's proposal 2 All prices historically adjusted for effect of the rights issue in 2009 Analysts covering Billerud Company Analyst Phone Company Analyst Phone Carnegie Johan Sjöberg +46 8 676 87 55 Nordea Harri Taittonen +358 9 16 55 99 24 Carnegie Alexander Vilval +46 8 676 87 23 SEB Enskilda Linus Larsson +46 8 52 22 97 01 Cheuvreux Mikael Jåfs +46 8 723 51 71 SEB Enskilda Johan Edvardsson +46 8 52 22 97 63 Danske Bank Oskar Lindström +46 8 56 88 06 12 Swedbank Markets Ola Södermark +46 8 58 59 23 74 Handelsbanken Capital Markets Karri Rinta +46 8 701 36 36 UBS* Myles Allsop +44 207 568 16 93 * No regular coverage BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 th e B i l l e r u d sh a r e 111 Glossary Biofuels Corrugated board Fluting MG Paper Pulpwood Sulphur dioxide (SO2) Renewable fuels originating Corrugated board is manuThe rippled middle layer in (mono glazed paper) In Sweden this is primarily A gas consisting of sulphur from the plant kingdom, for factured by gluing two flat corrugated board. Produced Paper which is dried on softwood (spruce and pine) and oxygen formed during example from wood, includlayers of paper (liner) with a from primary or recycled a highly polished Yankee and birch used to make combustion of sulphuring black liquor and bark. rippled layer (fluting) in the fibre. cylinder, giving it a smooth, paper pulp. containing fuels such as middle. glossy surface on one side. black liquor and oil. In Black liquor Forest with root Used for packaging with Recycled fibre contact with damp air, The name given to the Cubic metre standing Trees are sold still standing stringent demands on purity, Fibre material that has previsulphur dioxide is converted consumed cooking liquid in volume (m3sv) on their roots in the forest, for example. ously been used in a paper into sulphuric acid which production of sulphate pulp. Trunk volume in cubic metres and the buyer pays for felling or board product. causes acid precipitation. Black liquor is burnt in the from stump to tip including and transportation of wood Micro corrugated board soda recovery boiler at which bark. out of the forest. Very thin corrugated board. Sack paper Suspended solids time the wood substances Paper with high strength Suspended substances in released (primarily lignin) Cup Stock Fossil fuels Nitrogen (N) properties and used for the water consisting of fibres provide energy for steam and Board specially designed for Fuels based on organic A chemical element naturally production of sacks. Made and other particles which electricity production. One drink cups. carbon and hydrogen present in wood. Too much from softwood sulphate pulp. can largely be removed by requirement for both the compounds deposited in nitrogen in water can filtration. environment and economy is Energy management sediments or rock deposits, cause nutrient enrichment Shelf Ready Packaging/ that the chemicals consumed system mainly coal, oil and fossil gas. (eutrophication), leading to Retail Ready Packaging Sustainable development in black liquid are reproStandard that provides guidoxygen deficiency when dead Attractive packaging ready Basing decision-making duced in the sulphate mill as ance for how an organisation Heavy-duty plants decompose. for the shelf and contributing on three united factors – new cooking chemicals. can document energy use in Highly durable packaging to increased promotional economic growth, social a structured way and record based on several layers of Nitrogen oxides (NOx) effectiveness. viability and environmental Carbon footprint implementation of energypaper. Used for heavy goods A group of gases composed awareness – so that society The amount of greenhouse saving measures. such as car components. of nitrogen and oxygen Solid cubic metres under can meet current demands gases a product releases or which are formed during bark (m3sub) without compromising its sequesters during its lifetime Environmental ISO 14001 combustion. In damp air, Volume of solid wood under future. determines its carbon Management System The standard of the Internitrogen oxides are conbark in cubic metres. footprint. Part of the main managenational Organisation for verted to nitric acid, which Tissue ment system that describes Standardisation (ISO) for an causes acid precipitation. Sulphate pulp Soft paper such as toilet Chemical oxygen the structure, principles, environmental management Also acts as a fertilising Chemical pulp produced paper, paper towels, tissues demand (COD) procedures and resources for system. agent. by cooking wood under and napkins. COD is a measure of the systematic implementation of high pressure and at a high amount of oxygen required the Company’s environmenMarket pulp Phosphorous (P) temperature in cooking to break down organic tal policy. Pulp which is sold to paper A chemical element naturally liquor, known as white liquor material in water. mills that do not produce present in wood. Too much (sodium hydroxide and FibreForm® their own pulp. phosphorous in waste sodium sulphide). Sulphate Climate change Paper with high elasticity, water can cause nutrient pulp is also known as kraft Also called the greenhouse which can be shaped to MF Paper enrichment (eutrophication) pulp. effect. Human activity is produce thermoformed (machine finished) in lakes, leading to oxygen contributing to global and deep-drawn food and A calendered paper with deficiency when dead plants warming, which is raising consumer packaging such as high printability combined decompose. temperatures, causing unextrays, blisterpacks, etc. with high strength. Used for pected weather patterns and packaging with a special causing polar ice to melt. need for this combination. Billerud’s Annual Report 2011 was produced in co-operation with Livbojen and Creation. Photography: Billerud image bank, Johan Olsson, Paulina Westerlind. Illustration: Graphics. Printing: Ineko. 112 g l o ss a r y BILLERUD ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Billerud AB Visiting address: Frösundaleden 2b, Solna • Postal address: Box 703, SE-169 27 Solna, Sweden • Tel: +46 8 553 335 00
