Top left: Čertovo břemeno golf club, Jistebnice, Czech Republic. Top right: Brent Civic Centre, London, U.K. Below: Lustgården office building, Stockholm, Sweden. Sustainable development Skanska is a leading green construction and project development company. Many of the projects and initiatives that Skanska completed during 2011 are the best in their class or the first of their kind. Through innovation and knowledge, we are taking our sustainability efforts beyond the requirements of conventional construction codes and voluntary certification systems. Skanska builds physical infrastructure that societies need in order to develop. We continuously deepen our understanding of how to contribute to a more sustainable society. Our aim is to ensure that what we build will also generate value and quality of life in a long-term perspective. 2011 Skanska has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for more than a decade. We upload our annual Communication on Progress to the UNGC website. Skanska Annual Report 2011 Sustainable development 73 Skanska’s Journey to Deep Green™ accelerates Skanska’s Journey to Deep Green™ represents a new approach to construction and development, with the potential to create a more sustainable future. Skanska’s Green Strategic Indicators (GSIs) were developed to support the Company’s business plan and drive forward its ambition to be a leading green project developer and contractor. Green Strategic Indicators (GSIs) for  Skanska’s Green Strategic Indicators (GSIs) focus on three priority Our Projects areas: Our Image: Strengthening and protecting our brand, in order GSIs for our projects are broken down into four high priority areas: to be perceived by all stakeholders as a leader in green project development and construction. Energy Our People: Includes indicators related to green leadership and how Carbon green competency among employees and top managers is improving at Skanska. Materials Our Projects: Encompasses technical aspects, influenced by Water urbanization and population growth that relate to energy, carbon, Green targets are connected to GSIs for Our Projects. materials and water. Skanska has always been in the forefront in terms of sive techniques wherever possible. In Sweden, it is thinking green and delivering projects that challenge estimated that more than ten percent of new homes conventional standards and traditional views of what completed in 2011 were passive housing. About half of is possible. The Journey to Deep Green™ and the related these were built by Skanska. Passive housing is also gainSkanska Color Palette™ were launched in 2009 to provide ing ground as a standard for renovation of residential a framework that sets the standard for future building buildings and for new construction of other types of and infrastructure projects. Skanska’s conviction is that buildings, such as office buildings and schools. it is no longer enough merely to deliver projects that fulfill existing construction codes and voluntary certificaA holistic way of thinking tion requirements. Today we have all the knowledge, the Skanska supports the development of meaningful materials and technologies needed to make Deep Green voluntary certification standards, but most of these are construction possible. During the past year, Skanska has still point-based measurements of a project’s environbegun or completed a number of projects which show mental characteristics at the design stage. A different that its Journey to Deep Green™ is accelerating. way of thinking now gradually gaining broader support Skanska’s program for Deep Green construction takes represents a more holistic approach to the construction our business substantially further than the more estaband use of a building and weighs in many important lished frameworks that today generally serve as best aspects of sustainability. Skanska’s Journey to Deep practice benchmarks. Green™ is a way to convert this to reality, as it is based on the idea that already existing technologies and materials Energy can make Deep Green construction possible today. An Breakthrough for passive housing on the way example of such a performance-based holistic approach Conserving energy is one of society’s great challenges. is the U.S. Green Building Council’s Living Building Reducing energy consumption generally and transitionChallenge (LBC) from the Pacific Northwest. Skanska ing to more sustainable energy sources for space heating, is a supporter of the LBC and recently completed the cooling and electricity are priorities for everyone, since Bertschi School project in Seattle, an early example of the largest consumers of energy are the buildings we live this in practice. Several other Skanska projects in the and work in. region are also slated to follow a similar approach. Passive housing standards for energy efficiency are rapidly becoming a measure of good residential construction. Skanska encourages its customers to use pas74 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2011 Skanska Color Palette™ The Skanska Color Palette™ is a strategic communication tool for green projects. It is used to measure and illustrate progress Deep Green targets for our projects during the Journey to Deep Green™. Vanilla – The construction process or product is Zero net use of primary energy in compliance with laws, regulations, codes and standards. Near zero carbon in construction Green – The construction process and product Zero unsustainable materials performance goes beyond compliance with laws, Zero hazardous materials regulations, codes and standards, but cannot yet be Zero waste to landfill considered to have near zero environmental impact. Green can be characterized by voluntary classification Zero net water use for buildings systems such as EU GreenBuilding, LEED, BREEAM Zero potable water use during infrastructure construction and CEEQUAL. Deep Green – The construction process or product is future-proof. Deep Green is the ultimate destination for the projects that Skanska carries out on behalf of forward-looking, visionary customers. Homes in need of renovation become passive housing in Brogården E stimated average energy consumption has decreased from 216 kWh per square meter (10.76 sq. ft.) to 92 kWh, including space heating, water and household electricity. D uring the 1960s and 70s, about 400,000 homes in Sweden were built in a way similar to the apartments in Brogården. They need renovation and are characterized by poor energy efficiency. In Sweden’s “million home program” there is good potential for saving energy by using passive housing solutions when renovating these homes. Similar potential exists in other countries. Renovating older buildings to the highest standard of energy efficiency is associated with many challenges. Using passive housing solutions , Skanska is renovating 16 threestory buildings in Brogården, Alingsås. The buildings were originally part of Sweden’s “million home program”, when a million homes – mainly apartments – were constructed during a ten-year period in the 60s and 70s in response to a chronic housing shortage. The 299 apartments in Brogården were run-down and in need of extensive renovation. Better insulation, efficient ventilation systems for heat recovery and district heating for the small amount of additional space heating needed will ensure these refurbished homes a new life. The Brogården renovation project has attracted a lot of attention. King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden and Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt have both visited the project, which has also received extensive media coverage. In addition, Brogården has been backed with funding by the European Union, since the concepts used there have the potential for large-scale uptake in support of the EU Building Energy Efficiency for Massive Market Uptake (BEEM UP) initiative. Skanska Annual Report 2011 Sustainable development 75 Telemark Rehabilitation Center The Telemark Rehabilitation Center, currently being constructed by Skanska Norway, has been designed for a 50 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from materials, energy use and transportation. A number of green solutions have been included, among them recycling of plaster and concrete with low carbon dioxide content. It will also be the first building in Norway Initiatives in the carbon field constructed using hollow slabs with low carbon dioxide impact. The center will also be equipped with a pool of electric cars. T  hanks to its ability to document the company’s early steps to improve energy efficiency and reduce emissions, Skanska UK ranked highest of all construction companies in the first Performance League Table published by the U.K. government’s Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) Energy Efficiency Scheme. This ranking was reinforced by Skanska UK’s certification by the Carbon Emissions Measurement and Reduction Scheme (CEMARS), the first internationally accredited greenhouse gas certification system to meet the ISO 14065 standard.  hrough its support for the UN Environment Program’s Sustainable Buildings T and Climate Initiative, Skanska has helped develop the Common Carbon Metrics Protocol, a tool that measures energy efficiency improvement with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I n collaboration with the European Network of Construction Companies for Research and Development (ENCORD), Skanska has developed the Construction CO2e Measurement Protocol. This protocol is based on the internationally recognized Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, which are now being supported by international stakeholders. The next step is initiatives aimed at the supply chain. Skanska was one of three companies invited to contribute to the “Infrastructure and Construction” chapter in the Low Carbon Compendium, a report published by The Prince of Wales’s EU Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change (CLG). The report shows how some of the world’s largest companies are contributing in a profitable way to a low climate risk economy. Carbon footprinting Sustainable materials and responsible procurement Energy efficiency and reduction of carbon emissions are Skanska has a key role to play in developing and promoting important elements of Skanska’s sustainability work. improvements in sustainable procurement and responsiBoth initiatives are interrelated, since energy efficiency ble sourcing . Most revenue in each project is distributed concentrates on the service life of a building and its through the value chain, which means that Skanska emissions while reduction of carbon emissions concencan use its influence to encourage positive behavior by trates on energy use and emissions during the construction suppliers and subcontractors. During 2011 Skanska process. Near zero carbon emissions is one of Skanska’s UK adopted the new BS 8903 sustainable construction focus areas. One confirmation of the seriousness of framework as part of its procurement process. Skanska this commitment is that for the second year in a row, UK was also the first construction company that had all ­Skanska was the only construction company included branches of its operations evaluated and certified by the in the Nordic Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, part Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS). of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). At Skanska UK, improved sourcing procedures have Effective carbon management depends on careful not only led to new projects, but in the past two years measurements and reporting. Skanska reports its have also saved an estimated GBP 11 M and reduced carbon emissions according to the internationally recnon-compliance costs by 35 percent. In November ognized Greenhouse Gas Protocol to various external 2011 Skanska UK’s success in sustainable sourcing was stakeholder categories. In 2011 our Scope 1 Absolute recognized by a CIPS award for “best contribution to emissions were 432,000 metric tons and Scope 2 Absocorporate responsibility”. lute emissions were 76,100. We continue to develop our approach to Scope 3 emissions in line with emerging ISO 14001 external audits international reporting guidelines. During the year, routine audits by external ISO 14001 Carbon footprinting of office properties is moving experts identified a number of procedural weaknesses ahead in the Nordic countries, Central Europe, the in the Environmental Management Systems of two United Kingdom and the United States where over forty Business units. Local management took immediate were completed during the year. Skanska continues to corrective actions to the satisfaction of the external build up further expertise in footprinting and reduction auditors. The procedural weaknesses led to no environof carbon emissions. mental harm. 76 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2011 Powerhouse One to be energy-positive In Norway, Skanska is part of the Powerhouse alliance, which will build the country’s first and the world’s most northerly energy-positive office building in Trondheim. The Powerhouse alliance was established in April 2011. Aside from Skanska it includes the property company Entra Eiendom, architects Snøhetta, the environmental foundation ZERO and the aluminum company Hydro. The ambition is that Powerhouse One, expected to be completed in 2013, will be one of several energy-positive projects construction under the auspices of the alliance. Totala mängden avfall som återvunnits 2008–2011 Procentuell mängd avfall som gått till återvinning istället för deponi. Mål för 2011 var att nå 90%. % 100 90 80 70 Innovative Lustgården 60 One ongoing project in Sweden, the Lustgården office property in Stockholm, 50 is an example of how Skanska’s engineers add innovation to a project. Low energy consumption and a highly efficient heating and cooling system have been 40 developed by Skanska, including the use of two tried and tested techniques: drill30 ing deep bore holes and using a water-based geothermal cooling system. The 20 project will be completed in 2013. 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Waste Total average amount of waste diverted from landfill 2008–2011 Most of it can be recycled Percentage of waste diverted from landfill 2008-2011. In Norway, Skanska is working with the country’s largest Target for 2011 was to reach 90%. waste management contractor to ensure that all project % waste is collected and either recycled or used for energy 100 production in district heating plants. 90 The Hangar 3 project in the Bromma Blocks retail center 80 70 in Stockholm, Sweden involved the redevelopment of a 1940s airport hangar into a modern, energy-efficient 60 shopping mall. Only 3 percent of waste material was sent 50 to landfill, while more than 17,000 cubic meters of stone 40 and construction waste were reused in the project. 30 S imilar recycling of materials was achieved in Skanska US 20 Civil’s Second Avenue Subway tunneling and infrastructure 10 project in Manhattan, New York City. Material that would 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 otherwise have gone to landfill is used for a new golf course being built by the city in Ferry Point Park, The Bronx. Water T  he construction of the Bertschi School in the U.S. involved Efficient use extensive recycling of materials. In all, 98 percent of the Skanska is aware of the major contribution the construction construction waste generated during the project was industry can make to reduce water consumption, which recycled. is of especially great importance in regions with water R  ecycling was even higher in the Surrey Street Lighting shortages. In general, Skanska’s ambition is to maximize Project in the U.K. – 100 percent to be exact, including efficiency by minimizing the use of potable water in conremoved lamps. struction and during operation of the structure and then recycle to the extent this is technically possible. One of Skanska’s key indicators on the Journey to Deep Green™ is its ambition to achieve zero net water use for buildings during their service life and zero potable water use during civil and infrastructure construction. Skanska Annual Report 2011 Sustainable development 77 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Skanska decided at an early stage 0 to2005make 2006health 2007 and 2008safety2009 at 2010 2011 sites the most its work important task. Today its ambition is to achieve a 75 percent reduction in the number of accidents by 2015. Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) 2005–2011 (Number of lost time accidents times 1,000,000 hours) divided by (total labor hours).  rograms for a safe and healthy P 8 work site 7 6 Skanska Safety Road Map 5 Global Safety Stand Down 4 Executive Site Safety Visits 3 Skanska has recorded its lost 2 Global Safety Leadership Team time accident rate (LTAR) on a 1 global basis since 2005, which serves as the base year for these 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 statistics. Work site health and safety Despite all these efforts and improvements, eight workAiming at world-class standards related fatalities occurred in Skanska’s projects during To achieve its target of zero work site accidents, Skanska 2011: four subcontractor employees and four Skanska realized that the Company had to inspire and act in employees. This is obviously unacceptable, and Skanska ways previously not considered possible. is taking the steps needed to eliminate these tragic During the past five years, the Company has made accidents. good progress in training, management and organization of its work site health and safety efforts. Skanska has a safety program to create a healthy, safe working environment for employees, subcontractors and visitors. This program includes a Global Safety Stand Down, which is held after a fatal accident, Executive Site Safety Visits and the further development of Skanska’s Global and National Safety Leadership Teams. These have been formed with cross-functional experts to drive the progress of Skanska’s safety strategy. Much remains to be done in order to achieve the zero accidents target. The Skanska Safety Road Map was introduced in November 2011 and will help speed up progress by focusing on five key issues in achieving world-class safety: culture, competency, communications, controls and contractors. Skanska uses its knowledge and experience from different parts of its business to encourage better working standards in all operations. As an example of its commitment to raising safety standards throughout the construction industry, Skanska has been proactive in launching a program in Poland. Safety Road Map Together with six of its competitors, Skanska is providUsing a number of performance criteria in five focus areas, every business unit has its own benchmarks. Practical advice, guidance and examples of good practices are built ing examples of best practices and working toward cominto the process, enabling each business unit to progress towards the world-class tarmon safety standards throughout the industry. Similar get. National Safety Leadership Teams help implement the Skanska Safety Road Map. cooperation is taking place at Skanska’s business units From the left: Thomas Karlsson, Hichem Boughanmi and Anneli Lindbergh during in the U.K., Sweden and Finland. construction of Bromma Blocks, ­Stockholm. 78 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2011 Skanska receives five safety awards Skanska won as many as five of the seven Swedish Transport Administration safety awards in 2011. These awards are related to highway and railroad projects and are intended to encourage systematic safety programs to reduce work site accidents. Skanska’s award-winning projects are: The Abisko Södra railyard extension.  pgrading and capacity expansion of the ­ U Ställdalen–Hällefors railroad. The eastern bypass highway in Katrineholm. Norra Länken (Northern Link) highway contract NL 52, Martin Hellgren, project manager, NL 52 (Swedish Transport Administration); Björn Terstad, project Värtan Interchange. executive, Norra Länken (Swedish Transport Administration); Mårten Leimar, KMA NL52 (Skanska); The Hallandsås rail tunnel project. Mats Alexandersson, project executive, NL52 (Skanska); Markus Lindén, production manager of NL52. Ethics employees shall work regardless of where they are in the Good business ethics more important than ever world. During 2011 Skanska’s internal ethical guidelines Skanska is proud of its leading position in business were made available to the general public. This encourethics. The Company has been a signatory of the United aged a dialogue with national and regional authorities as Nations Global Compact for more than a decade, helped well as other multinational companies that have sought establish the World Economic Forum’s Partnering contact with Skanska for more information on effective Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) and is among implementation of ethics policies. the founders of the Swedish branch of Transparency Transparency in the business world is now more International. During 2008 Skanska revised its Code of important than ever. Although legislation such as the Conduct, which defines the principles for how Skanska U.K.’s Bribery Act helps set the agenda, responsible companies like Skanska must also help pursue further discussion. In 2011, Skanska contributed a speaker to PACI’s biannual meeting in Rio de Janeiro and also provided the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs with guidance on e-learning programs about ethics. Skanska also supports the Construction Sector Transparency Initiative (CoST), a global initiative to increase transparency and accountability in the construction industry. Skanska Annual Report 2011 Sustainable development 79 100 Skanska takes the lead 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 S kanska Czech Republic is the first organization in that Eco Design professionals country to be certified according to the BS EN 16001 energy Number of LEED, BREEAM, CEEQUAL and other eco-design professionals. management standard. 600 T  he City Green Court development project in Prague is the 500 first office building in the Czech Republic to be pre-certified according to the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum standard. 400 Poland’s first LEED certified school is being constructed by 300 Skanska in Konstancin-Jeziorna for the American School of Warsaw. 200 S kanska’s new office in Gothenburg, Sweden was the first commercial property in the country to be pre-certified 100 according to LEED Platinum. Skanska’s new office in Malmö, Sweden was the first LEED Platinum certified office 0 renovation in Europe. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 T  he first LEED Platinum certified property constructed on behalf of a customer in Sweden was completed in Kalmar for the insurance company Länsförsäkringar. London’s Sunday Times named T  he Belmarsh West Prison project in the U.K. was awarded the first-ever planning stage BREEAM ­Outstanding rating. Skanska UK the Best Green When fully certified, it will be the first BREEAM Outstanding Company in the United Kingdom. correctional facility. F our new buildings being constructed by Skanska in Lerum, Sweden will produce more energy than they consume. These “plus-energy” buildings will deliver surplus heat into the district heating network. S kanska is the only construction company included in the Forest Footprint Disclosure Report. The report is endorsed by more than 70 international financial institutions and some of the world’s largest non-governmental nature conservancy organizations. S kanska UK was the first construction company that had all branches of its operations evaluated and certified by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS), according to the BS 8903 principles and framework for sustainable procurement. F or the second year, Skanska has been included in the CDP’s Nordic Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. This index ranks those companies that have shown the greatest professionalism in their management and disclosures related to climate issues. Skanska tops the list among construction companies and is the only construction company among the The newly installed street lighting network in Surrey, U.K. is energy-efficient 25 highest-scoring enterprises. thanks to a central control system. 80 Sustainable development Skanska Annual Report 2011
