Editorial Policy The is published to inform of the report overall. Third-party veriﬁcation of environstakeholders about Casioʼs corporate social responsibilmental performance data has also been obtained to ity (CSR) initiatives aimed at building a more sustainable ensure reliability. world. The report is intended to enhance communicaThe Casio website includes a section on sustainability tion with stakeholders in order to help Casio further with the latest topics and discloses detailed information improve its CSR performance. and data. Stakeholders are invited to review that inforAn independent opinion from an outside expert has mation together with this report. been obtained and included as an objective assessment Positioning of this report and the website High [Importance for society] L Third party opinions concerning the 2010 report Importance for society Casio Sustainability Report 2011 L Reader opinions and requests concerning the 2010 report (PDF) L Items from questionnaires such as socially responsible investment (SRI) surveys L Items listed in the guidelines below [Importance for Casio] Casio sustainability on the web Matters Casio regards as important based on its http://world.casio.com/csr/ corporate creed, the Charter of Creativity for Casio, the Casio Common Commitment, and the Casio Group Code of Conduct Importance for Casio High This report is focused on items of especially high importance and has been edited for readability. The latest topics as well as more detailed information and data are comprehensively disclosed on the website. Scope of the report ● Boundary solidated subsidiary) was merged with NEC Casio Some information in this report applies only to the parMobile Communications, Ltd., in June 2010, with the ent company, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., while other manew company becoming an affiliated company acterial refers to the entire Casio Group. Further clariﬁcacounted for using the equity method. tion is provided in each case, as needed. ● With the business integration of the TFT liquid crystal The name “Casio” in this report indicates the Casio display (LCD) business with Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., Group, while “Casio Computer Co., Ltd.,” refers speciﬁOrtus Technology Co., Ltd. (a consolidated subsidiary), cally to the parent company. which took over Casioʼs TFT LCD business, became an The scope of the environmental accounting and imaffiliated company accounted for using the equity pact data in this report includes 10 sites of Casio Commethod and Kochi Casio Co., Ltd. (a consolidated subputer, Co., Ltd., in Japan, 14 group companies in Japan, sidiary) ceased to be an aﬃliated company. and 23 group companies outside Japan. ● Issued ● Important changes during the period covered December 2011 (Previous publication: October 2010, ● With the business integration of the cellular phone next publication planned: October 2012) business with NEC Corporation and Hitachi, Ltd., Casio Hitachi Mobile Communications Co., Ltd. (a con1 Guidelines used as a reference CONTENTS ● GRI（Global Reporting Initiative） of the Global ■ Editorial Policy/Scope of the report .............................................. 1 Reporting Initiative (GRI) ■ CONTENTS .......................................................................................................................... 2 ● (2007 Edition) issued by Japanʼs Ministry of the Environment ■ Message from the President...................................................................... 3 ● issued by ■ Casio’s Corporate Creed and Approach to CSR ......... 5 Japanʼs Ministry of the Environment ● ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility ■ Special Feature ............................................................................................................... 7 (GRI Guidelines and ISO 26000 content indices are Casio Thailand’s Global Management Rooted in Local Community posted on the website.) ■ Casio’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake ...... 9 ■ Responsibilities to Stakeholders ...................................................... 10 Inquiries Customers Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Suppliers http://world.casio.com/ Shareholders and Investors For inquiries on CSR in general: CSR Promotion Office Employees Address: 1-6-2 Honmachi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 151-8543 Local Communities Tel.: +81-3-5334-4901 Fax: +81-3-5334-4547 E-mail: csr-report@casio.co.jp ■ Environmental Initiatives.............................................................................. 30 For inquiries on environmental issues: Environment Center Environmental Vision Address: 3-2-1 Sakae-cho, Hamura-shi, Tokyo 205-8555 Environmental Action Plan Tel.: +81-42-579-7256 Fax: +81-42-579-7718 Environmental Communication E-mail: eco-report@casio.co.jp External Evaluation Environment Data ■ Philosophy and Management ............................................................... 48 CSR Implementation System Corporate Governance Compliance and Risk Management Forecasts and forward-looking statements Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance The future forecasts and forward-looking statements ■ Independent Verification ............................................................................. 55 published in this report for Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and the Casio Group are based on information avail■ Independent Opinion........................................................................................ 56 able at the time of publication. These forecasts and statements include potential risk and uncertainty, and ■ About Casio Computer Co., Ltd./History of Casio....... 59 the reader should be aware that the actual results of business activities may diﬀer from these predictions. 2 Message from the President We are always aiming to provide new value and be a company essential to society. Providing new value to the world Casio was founded with the invention of the worldʼs ﬁrst compact, fully electric calculator in 1957. At that time, Japanese businesses mainly used foreign-made, electric-powered mechanical calculators. Casioʼs breakthrough calculator however, was smaller and quieter while oﬀering more rapid calculation. Since it provided much better performance in many areas, it immediately penetrated the calculator market. Developing a completely novel product that has never existed before̶like that calculator̶is exactly how we provide new value to the world. Over the more than 50 years that followed, Casio has developed more worldﬁ rsts and a whole range of other original products, including personal calculators, digital watches, electronic musical instruments, electronic dictionaries, and digital cameras. We have consistently kept providing new value to the world. As we help to make peopleʼs lives more convenient and comfortable, and the world recognizes the value of what we do, whole new markets and cultural developments emerge. This is how we are realizing our corporate creed, “Creativity and Contribution.” It is simply in Great East Japan Earthquake Casioʼs “DNA” to make something from nothing̶to go The recent Great East Japan Earthquake has inﬂicted from “0” to “1”. unimaginable damage. Many people suﬀered enormous destruction, including Casio customers and suppliers. Along with our heartfelt condolences to these victims, I Building a more sustainable world would like to express our hopes for a speedy recovery. I Casio began focusing on environmental issues early on, would also like to take this opportunity to express and we have been working to reduce the environmental gratitude for all the heartfelt support that the people of impact of our products. We strive to oﬀer products with Japan have received from around the world. high performance that are consistently compact, lightSome Casio sites were also aﬀected by the disaster, weight, slim, and energy eﬃcient. but through the cooperation of all employees, we were Going beyond product development, our environmenable to rapidly restore business operations. Although tal initiatives include action plans for the management of there has been some impact on the business, we are business sites with, for instance, medium and long-term taking various measures to minimize it. greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and activiCasio will continue to help with reconstruction by proties for the protection of biodiversity. viding various forms of support, always based on the needs of people in the disaster-struck region and creative ideas about how to provide assistance. 3 By exchanging opinions with stakeholders, Casio is also working to help solve social problems in various ﬁelds relating to our business management. Participating in the Global Compact In the area of school education in particular, we conCasio products are produced with the cooperation of tinue to hold meetings with teachers in Japan and not just our group companies, but many component around the world. We strive to research their teaching makers and consignment manufacturers around the methods, and use their feedback for product world. As a company with global operations, Casio redevelopment. spects international standards relating to human rights, In our product development, Casio continues to work labor, environment and anti-corruption. By fulﬁlling our on making daily life more convenient for people worldcorporate social responsibilities, Casio is promoting the wide. This includes market-specific development of ongoing development of the international community. products such as a calculator with Indian digit As part of these eﬀorts, Casio joined the UN Global grouping. Compact in December 2010. Meanwhile, in order to ensure that future generations In the near future, the principles of the Global Compact will inherit an even better world, Casio is continuing to will be incorporated explicitly into various aspects of our fund pioneering and creative research by young recorporate management, and we will disclose progress searchers through the Casio Science Promotion Founupdates at the appropriate times. dation. In addition to the target areas of electronics and This report highlights the main initiatives taken by mechanical engineering, the funded ﬁelds include natuCasio in ﬁscal 2011. I encourage all of our stakeholders ral sciences relating to health and energy conservation, to review the information provided here. I look forward as well as the cultural sciences. In this way, Casio is conto your feedback, which will be used to improve our futributing broadly to the future of science and ture initiatives. Your continuing support is greatly technology. appreciated. Casio is also continuing to educate the next generation based on unique programs oﬀered for children who will be the opinion leaders and citizens of tomorrow. To build a more sustainable world, Casio is striving to realize its corporate creed, “Creativity and Contribution.” While continuing to provide the world with new value, we Kazuo Kashio are helping to solve relevant environmental and social President & CEO issues using an approach that is integrated with our business activities. Our balanced initiatives are based on the triple bottom line of economic, environmental, and social performance. 4 Casio’s Corporate Creed and Approach to CSR Making innovative products and contributing to social progress̶these were the aspirations of Casioʼs founders, and they are summed up in the corporate creed, “Creativity and Contribution.” Casio has carefully passed down this corporate creed to all of its employees today. By following the creed and practicing the Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment, Casio is fulﬁlling its social responsibilities in all of its corporate activities. Working to build a more sustainable world The world today is faced with complex economic, enviaim is to contribute to society through the resolution of ronmental and social problems of a very serious nature. social and environmental issues related directly and indiHumanity as a whole needs to consider what a desirable rectly to business management, while continuing to society is, and then ﬁnd ways to resolve these problems. provide new value to society, based on its corporate If economic activities are to be maintained on this planet creed of “Creativity and Contribution.” Casio will steadily with limited resources, every member of society must pursue speciﬁc initiatives while always thinking originally try to help achieve sustainability. Accordingly, Casioʼs about the best ways to solve each issue. Keywords for a sustainable world and Casio’s main initiatives ● Resource recyclability (social and economic activities on a planet with limited resources) Reducing daytime power consumption through the use of geothermal electricity and the installation of power storage equipment, etc. ● Biodiversity (respecting the diversity of species including organisms other than humans) Establishing an Environmental Action Plan, and evaluating the entire impact of the business, etc. ● Fairness across generations (the current generation properly appreciating the legacy of previous generations and passing it on to future generations) Setting medium and long-term CO2 reduction targets, and promoting next-generation development and education, etc. ● Fairness across regions (fairly distributing wealth and assets across regions) Being a member of the UN Global Compact, and conducting CSR activities globally, etc. ■ Casio’s CSR Platform Sustainable world Local communities Customers Providing new value through products Shareholders Global environment Social and and investors environmental initiatives Employees Suppliers Casioʼs Business Activities Casio Group Code of Conduct Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment Corporate Creed “Creativity and Contribution” 5 Charter of Creativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment In 2003, Casio adopted the Charter of Creativity for Casio all times, and act upon it. These promises cover the three and Casio Common Commitment, a promise from everykey aspects of CSR̶economy, environment, and socione working at Casio. They are designed to ensure that ety̶as well as the companyʼs approach to compliance. Casio employees will be aware of the corporate creed at Charter of Creativity for Casio First Chapter We will value creativity, and ensure that our products meet universal needs*. Second Chapter We will strive to be of service to society, providing customers with delight, happiness, and pleasure. Third Chapter We will back up our words and actions with trustworthiness and integrity, and work as professionals. * To create innovative products that everyone needs but no other company has ever produced. At Casio, this is the mission not only of product development, but of every other part of the business. Membership in the UN Global Compact Casio products are made through cooperation not just beginning with Casioʼs global supply chain. within the Casio Group, but with many other parts and This is why, in December 2010, Casio joined the Unitconsignment manufacturers. Through global distribued Nations Global Compact, and made tion, over 100 million Casio products are being sold Casio Group employees thoroughly each year in 140 countries around the word. aware of this. While pursuing speciﬁc In order for consumers worldwide to purchase Casio initiatives for the realization of the products with conﬁdence, the company believes that it Global Compact principles, Casio is also must support and adhere to common global principles appropriately disclosing progress. for sustainable growth for the international community, Main stakeholders of the Casio Group Through ongoing dialogue with various stakeholder ous ﬁelds relating to its business activities. groups, Casio is helping to resolve social issues in variMain Stakeholder Main Dialogue Opportunities / Main Casio Group Responsibilities Group Information Disclosure Providing appealing, safe, and reliable products Ensuring stable product supply Daily sales activities Providing the proper information regarding products Customer Support Center Customers Improving customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction surveys Providing fast and accurate support to customers Casioʼs oﬃcial website Properly managing customer information Daily procurement activities Fair and equitable transactions Suppliers Requesting CSR implementation and providing support Holding vendor conferences CSR questionnaires General Meeting of Shareholders Brieﬁngs for investors Shareholders Investor Relations website Timely and appropriate information disclosure and Appropriate proﬁt returns Issuing ﬁnancial reports (shareholder newsletinvestors ter) Responding to CSR questionnaires from socially responsible investors Respecting human rights Casio intranet Promoting diversity and inclusion Promoting balance of work and family life Group Workersʼ Labor-Management Conference Employees Human resource recruitment and utilization Occupational Safety and Health Committees Fair evaluation and treatment Career challenge system Industrial health and safety and employee health promotion Internal newsletter Respecting and preserving regional cultures Factory and workplace tours Local Activities that contribute to local communities School visit program Preventing accidents and disasters at sites Internships communities Providing support to disaster-stricken regions where sites Employee participation in local community are located events Environmental consideration in product development Global Environmentally responsible production activities environment Complying with environmental laws Protecting biodiversity 6 Special Casio Thailand’s Global Management RootFeature ed in Local Community Casioʼs global management adapts to the culture and environment in each region. At Casio Thailand, where 90% of employees are locally hired, the company has a human resources policy that emphasizes the needs of Thai employees. The company is engaged in a wide range of activities that contribute to and deepen relationships with the local community. Human resources policy of Casio Thailand and community support Aiming for management rooted in local communities, ● Supporting the local community Casio Thailand emphasizes human resources developCasio Thailand places importance on ment, employee welfare programs and support for the improving quality of life in the local local community. In order to realize these goals, the community, while contributing to ecocompany has established human resources deployment nomic and social development that guidelines and CSR activity policies, and is undertaking makes local residents self reliant. various activities accordingly. Using this CSR activity policy, the company has established guidelines ● Human resources development and employee and is carrying out various initiatives. welfare programs Based on a positive evaluation of Wanna Pakaew Based on its human resources deployment guidelines, the activities and results under this CSR implementation team Casio Thailand is improving employee welfare programs policy, Casio Thailand has received an award from the and providing career development training. Since 90% Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare as an outof its employees are women, the company is creating standing company in the area of labor relations and workplaces that enable staﬀ to balance work and family employee welfare. The company has received this responsibilities, including setting up a special facility to award for ﬁve consecutive years. support breastfeeding mothers. The company received high marks in all ﬁve evaluaThe company also supports human resources develtion areas for the award: (1) codiﬁcation of human reopment by oﬀering training programs based on various sources and labor union policies; (2) wage and salary roles and proﬁciency levels. systems; (3) hotline establishment; (4) employee welfare programs; and (5) CSR activities. Corporate data for Casio Thailand ■Number of employees by nationality ■Number of male and female employees ■Number of managers by nationality 5 4 10 80 89 100 4 4 10 902 970 1,132 827 885 1,034 16 16 17 As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Japanese, other Locally hired Female Male Number of Number of Thai managers Japanese managers 1 Human resources development and employee welfare programs Womenʼs social advancement in Thailand is progressing. Because of this, Casio Thailand is putting particular effort into childcare support. The company has various programs such as training and seminars to help employees develop together with the company and build their careers. Employee welfare program any viruses and bacteria from getting Creation of a facility to support breastfeeding mothers into the milk during storage. About 90% of Casio Thailand employees are women, and A special instructor is also available each month three to ﬁve of them have babies. According to provide guidance to women during to Thai law, female employees are allowed three months and after pregnancy on how to pump maternity leave after giving birth. When they returned to the breast milk and store it safely. A work, however, they were not able to pump and store course is also provided to teach pregbreast milk during the work day, in order to provide the nant employees about health and nutriinfant at home with an adequate milk supply. tion management. In this way, the comDuangdaw Prathumchai Therefore, Casio Thailand created an onsite room where pany is enabling more employees to Human Resources Department mothers can pump and balance their work and family lives. store breast milk. In addition to providing refrigerEmployee feedback ator space for hygienic milk storage and special I use the facility in order to have a break and pump a supply of milk to take home. storage packages, there Since the room is very hygienic, I feel conis air conditioning and air ﬁdent about taking the milk home to my purification equipment. child. It really helps to relieve breast pain. Consequently, the room I feel the company is truly caring for the Natthida Longkrue Breast milk support room has clean air, preventing health of employees and our families. 7 Human resources development Employees can gain speCareer development and training programs cialized knowledge for Casio Thailand has training programs to support the catheir jobs or learn about reer development of employees. The programs are open legal compliance at semito all employees from general staﬀ to managers, and innars and lectures given by clude on-the-job outside experts or employtraining, lectures and ees with the necessary seminars. The proqualiﬁcations and experigrams are divided ence. In ﬁscal 2011, an ofinto proﬁciency levﬁcial from the Ministry of els for each business Labor was invited to come area, so that employand give a seminar entitled Training for factory employees ees can easily im“The Latest Safety Laws and Taking Action for Legal prove their skills, Compliance.” It was attended by safety committee managstep by step. ers and in-house safety instructors. Lecture 2 Supporting local communities With the aim of supporting local communities, Casio is promoting various activities for social contribution and community outreach. The company also provides job hunting support to students and hosts factory tours, in order to contribute towards the revitalization of society through employment. ■ Donating money and food to monks In December 2010, monks from a nearby temple were invited to the company to receive a donation of money, rice, other food, medicines, and daily necessities. The temple looks after over 200 poor children and orphans, so they received food and supplies as well. In the Buddhist country of Thailand, it is considered very commendable to make an oﬀering to the monks, who are a symbol of goodness. Since the monks pray for the happiness and prosperity of those that make oﬀerings, the donors are also grateful for this kind of chance. Consequently, Casio Thailand employees are pleased by Donating money and food to monks such company donation opportunities. While engaging in charitable activities, the company is also supporting local culture, and giving employees a lot of peace of mind. ■ Helping students with job search Casio Thailand is supporting the job search eﬀorts of stuthe Thai Education Ministry, dents by inviting them to company presentations and facand in 2009 the company tory tours, thereby providing them with opportunities to received an award for prolearn about the companyʼs activities. Due to the impact of viding good support and a long-running internal dispute in Thailand, there have been learning opportunities to very few opportunities for students to receive training at vocational students in outprivate companies. By providing them with these opportulying areas of Bangkok and nities, Casio is helping to develop the next generation of southern Thailand. citizens in Thailand. These eﬀorts have been recognized by Students receiving training ■ Support for flood victims From mid-October to mid-November 2010, there was aﬀected region for distriwidespread ﬂooding in Thailand, resulting in major dambution to victims. Casio age. Fortunately, Casio Thailand did not suﬀer any damThailand employees also age, but some homes of employees were ﬂooded, and participated in the distributhere was damage in the surrounding communities. tion of relief aid, and they Along with donating corporate relief funds, the company delivered relief supplies dialso encouraged employees to donate cash or supplies for rectly to disaster victims. ﬂood victims. The total funds along with relief supplies, such as food and candles, were sent to the governor of the Support for disaster victims 8 Casio’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Casio oﬀers its heartfelt sympathies to everyone aﬀected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011. Casio would also like to take this opportunity to express gratitude for all the heartfelt support that the people of Japan have received from around the world. Below is a report on the eﬀects sustained by Casio and its response to the earthquake disaster (as of July 31, 2011). Status at Casio Although some of Casioʼs business sites were damaged, fortunately employees and their families were not harmed, and the group was able to recover quickly. Nevertheless, operations at production sites have slowed slightly as a result of delays in the procurement of parts due to the damage sustained by certain suppliers. In response, Casio has decentralized suppliers, started manufacturing parts in-house, and taken other measures to get operations back up to speed as soon as possible. Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake on Quality The Great East Japan Earthquake and the subsequent power interruptions have had no impact on the quality of Casio products. The radioactive contamination from the damaged Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station has had no impact on Casioʼs production facilities in Yamagata and Yamanashi prefectures. The radiation levels in both prefectures were surveyed by Japanʼs Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, and the readings were below levels harmful to the human body. Casio products are also regularly checked for radiation at production and logistics sites, and their safety has been conﬁrmed. Special support for customers affected by the disaster As a support measure for people in areas stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake, Casio oﬀered to repair Casio brand consumer products at half the usual price for products damaged in municipalities where the Disaster Relief Act was applied. This oﬀer was made available until September 30, 2011. Relief efforts for the disaster-affected areas Casio donated a total of 55 million yen in relief funds to Japan Platform in order to help the victims and assist in the recovery eﬀort. The company also matched the donations of its employees with an equal or greater amount. Casio Group employees worldwide donated a total of about 10.57 million yen, which was matched by Casio Computer Co., Ltd., with an additional 22 million yen, for a total of 32.57 million yen. This money was donated to the Japanese Red Cross Society, local governments in the disaster-aﬀected areas (through the Japanese Association of Metal, Machinery, and Manufacturing workers), and Japan Platform. Casio is also making ongoing donations to the Ashinaga Donation Fund for Children Orphaned by the Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami operated by Ashinaga, a non-proﬁt organization, in order to support children who lost their parents in the disaster. In ﬁscal 2012, Casio donated 5 million yen and will continue to donate 2 million yen per year over 10 years for a total amount of 25 million yen. All told, donations of aid money from the Casio Group will total 102 million yen. Additionally, Casio is providing ongoing non-monetary support, including the donation of clocks for temporary housing, digital cameras with hybrid GPS for disaster response headquarters in prefectures and municipalities aﬀected by the disaster, and calculators for schools that lost teaching materials. Casio is committed to continuing to provide as much support as it can to meet the needs of people in the disasteraﬀected areas. Casio’s efforts to save electricity Since the earthquake disaster, Casio has undertaken a number of energy-saving measures such as turning oﬀ some lights in oﬃces and billboards, changing air conditioning temperatures, stopping some elevators, and expanding the length of the summertime cool-biz campaign (which encourages people to dress more casually to save on airconditioning). In response to the power usage restrictions issued in the summer of 2011 based on Article 27 of Japanʼs Electricity Business Act, Casio is working to strengthen the above energy-saving measures and making other aggressive eﬀorts to comply with the restrictions, including moving days oﬀ from Saturday to Wednesday. In July, Casio established a system to monitor electricity use at principal sites during working hours via an internal portal, which will help raise the awareness of employees at each business site to remember to save electricity by letting them see how much energy is being used in real time. 9 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Customers Responsibilities to Stakeholders Quality Assurance In all of its business processes, Casio always takes the customerʼs perspective and bases its actions on the Principle of the Five “Gens”̶in Japanese, (on site), (actual goods), (reality), (theory) and (rule). Casio focuses on daily improvement in order to provide customers with reliability and peace of mind, and to meet customer demands with speed and integrity. Quality assurance at Casio In order to deliver products and services that oﬀer reliability and peace of mind to customers, Casio is con■ Casio Quality Functions, performance, stantly working on improvements to pursue the best design, price, Environmental Initiatives solution for customers. usability Casio believes it is important not only to provide prodEnvironmental Reliability, conservation, ucts and services that delight customers, but also to win recycling Casio durability acceptance from the whole of society and achieve muQuality tual prosperity. Toward this end, Casio Quality includes Safety, everything from the quality of individual products, to Serviceability legal compliance environmental protection and recycling. The role of quality assurance is to deliver quality that satisﬁes customers in every possible way. Quality assurance system In order to carefully maintain and improve Casio Quality, activities such as making quality data accessible and Philosophy and Management the company has created the quality assurance system easy to understand, and sharing quality information, shown in the diagram below. Chaired by the Executive while passing resolutions on quality policy and meaVice President, the Promotion Committee for Groupsures. The results are used for quality assurance activiwide Quality Enhancement meets twice a year. It pursues ties in each division. ■ Quality Assurance Framework President and CEO Promotion Committee for Groupwide Quality Enhancement Chaired by the Executive Vice President Global Marketing Division in charge of groupwide quality Product & Digital System Headquarters Purchasing Unit Consumer Timepieces Business Business Camera equipment CS Control Engineering Business Business Group Department Sales Departments CS activities Quality activities for each business Production & Purchasing Division Collaboration Manufacturing Sales & Aﬃliates Service Aﬃliates 10 As the division in charge of group-wide quality manageregulations and standards relating to quality and safety, ment, the CS Department (within the Global Marketing and to learn technology expertise. This includes holding Headquarters) has been linked together with the Engipresentations for the improvement of quality manageneering Department (within the Production & Purchasment skills. ing Division). By closely connecting the product developMoreover, Casio is striving to raise the level of quality ment and sales teams, Casio is working hard to ensure initiatives and improve the quality skills of employees, Responsibilities to Stakeholders quality, with the cooperation of all departments, while including the holding of in-house seminars given by outalways pursuing the best solution for customers. side instructors. In order to create a common group-wide awareness of Casioʼs production plants carry out plan-do-check-act “Quality First” being the foundation all operations, strong (PDCA) cycles using the ISO 9001 Quality Management leadership is essential from top management and those System. In order to deliver reliability and peace of mind responsible for quality. The Promotion Committee for to customers that use Casio products, Casio employees Group-wide Quality Enhancement implements training to focus on daily improvement. ensure employees understand and are widely aware of ■ List of ISO 9001 Certified Sites Classiﬁcation Certiﬁed and Registered Sites Initial Version Registration Date Product Solution Unit, System Product DiviJune 25, 1994 sion, Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Kofu Casio Co., Ltd. August 1, 1994 Environmental Initiatives Development, Production Casio Electronic Manufacturing Co., Ltd. August 5, 1994 and Service Sites in Japan Yamagata Casio Co., Ltd. December 16, 1994 Casio Micronics Co., Ltd. March 29, 1996 Casio Techno Co., Ltd. May 21, 2004 Casio (Thailand) Co., Ltd. October 24, 2000 Production Sites Casio Electronic (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., March 22, 2002 outside Japan Guandu Factory Casio Electronic Technology (Zhongshan) October 26, 2006 Co., Ltd. Pursuing top quality Philosophy and Management Casioʼs eﬀorts to achieve premium quality are guided Management Policies, which provide indices for evaluatby a clearly articulated Quality Concept and Quality ing all quality initiatives. Quality Concept Casio maintains a strong quality assurance system, based on its belief in “Quality First.” This system requires all employees to make quality their ﬁrst concern in every task they perform, enabling the company to oﬀer products and services that please and impress customers. The companyʼs commitment to quality supports its corporate growth and makes social contributions possible, while at the same time winning customersʼ trust and giving them peace of mind. Quality Management Policies ● To build a good corporate image, we oﬀer products and services that please and impress our customers, gain their strong trust, and ensure their peace of mind. ● We respond to our customersʼ requests and inquiries with sincerity and speed, and reﬂect their valuable comments in our products and services. ● In all our business processes, we base our actions on the Principle of the Five “Gens”̶in Japanese, (on site), (actual goods), (reality), (theory) and (rule)̶and adhere to the basics of business operations. ● We capture and analyze quality assurance activities quantitatively, using reliable data, and use the analysis to make continuous improvements. We also maintain a quality information system that enables the sharing of quality information and prevention of problems before they occur, and prevents recurrence of quality problems. 11 Raising Customer Satisfaction Casio believes customer satisfaction can always go up, and is strengthening its three main customer satisfaction initiatives. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Raising Customer Satisfaction In order to improve customer satisfaction (CS), in ﬁscal Under these three main CS activities, Casio is investing 2009, Casio began strengthening its initiatives for the in programs to improve product knowledge, repair techthree main CS activities listed below. The company is nique, and customer service skills. With regard to afterworking to incorporate the voice of the customer more sales CS activities, in ﬁscal 2011 Casio established its than ever before in the creation of even better own survey method, recognizing the importance of conproducts. tinually ascertaining customer satisfaction levels. Casio is also working hard to ensure that customer After-sales CS: Responding to customer requests and feedback is always delivered to the relevant departinquiries with service that is fast, accuments, and that uniﬁed improvement measures are takrate, and polite en by those departments. The company is also working Functional CS: Striving to create value and product to ensure continual enhancement of product functions functionality that leads to customer (functional CS), through daily eﬀorts such as research satisfaction into various industry-leading technologies. Environmental Initiatives Quality CS: Working to strengthen product quality to Casio gathers and analyzes the details of customer assure customer satisfaction inquiries regarding product quality, and strives to rapidly detect and respond to any problems. Going beyond universal design to human-centered design Casio works to develop products using human-centered by turning the crown, the user can now easily switch design (HCD) in conformity with ISO 13407 processes, between diﬀerent functions just by pressing the crown with the objective of improving product ease of use as like a button. This has dramatically improved watch part of the productʼs overall quality. In the HCD process, usability. Casio seeks optimal ease of use by determining important issues from customer feedback and observation of product use in real-world situations. Through repeated Philosophy and Management evaluation and verification, Casio works to develop highly desirable products. In ﬁscal 2011, Casio made its multi-function chronograph watches even easier to use. During the development of the OCW-T1000, issues with the complicated operations necessary for function setting were identiﬁed in the HCD process, and a new electronic crown was developed that enables more intuitive operation. In addiCasioʼs UD log tion to the straightforward setting of the watch hands OCW-T1000 Ensuring customer satisfaction Customer feedback is essential information for product comments received by the Customer Support Center, improvement, and Casio regularly conducts customer Casio is striving to develop even better products and satisfaction surveys. While also referencing customer improve the level of customer satisfaction. 12 TOPICS First in the Industry to Offer Indian Digit Grouping Although inserting a punctuation calculator was developed based on mark after every third digit is the the idea of Casio staﬀ in India, and standard way to write long numbers consumer appreciation of the product Responsibilities to Stakeholders internationally, in India, a comma is is steadily growing. Of course, the usually inserted after the thousand calculator can also display numbers Calculator with Indian position, and then after every subseusing three-digit grouping, and even MJ-120D Digit Grouping quent two digits (i.e. hundred thouin the European format with a decimal sand, ten million, etc.). Also, the Indian comma instead of a decimal point. “comma” appears above the numbers Casio excels at providing products rather than below. Casio was the ﬁrst that are tailored to meet consumer company to introduce a calculator needs. that adopts this regional custom. The TOPICS Holding regular Global Teachers Meetings The Global Teachers Meeting 2010 Applied feedback example Environmental Initiatives was held at the Hamura R&D Center Color-coded, nested sets of brackets help prevent student errors and increase their understanding and the Hatsudai Headquarters Conventional model fx-9860G from August 23 to 25, 2010. Nine teachers passionate about matheIt is diﬃcult to distinguish individual sets of brackets. matics education were invited from the US, Germany, France, Australia, and Norway. The meeting has been If the brackets are input incorrectly, the answer will be wrong. held regularly since 2007, in order to obtain product feedback from Color graphing model User input is teachers living in diﬀerent parts of the same the world, and contribute to the deThe bracket sets are automatically color coded during input to prevent error velopment of mathematics education in classrooms. The main theme of this yearʼs meeting was the perfection of the •Color coding in automatic input mode Color coding is activated only in input mode color graphing scientiﬁc calculator, Philosophy and Management planned for worldwide launch in 2011. There was a lively exchange of opinions based on the needs of actual classrooms. These opinions Conﬁrming data and charts Adding color coding to a chart were immediately examined by the product development team, and the ﬁnal product was improved to enable a deeper understanding of the Latitude Country with the highest GDP relationship between mathematics and events in daily life. Improvements Relation between GDP included the color coding of correlatitude and GDP sponding data on graphs, which was hard to follow on previous graphing Various charts can be created with the same information Data from the table can be easily matched to the chart (Corresponding data in diﬀerent graphs and charts can be identiﬁed by color) (The relationship between the data and the chart can be easily seen for models, and the layering of graphs students just starting to learn statistics) on top of real-life images. Level diﬀerences are clear in a bar chart Special function for education not found in Excel Numbers above the average value are in red Relationship between the average value and the data is clear 13 Customer Support Center Activities and Customer Feedback Utilization Aiming to build enduring relationships of trust with customers, Casio values customer communication and incorporates the voice of the customer into its eﬀorts to improve products and services. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Customer Support Center activities In order to promote long-lasting relationships of trust with customers, the Customer Support Center responds ■ Breakdown of Customer Inquiries (Fiscal 2011) to customer inquiries with service that is fast, accurate, Complaints 0.3% Requests for catalogues Other 3.8% polite, and sincere. The center strives to resolve any isand user manuals 5.9% sues customers may have. Casio is working to expand its training programs for improving the primary skills of customer support staﬀ, including technical, communication, and writing skills. Pre-purchase inquiries 11.2% Post-purchase inquiries These abilities are required every day to properly pro78.8% vide customers with the useful information that they need. The Customer Support Center also aims for the fast and accurate resolution of customer inquiries by standardizing customer response procedures in Environmental Initiatives writing. Customer inquiries and complaints are welcomed as important customer feedback. After analyzing the content of this feedback, the relevant departments and the Center work together to implement improvement measures, and these eﬀorts help to improve customer satisfaction for Casio products and services. Customer Support Center Providing Support Information/Repair Service Philosophy and Management Casio is improving its system for providing product support information, as well as the service skills of its staﬀ, to ensure customer satisfaction and peace of mind. Online support sites Casio has customer support websites for various reonline. In this way, Casio continues to improve customer gions around the world, oﬀering customers convenient convenience. access to information 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Casio continues to monitor and analyze the traﬃc at In order to ensure that customers can use Casio prodeach of its websites. The company is working to improve ucts with conﬁdence and peace of mind, these websites and expand its online support sites so that customers provide product operation, repair and other support incan get the information they need before having to call formation that customers may need. In ﬁscal 2011, the a customer support center. Japanese Casio website was improved so that customers can now look up product repair costs on their own Support just by entering the model and symptom. For some http://www.casio-intl.com/support/ products, customers can also make a repair request 14 Repair service Casioʼs service departments, which are responsible for It is now a mandatory qualiﬁcation for all employees. product repairs, strive to satisfy customers by providing Moreover, individual departments have their own sysafter-sales service that fulﬁlls three commitments: relitems of upper level qualiﬁcations. Casio Techno is enable technology, prompt response, and reasonable fees. couraging its employees to obtain formal technical and Responsibilities to Stakeholders Each year, Casio conducts its own customer satisfaction other qualifications as part of its human resources surveys concerning after-sales service. The ﬁndings are development. used in ongoing improvement activities. Reliable technology Casioʼs service departments are working to improve their repair technology, product knowledge, and customer service skills (through training programs and inhouse competitions, for example) in order to maintain customer conﬁdence and realize the kind of service quality that customers expect. In fiscal 2010, Casio holds technical contests where representatives from Casio sites across Japan compete. These events have produced many outstanding engineers. Since ﬁscal 2002, Casio Techno Co., Ltd., which handles repair of Casio products, has been encouraging its Environmental Initiatives employees to obtain formal qualiﬁcations. In ﬁscal 2011, the company revised its human resources development system with reference to the ITSS career framework, and set up four levels of recommended qualiﬁcations according to job types. At the same time, it added “.com Master” to the recommended qualiﬁcations, which involves systematically learning basic Internet knowledge. Technical contest Prompt response Casioʼs service departments are taking steps to improve time to bring in a broken digital camera, electronic dicoperations by focusing on parts procurement, the repair tionary, or watch to a service center or the retailer to system, and repair technology, so as to shorten repair arrange the repair through an online repair request sysPhilosophy and Management time and return repaired products to customers as tem. In ﬁscal 2011, the online request page for digital quickly as possible. The reception counters at some camera repair was completely redesigned. Fees for the service centers oﬀer quick service for the repair of digipick-up repair service were also cut by 50% or more, tal cameras and watch battery replacement within about thereby further improving convenience for busy 60 minutes. Casio also oﬀers an online pick-up repair customers. service that enables customers who do not have the Reasonable fees Casio is striving to ensure reasonable repair fees by market and at other companies, and revised its fees to controlling costs through the improvement of methods ensure even greater customer satisfaction. Going forfor repair and parts procurement. The company has ward, Casio will continue to meet customer needs, recreated a fee structure based on ﬁxed prices that are duce costs and provide services that are a good value easy for customers to understand. In ﬁscal 2011, Casio for repair fees. carried out analysis of digital camera repair costs in the 15 Suppliers Responsibilities to Stakeholders Strong partnerships with suppliers Casio procures various materials from a large number of suppliers in and outside Japan. In order to develop long-term business relationships based on its Procurement Policies, Casio is working to strengthen CSR activities across its entire supply chain, while improving measures for proper transactions. Socially responsible procurement at Casio Casio has established Procurement Policies in order to preservation and risk control of chemical contents and execute its social responsibility to conduct fair and information security. Casio constantly improves its soequitable transactions throughout the supply chain. cially responsible procurement by obtaining the underThe policies cover matters including legal compliance, standing and support of suppliers for the policies and respecting human rights, labor, safety, and health, as building strong partnerships. well as environmental protection such as biodiversity Environmental Initiatives ■Procurement Policies Casio aims to fulﬁll its social responsibilities, including compliance with relevant laws and social norms, and protection of the environment, through fair and equitable transactions throughout the supply chain by strengthening partnership with suppliers. 1. Fair and equitable transactions through reciprocal eﬀorts, such as merging and compleCasio carries out fair and equitable transactions by providmenting mutual technological development abilities, supply ing equal opportunities to all suppliers (and candidates) in chain cooperation, compliance with laws and social norms and outside Japan in accordance with its internally estaband protection of the global environment, which will beneﬁt lished procedures. both parties. 2. Compliance with laws and social norms 5. Policies on supplier selection and transaction continuation Casioʼs procurement activities comply with all relevant laws, Casio initiates and continues transactions with suppliers social norms, standards and treaties worldwide, including based on comprehensive evaluation criteria, which include the protection of human rights, the prohibition of child lacompliance with laws and social norms, environmental proPhilosophy and Management bor, forced labor and discrimination, and respect for freetection, proper information security, respect for intellectual dom of association, the right to associate, and the right to property, sound and stable corporate management, supecollective bargaining, as well as ensure that absolutely no rior technological development ability, right price and qualcontact is made with organized criminal elements. Thereity, stable supply capabilities and electronic transaction fore, Casio requires its suppliers to observe the same legal systems. and social requirements. 6. Securing right price and quality 3. Environmental protection Casio endeavors to secure right price and quality in order Casio helps to protect the global environment through ento provide its customers with stable supply of optimal vironmentally friendly procurement, which is based on the products, which ensures that Casio gains the full conﬁCasio Environmental Vision and Casio's Environmental Decdence of customers around the world. laration, in cooperation with suppliers. 7. Prohibition of personal-interest relationships 4. Strengthening partnership with suppliers Casio does not allow any employees to have personal-interCasio builds up relationship of trust with its suppliers est relationships with any suppliers. Fulfilling social responsibilities together with suppliers In order to ensure compliance with the Procurement help Casio fulﬁll its social responsibilities. Policies together with its suppliers, Casio has estabCasio is also managing its supply chain more successlished the Supplier Guidelines. All of Casioʼs suppliers in fully by introducing a regular monitoring system that Japan and elsewhere have agreed to these guidelines to ensures that these guidelines are properly fulﬁlled. 16 Disseminating supplier guidelines Over 80% of Casioʼs production activities are in China and ASEAN. Every year, Casio holds brieﬁngs on its Procurement Policies in Southern China and Thailand. In the past, these brieﬁngs simply involved Casio exResponsibilities to Stakeholders plaining its business policies to suppliers and asking them to undertake initiatives. Starting in ﬁscal 2010 however, Casio is using these brieﬁngs as an opportunity for interaction, for instance, by having a selected Brieﬁng on Procurement Policies Award ceremony at the Procurement supplier present its own exemplary CSR initiatives. Policies brieﬁng Through joint eﬀorts with suppliers, Casio is aiming for continued improvement in the level of CSR performance. More recently, Casio asked suppliers whose sites it had audited for CSR performance to present examples of their eﬀorts to improve CSR activities. It is proving highly eﬀective to share case studies and know-how Presentation of exemplary CSR implewhen addressing CSR issues. mentation and improvement by a supplier Comprehensive management of CSR performance Environmental Initiatives In ﬁscal 2008, Casio started conducting a questionnaire In Japan, the questionnaire response rate (95%) greatsurvey* of principal suppliers in Japan on CSR perforly exceeded the rate for the previous year (85%), providmance in order to conﬁrm the status of CSR procureing assurance that understanding of and concern for ment. In ﬁscal 2010, the survey was expanded to include CSR is increasing. Moreover, Casio visited suppliers who suppliers in China and Thailand. Additionally, starting in are passionate about CSR initiatives and held discussion ﬁscal 2010, Casio has been evaluating suppliers in Jameetings aimed at solving future issues with a view topan based on a ﬁve-point scoring system for all 340 ward creating good partnerships within the industry. items in the * The questionnaire was prepared in accordance with a Supplier Checklist published by the Japan Electronics and Information for CSR Procurement based upon the Guidebook for Supply Chain Implementation of CSR Procurement published by the Japan Electronics Technology Industries Association (JEITA), in an eﬀort to and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). It covered: gain a better grasp of and visualize the situation. (1) human rights and labor conditions; (2) health and safety; (3) the In ﬁscal 2011, Casio again conducted a questionnaire environment; (4) fair transactions and ethics; (5) quality and consumer safety; (6) information security; and (7) social contribution. survey of suppliers in and outside Japan. The results Philosophy and Management were sent back to all suppliers, along with information on Casioʼs approach and goals for CSR procurement, to Supplier Message help support suppliersʼ improvement eﬀorts. After the questionnaire survey was conducted, impleROHM Co., Ltd., takes an mentation audits of major suppliers in China (three comactive approach to CSR implementation based on panies) and Thailand (two companies) were carried out the ROHM Group Business with local staﬀ members of the CSR promotion project Conduct Guidelines. launched at overseas sites. During these audits, opinWe support Casioʼs Proions were exchanged with suppliersʼ managers and comcurement Policies, and will mitments received from them to make new developstrive to fulﬁll and mainHiromitsu Koizumi ments, including improvement eﬀorts in the next ﬁscal tain the CSR performance East Sales Unit 3 items requested by Casio. West Tokyo Sales Team year, by deepening their understanding of CSR ROHM Co., Ltd. performance. ■ Improving CSR across the supply chain Disclosure of purchasing Questionnaire survey on Disclosure and feedback of Ascertainment of actual conditions Support for improving Building a system for CSR procurement across policies CSR performance questionnaire results through onsite audits CSR issues the entire supply chain Medium-term CSR Promotion Plan (3-year plan) Fiscal 2011 Achievements Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Conducted onsite audits of suppliers with local staff Expand onsite audits Vision of goals members in China by local staff members achieved and Thailand 17 Shareholders and Investors Responsibilities to Stakeholders Proper Shareholder Return and Information Disclosure Casio discloses information promptly and fairly to shareholders and investors, and always strives to increase shareholder returns. Basic policy for shareholder returns Casio considers the maintenance and expansion of reby taking into account all factors such as proﬁt levels, turns for all of its shareholders an important manageﬁnancial position, the dividend payout ratio, and future ment issue, and constantly strives to improve its busibusiness development and forecasts. ness performance and financial structure. The Considering the above policy and forecasts for ﬁscal companyʼs dividend policy calls for maintaining stable 2012, Casio paid dividends of ¥17 per share in ﬁscal dividends, and Casio determines the allocation of proﬁt 2011. Environmental Initiatives SRI listings Basic policy for shareholder returns As of June 2011, Casio was included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index, based on an evaluation of its proactive CSR initiatives. Communication with shareholders and investors IR events site also features these publications and other IR inforEvery quarter, Casio holds a ﬁnancial results brieﬁng for mation. Casio also periodically redesigns its Investor institutional investors and securities analysts on the Relations site to reﬂect market changes and make the same day that the company announces its results. The information more accessible and useful. president or the director responsible for investor relaPhilosophy and Management tions is the main speaker at these brieﬁngs, and explains Reaching out to individual shareholders and investors the financial results and forecasts. Casio also holds Casio is carrying out various initiatives in order to deepmeetings with institutional investors and analysts worlden the understanding individual investors and sharewide, while occasionally providing factory tours and holders have of its business. Following the General small on-the-spot meetings for investors interested in Meeting of Shareholders, a management brieﬁng was speciﬁc business areas. held, showing clips introducing Casioʼs core products and explaining key businesses using images. On the Improving IR publications Japanese Investor Relations website, a section was To provide IR information for shareholders and invesadded speciﬁcally for individual investors in an eﬀort to tors, the company issues an , semiannual make information disclosure clearer. business reports (Japanese only), and quarterly Consolidated Financial Results. Casioʼs Investor Relations webResults Brieﬁng Website for individual investors 18 Employees Responsibilities to Stakeholders Human Rights (Respect for Human Rights, Prohibition of Discrimination) In addition to participating in the UN Global Compact, Casio has spelled out its strong commitment to human rights in the Casio Group Code of Conduct, which is being thoroughly implemented throughout the group. Policy concerning respect for human rights and prohibition of discrimination / expanding awareness The Casio Group Code of Conduct mandates that the Casio shares the Code of Conduct with group compaCasio Group complies with all laws, respects all fundanies in and outside Japan and attempts to ensure it is mental human rights, will not engage in any form of disthoroughly understood in order to expand awareness of crimination, and will not use or permit any form of child these human rights. Additionally, Casio Computer Co., or forced labor. The Code of Conduct also stipulates that Ltd., provides human rights education at training sesCasio will respect the diversity of individuals and their sions given to new hires and employees before and after unique personalities, will not engage in any acts that igpromotion and appointment to managerial positions. nore individuality, including discrimination based on genIn keeping with its participation in the UN Global ComEnvironmental Initiatives der, creed, religion, ethnicity, social status, physical dispact, which it joined in December 2010, Casio will conability, or any other discriminator, and will not permit acts tinue to carry out its business operations with full conof violence, sexual harassment, or power harassment. sideration for human rights. Building Workplaces for a Diverse Workforce Casio respects the human rights of every individual, and strives to continually expand the creation of employment opportunities for people, regardless of their gender or any disabilities they may have. Policy on respect for human resources diversity Philosophy and Management The Casio Group Code of Conduct states that “we will policy, Casio is working to create workplaces that truly respect all fundamental human rights.” In line with this respect diversity. Initiatives to enhance the role of female employees By promoting environments and systems that enable ducing female employees who are active within the comemployees to further demonstrate their abilities, Casio is pany on a section of its intranet entitled “Interviews with developing a greater number of professional employees, Inspired Casio Women.” This is helping employees share with the aim of raising productivity for the entire cominformation among each other and raise motivation. pany. As part of these eﬀorts, Casio created a Working From here on Casio will continue to actively and efGroup for Female Employee Advancement in April 2008, fectively take actions aimed at building a corporate culand has been actively encouraging its activities. ture that fully supports the job satisfaction and career Focusing on changing both employee mindset and advancement of women. behavior, Casio held a seminar for female employees and managers to encourage womenʼs active involvement. The seminar created an opportunity for women and their supervisors to think about how to make the most of female employeesʼ enthusiasm for work and channel it into fulﬁlling careers. Lectures by outside instructors as well as exchanges of opinions and information among the female employees helped the women gain insight about their career plans and get new ideas about how to approach their work. Additionally, starting in ﬁscal 2011, Casio has been introAt a meeting of the Working Group for Female Employee Advancement 19 Initiatives for hiring persons with disabilities Casio hires people who display creativity and have the ■ Percent of workforce with disabilities desire to work and take on challenges, regardless of any As of April 1, As of April 1, As of April 1, disabilities they may have. The company is creating 2009 2010 2011 workplace environments that allow every individual to Responsibilities to Stakeholders Casio Computer Co., Ltd 1.83% 1.93% 1.93% display their full abilities and aptitudes. The percentage of the workforce with disabilities in Group companies in Japan 1.52% 1.60% 1.80% the Casio Group is 1.86%, higher than Japanʼs legally Average for consolidated mandated rate. group companies in Japan 1.67% 1.76% 1.86% Encouraging the hiring of seniors / supporting the lives and employment of seniors For seniors, Casio has introduced a Casio Senior Staﬀ tor, the seminars also provide ﬁnancial information inProgram and a Senior Employee Program at all group cluding details on the costs required to sustain full recompanies in Japan. The purpose of these programs is tirement. These learning opportunities have been well to provide retirement-age employees with employment received by participants. opportunities, and to eﬀectively utilize the skills and know-how that these individuals have accumulated over the course of their careers. The system enables employees that wish to work past the age of retirement to Environmental Initiatives continue using their career skills and expertise within the Casio group. Each year, Casio holds Life Planning Seminars for employees who have just reached age 53 or age 58. The seminars cover topics such as the pension system, as well as living costs, taxes, and health after retirement. This provides participants with an awareness of these issues while they are still working, and helps them plan their post-retirement lives. Taught by an outside instrucLife Planning Seminars Prioritizing local hiring and promotion at subsidiaries outside Japan Along with the globalization of its operations, Casio is local conditions in each country, as a truly global comPhilosophy and Management actively pursuing local hiring at its sites outside Japan. pany. This is being done not just in manufacturing, but The aim is to promote management that is responsive to also in various other ﬁelds. ■ Number of Casio Group employees Number of Casio Group employees Casio Group employees by region (FY2011) (Number of employees) Japan Americas Europe Asia Total number of 15,000 Casio Group employees Americas 2% 11,522 （12,358） （12,247） 12,000 （11,522） Europe 6% 4,953 4,997 5,415 9,000 651 713 Number of 263 730 employees 6,000 263 by region 269 Asia Japan 44% (as of March 31, 2011) 47% 6,491 6,274 5,108 3,000 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * This includes only regular employees. 20 Creating Supportive Workplaces Casio creates work environments and systems that enable all employees to demonstrate their full potential. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Initiatives to help employees balance work and family life Casio is working to build a supportive work environment nursing care. Casioʼs programs for child care support that permits all employees to fulﬁll their job responsibilisurpass legal requirements in Japan. During the threeties and demonstrate their full potential on the job. Cayear period from ﬁscal 2008 through 2010, over 90% of sio aims to be a place where people can achieve their the eligible women at Casio Computer Co., Ltd., took desires for their own lifestyles and life stages. As part of childcare leave in connection with childbirth. this eﬀort, Casio has set up a Special Committee on As a result of these initiatives, in July 2009, the JapaMeasures to Aid the Nurturing of the Next Generation of nese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare granted Children. Through the exchange of information between Casio the Kurumin mark for helping to foster the next the company and union, and while also considering the generation. This certiﬁcation recognizes Casio as a comopinions of employees, the committee is working to pany that actively supports employeesʼ eﬀorts to balbuild an employee support system that adjusts work ance their work and family lives. schedules for family responsibilities such as child and ■ Number of employees taking childcare leave / returning from childcare leave (Casio Computer Co., Ltd.) Environmental Initiatives FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Number of employees taking childcare leave 26 32 30 Number of employees returning from childcare leave 25 31 30 Kurumin mark for helping to Return rate 96.2% 96.9% 100.0% foster the next generation Discussion meeting on work-life balance Main employee leave programs Program Description Employees can accumulate a maximum of 30 unused vacation days to carry over to the following year, but which Vacation Day Accumulation will expire at the end of that year. The leave days can be used if the employee gets sick or injured, or in order to Philosophy and Management care for a family member. Refresh Leave This program grants ﬁve days of leave for every 10 years worked. An employee can take this leave until the day before the child turns one year and six months, or until March 31 Childcare Leave after the child turns one. The employee can also reduce working hours, up to two hours per day, from the time that the employee returns to work until the child completes grade three of elementary school. An employee can obtain up to one year of nursing care leave per eligible family member. After that, the employee Nursing Care Leave can also reduce working hours, up to two hours per day, as long as the reason for nursing care leave continues. Re-employment of Employees that Retire This program enables the re-hiring of employees that retire in order to give birth, care for a child, or care for a for Childcare or Nursing Care Reasons family member, when they are ready to come back to work. An employee with a child that has not yet completed grade three of elementary school, can take up to ﬁve days Child Nursing Care Leave oﬀ per year (or ten days when there are two or more eligible children) in order to care for the child when sick or injured, or in order to take the child for vaccinations or medical appointments. Hourly Leave Employees can take their annual paid leave in hourly increments, for a maximum of ﬁve days per year. Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Vacation Day Accumulation: Earthquake exceptional measures (2) When an employee intended to serve as a volunteer Casio made accumulated vacation days usable in the folsupporting the disaster-aﬀected area lowing situations as a measure in response to the earthquake disaster. Furthermore, in this case, accumulated Work structure in response to scheduled blackouts vacation days were allowed to be taken even if all of an In response to scheduled blackouts during working employeeʼs annual paid vacation had not been used yet. hours implemented as a result of the earthquake disas(Usually, accumulated vacation days cannot be taken ter, Casio introduced a staggered time schedule includuntil all annual paid vacation days have been used.) ing 1-2 hour ﬂexes in addition to the usual work system (1) When an employee or his/her family was aﬄicted by as a temporary measure in order to make the most efthe disaster and the employeeʼs help was needed to ﬁcient use of time so that work would not back up and evacuate from the area or for recovery development lag behind in each department. 21 Effectively appointing and deploying employees Casio works to maintain a healthy corporate culture where fairness is valued in all promotion decisions. The company uses a merit-driven system combined with a performance-based approach to evaluate employees and determine compensation. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Policy for fair evaluation and compensation Based ﬁrmly on a foundation of fairness, Casio aims to within their roles. continuously improve its human resource system in In addition to the above policy, Casio will place a prelight of changes in the social environment. Within that mium on the six points of view listed below as it pushes system, the present basic human resources policy ahead with innovative personnel measures. By taking combines a role-based system that grades individual this approach, Casio aims to strike the optimal balance employees based on the extent of their roles with a between the growth and revitalization of society and the performance-based approach to evaluation and comexpansion and growth of the company. pensation based mainly on outcomes of job performance ● Respect of will: Grant signiﬁcance to the individualʼs ● Right person for the right job: Reﬂect individual wishes will and intentions in job requests Environmental Initiatives ● Human resources development: Create opportunities for ● Priority distribution: Distribute limited management the acquisition of knowledge and skills needed in work resources as eﬃciently as possible ● Signiﬁcance of abilities: Grant signiﬁcance to abilities ● Stable employment: Strive to create workplaces where demonstrated through work employees can work according to their abilities Education for fair evaluation and compensation Casio provides newly appointed managers with evaluato managers during training sessions to encourage contor training in an eﬀort to improve their evaluation, leadtinual improvement. An overview of the evaluation and ership, and interviewing skills. Additionally, all managers compensation system is posted on the company intraare evaluated by their colleagues and subordinates net to keep all employees thoroughly informed about about once every three years. The results are fed back this system. Philosophy and Management Overview of human resource development Casio has various human resource development proby oﬀ-the-job (oﬀ-JT) training to provide theoretical grams designed to develop creative employees who are knowledge. In recent years, the training system has been eager to take on challenges and to train professionals improved to ensure even more eﬀective, eﬃcient skill with early tracking into specialized ﬁelds. development via a broader choice of training courses. Casio aims to develop professionals in the form of strategic generalists who pass on the companyʼs corpo■ Training participants rate culture, and technical specialists who pass on the (Number of employees) Participants Percentage of total employees 2,500 70% companyʼs unique technology and know-how. For this 2,200 60% purpose, based on the convictions that people grow through their work and that the source of growth is per1,900 50% sonal motivation, Casio helps employees improve their 1,600 40% skills by providing environments that enable them to 1,300 30% overcome challenges through personal determination and eﬀort. 1,000 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 20% Accordingly, the company emphasizes on-the-job (OJT) training to improve practical skills, complemented 22 Main human resource development programs ● Career Challenge System ● Skill Selective Training This system lets employees periodically register their The training targets all regular employees, for the objective careers, skills, and personal challenges with the compaof eﬀectively and eﬃciently acquiring diverse skills required ny, and serves as an important reference for assisting for work operations, in a training program that allows emResponsibilities to Stakeholders managers to determine policies on developing their subployees to select from a large variety of training courses. ordinates and future placement planning. ● Techno Power ● Career Challenge: Advanced This is a technology exhibition held annually for the obThis program preferentially places employees who have jective of stimulating engineers, and of sharing and acbeen in their current career position for a rather long cumulating technology, serving as a place for recogniztime and hope to challenge themselves to pursue work ing technology superiority, patentability, completeness, environments and careers that require new skills, for the and other in-house advanced technology. objective of self-improvement and making further contributions to the company, in their desired divisions, if ● Advanced Technology Seminars their desires meet the needs of the new department. These are in-house seminars mainly targeting engineers, using case studies of innovators at other companies ● Group-wide Job Posting System who were able to develop revolutionary new manufacThis system seeks to satisfy both the companyʼs busituring methods and create new businesses, for the obness needs and employeesʼ career paths, and is a projective of understanding advanced technology trends gram for priority placement of suitable people, based on and of fostering a development mindset and the will to Environmental Initiatives selection of candidates for jobs which the company oftake on challenges. fers. It is operated jointly with other Casio group companies. ● Intrapreneurship Program Casio established its Intrapreneurship Program in April ● New Employee Training, Follow-up Training, Career 2010 to foster the desire to take on challenges and exDevelopment Training pand opportunities for new business development. The Training for young employees becomes a place for program allows individual employees to make their own learning the basics of being a Casio employee, and ofbusiness proposals to top management. Those employfers opportunities for employees to consider their own ees whose proposals are approved as management career paths, with training for new entrants as well as themes become the project leaders, and then work to one-year and three-year employees. realize the goals they proposed. ■ Training system OJT Off-JT Award system and Philosophy and Management Measures to train Measures for Training for Training for other incentives existing workers Skill selective Other to make them professionals proper placement selected employees speciﬁc job grade training Division Manager Consulting Engineer Rank 4 Multi Evaluation System for Managers Department Manager Department Manager Senior Engineer Rank 3 Career Training Advanced Technology Seminars / Language Training / Correspondence Education Section Manager Section Manager Advisory Engineer Rank 2 Career Training New Manager Training Chief Engineer Rank 1 Multi Evaluation System for Leaders Training for Patent Each Department / Award Ventures Assessment of G3 Career Training Professional Ability Techno Program G3 Job Performance Career Career Job System Career Skill Selective Power / Roadmap Challenge: Challenge Posting Presidentʼs Advanced System System Training Sales Training G3 Candidate System for Engineers Award Development Training Multi Evaluation System G2 Evaluation for Regular Employees System OJT-MAP Career Development G1-2 Training Follow-up Training T G1-1 Assessment of Job Performance New Employee Training Right person for the right job The Career Challenge System, Career Challenge: AdAdditionally, career interviews are conducted with those vanced System, and Job Posting System are oﬀered who desire one and support provided as appropriate every year, and the company strives to place the right when employees consider their career direction. people in the right jobs by valuing employeesʼ intentions. 23 Initiatives for Health and Safety Casio undertakes various measures to maintain and enhance the health of all employees and prevent occupational injuries. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Approach and policies Based on Japanʼs Industrial Safety and Health Act, variand enhance employee health and to prevent occupaous other legal requirements, and Casioʼs employment tional injuries and eliminate any chance of recurrence if regulations, the entire Casio Group is dedicated to buildone does occur. Similar measures have been adopted at ing an environment which ensures that all employees group companies outside Japan in compliance with each can work with peace of mind. Casio strives to maintain nationʼs laws and regulations. Occupational health and safety activities Casio has established Occupational Safety and Health all they can to keep employees physically and mentally Committees in all of its business locations. The commithealthy and to ensure occupational safety. Committee teesʼ industrial physicians, occupational health managactivities are reported to employees via the intranet. ers, and labor and management representatives design Casio also runs campaigns to raise employee awareness Environmental Initiatives and implement policies tailored to each workplace, doing about occupational safety and health. Initiatives for managing and promoting employee health Casio goes beyond employee health management. It es featuring a balance of calories and nutrition. Wellness also seeks, by taking active measures to promote better Fairs are also held at all Casio cafeterias. Casio holds health, to improve employee motivation and raise “employee cafeteria conferences” attended by the emproductivity. ployees and medical staﬀ of company sites as well as Employees receive regular health checks that are those who run its cafeterias. The purpose of the meetmore thorough than legally mandated, in order to mainings is to report and share information on conditions tain and enhance their health and to help prevent lifeand initiatives in diﬀerent regions, in order to create style-related diseases. An increased number of indusmenus that meet needs and develop recommendations trial physicians have been stationed at principal Casio for improving employee health. Philosophy and Management sites, and careful health management activities are being carried out, including oﬀering health guidance to employees after their regular health checks. In the eﬀort to prevent lifestyle-related illnesses, Casio is promoting initiatives that focus on exercise and healthy eating. From September to November every year, Casio holds a Walking Campaign at its sites across Japan: 2,809 people participated in ﬁscal 2011. In this way, Casio is providing opportunities for employees and their families to improve their health through exercise. The employee cafeterias provide healthy menu choicHealthy menu selections in the cafeteria Initiative to prevent working long hours Casio is carrying out an initiative to prevent the damagand provides the person with advice and guidance. In ing health eﬀects to the brain or heart which can be this way, Casio is working to prevent health problems caused by accumulated fatigue due to long working from overwork, and to ensure employees observe aphours. In order to ensure proper work schedules, all empropriate working hours. Going forward, Casio will keep ployees that work 80 hours or more of overtime in a working to transform the employee mindset, encouragmonth must be interviewed by an industrial physician. The ing the adoption of more productive working styles. physician then checks the employeeʼs health condition, 24 Mental health care initiatives Casio has established a mental health education system In addition, Casio has an in-house mental health physito support the mental health of its employees. cian and an external Physical and Mental Health Hotline As part of this system, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., has in place to offer counseling in and outside the initiated an e-Learning Program, a Self-Checkup, and a company. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Stress Test by Organization for all its employees. A In ﬁscal 2011, Casio prepared to establish the same separate e-Learning Program and a Program for Managkind of support system for group companies in Japan, in ers have also been created for those in leadership posiorder to ensure that all group employees can perform tions. All of these programs are designed to improve their jobs in good health. awareness of mental health issues. Quit smoking campaign Under Japanʼs Health Promotion Act that came into efance Association have been cooperating in the fect in 2003, smoking is prohibited in all company buildimplementation of a concrete Quit Smoking Encourageings. Staring in ﬁscal 2011, Casio and its Health Insurment Program that uses stop smoking aid products. Safety initiatives Environmental Initiatives Casio is committed to the goal of zero occupational injuﬁre and disaster prevention/evacuation drills, as well as ries and operates regular safety programs with the aim general lifesaving classes to ensure emergency preof maintaining an accident-free record at all Casio work paredness. The company has made good progress on sites. equipping worksites with automatic external deﬁbrillaIn addition, each site and group company conducts tors (AEDs) and other emergency equipment. ■ Occupational injuries at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. (in the last five years) Injury frequency rate*1 Injury severity rate*2 (FY) Casio Manufacturers Casio Manufacturers FY2007 1.11 1.02 0.027 0.110 (Jan.­Dec. 2006) FY2008 Philosophy and Management 0.33 1.09 0.004 0.100 (Jan.­Dec. 2007) FY2009 0.51 1.12 0.005 0.100 (Jan.­Dec. 2008) FY2010 0.19 0.99 0.001 0.080 (Jan.­Dec. 2009) FY2011 0.20 0.98 0.001 0.090 (Jan.­Dec. 2010) *1 Number of deaths and injuries, per 1 million actual cumulative working hours, resulting from occupational accidents. *2 Work days lost per 1,000 actual cumulative working hours; indicates accident severity * The term “occupational injuries” here includes injuries or illnesses (requiring at least 1 day oﬀ work) and deaths of workers in connection with the performance of their jobs. 25 Local Communities Responsibilities to Stakeholders Social Contribution Activities Striving to be a model corporate citizen, Casio makes the most of its unique know-how and management resources to fulﬁll its various social responsibilities. Philosophy on Social Contribution Aiming to help create a healthy, generous society, Casio is earnestly engaged in a variety of social contribution ■ Casio’s social contribution priorities initiatives. Casio takes good corporate citizenship literEducation of ally, so its process for determining the most useful the next things to do is guided by communication with various generation stakeholders. The ﬁve priority themes of Casioʼs social contribution initiatives are outlined in the ﬁgure below. Study Culture and Leveraging its unique know-how and management reand arts Casioʼs social research Environmental Initiatives contribution sources as well as the wide range of knowledge and expriorities perience possessed by its employees, Casio fulﬁlls its social responsibilities in its own innovative way. Going forward, Casio will continue to provide assistance Community Environmental to people suﬀering in the aftermath of the Great East Jaservice conservation pan Earthquake. Casio also plans to make sure that its social contribution initiatives target global challenges. Raising up the next generation Factory tours, classes in the company, and school visits In 2004, Kofu Casio started the “Factory Tours for 10,000 People” educational program with the aim of givPhilosophy and Management ing children awareness through factory tours that can help link “family connectedness,” “the power of science,” People are very interested in and “the realization of dreams” with “the power to live.” the “Factory Tours for 10,000 In 2007, Casio started an original educational program People” program, which enables visitors to observe and for elementary school students including school visits experience things for themand classes oﬀered at the Hachioji R&D Center. selves. The school visit program is roughly divided into three parts. The ﬁrst part covers the importance of life through “connectedness, creativity, and emotional growth.” In the second part the students take apart and then reassemble a calculator to learn about environmentally friendly product technology. In the ﬁnal segment, the instructor explains the importance of protecting the global environThe Hachioji R&D Center regment with speciﬁc examples. The program is designed to ularly holds classes for Casio employees and their family help the children think for themselves, to understand the members. importance of empathy, kindness, goodwill, and a smile, and to foster generosity of spirit by raising awareness. The classes oﬀered at the Hachioji R&D Center are focused more on environmental initiatives. Touring the facilities at the Hachioji R&D Center, one of the most advanced environmentally friendly business sites in the Casio Group, gives children an experience intended to promote their awareness and understanding of the The school visit program is ofneed to protect the global environment. fered for students from kindergarten through university. 26 The school visit program is oﬀered for students from the Eco-Products exhibition in Japan in ﬁscal 2010. In kindergarten through university and has been spreading ﬁscal 2011, two elementary schools exhibited. around the country. In ﬁscal 2011, these learning opWhat is more, Nagatadai Elementary School in Yokoportunities were provided to a total of 1,932 students at hama, Kanagawa Prefecture, which became involved 45 schools. through Casioʼs school visit program, declared its desire In fiscal 2011, Casio started offering cooperative to become a UNESCO Associated School in order to Responsibilities to Stakeholders classes with several universities aﬃliated with NGOs/ engage actively in Education for Sustainable DevelopNPOs. These classes give college students a chance to ment (ESD). In ﬁscal 2011, the school was the ﬁrst eleinteract directly with the public and are also used to give mentary school in Kanagawa Prefecture to obtain certistudents hoping to become educators someday some ﬁcation from UNESCO. experience with teaching. Taking the ESD initiatives recommended by Japanʼs After these activities, the students have held their own Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and summits to discuss issues such as life, peace, human Technology seriously, Casio will continue expanding rights, poverty, and the environment, and multiple elementhese initiatives in collaboration with educational institutary schools have rolled out interesting social initiatives. tions in the future. One elementary school became the ﬁrst to exhibit at Message from a school principal I was recently transferred to Nagatadai Elechildrenʼs self-conﬁdence by letting people mentary School. Thinking that I would really know about their initiatives. When we conﬁne like the children here to experience the class our thinking to just within the school, our efEnvironmental Initiatives oﬀered by Mr. Hiroshi Wakao of Casio Comforts tend to get stuck in a dead end, and so puter Co., Ltd., I asked him to conduct a I asked Mr. Wakao for broad-ranging advice. school visit. Mr. Wakaoʼs continued involvement has For a long time children in the individual helped to broaden and deepen the childrenʼs support class at Nagatadai Elementary School learning. Seeing how he interacts in earnest have grown plants outside the building to crewith the children and keeps talking to them, ate green curtains that keep the building cool the teaching staﬀ too has obtained new inin summer, recycled vegetable peels and rain sights and strengthened its dedication to edMasaharu Sumita, Principal water, and undertaken other sustainable pracucation. This has also led to forward-thinking Nagatadai Elementary tices. I really wanted to exhibit these eﬀorts at eﬀorts within Kanagawa Prefecture, such as School the Eco-Products exhibition. our membership in the UNESCO Associated I hoped that the exhibition would boost the Schools. I am very grateful. Message from an NPO “3.11”̶I think that this great disaster Wakao together with the things that I am determined to give my best in Philosophy and Management has become a major turning point not we have gained from our actions on all our endeavors from here on, not just for individuals, but also for corpothe ground in Cambodia to as many just public awareness campaigns. rations and NGOs/NPOs. It has children in Japan as possible has been changed their values and altered the a very valuable experience for us. course of disaster support. Corporations and NPOs̶although Through the cooperation of Mr. their standpoints are diﬀerent, I think Wakao of Casio Computer Co., Ltd., that having been able to work on a my NGO, People for the Advancement public awareness campaign together of Cambodian Education, has had opbecame a trigger for the further exportunities to give lectures at elemenpansion of our initiatives. I believe that tary schools and at the Japan Internathis overlaps exactly the spectacle of tional Cooperation Agency (JICA). the Japanese people, of NGOs/NPOs, “Children have the power to change and of corporations groping for what Noriko Takahashi the world of adults.” Being able to that each could do and then taking People for the Advancement of Cambodian communicate these words from Mr. action in response to the disaster. Education Employee message Children have unlimited possibilities and high ments on life and fostered awareness and aspirations. They have a great deal of power aspirations engage on their own with peace, to change the world of adults. Children will human rights, poverty or environmental initiaeventually become the leaders of society. We tives. Efforts to foster children who can should help them to build a more sustainable change society for the better by thinking and world by giving them early sentiments on acting for themselves are important as a cor“life,” which is the starting point of living. That porate social responsibility. From here on, we Hisashi Wakao is why we place value on the “Class on Life.” will work even harder on this, as a core part of CSR Promotion Oﬃce Children who have had contact with sentiour CSR initiatives. 27 Academic Research Support for the Casio Science Promotion Foundation 2011 the Foundation established 3 special topics conCasio is contributing to the development of science and sidered to be important based on recent social trends: technology by supporting the Casio Science Promotion miniaturization and energy-saving technology; electronic Foundation. devices for the maintenance and improvement of health; Responsibilities to Stakeholders and human intellectual progress in an IT society. About the Foundation After a rigorous selection process, ¥44.00 million (34 The Casio Science Promotion Foundation was estabgrants) was awarded in the natural sciences, and ¥6.75 lished in 1982 by the four Kashio brothers and the formillion (5 grants) was awarded in the cultural sciences. mer chairman, Shigeru Kashio. Over the last 28 years, the Foundation has provided a The Foundation provides research grants with the total of about ¥1,332 million in 1,053 grants. principle objective of fostering pioneering and creative research in the early stages by young researchers who Message from a grant recipient are persevering with challenging research on limited Thank you very much for the research grant from funding. This is based on the philosophy that advanced the Casio Science Promotion Foundation. I am R&D should be promoted in various ﬁelds, in order to grateful to the selection committee and everyone fulﬁll the Foundationʼs mission of helping Japan contribinvolved. My research is concerned with energy-related materials. Since the energy ﬁeld is a pressing ute to the world as a nation of advanced technology. issue, there is a tendency merely to improve on existing research and to neglect basic research. In Grants in fiscal 2011 this context, Casio was bold enough to understand In addition to its 21 basic categories in 5 ﬁelds, in ﬁscal the value of my extremeEnvironmental Initiatives ly challenging proposal, Relief for the Great East Japan Earthquake which could be seen as a privilege of academics. I The Casio Science Promotion Foundation donated will work at developing 10 million yen to three universities in the Tohoku an innovative energy region that were severely damaged in the earthdevice so that it can help quake disaster in order to support the earliest posin the restoration of sible recovery of university research. Japan. I ask for your Recipients: Tohoku University: 5 million yen Jun Matsui, Assistant Professor continued guidance and Institute of Multidisciplinary ReTohoku Gakuin University: 2 million yen encouragement in the search for Advanced Materials, Fukushima University: 3 million yen future. Tohoku University Environmental Conservation Philosophy and Management Tree planting events Casio Electronics (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., has been participating in tree planting events since six years ago with the aim of mutual harmony and beneﬁt between the global environment and the local community. In April 2011, 32 employees participated in the 2011 Green Universiade* Memorial Tree Planting Event, planting 25 jacaranda trees in the Longcheng Park in Shenzhenʼs Longgang District. The event helped the company build good relationships with community residents and 2011 Green Universiade Memorial Tree Planting Event heighten solidarity among employees. * An environmentally friendly Universiade hosted in Shenzhen, China in August 2011. Culture and the arts By sponsoring symphony orchestras and cultural facili● Sponsorship of the NHK Symphony Orchestra ties, Casio provides people with opportunities to feel ● Sponsorship of the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra delight and deep emotion and promotes the develop● Sponsorship of the Maison de la culture du Japon à ment of culture and the arts. Paris (Institute of Japanese Culture in Paris), and more 28 Local community initiatives Establishment of a Casio Technology Course in a manuThe ﬁrst graduates of the Casio Technology Course facturing technical school and acceptance of trainees are anticipated to join the company in June 2011, and In 2009, Casio Electronic Technology (Zhongshan) Co., Casio has expectations that they will become candidates Ltd., established a Casio Technology Course in a manufor production line leaders in the future. Responsibilities to Stakeholders facturing technical school in Hunan province through an agreement with the school. The purpose of the course is Support for Cherry Marathon in Higashine City to contribute to the community by training engineers and Yamagata Casio has been supporting the Cherry Maratechnicians in a developing region of Chinaʼs interior, and thon in Higashine City since 2004. The companyʼs intento give students who wish to work at Casio an opportution is to become an enterprise that is appreciated by nity to join the company. The course currently has 309 the local residents not only for its corporate activities, students in six classrooms. In addition to manufacturing but also for its contribution to the local community and technical education, the students are provided with skills Higashine City. training in the assembly of Casio products using assemAt the ninth annual marathon held in 2010, Yamagata bly practice equipment provided by the company and Casio provided prizes as a corporate sponsor and set up code of conduct education using Casioʼs work rules. a sales booth. About 60 Yamagata Casio employees also Additionally, Casio provides in-house practical training participated in the event as runners, cheering squad for students during summer and winter vacations. A tomembers, and route volunteers. tal of 1,660 students have completed the practical training as of March 2011. Environmental Initiatives Casio Technology Course opening celebration Yamagata Casio booth Others Product disassembly and separation work contracted to Philosophy and Management a welfare workspace them a high sense of Aiming to be a company that is good for people and fulﬁllment. Casio has reenvironmentally friendly, Casio Business Service Co., ceived reports that the Ltd., contracts disassembly and separation work of Caability to concentrate sio products to a welfare workspace operated by a soand the self-conﬁdence cial welfare corporation as part of its recycling initiatives gained here spreads in product disposal. into workerʼs everyday The workers have rated the work contracted by Casio, lives and helps shape which handles a great variety of products, as giving them as citizens. Disassembly work Support for Jewelers for Children Relief efforts for disaster victims Casio America, Inc., has supported Jewelers for Children When a major natural disaster strikes, Casio provides since 2010. relief to disaster victims, as well as support for rapid Jewelers for Children (JFC) is an NPO established in post-disaster reconstruction. 1999 by the US jewelry industry. It manages a fund used ● Relief after the 2010 Yushu earthquake in China to help children ﬁghting intractable diseases and chilCasio made the following donations for the relief of dren who have faced abuse and similar hardships. Since people suﬀering in the aftermath of the major earthits inception, JFC has donated more than $35 million to quake that struck Yushu prefecture, Qinghai province, support the sound deChina in April 2010: velopment of children. Amount: 1.5 million yen from Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and 1.0 million yen from Casioʼs local sales subsidiaries in China Donated through the Japanese Red Cross Society and the local Red Cross Society 29 Environmental Initiatives Environmental Vision Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Management at Casio: The Road to 2050 Casio is working hard to help build a sustainable society. Its initiatives, based on the Casio Environmental Vision, adopt a long-term perspective with a target date of 2050. Environmental Management Policy Casioʼs goal is to help build a more sustainable world while contributing to the creation of new markets and cultural phenomenon by developing compact, lightweight, slim, and energy-eﬃcient products. Yukio Kashio Executive Vice President & Representative Director On behalf of everyone at Casio, I would like to take this Environmental Initiatives opportunity to express our heartfelt condolences to the victims of the recent Great East Japan Earthquake and to be achieved by 2020 in order to stop the loss of biotheir families. We oﬀer our sincere hopes for a speedy diversity. The Nagoya Protocol was also adopted, which recovery and reconstruction. sets out methods for the acquisition and handling of The earthquake also resulted in a series of ﬁres, nuclear genetic resources and the distribution of their beneﬁts. meltdowns, and releases of radioactive materials at Speciﬁc initiatives are now needed for the protection several reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power of biodiversity. Station operated by the Tokyo Electric Power Company, Since ﬁscal 2010, we have been promoting environand this continuing challenge has yet to be fully resolved. mental management with the objective of building a lowAs a result, on June 1, 2011, the Japanese governcarbon society. Given the recent environmental trends, ment issued power usage restrictions for large power however, starting in ﬁscal 2012 we intend to add the customers (power contracts of 500 kW or more) of the protection of biodiversity as an additional objective of Tokyo Electric Power Company and the Tohoku Electric our environmental management. Casio will take steps to Power Company, based on Article 27 of the Electricity achieve both these objectives. Philosophy and Management Business Act. Energy saving measures are also required for small electrical users and households. In order to improve resource productivity, Casio is Given this situation, Casio is striving to reduce its contributing to both the ﬁght against climate change energy usage in Japan by adopting creative ideas from and the protection of biodiversity by leveraging its employees. Emergency energy-saving measures are expertise in creating products that are compact, lightbeing carried out in various areas in order to ensure a weight, slim and energy efficient, thereby saving rereliable foundation for our business. Casio sites required sources (parts/materials, and plant-derived materials). to restrict power usage based on Article 27 of the ElecIn the future, Casio will continue to undertake the tricity Business Act are taking the necessary measures following two initiatives as it seeks to build its business. to comply with it. 1. Generation of proﬁts and improvement of brand The international COP16 conference on climate power by pursuing superiority over competitorsʼ change was held in Cancun, Mexico in late November products through the improvement of resource and early December 2010, and the Copenhagen Accord productivity. from COP15 was formally adopted. However, regarding ● New green procurement (adding requirements the extension of the Kyoto Protocol to which Japan, relating to biodiversity) Russia, and Canada are opposed, continued discussion is ● Expanding paperless products (electronic dicstill needed while respecting the position of developing tionaries, data projectors, digital cameras, etc.) countries. ● Recycling (investigating and promoting the As for developments in the protection of biodiversity, recycling of rare and precious metals, as well COP10 was held in Nagoya in October 2010. The conas plastics) ference adopted the Aichi Biodiversity Targets, which 2. New environmental businesses outline 20 targets including long-term targets to be ● Introducing products and frameworks that conachieved by 2050 in order to build human societies that tribute to the creation of a paperless culture live in harmony with nature, as well as short-term targets ● Expanding products that care for nature 30 (Outdoor-oriented products: Protrek, EXILIM G, and digiStandards, and conduct supplier surveys based on tal cameras with GPS function, etc.) those standards, following its Biodiversity Guidelines In fiscal 2012, as part of efforts to fight climate established on March 31, 2011. Casio will then conﬁrm change, Casio will establish speciﬁc plans and measures whether its business activities are posing any problems to achieve a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions by ﬁscal for biodiversity. 2021, a target of the Casio Environmental Action Plan Responsibilities to Stakeholders already announced. As part of its activities to protect Through these initiatives, Casio intends to strengthen biodiversity, Casio will evaluate the impact of its business its foundation as a leading environmental company, activities on biodiversity, revise its Green Procurement while helping to build a more sustainable world. ■ New environmental management initiatives Starting in ﬁscal 2012 Increasing need for environmental management Environmental management Building a low-carbon society Preserving biodiversity Proﬁt creation through carbon control Starting in ﬁscal 2010 Green Star Products Environmental 1. Increasing resource productivity Green IT management and creating proﬁts Building a low-carbon Environmental Initiatives New green procurement society Paperless products Recycling 2. New environmental businesses Environmental Creating a paperless society management Products that care for nature Combining environmental protection and proﬁt creation Voluntarily reducing Environmental accounting Environmental environmental impact Casio Environmental protection Energy and resource saving Action Plan 3R (reduce, reuse, and Green Products recycle) activities LCA / environmental Measures to help prevent eﬃciency indicators global warming Environmental brands Responding to environEcological and SRI Funds mental regulations Zero emissions achievement Environmental Green procurement Compliance * Contributing to CSR management response ISO 14001 certiﬁcation through environmental management Pollution risk avoidance Philosophy and Management Moving from activities within the company to broader social engagement Casio’s fiscal 2012 environmental management policy for the realization of a sustainable society 1. Response to social environment 2. Investigation of measures to achieve 4. Establishing and executing strategies for changes after the Great East Japan medium and long-term targets for improving environmental management Earthquake (emergency measures) reducing greenhouse gas emissions ● Identifying issues through close ● Performing business activities using ● Establishing a speciﬁc plan for a 30% examination of various stakethe creative ideas of all employees reduction in CO2 emissions compared holder surveys to devise and im● Striving to conserve energy in orto ﬁscal 2006 by ﬁscal 2021, and an plement the necessary measures der to ensure a reliable founda80% reduction by ﬁscal 2051. ● Starting initiatives for the acquisition for the business 3. Promotion of Green Office and Green tion of ISO 26000 certiﬁcation Casio is complying with power usStar Product development 5. Investigation and promotion of initiaage restrictions based on Article tives for the protection of biodiversity ● Promoting paperless products for 27 of the Electricity Business Act, the realization of Green Oﬃces ● Evaluating Casioʼs impact on at sites designated as large con● Enhancing technologies to develop biodiversity tract power users of 500 kW or Green Star Products that are more ● Reﬂecting ﬁndings in the Green more within the service areas of compact, lightweight, slim and enProcurement Standards, and surthe Tokyo Electric Power Company ergy eﬃcient. veying suppliers and the Tohoku Electric Power ● Investigating possibilities for business Company. contribution through products and services that help protect biodiversity 31 Efforts to Fight Climate Change In order to ensure that the next generation inherits this irreplaceable planet, Casio has established and is implementing mediumand long-term targets to ﬁght climate change. Responsibilities to Stakeholders Approach to setting mediumand long-term targets With the establishment of these mediumand long-term means reducing Casioʼs net greenhouse gas emissions targets, Casio intends to reduce its greenhouse gas to zero. Accordingly, Casio has adopted the following emissions signiﬁcantly. Moreover, the company is emEnvironmental Management Policy. phasizing its goal of becoming carbon neutral,*1 which Casio’s goal is to become carbon neutral by leveraging its ability to develop compact, lightweight, slim, and energy-efficient products to create new markets and cultural phenomenon. *1 Casio deﬁnes “carbon neutral” as oﬀsetting its direct CO2 emissions with CO2 emissions reduction and absorption through other methods. Scope of emissions reduction targets reduction eﬀects of Casioʼs eco-products such as data When Casio established its mediumand long-term projectors, electronic dictionaries and other products emissions reduction targets, it also announced the tarthat promote paperless lifestyles. Environmental Initiatives get scope as greenhouse gas emission from business In addition to the CO2 emissions reduction achieved activities at Casioʼs production sites and oﬃces in Japan by the eﬀorts of the Casio group, the target CO2 emisand around the world. Furthermore, Casio is aiming to sions reduction also includes reductions due to the become a carbon neutral company by oﬀsetting its total availability of cleaner energy such as electricity, and due volume of greenhouse gas emissions (including the to carbon reduction in the entire social infrastructure CO2 emissions resulting from logistics, product usage, (see diagram). employee travel, and consignment production) with the ■ CO2 Emissions Reduction Targets Share of reduction from CO2 emissions from business Casioʼs own eﬀorts activities (direct emissions) Philosophy and Management Scope of announced targets Share of reduction from carbon reduction in the social infrastructure CO2 emissions arising from the use of energy-saving products (indirect emissions) CO2 emissions that can be absorbed due to promotion of paperless products (oﬀset amount) Base year Current 2021 target 2051 target 2006 situation Switching to total-volume emission reduction targets ever, with the establishment of its recent mediumand With the setting of global mediumand long-term tarlong-term targets, Casio has now set worldwide targets gets, total-volume emissions reduction targets for for reductions in the total volume of CO2 emissions, greenhouse gases have been established in Japan and which is a change from previous targets for reduction around the world, including reduction targets and emisper unit of production. sion trading systems. Casio has now ﬁnished the move The base year for Casioʼs mediumand long-term tarto total-volume emissions reduction targets. gets is ﬁscal 2006, decided based on changes in Casioʼs Casio had already set targets for the total volume of business structure, as well as the scope and accuracy of greenhouse gas reduction at its oﬃces worldwide. Howdata acquisition. 32 Carbon neutral calculation examples Casio calculates the amount of CO2 emitted during the Casio is looking into trial calculations for its reduction of manufacture and use of these products, as well as the greenhouse gases based on the use of Casioʼs ecoamount of CO2 absorbed by the trees not harvested to products and, in particular, products encouraging the make the paper saved by these products. When these transition to a paperless society. two amounts are equal, the products are considered Casioʼs current target products for this paperless inicarbon neutral. Responsibilities to Stakeholders tiative are data projectors and electronic dictionaries. Mediumand long-term targets Casio group’s mediumand long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction Medium-term target: To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 30% compared to ﬁscal 2006, by ﬁscal 2021 Long-term target: To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 80% compared to ﬁscal 2006, by ﬁscal 2051. * Business activities: This indicates activities of production sites and oﬃces in Japan and overseas, and does not include CO2 emissions from logistics, product usage, or employee travel. Environmental Initiatives Measures for achieving mediumand long-term targets In order to achieve its mediumand long-term targets 2. Utilization of clean energy for ﬁscal 2021 and 2051, Casio will steadily promote the Casio will work to create products and systems following three points relating to initiatives for greenusing energy sources that are easy on people and house gas reduction, taken from the ﬁve points of the the planet. Casio Environmental Declaration. 3. Adoption of renewable energy in business activities 1. CO2 reduction and absorption Casio will undertake its business activities based on In order to contribute to the realization of a lowthe adoption of renewable energy resources such carbon society, Casio will work to create products as solar, wind, and water-powered energy. that reduce CO 2 and systems that absorb CO 2 more than ever before. Philosophy and Management Measures for 2020 Casio is studying the potential of the following initiatives 3. Utilizing carbon offsets to achieve the medium-term target for 2020. It will also Purchasing carbon oﬀsets for products strive to assess as quickly as possible their potential to Promoting tree planting and greening help meet the 2050 target. Emissions trading, Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), and Joint Implementation (JI) 1 Response to social environment changes after the Great East Japan Earthquake 4. Reduction of CO2 emissions in various business activity Responding to energy issues processes Introducing renewable energy sources Materials procurement, product manufacturing, transport and distribution, product usage, recy2. Environmental contribution through product usage cling, and disposal Reducing the amount of electricity used by Expansion of the scope of CO2 emission data gathproducts ering on logistics, transport eﬃciency improvement, Minimizing and optimizing the amount of product and modal shift packaging Making production facilities more energy eﬃcient, Increasing the percentage of products that run and improving production processes on solar cells CO2 absorption eﬀect based on the expansion of pa5. Saving energy and increasing the percentage of non-fossil perless products (reducing demand for logging, etc.) fuels used at sites Installation of LED lighting Installation of solar panels Installation of highly efficient air conditioning equipment 33 Green Star Products Casioʼs Green Star Products oﬀer even greater environmental performance than Casioʼs conventional products. Green Star Product concept Responsibilities to Stakeholders In order to minimize the environmental impact of its and in that year the company achieved 84%. products, Casio is promoting the development of enviWith the achievement of this target, Casio decided to ronmentally friendly products in every aspect of planning create even stricter criteria and implement more speand design. cific, detailed assessments. Qualifying products are In 1993, Casio began product assessment in order to certiﬁed as Green Star Products, representing the best systematize and promote its development of eco of Casio Green Products. This ensures that Casioʼs products. New products had to undergo a preliminary products continue to set the bar higher and drive the assessment for their environmental impact and meet realization of a sustainable society. certain criteria in order to be certiﬁed as Casio Green For the convenience of customers, Casio indicates inProducts. Prior to ﬁscal 2008, Casio worked towards an formation about environmental features in catalogs and initial Green Product sales target of 80% of total sales, on packaging of the Green Star Products. Green Star Mark Environmental Initiatives The Green Star mark is used according to the strict requirements of the Casio Green Star Mark Operation This mark indicates a product that was developed in accordance with the Manual. Green Star Concept. Casio Green Star Products See the product lineups that were certiﬁed as Casio product examples). Green Star Products in fiscal 2011 (photos show ■ Calculator ■ Electronic dictionary Philosophy and Management DS-2DT XD-B8500 ■ Digital camera ■ Data projector EX-Z3000 XJ-M255 34 ■ Electronic musical instrument ■ Watch Responsibilities to Stakeholders AP-420 OCW-T1000 ■ Page printer ■ Handheld terminal GE5000 IT-300 Environmental Initiatives Share of Casio Green Star Products in total sales: Performance and targets In ﬁscal 2010, Casio set a target of a 30% sales ratio of target two years ahead of schedule. A new target has Casio Green Star Products to be achieved by fiscal been set in ﬁscal 2012, and Casio is aiming for even 2013. The result in ﬁscal 2011 was 42%, hitting the greater improvements. Concept for Green Star Product expansion and designation standard In order to develop more Green Star Products, Casio is on the Casio Green Star Concept, which calls for low strengthening initiatives at each stage of the product environmental impact across the lifecycle. lifecycle. Casio addresses environmental issues based Philosophy and Management ■ Casio Green Star Concept diagram ■ Assessment categories ● Develop products with functions that yield very high environmental performance ● Conserve resources through the use of IT Casio Green Star Products Casio Green Products Target: 30% Products that meet the certiﬁcation Products that meet the certiﬁcation standards of the Green Product standards of the Green Product Assessment below Assessment below and meet at least ● Procure safe parts one criterion of the Green Star ● Improve recyclability rate ● An unbroken recycling loop Green Star ● Procure parts with high Product Assessment Design environmental performance ■ Assessment criteria for each product Green Product Assessment Casio Green Star Product Assessment 1. Promotes recycling Green Star Green Star (labeling of materials contained) 1. Power consumption during use reduced by 20% Recycling Procurement 2. Designed for recycling 2. Solar batteries used and Eco Mark acquired 3. Components of products can be 3. Use of solar batteries and long-life structure separated, disassembled 4. Improved recyclability 4. Comes with a 10-year battery and long-life structure 5. Reduced resource volume 5. Body volume reduced by 20% or more Casio Green Star 6. Reduced resource weight 6. Weight reduced by 20% or more Product 7. Load ratio reduced by 20% or more due to more C.G.S.P 7. Improved energy eﬃciency compact packaging 8. Regulated use of chemical substances 8. Uses 30% or greater recycled plastic 9. Recyclability of batteries 9. Uses 25% or greater bioplastics Green Star Green Star 10. Recycling label on batteries 10. Contains no speciﬁc hazardous chemical substances Logistics Factories (polyvinyl chloride) 11. Improvement of 10% or more over the conventional ratio 11. Regulatory compliance based on as LCA environmental assessment 12. Components of packaging can be 12. Improvement of 10% or more over the conventional ratio separated, disassembled based on product environmental eﬃciency 13. Regulated use of packaging materials 13. Has functions that make considerable contributions to environmental performance ● Use transport methods with high environmental eﬃciency Green Star ● Ensure factories have strong environmental performance 14. Preserves the natural environment When products meet the Green Production standards and also fulﬁll a criterion above. ● Optimize loading eﬃciency Packing ● Transition to renewable energy 90 points or more, out of a total 100 points possible * Casio Green Star Product certiﬁcation standards may vary for some products. * These standards will be periodically revised to keep pace with environmental advances. ● Optimize packaging for loading eﬃciency ● Adopt packaging with excellent 3R features 35 Biodiversity This section introduces Casioʼs initiatives for preserving biodiversity. Casio’s approach to biodiversity preservation Responsibilities to Stakeholders The 10th Conference of Parties to the Convention on for the entire Casio Group, as part of step 1 on this isBiological Diversity (COP10) was held in Nagoya, Japan sue in its Environmental Action Plan. Next, the company in October 2010. At this important international conferwill take steps 2 and 3 in order to preserve biodiversity ence for resolving issues related to preserving the abunand the services provided by ecosystems. dance of life on this planet, the following measures were ● Step 1: Establish a Casio Biodiversity Activity Policy and adopted. Guidelines (Recently completed) • New Strategic Biodiversity Plan (2020), and the Aichi ● Step 2: Evaluate levels of biodiversity impact in all business Biodiversity Targets (2050) areas (by fiscal 2012) • Nagoya Protocol on Access and Beneﬁt-sharing ● Step 3: Implement Casio’s policy themes for the realization In March 2011, Casio established Biodiversity Guidelines of biodiversity preservation (by fiscal 2013) Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines Environmental Initiatives Casio Group Biodiversity Guidelines Basic Policy The Casio Group recognizes that its existence and business activities depend on the beneﬁts aﬀorded by biodiversity, and that these activities also have an impact on biodiversity. Casio emphasizes biodiversity preservation activities as well as eﬀorts to ﬁght climate change. By including biodiversity preservation in environmental management and creating a system for implementation, the Casio Group is working to build a more sustainable world. Speciﬁc Initiatives 1. Business Activities: Casio will help to build a more sustainable world by creating and providing products and services that encourage consumers to care for nature. This will be done by learning from nature and developing technologies that utilize this wisdom. • Facilitating a paperless society • Contributing to resource saving by developing original technology Philosophy and Management • Developing products with care for nature 2. Impact Assessment: Casio will survey and analyze its impact on biodiversity through activities including R&D, design, procurement, manufacturing, logistics, sales, product use, disposal, and recycling, and at its oﬃce and plant locations. It will establish improvement measures and implement them starting with areas of highest environmental impact and beneﬁt. • Actively taking initiatives for proper procurement of parts (leather, wood, paper, etc.) and materials (mineral resources, etc.) that depend on ecosystem services. • Conducting questionnaire surveys across the supply chain in order to check ecosystem protection eﬀorts for parts and materials that make up products. • Establishing impact assessment methods (checklists and indices) for the Casio Group 3. Information Disclosure: Casio will strive to improve social awareness of biodiversity, by actively disclosing the results of its environmental activities. 4. Community Involvement: Casio will actively support activities that contribute to biodiversity preservation by NPOs and NGOs, government agencies, and local citizens. 5. Full Employee Participation: Casio is aiming for activities that involve the participation of all employees, by increasing understanding of biodiversity preservation, and training employees to act on their own initiative. March 31, 2011 Yukio Kashio, Chairman, Casio Environmental Conference 36 Fiscal 2011 Biodiversity Preservation Activities Supporting Exhibitions by the Wild Bird Society of Japan Casio Computer Co., Ltd., supported the 3rd “Interconnections Between Living Things Art Exhibit” held in Tokyo from November 12 to 21, 2010, and the exhibit of Responsibilities to Stakeholders the same name in Nagasaki, held from November 27 to December 6, 2010. The two exhibits were attended by a total of more than 3,000 people. The Casio Group is advancing activities to support Exhibit in the Collaboration biodiversity, fostering the many “interconnections Area (Tokyo) between living things,” including more than 30 million species on this planet. Casio has come together to promote activities to help protect all the irreplaceable living things on this planet and preserve the beneﬁts they aﬀord, while raising public awareness of these eﬀorts. Outdoor exhibit of stained glass with living things (Nagasaki) Activities Starting in Fiscal 2012 Environmental Initiatives • The Beautiful Tama River Forum based on activities in three main sectors: economy, enviCasio will begin support for the Beautiful Tama River ronment, and education/culture. 100 Year Plan, with the aim of revitalizing the area, Activities Receiving Ongoing Support • WWF Japan • ICERC Japan Casio endorses the mission and action principles of the Since the 4th International Dolphin & Whale Conference World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan), which was held in Japan in 1994, Casio has released both oﬃis striving to build a future where people and nature can cial G-SHOCK and Baby-G models to support the Interlive in harmony. Casio also supports the organization as national Dolphin & Whale Eco-research Network. For a corporate member. over a decade, Casio has donated a portion of the watch Philosophy and Management sales to help promote dolphin and whale educational and research activities worldwide through ICERC Japan (International Cetacean Education Research Center). G-SHOCK and Baby-G watches help support the International Dolphin & Whale Eco-Research Network project 37 Environmental Action Plan Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Action Plan (Targets and Performance) Casio sets environmental targets and undertakes environmental initiatives for each ﬁscal year, based on a detailed Environmental Management Policy which takes into account the latest global trends. Environmental Vision for the realization of a sustainable society Casioʼs approach to environmental management is Policy. Please see pages 31-32, “Environmental Vision,” based on its Environmental Vision for the realization of a for more information on the Environmental Vision and sustainable society and its Environmental Management the Environmental Management Policy. Fiscal 2012 Casio Environmental Action Plan Product Targets Environmental Initiatives 1. Development target for eco-products Increase Casio Green Star product sales to 30% of total sales by FY2013. Plant and Business-site Targets 1. Mediumand long-term targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction Medium-term target To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 30% compared to ﬁscal 2006, by ﬁscal 2021 Long-term target To reduce the total volume of global greenhouse gas emissions from business activities by 80% compared Philosophy and Management to ﬁscal 2006, by ﬁscal 2051. * Business activities: This indicates activities of production sites and oﬃces in Japan and overseas, and does not include CO2 emissions from logistics, product usage, or employee travel. 2. Energy conservation targets (electrical power, fuel etc.) Japan production sites Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of actual production by 35%, averaged over 5 years from FY2009 to 2013 (compared to FY 1991). * Actual production is calculated by adjusting the production output by the Bank of Japan Domestic Corporate Goods Price Index for electronic products, based on the policies of the four main electrical and electronics industry associations in Japan Japan office sites Reduce CO2 emissions per unit by 9%, averaged over 5 years from FY2009 to 2013 (compared to FY 1991). Production sites outside Japan Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production by 30% by FY2013 (compared to FY 2005). Office sites outside Japan Reduce CO2 emissions per unit by 3% by FY2013 (compared to FY 2005). 3. Reduction target for greenhouse gases other than CO2 Reduce total emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2 (CO2 equivalent) to below ﬁscal 2001 level by ﬁscal 2013. • Reduce HFC-134a emissions * Replace HFC-134a used in machinery such as dust blowers, with products that use chemical substances that have a lower global warming factor 38 4. Resource conservation targets (water, paper) Japan production sites Reduce water usage per unit of actual production by 25% by ﬁscal 2013 compared to ﬁscal 2001. Production sites outside Japan Responsibilities to Stakeholders Reduce water usage per unit of production by 15% by ﬁscal 2013 compared to ﬁscal 2005. Japan sites Reduce paper usage in oﬃces per unit of sales by 10% by ﬁscal 2013 compared to ﬁscal 2008. 5. Waste reduction targets Japan sites Reduce generation of waste per unit of actual sales by 50% by ﬁscal 2013 compared to ﬁscal 2001. Production sites outside Japan Reduce generation of waste per unit of sales by 30% by ﬁscal 2013 compared to ﬁscal 2005. 6. Volatile organic compound (VOC) reduction target Japan production sites Reduce emissions of VOCs by 30% by ﬁscal 2011 compared to ﬁscal 2001. * 20 types of VOCs are speciﬁed by the four main electrical and electronics industry associations in Japan. Among them, Casio uses 8 types. Environmental Initiatives 7. Hazardous substance phase-out targett Detoxify PCB-containing equipment now in storage as Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO) starts program in each region. • Kofu Casio Co., Ltd: By ﬁscal 2015 * Store stabilizers, including the low concentration capacitors kept at Hachioji R&D Center, until they can be accepted by JESCO. 8. Target for output reduction of PRTR substances Japan production sites Reduce output of PRTR substances per unit of actual production by 40% by ﬁscal 2013 compared to ﬁscal 2004. 9. Green procurement target Achieve 100%*1 green parts*2 procurement rate (all supplied parts are green parts) by ﬁscal 2012. Philosophy and Management *1 Excluding those substances that are within legal limits, if customer request *2 Green parts: Parts and materials that do not contain prohibited substances as designated by Casio 10. Green purchasing target Raise the green purchasing ratio at Japan sites to 75% of total purchases (based on the number of purchases) by ﬁscal 2013. * Applicable to sites using the CATS e-P system 11. Logistics target for the fight against climate change Achieve by 2012 a 22% reduction in CO2 emissions* from logistics in Japan per unit of sales, compared to ﬁscal 2006 * Scope covers processes relating to product sales, not including processes relating to materials procurement and recycling Overall business activity targets 1. Biodiversity preservation target To preserve biodiversity and eco-system services, conduct biodiversity impact surveys in all business areas by ﬁscal 2012, and establish a policy theme 39 Fiscal 2010 Casio Environmental Action Plan Performance Fiscal 2010 Casio Environmental Progress assessment key Performance Action Plan Performance ① Target was achieved and a new, higher target was established. ☆☆☆☆ ② Target was achieved. ☆☆☆ ③ Target not achieved, but steady improvement made over previous ﬁscal year. ☆☆ ④ Making progress toward achieving target and expect results next ﬁscal year and beyond. ☆ ⑤ Same as or worse than base value. ▲ Target Actual Per-unit value per-unit value performance of Performance Progress Theme Target of base year, of target year, per-unit value by the end of assessment etc. etc. for FY2011, etc. FY2011 Product targets Responsibilities to Stakeholders Increase Green Star Product sales 14.2 percentage Raise share of Green Star points remaining to to 30% of total sales by FY2013. 30% 15.8％ 1. Eco-products Product sales in total Maintain Green Product sales at ─ [80% or more] ［83％ ] reach target ☆☆☆ sales. Exceeded target by 80% of total sales or more. 3 percentage points Upper level: FY2011 Upper level: Compared with base year Plant and business-site targets Lower level: FY2010 Lower level: (Compared with previous year) Reduce the total volume of global 54,217 Reduced by 59.0% Reduce greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions from 132,213 92,549 1. Reduction of emissions over the 99,029 (Reduced by 45.3%) ☆ business activities by 30% by ﬁscal greenhouse gas medium term. 2021 compared to ﬁscal 2006. (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) emissions over the medium and long Reduce the total volume of global 54,217 Reduced by 59.0% Reduce greenhouse gas 132,213 26,443 term greenhouse gas emissions from 99,029 (Reduced by 45.3%) ☆ emissions over the long term. business activities by 80% by ﬁscal 2051 compared to ﬁscal 2006. (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) Reduce emissions per unit of actual 0.312 0.203 0.185 ＊1 Reduced by 40.7% Reduce CO2 emissions production by 35%, averaged over (Japan production sites) 0.211 ＊2 (Reduced by 12.1%) ☆☆☆ 5 years from FY2009 to 2013, compared with FY1991. (Tons-CO2/¥ million) (Tons-CO2/¥ million) (Tons-CO2/¥ million) 11,492 10,458 8,533 ＊1 Reduced by 25.8% Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce total emissions by 9%, averaged over 5 years from FY2009 9,533 ＊2 (Reduced by 10.5%) ☆☆☆ 2. Energy (Japan oﬃce sites) to 2013, compared with FY1991. conservation (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (electrical power, fuel, etc.) Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce emissions per unit of 0.235 0.165 0.206 Reduced by 12.3% (production sites outside production by 30% by FY2013 0.265 (Reduced by 22.3%) ☆☆ Japan) compared to FY2005. (Tons-CO2/¥ million) (Tons-CO2/¥ million) (Tons-CO2/¥ million) 7,496 Increased by 47.0% Environmental Initiatives Reduce CO2 emissions 5,099 4,946 (oﬃce sites outside Reduce total emissions by 3% by 7,362 (Increased by 1.8%) ▲ FY2013 compared to FY2005. Japan) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) Reduce total emissions of 3,007 Reduced by 58.7% ３. Reduction of greenhouse gases other Reduce total emissions to below 7,278 7,278 greenhouse gases 11,355 (Reduced by 73.5%) ☆☆☆☆ than CO2 (CO2 equivalent) 2000 level by 2010. to below 2000 level. (Tons-CO2) (Tons-CO2) or below (Tons-CO2) Reduce usage per unit of actual 0.0077 0.0058 0.0045 Reduced by 41.6% Reduce water usage production by 25% by FY2013 0.0089 (Reduced by 49.4%) ☆☆☆ (Japan production sites) compared to FY2001. (Thousand m3/ ¥ million) (Thousand m3/ ¥ million) (Thousand m3/ ¥ million) 0.0045 Increased by 14.9% ４. Resource Reduce water usage Reduce usage per unit of 0.0039 0.0033 conservation (production sites outside production by 15% by FY2013 0.0032 (Increased by 40.1%) ▲ (water, paper) Japan) compared to FY2005. (Thousand m3/ ¥ million) (Thousand m3/ ¥ million) (Thousand m3/ ¥ million) 0.00047 Increased by 32.9% Reduce oﬃce paper Reduce usage per unit of sales by 0.00035 0.00032 usage (Japan sites) 10% by FY2013 compared to 0.00041 (Increased by 13.5%) ▲ FY2008. (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) Reduce waste per unit of actual 0.0136 Reduced by 43.2% Reduce generation of 0.024 0.012 waste (Japan sites) production by 50% by FY2013 0.0195 (Reduced by 30.1%) ☆☆ compared to FY2001. (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) 5. Waste reduction 0.0083 Reduced by 31.0% Philosophy and Management Reduce generation of Reduce waste per unit of 0.012 0.008 waste (production sites production by 30% by FY2013 0.0106 (Reduced by 21.9%) ☆☆☆ outside Japan) compared to FY2005. (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) 47 33 21 Reduced by 54.7% ６. Reduction of Reduce emissions of volatile organic VOCs to atmosphere Reduce emissions by 30% by 32 (Reduced by 33.5%) ☆☆☆☆ compounds (VOCs) (Japan production site) FY2011 compared to FY2001. tons tons tons Finished delivering ７. Hazardous Detoxify PCB-containing this equipment to substance equipment now in storage Detoxify all PCBs stored at Kofu ─ ─ JESCO. Continuing to ─ ─ as Japan Environmental Casio by FY2015. store equipment until phase-out Safety Corporation starts it can be accepted for treatment. Reduce output of PRTR 0.00011 0.00007 0.00003 Reduced by 71.1% ８. Output reduction of Reduce output per unit of actual PRTR substances substances production by 40% by FY2013 0.00005 (Reduced by 36.4%) ☆☆☆ (Japan production sites) compared to FY2004. (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) (Tons/¥ million) Achieve green part procurement ratio (ratio of green parts*4 to all parts and materials ordered) at sites in and outside Japan of 100%.*5 In Japan: 100% Improve the green ９. Green procurement *4 Parts and materials that do not ─ FY2011: 100% Outside Japan: ─ ☆☆☆ procurement ratio. contain prohibited substances as 100% designated by Casio *5 Excluding those substances that are within legal limits, if customer requests Raise green purchasing ratio of oﬃce supplies Raise the ratio to 75% of total 10. Green purchasing purchases by FY2012 (based on ─ 75％ 62.8％ ─ ☆ and oﬃce equipment the number of purchases) (Japan sites) 11. Logistics-related Reduce emissions per unit of sales 75.2% global warming Reduce CO2 emissions*3 in Japan by 22% by FY2013 ─ Reduce 22% compared to Reduced by 24.8％ ☆☆☆ countermeasures (distribution in Japan) compared to FY2006. by FY2013 FY2006 Overall business activity targets Conduct biodiversity impact Established the 1. Biodiversity Preserve biodiversity and ─ ─ ─ Casio Group ☆ preservation target ecosystem services surveys in all business areas by 2012, and establish a policy theme. Biodiversity Guidelines. *1 Average value for FY2009 to FY2011. *2 Average value for FY2009 and FY2010. *3 The scope of target for logistics-related global warming countermeasures is distribution for product sales. 40 Environmental Communication Responsibilities to Stakeholders Environmental Communication Casio understands the importance of communicating with all of its stakeholders about environmental issues. Exhibiting at Eco-Products 2010 Every year Casio exhibits at Eco-Products, the largest environmental trade show in Japan. Marking the showʼs 12th year, Eco-Products 2010 was held at Tokyo Big Sight from December 9 to 11. Over 700 companies and organizations set up booths to display their environmentally friendly products and services. The show attracted more than 180,000 visitors, the largest attendance to date. Casio has exhibited each year since the show beExhibit featured “Blue” and Working watches encased in gan, and in 2010 the Casio exhibit was based on the “Green” zones ice… but is it real ice? Environmental Initiatives theme, “The Harmony of Technology and Ecology.” Divided into two zones, the exhibit presented Casio Green Throughout the exhibit space, various displays with Star products and various other environmental initiatives eye-catching copy pointed out all the environmentally taken by the Casio Group to build a more sustainable friendly components in various Casio products. And of world. The “Blue Zone” featured the results of Casioʼs course, the ever-popular calculator assembly classes initiatives to address climate change, and the “Green attracted many children, teens, and young adults. Zone” highlighted Casioʼs eﬀorts to protect ecosystems, As the Eco-Products trade show continues to grow in which are part of its biodiversity preservation initiative. coming years, Casio will continue to be there to inform On the main stage of the exhibit, Casioʼs environmenthe public about its environmental activities and introtal initiatives were described in a narrated video. duce its new environmental concepts and strategies. Participation in CES Philosophy and Management Every year, Casio exhibits at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, the worldʼs largest event of its kind. This time, the show was held from January 6 to 9, 2011, and attracted 120,000 visitors. The show was an excellent opportunity for Casio to promote its innovative new products. The environmental exhibit area of the Casio booth featured the companyʼs initiatives under two themes: Going beyond initiatives against cliGreen Slim Data Projector “Save Energy” and “Preserve Ecosystems.” An intuitive mate change, for the ﬁrst time this year the exhibit featured Casioʼs panel display promoted Casioʼs advantages, and exhibits eﬀorts to protect ecosystems. featured Casio Green Star products, including digital cameras and watches, as well as eco-friendly digital Green Slim Data Projectors, which are mercury and lead camera packaging. free since they use a hybrid light source that combines The projector area of the booth highlighted Casioʼs LED and laser technologies. 41 External Evaluation Casio obtains AAA rating for its environmental activities from the SMBC private placement bond program In October 2008, the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corpoto be improved, and more attention needs to be given to ration began oﬀering SMBC Environmental Assessment biodiversity preservation. This feedback will be used to Loans, followed by SMBC Environmental Assessment make improvements to enable Casio to achieve an even Private Placement Bonds in June 2009. Currently, about higher level of environmental management. Responsibilities to Stakeholders 30 companies have raised approximately 100 billion yen * A private placement bond (“Shibosai bond”) is a bond sold directly to a from such loans and bonds. few investors. It diﬀers from a publicly issued bond, which is widely sold to an unspeciﬁed number of investors through securities companies. Under this program, the Japan Research Institute interviews the heads of environmental management departments at applicant companies concerning the ■ Private Placement Bond System details of their responses to a survey conducted by the Credit institute. After making a comprehensive assessment guarantee association SMBC based on this, SMBC then assigns environmental ratings Guarantee agencies to the companies and preferential interest rates are Guarantee made available to those with high ratings. Guarantee consignment In 2010, Casio applied to participate in this private SMBC placement bond program. Based on the assessment reCustomer (bond issuing Issuing Bond sults, the companyʼs environmental corporate managecompany) Bond holder ment was deemed to be outstanding, and Casio was Bond administration Recording bondholder consignment given the highest rating, AAA. The process also helped rights SMBC Casio to identify issues with its environmental communiEnvironmental Initiatives Fiscal agent Transfer cation, and made it clear that more speciﬁc work needs agency to be done to reduce CO2 emissions at sites outside Japan, performance of waste reduction measures needs Environment Data Material Balance The material balance represents an environmental assessment of Casioʼs energy-saving and resource-saving Philosophy and Management manufacturing practices. Casio is always striving to minimize its energy and resource inputs as well as its emissions and outputs. What is a material balance? A material balance provides an overall picture of a comenvironmentally harmful substances (including waste) it panyʼs environmental impact. It shows the amount of emits, and the amount of output it produces and sells energy and resources a company uses in its business (outputs from its business activities). activities (inputs into business activities), the amount of Fiscal 2011 performance At the beginning of ﬁscal 2011, the TFT-LCD business Casio has been working to save energy with its pro(Kochi Casio and the Hachioiji R&D Center electronic duction equipment and is striving to improve production component division) and the cellular phone business processes. were transferred and removed from the consolidation The group is now taking further energy-saving meascope of the Casio Group. Accordingly, Casio reduced sures in order to cope with the power supply shortages the boundary of its environmental management in ﬁscal following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in 2011, and there was a dramatic reduction in some enviMarch 2011. ronmental ﬁgures as a result. 42 ■ Material balance in business activities (fiscal 2011) Material balance for business sites Material balance for products Inputs Outputs 26,291.4 equivalent kl crude oil Energy Greenhouse gases Electricity 90,204.0 million kWh CO2 emissions 53,719.5 tons-CO2 3,448.6 equivalent kl crude oil Fuel SF6 emissions 0.0 tons-CO 2 equivalent Responsibilities to Stakeholders Water resources 1,208.8 million m3 Other greenhouse SF6 (sulfur hexaﬂuoride) 0.0 tons R&D/design gas emissions 497.5 tons-CO 2 equivalent Greenhouse gases other than SF6 0.4 tons Air pollutants*1 VOC 104.4 tons NOx 3.2 tons Paper usage 143.4 tons SOx 1.2 tons PRTR substance 19.3 tons Dust 0.7 tons VOC emissions to atmosphere 21.4 tons Parts and materials*2 26,131 tons Wastewater 1,126.8 million m3 Recycled material 329 tons Procurement BOD 22.8 tons Manuals 4,120 tons PRTR substance Recycled material 56 tons Releases / transfers 18.0 tons Packaging material 13,014 tons Releases 4.7 tons Recycled material 10,597 tons 13.2 tons Environmental Initiatives Transfers Waste generated, etc. 3,676.9 tons Rainwater 4,900 m3 Waste 1,798.6 tons Valuables 1,878.3 tons Recycled industrial water 146,700 m3 Manufacture Landﬁll disposal 257.7 tons Recycled waste*3 3,302.4 tons Reused plastics 8.5 tons CO2 emissions 98,297 tons-CO2 Philosophy and Management Logistics Logistics※4 sales Total products sold 1.1 million Sales 31,219 kWh million Electricity CO2 emissions 13,164 tons-CO2 Use Recovered Recycled System equipment from corporate customers 34.8 tons System equipment from corporate customers 29.5 tons Household PCs 0.13 tons Household PCs 0.10 tons Label printer tape cartridges 4.0 tons Label printer tape cartridges 4.0 tons Recovery Drums and toner cartridges 710.3 tons recycling Drums and toner cartridges 710.3 tons *1. Ozone depleting substances have been fully phased out. *2. Parts and materials include consumables, such as toner cartridges. *3. Recycled waste includes thermally recycled material. *4. Product distribution is consigned to transportation companies. 43 Environmental Performance This section presents environmental impact data related to business activities. ● CO2 ■ CO2 emissions (office sites outside Japan) Fiscal 2011 marked the third year of the target period (ﬁve years from ﬁsCO2 emissions: tonsCO2 cal 2009 to ﬁscal 2013) for CO2 emissions from sites in Japan. The perfor10,000 mance ﬁgures using comparisons with the base year are average values for CO2 emissions the initial year (ﬁscal 2009) through the third year (ﬁscal 2011). 7,362 7,496 7,500 The target for production sites in Japan was a 35% reduction in CO2 6,489 6,500 5,690 5,907 emissions per unit of actual production compared to ﬁscal 1991. In ﬁscal 5,099 5,000 Responsibilities to Stakeholders 2011, the sitesʼ CO2 emissions were approximately 41% lower than in ﬁscal 1991, which also represented a roughly 12% decrease from the previous ﬁscal year. The main reason for this decline from the previous year was the 2,500 transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses, and their removal from the consolidation scope of the Casio Group. 0 2005 200６ 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) The target for oﬃce sites in Japan was a 9% reduction in the total amount of CO2 emissions compared to ﬁscal 1991. In ﬁscal 2011, emis* Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.) sions were about 26% lower than in ﬁscal 1991, meeting the target again used at oﬃce sites outside Japan. this year. This was also an approximately 11% reduction from the previous ﬁscal year. Fiscal 2013 is the target year for all sites outside Japan. The target for ■ CO2 emissions and emissions per unit of sales for logistics in Japan production sites outside Japan was a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions per CO CO22 emissions: 排出量：トン-CO tons2 CO2 Per unit of sales: Compared to FY2006, % unit of production compared to ﬁscal 2005. Fiscal 2011 emissions for 3,000 120 Plant/port fi Logistics Center Logistics C fi Distribution C these sites were about 12% lower than in ﬁscal 2005, an approximately 2,500 100 94.9 Distribution C fi Customer Logistics C fi Customer 100 22% reduction from the previous year. 85.6 83.7 Per Unit of sales 2,000 635 554 79.3 80 The target for oﬃce sites outside Japan was a 3% reduction in the total 547 75.2 amount of CO2 emissions compared to ﬁscal 2005. In ﬁscal 2011, emis1,500 530 550 539 529 60 sions were approximately 47% higher than in ﬁscal 2005, which also repre518 476 443 1,000 40 sented an approximately 2% increase over the previous ﬁscal year. 446 397 1,085 1,139 Casio will continue to strive to improve the energy eﬃciency of its pro500 967 784 651 20 598 duction equipment and to streamline production processes at all of its 0 210 174 152 136 127 108 0 production sites in and outside Japan. Casio will also work to reduce CO2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) emissions by implementing energy-saving measures for its lighting and heating/cooling equipment at oﬃces in and outside Japan. Environmental Initiatives ■ CO2 emissions and emissions per unit of sales for logistics outside Japan ■ CO2 emissions (production sites in Japan) CO2 emissions: tons-2 CO2 Per unit of sales: Compared to FY2005, % 150,000 140 CO2 emissions: tonsCO2 Emissions per unit of actual production: tons-CO2/¥million Rail Sea Air Per unit of sales 100,000 0.35 120 CO2 emissions Emissions per unit of 125,000 114 0.312 100 95.1 100.8 100.7 102.6 105.5 actual production 100 79,472 79,365 0.30 1,683 1,447 75,000 100,000 1,303 1,611 20,742 1,681 1,538 26.193 1,441 80 0.240 0.25 21,530 20,484 25,327 22,157 18,786 0.209 0.205 53,688 70,000 60 50,000 0.20 47,143 40 0.181 82,074 90,369 0.15 72,926 71,992 69,540 74,729 69.436 20 22,693 0.134 25,000 20,014 0.10 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 0 1991 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.) used at production sites in Japan. ● SF6 gas ■ CO2 emissions (office sites in Japan) Casio has set a target of reducing its emissions of greenhouse gases other CO2 emissions: tonsCO2 than CO2 to less than year 2000 levels by 2010.* Philosophy and Management 12,500 11,492 CO2 emissions The ﬁscal 2011 results for SF6 emissions were approximately 59% lower than in 2000, and this represented an approximately 74% reduction com10,000 9,451 9,350 9,655 9,410 pared to the previous year. In April 2010, the TFT-LCD business (Kochi 7,500 Casio and the electronic component division of the Hachioji R&D Center) 6,532 was transferred, and removed from the consolidation scope of the Casio 5,000 Group. This was the main reason for the emissions reduction. In the future, Casio will put eﬀort into reducing greenhouse gases in2,500 cluding those contained in dust blowers, spot freezing and sprays used mainly at service sites. 0 1991 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.) ■ SF6 gas usage and emissions to atmosphere (Japan production sites) used at oﬃce sites in Japan. SF6 inputs: tons SF6 emissions to the atmosphere (CO2-equivalent): tons-CO2 5.0 25,000 SF6 input 20,446 SF6 emissions to 19,682 ■ CO2 emissions (production sites outside Japan) 4.0 18,714 18,021 the atmosphere SF6 emissions to 20,000 the atmosphere CO2 emissions: tonsCO2 Emissions per unit of production: tons-CO2/¥million （CO2 -equivalent） 3.0 15,000 40,000 0.32 CO2 emissions Emissions per unit of 0.291 0.272 10,397 production 0.265 0.242 2.0 1.7 10,000 0.235 33,569 29,040 7,278 1.6 1.6 1.5 30,000 0.24 0.193 0.206 0.9 0.9 23,758 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.8 2,510 5,000 0.6 20,654 19,677 0.3 0.4 20,000 18,491 0.16 0.2 16,410 0 0.1 0 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 10,000 0.08 * Years shown in this graph are calendar years, to match industry action targets. 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * Trends in CO2 emissions from energy sources (electrical power, fuel, etc.) used at production sites outside Japan. 44 ● Waste ● Paper Casio evaluates its waste reduction (waste and valuables) using ﬁscal 2013 The reduction target for the usage of oﬃce paper at sites in Japan, set in ﬁscal as the target year. 2010, was a 10% reduction compared to ﬁscal 2008 by ﬁscal 2013, per unit of The target for reducing waste produced from sites in Japan was a 50% sales. The result for ﬁscal 2011 was about 33% higher than in ﬁscal 2008. This reduction in waste per unit of actual production compared to ﬁscal 2001. In increase was due to a drop in sales, as the total volume of oﬃce paper used ﬁscal 2011, waste was reduced by about 43% compared to ﬁscal 2001, fell from 115 tons in 2007 to 75.5 tons in 2010. Along with the increased which also represented an approximately 30% reduction from the previous promotion of green IT, Casio will reinforce its eﬀorts to reduce paper usage. year. Although the amount of waste produced compared to the previous ﬁscal year fell by about 15%, this was due to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses, and their removal from the consolidation scope of ■ Office paper usage (all sites in Japan) the Casio Group. Oﬃce paper usage: tons Per unit of sales: tons/¥million The target for reducing waste from production sites outside Japan was a 400 0.00060 Oﬃce paper usage Per unit of sales 30% reduction per unit of production compared to ﬁscal 2005. In ﬁscal 2011, emissions were reduced by about 31% compared to ﬁscal 2004, for 300 0.00041 0.00047 0.00045 0.00037 an approximately 22% reduction from the previous year. Further waste 0.00035 reduction measures for production sites outside Japan are being considered. 200 0.00030 Responsibilities to Stakeholders 115 98 91 100 0.00015 ■ Generation of waste, volume of landfill disposal, and waste 76 per unit of actual production (all sites in Japan) 0 0 Generation of waste Volume of Landﬁll disposal Per unit of actual production 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Generation of waste, and volume Per unit of actual production: tons-CO2/¥million of landﬁll disposal: tons 10,000 0.025 6,414 6,312 4,138 0.024 0.020 2,032 8,000 6,614 0.018 0.017 0.016 0.020 ● PRTR 6,000 0.014 0.014 0.015 1,679 1,920 3,818 Reducing PRTR substances 4,000 1,279 0.010 6,695 1,397 1,378 753 The target for reduction of emissions of substances speciﬁed by Japanʼs 4,735 4,392 2,000 1,089 2,741 2,439 0.005 PRTR Act was a 40% reduction per unit of actual production compared to 0 74 29 20 31 25 7 0 ﬁscal 2004, by ﬁscal 2013. In ﬁscal 2011, Casio met the target for another 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) consecutive year, with approximately 71% lower emissions than in ﬁscal General waste, etc: [ Valuable Wastes] 2004, which was a reduction of 36% over the previous year. Casio will continue striving to further reduce the use of these chemicals. ■ Generation of waste, volume of landfill disposal, and waste ■ PRTR substance usage, releases, and releases per unit of per unit of production (production sites outside Japan) actual production (Japan production sites) Generation of waste Volume of Landﬁll disposal Per unit of actual production PRTR substance usage and releases: tons Per unit of actual production: tons/¥million Generation of waste, and volume of landﬁll disposal: tons Per unit of production: tons-CO2/¥million 300 0.00014 0.020 Usage 2,000 256 0.00011 Releases 0.00012 1,750 250 Per unit of actual production 1,500 0.015 0.00010 Environmental Initiatives 1,364 200 0.0120 0.0124 182 177 1,250 0.0110 0.0106 0.00008 0.0105 158 1,000 0.0093 0.0083 0.010 150 839 804 1,238 0.00005 0.00005 0.00006 750 951 100 0.00004 0.00004 500 994 791 0.005 110 0.00003 0.00004 311 340 250 164 152 168 90 50 39 0.00002 42.4 18 16 19 0 0 12 10 5 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 0 0 2004 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ● Water resources ● VOCs, NOx, SOx, and dust Water resource input is evaluated using ﬁscal 2013 as the target year. The target for production sites in Japan was a 25% reduction in water Reducing VOCs resource input per unit of actual production compared to ﬁscal 2001. In Fiscal 2011 is the target ﬁscal year for reducing atmospheric emissions of ﬁscal 2011, water input per unit of actual production was about 42% lower volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from production sites in Japan. The than in ﬁscal 2001, which also represented a reduction of about 49% from target was a reduction of 30% compared to ﬁscal 2001. In ﬁscal 2011, the previous ﬁscal year. Total water resource input was down by about 21% Casioʼs emissions of VOCs were about 55% lower than in ﬁscal 2001, from the previous year. This was due to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and achieving the target. This also represented a reduction of approximately cellular phone businesses, and their removal from the consolidation scope 34% from the previous ﬁscal year. Casio will continue to pursue VOC reof the Casio Group. placements. The target for production sites outside Japan was a 15% reduction in ■ VOC usage and emissions to atmosphere (Japan production sites) Philosophy and Management water resource input per unit of production compared to ﬁscal 2005. In ﬁscal 2011, the ﬁgure was 15% higher than in ﬁscal 2005, representing an VOC usage and emissions to the atmosphere: tpns approximately 40% increase compared to the previous year. This increase 500 was due to the rise in TFT production output at the Casio Computer (Hong VOC usage VOC emissions to the atmosphere Kong) Ltd. Casio will continue to strive to reduce water usage. 400 317 300 244 ■ Usage of water resources and recycled industrial water, and 200 211 177 input per unit of actual production (Japan production sites) 142 Water resources Recycled industrial water Per unit of actual production 104 Water resources, and recycled 100 Industrial water: thousand m3 Per unit of actual productions: thousand m3/¥million 47 52 43 39 32 21 10,000 0.012 0 0.0096 2001 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 8,000 0.010 0.0077 0.0075 0.0074 0.0072 0.008 6,000 Reducing NOx, SOx and Dust 0.0065 0.006 Casioʼs atmospheric emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides 4,000 (SOx) and dust in the peak year of ﬁscal 2006 were 138 tons, 37 tons, and 2,851 2,827 2,801 0.0051 0.004 2,000 2,073 1,937 1,876 2 tons, respectively. Emissions in ﬁscal 2011 were 1.9 tons, 1.1 tons, and 0.002 208 209 185 106 0.2 tons, respectively. These dramatic reductions are attributed to the 125 758 48 0 0 transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses, and their removal 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) from the consolidation scope of the Casio Group. By adjusting settings and practicing indoor temperature management, Casio also intends to reduce emissions of atmospheric pollution generated ■ Usage of water resources and recycled industrial water, and by air conditioning equipment such as hot and chilled water generators). usage per unit of production (production sites outside Japan) Water resources Recycled industrial water Per unit of actual production Water resources, and recycled Industrial water: thousand m3 1,000 Per unit of actual productions: thousand m3/¥million 0.0050 ■ Nox, SOx and dust emissions to atmosphere Unit: tons 0.0039 0.0040 0.0045 800 0.0040 100 0.0034 NOx emissions 0.0031 0.0031 SOx emissions 600 0.0032 0.0030 80 77 Dust emissions 428 400 368 384 0.0020 318 312 284 60 274 200 0.0010 99 40 54 46 48 45 0 0 22 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 20 18 16 11.1 5 5 3.9 3.21.2 0.7 2 1 0.3 0.4 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 45 Environmental Accounting This section shows a breakdown of the costs for environmental conservation activities and the beneﬁts of environmental conservation. Overview of fiscal 2011 performance Casioʼs capital investments in environmental conservareduction of resources used in product packaging. The tion, including the introduction of equipment to prevent ﬁscal yearʼs total economic beneﬁts were ¥1,854 million. water pollution, and energy-saving equipment, were valThis includes the reduction of CO2 emissions from busiued at ¥137 million in ﬁscal 2011. ness activities, and the reduction of power consumption Responsibilities to Stakeholders The expenses of Casioʼs environmental conservation during product use by customers. It also includes estiactivities, including recycling of products, parts and supmated economic beneﬁt such as the environmental implies such as toner cartridges, as well as the costs of pact reduction achieved by paperless products includmaintenance of energy-saving and wastewater processing electronic dictionaries and data projectors. ing facilities, along with costs for processing and reducAlthough the environmental expenses and economic ing waste, were ¥1,745 million. beneﬁts were lower than in the previous ﬁscal year due That investment resulted in ¥1,498 million in business to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone busiproﬁts including a real beneﬁt of ¥1,304 million from nesses and their removal from the scope of consolidastrengthening recycling activities and a cost savings of tion, the environmental proﬁtability rate improved and ¥194 million through energy-saving activities and the economic beneﬁts exceeded environmental expenses. ■ Environmental conservation costs (April 2010 March 2011) Category by business activity Environmental Environmental investment expenses* Main initiatives (¥ million) (¥ million) Business area costs (costs arising in the main areas of business activity (manufacturing, processing, 137 291 Environmental Initiatives sales, distribution etc.) (1) Pollution prevention cost Upgrading and maintenance of wastewater and exhaust 60 65 gas treatment facilities (2) Global environmental Introducing and maintenance of energy-saving systems 77 128 conservation cost (3) Resource circulation cost Reducing and recycling of industrial and general waste 99 Upstream/downstream cost*2 Collection and recycling of products, parts, supplies 1,103 Administration cost Secretariat operation costs, environmental information 293 disclosure R&D cost R&D for reduction of environmental impact 44 Social activity cost Participation in, donations to, and support for 15 environmental conservation organizations Totals 137 1,745 Philosophy and Management *1 Depreciation costs are included in the expenses. *2 Costs arising before and after the processes of the main business activities. ■ Economic benefits of environmental conservation (April 2010 March 2011) Economic bene!t Amount Type of bene!t (¥ million) Actual bene!t (bene!t that contributes to pro!ts as a result of the promotion of environmental conservation measures) 1,498 Proﬁts Business revenue from recycling of used products, etc. 1,304 Proﬁts Cost reduction through energy saving activities 13 Cost reduction due to resource-saving activities such as the creation of smaller packaging, and reduction of waste disposal costs, etc. 181 Reduction of CO2 emitted from business activities Estimated beneﬁt* 356 Reduction of power consumption during product use by customers, etc. Totals 1,854 * The estimated beneﬁt is calculated as the CO2 reduction amount from business activities plus the reduction from power savings during product use by customers. It also includes the environmental beneﬁt of paperless products such as electronic dictionaries and data projectors, as well as cost reductions achieved by a modal shift from air to sea transport, and the resource saving beneﬁt from water recycling. The calculation method for power savings during product use by customers was revised. It is now calculated as the electricity saving eﬀect when comparing a product sold in this ﬁscal year to one sold in the previous ﬁscal year. The following statistical sources are used to perform these calculations: CO2 unit prices are the average values for ﬁscal 2011 (¥1,431.3/ton) based on the Nikkei-JBIC Carbon Quotation Index. Electrical power unit prices are based on the ﬁscal 2009 results published by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (¥16.02/kWh). 46 ■ Trends in environmental investments, environmental expenses, and economic benefits (fiscal 2009 fiscal 2011) Environmental Environmental investment proﬁtability rate Amount Economic beneﬁt Responsibilities to Stakeholders (¥ billion) Environmental expenses Environmental proﬁtability rate 120% (economic beneﬁts /environmental expenses) 3 100% 80% 2 60% 40% 1 20% Environmental Initiatives 0 0% FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 * The above graph revises past ﬁgures with regard to the estimated eﬀects, based on the standards adopted this ﬁscal year. ■ Environmental conservation effect Types of environmental Environmental performance Environmental conservation eﬀects indicator Unit FY2010 FY2011 conservation eﬀect Environmental conservation Thousand eﬀect relating to resources used Water resources m3 2,183 1,209 974 in business activities Philosophy and Management CO2 emissions Tons-CO2 87,674 53,720 33,955 Specially designated chemical Tons 10 5 5 (PRTR) emissions Environmental conservation effect relating to environment Waste emissions Tons 5,584 3,677 1,907 impact and waste generatedby business activities BOD Tons 29 23 6 NOx emissions Tons 11.1 3.2 7.9 SOx emissions Tons 3.9 1.2 2.7 * The large decreases compared to the previous ﬁscal year were due to the transfer of the TFT-LCD and cellular phone businesses and their removal from the scope of consolidation. Scope of data compilation for environmental accounting: Casio Computer Co., Ltd., and consolidated subsidiaries in and outside Japan. Reference guideline: Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment, Japan 47 Philosophy and Management CSR Implementation System Responsibilities to Stakeholders Via its communication with stakeholders, Casio has determined the issues it must address to meet social expectations. The company is implementing management cycles to improve performance in these areas. CSR Implementation System Since the establishment of its CSR Operations Section the company is working to generate new corporate valin 2004, Casio has been implementing CSR activities ue from a global perspective. In ﬁscal 2012, Casio rewhile expanding the themes to be undertaken and the vised its system for CSR implementation to make it even scope of their impact. In the initial stage, there was an more global, by incorporating all Casio Group companies emphasis on protecting corporate value. Now however, worldwide. CSR Committee A CSR Committee headed by the director responsible and continued as ﬁscal 2012 themes. Environmental Initiatives for CSR has been established under the board of directors. The committee is the central body for implementaTo choose the ﬁscal 2012 themes, in addition to those tion of CSR. continued from the previous ﬁscal year, four working Operations conducted by the CSR Committee are groups discussed theme proposals from the CSR-relatbased on the use of management cycles. A stakeholder ed departments, after the stakeholder meeting outlined meeting is held at the beginning of the ﬁscal year, after below. When looking at proposals, they considered the which the annual initiative themes are established and/ CSR contribution level, return on investment, and simior updated. The departments mainly responsible for larity to other proposals. The proposals were then each theme establish goals for their themes and set anranked within categories, before a balanced set of new nual plans to achieve the goals before implementing the themes was selected for ﬁscal 2012. necessary programs. At the end of the ﬁscal year, the departments review and evaluate their own results, in ■ CSR Committee System addition to an objective evaluation by the Internal Audit Department. Based on this, issues are then re-deﬁned CSR-related departments Philosophy and Management and used to establish the themes and plans for the next General Affairs and Personnel Department ﬁscal year. Finance Department Corporate Management Input Department In ﬁscal 2011, Casio worked on 11 themes, including Ascertaining social needs Strategic Sourcing those continued from the previous year. There were through meetings with stakeholders Department eight relating to CSR, and three relating to compliance Secretarial & External Affairs Department risk. The details are shown below. Information Technology Department Casio Computer Co., Ltd. / Board of Directors CSR Committee Group companies Supply chain Reports and resolutions Fiscal 2011 Themes Secretariat Procurement Department Themes relating to employees: 4 Output Public Relations Department Themes relating to brand value: 1 Determining CSR emphases Advertising Department Themes relating to social contribution: 1 Setting CSR implementation themes Intellectual Property Center Themes relating to BCM: 1 Themes relating to supply chain: 1 Environment Center Themes relating to compliance risk: 3 Business Administration Department Targets were achieved for ﬁve of these themes in ﬁscal 2011. The remaining six themes were carried over 48 Stakeholder Meeting The ﬁscal 2011 stakeholder meeting was held prior to selected new theme proposals that Casio ought to setting the themes for the coming ﬁscal year. Hideto pursue in ﬁscal 2012, submitted them to the Secretariat. Kawakita of the International Institute for Human, OrgaThe proposals were then divided up and discussed by nization and the Earth (IIHOE) was invited to come and the working groups mentioned above. Responsibilities to Stakeholders give a talk on the latest CSR trends and examples of leading initiatives. This was followed by a Q&A session, which also deepened the understanding of the CSR Committee members. In the CSR Committee meeting at the start of ﬁscal 2012, Hideto Kawakita was invited in again. He and the committee members discussed how to reﬂect the arrival of ISO 26000 and the consequences of the Great East Mr. Kawakita, who has provided the Independent OpinJapan Earthquake in the setting of ﬁscal 2012 initiative ion for some years now, ofthemes. fers ever more in-depth advice and proposals. After the meeting, each CSR-related department Corporate Governance Environmental Initiatives To increase corporate value, Casio always strives to improve management integrity and transparency. True to this commitment, Casio works to ensure that management decision-making is quick and that all operations are executed properly and eﬃciently. Corporate governance framework Casio constantly strives to improve corporate Accounting auditors perform external audits governance. according to generally accepted Japanese auditing The board of directors is tasked with making prompt, standards, and they also provide recommendations for reasonable management decisions. Board meetings are operational improvement. The Internal Audit Department attended by directors and corporate auditors, who discarries out audits to ensure that all Casio Group cuss and make decisions on important business issues. operations are being carried out in conformity with laws Philosophy and Management Furthermore, in order to clarify the management reand regulations as well as internal standards. sponsibility of directors and to ensure a prompt response to changes in the business environment, the ■ Corporate Governance Framework term of oﬃce of directors was changed from two years to one, as of June 2007. General Meeting of Shareholders At the regular General Meeting of Shareholders in Election and Election and Election and discharge discharge discharge June 2011, a new external director and a new external Accounting auditor were appointed, with the intention of further auditor Directors Auditors Audit Board of Accounting Board of strengthening the management supervisory function. audit Directors Corporate Auditors In accordance with audit policies approved by the Subcommittees Appointment, dismissal, and oversight Audit staﬀ board of corporate auditors, the corporate auditors (all Accounting audit Audit external auditors) attend board of directors' meetings, President and CEO meetings of the corporate oﬃcers, and other important meetings. In addition, they perform careful audits by Oversight gathering information and receiving reports from direcCorporate tors and others, and by reviewing resolution documents Internal oﬃcers Board of Audit Internal Oversight Corporate oﬃcers relating to important decisions. The external director Department audit and external auditors are independent oﬃcers regisBusiness divisions / Group companies tered with the Tokyo Stock Exchange in compliance with Directors: 12 (1 external), Corporate Auditors: 3 (all external) regulations. In addition, Casio has full-time staﬀ that provide support for corporate auditors. 49 System of internal controls Based on its corporate creed of Creativity and ContriHere are the main initiatives. bution, Casio has established basic policies to ensure ● Reviewed the unified group accounting rules based on the accuracy and reliability of its ﬁnancial reporting. It actual conditions, and revised them to establish the has also set up an Internal Control Committee comCasio Global Criteria for journal entry. Responsibilities to Stakeholders posed of members of the Accounting Department, In● Managed issues identified through daily organizational formation System Department, CSR Operations Section, management as main J-SOX risks, and set Operation and Internal Audit Department, in order to secure an efImprovement Rules for the entire group. fective system of internal controls. ● Established Standard Operation Flows that should be Fiscal 2011 marked the third year since the regularly used across the entire group for main introduction of the internal control reporting system business processes, with the aim of ensuring that the based on Japanʼs Financial Instruments and Exchange Operation Improvement Rules are being followed. Act (J-SOX). Casio seeks to improve the financial strength of the entire group and enhance management By regularly checking and improving operation condiculture ahead of the introduction of the International tions based on these standards and rules, Casio intends Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). As part of those to raise the level of operation processing group-wide. initiatives, the company also promoted the strengthening For ﬁscal 2012 and later, Casio will continue to pursue of internal controls. activities that enhance the level of internal control, while further improving ﬁnancial strength for the entire group and improving the management culture. Environmental Initiatives Compliance and Risk Management Casio is pursuing total compliance through integrated management of three foundations of employee conduct: the Casio Group Code of Conduct, risk management, and the Whistleblower Hotline. Casio Group Code of Conduct The Casio Group Code of Conduct represents a pledge Casio operates when needed. of ethical behavior by Casio executives and employees With the revision of the code in 2008, Casio began to those in and outside the company. They use the code conducting yearly compliance training for all group to make speciﬁc decisions in their daily work and peremployees in Japan, in order to promote even better Philosophy and Management sonal lives. awareness. The company also conducts biannual With the globalization of Casio, the code has been compliance questionnaires together with the training, translated from Japanese to English, and is also and is promoting improvement by identifying problem translated into the languages of other countries where points and making them known. Risk management Based on its Basic Risk Management Policies, Casio has with the risks of higher importance. built a system to manage risks eﬃciently. In ﬁscal 2008, In ﬁscal 2008, there were 19 law types where the comRisk Management Committee was established to take panyʼs compliance was deﬁcient and the risks were of measures with an emphasis on managing compliance high importance. By the end of ﬁscal 2011, speciﬁed risk. measures had been put in place to deal with all of these In the committeeʼs ﬁrst year, ﬁscal 2008, it identiﬁed laws. 70 laws relating to Casioʼs businesses, and listed meaAs a result, Casio has changed its risk management sures being taken to comply with each law. Regarding method, and the Risk Management Committee Secrelaws where Casio had deﬁciencies relating to managetariat is regularly monitoring the risks identiﬁed by the ment cycle operation and manual preparation, the comCommittee. The company has moved towards a system mittee analyzed the importance of each risk based on that checks for deﬁciencies in the status of managethe occurrence possibility and its impact on company ment cycle implementation. management. Measures were then prepared to deal ﬁrst 50 Responding to emergencies In order to respond to emergencies with the resources tact with organized criminal elements of the company organization, Casio has created a Crisis ● Disaster prevention drill with the local community and Management Manual for securing the safety of all emprovision of an open area for a temporary evacuation ployees, directors, and their families, preserving corposite Responsibilities to Stakeholders rate assets, and maintaining business activities. Sequential updates of the manual keep pace with However, with the Great East Japan Earthquake that changes in the business environment, and the company struck in March 2011, circumstances were encountered is taking practical initiatives at the same time. Speciﬁcally, that exceeded previous expectations. Learning from the following measures have already been undertaken: this, the Crisis Management Manual required substantial revision. Visits were made to the sales sites in the disas● Regular evacuation drills and general lifesaving classter zone and interviews conducted. By verifying emeres for employees gency response activities at the headquarters and local ● Development and in-house distribution of disaster sites from the victimsʼ perspective, Casio was able to prevention support tools as well as disaster identify various points for improvement. These points stockpiling have been carefully reﬂected in the revised Crisis Man● Construction of a system to ensure absolutely no conagement Manual to make it even more eﬀective. Information security Environmental Initiatives Casio is aware of its important social responsibility to for certification was to evaluate fulfillment of maintain the security of information that it collects from responsibility by the information system department, customers and other stakeholders in relation to its which has specialized skills and takes care of information business activities. Casio strives to maintain the highest assets for the entire company. Since then, Casio has level of information security. With the full implementation further improved information security and its of Japan's Act on the Protection of Personal Information eﬀectiveness, and continues to implement PDCA cycles in 2005, Casio launched the Protection of Personal for risk reduction activities. A certiﬁcation renewal audit Information Project and publicized the Privacy Policy on is held every three years. With the audit conducted in its web site. Furthermore, as part of Casio's drive to January 2011, the compatibility and eﬀectiveness of strengthen its system for safe and proper handling of Casioʼs information security management system was personal information, Casio Computer Co., Ltd., worked again evaluated. to qualify for the Privacy Mark* certiﬁcation and received * Privacy Mark: A program where the Japan it in December 2005. Information Processing Development Corporation, a public-service foundation, Since obtaining certiﬁcation, Casio has been properly evaluates the adequacy of corporate protective Philosophy and Management carrying out the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle to measures related to the handling of personal maintain its personal information protection data. Companies that are found to have adequate protective measures in place are certified and management system. This includes the establishment of permitted to display the Privacy Mark. annual plans, having all employees undergo training and make a pledge, regular checking of personal information, ■ Personal information protection system access management on information systems, consignee CSR Committee supervision, and internal audits. Accordingly, Casio has been able to renew and maintain its certiﬁcation. Oﬃcer in charge of audits In fiscal 2011, Casio worked to further raise the awareness of employees by conducting an information Chief Privacy Oﬃcer (CPO) and personal information manager accident prevention campaign and putting up posters in Personal Information the company. The aim is to reduce the risk of an Protection Oﬃce information security accident occurring at the individual employee level, such as data theft or loss oﬀ premises, Person responsible Person responsible for Person responsible for customer service information systems for education or mistakenly sending a conﬁdential email to the wrong Contact for matters relating recipient. to personal information Person responsible for departmental personal information management In November 2007, Casioʼs Information System Department received information security management Person in charge of departmental personal information management system certiﬁcation (ISO 27001). The aim of applying 51 Whistleblower Hotline As a way to help ensure compliance, Casio set up a problems. Whistleblower Hotline in April 2006. The hotline has With the aim of making the hotline well known within been functioning with neutrality and fairness across all the company, a Whistleblower Hotline website was esof its internal and external contact points. tablished. In ﬁscal 2011, the website content was further Responsibilities to Stakeholders Operating on a basis of impartiality, the hotline follows improved, and Casio is working to increase awareness up on all whistleblower reports and consultations, and among employees. takes resolute measures against any improper behavior discovered. Eﬀort is put into preventing issues before ■ Whistleblower Hotline they grow into real problems. In ﬁscal 2010, the hotline's Whistleblowers intranet site was improved, and hotline awareness was raised within the company. Hotline There were nine whistleblower reports in ﬁscal 2011. In each case, the callers were interviewed, and based on Internal hotline External hotline agency the content of their reports, investigations were made, Information and correction measures implemented to resolve the Investigation Applicable departments Hotline Oﬃce Improvements/notiﬁcation Fiscal 2011 Report Details Reporting Instructions 4 cases concerning interpersonal relations in the workplace Top management 2 cases relating to internal rules 3 other cases Environmental Initiatives Export control Export control, or export control security, aims to mainport control in relevant departments as part of an intertain international peace and security. It involves regulanal system to ensure observance of the program. tions on the export of goods and technology that could As the Exporter Compliance Standards took eﬀect in be diverted for the development of weapons of mass April 2010, Casio has been striving to maintain and mandestruction or other weaponry. The regulations are deage its system by conducting voluntary annual audits signed to prevent such goods and technology from while ensuring through legal compliance, in response to reaching countries and regions of concern or terrorist the revision of applicable laws and regulations. Eﬀorts organizations. include the strengthening of training activities at group In 1987, the Export Control Security Program of Casio companies in Japan. Computer Co., Ltd. (a compliance program) was estabCasio has also established a management system for Philosophy and Management lished in order to make sure proper measures are taken complying not only with Japanese export laws but also to ensure the security of exports. The program has with US Export Administration Regulations. The compasince been continually updated along with changes in ny is working to improve global export management, inthe Japanese Export Control Regulation. cluding the implementation of export management Casio has appointed employees responsible for extraining at group companies outside Japan. Initiatives for compliance with fair trade and advertising laws Casio continues to hold compliance seminars given by employees received the training, expanding their underemployee instructors at the sales oﬃces of Casio Comstanding of fair transactions. puter Co., Ltd., in Japan. In order to promote proper As a tool for promoting proper and fair competition transactions as well as fair, transparent and free compeand transactions, Casio distributed Sales Compliance tition, it is essential for sales employees to have a proper Cards to its sales employees in Japan so that they could understanding of Japan's Act on Prohibition of Private always have it with them. The cards contain information Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade and Act such as an ethics and compliance test for making diﬃcult against Unjustiﬁable Premiums and Misleading Repredecisions and contacts for advice or to make a whistlesentations. In ﬁscal 2011, ten seminars were given at blower report. This led to an increase in the number of sales oﬃces, while three were held at the sales manageemployee consultations on potential issues in advance. ment department in the headquarters. A total of 738 52 Social Initiatives: Action Plans and Performance In order to steadily promote CSR initiatives, Casio carries out activities using a speciﬁc plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle. The following covers the ﬁscal 2011 issues and activity results for social initiatives, along with the priority issues for ﬁscal 2012, based on these activity results. Responsibilities to Stakeholders ■ Corporate governance FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Promote further internal control imEnhanced ﬁnancial strength for the entire group ahead of the Promote further improvement of internal controls provements based on Japan's Financial introduction of the International Financial Reporting Stanbased on Japanʼs Financial Instruments and ExInstruments and Exchange Act dards (IFRS), and promoted the strengthening of internal change Act. controls, among initiatives to improve management culture ■ Compliance and risk management FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans The Risk Management Committee Secretariat implemented Monitor to conﬁrm successive ongoing monitoring relating to ﬁve major laws, and checked eﬀectiveimprovements and implemented simulaness and points for improvement (no simulations in ﬁscal tions related to major laws Continue monitoring relating to major laws by the 2011) Risk Management Committee Secretariat and Along with implementing compliance training for all group implement simulations Carry out education on the Casio Group employees in Japan based on the Casio Group Code of ConConduct compliance training that includes group Code of Conduct at all group companies duct, conducted a questionnaire relating to the Charter of employees outside Japan in Japan and for Japanese staﬀ overCreativity for Casio and Casio Common Commitment, and seas promoted a more thorough understanding of it (questionnaire Environmental Initiatives not yet conducted at group companies outside Japan) Implement activities to reduce the risk of Expanded training on personal information protection and Conduct risk review ahead of the Privacy Mark personal information leakage using the employee pledges to group companies renewal audit and reestablish safety measures Privacy Mark system Promote the eﬀective utilization of information Implement activities to reduce informaEstablished PDCA cycles for the ISMS, and received evaluation assets in the ISMS, along with better and more tion system risk using ISMS and certiﬁcation for compatibility by renewal audit thorough management of incidents Take on the challenge of reducing major Obtained ITIL V3 Foundation certiﬁcation and promoted opStart operation processes using the ITIL, and essystem malfunctions to zero through tablish PDCA cycles for improvement eration improvement projects through ITIL introduction ITIL introduction ■ Customers FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Take thorough initiatives for defect rePrevented defect reoccurrence based on the utilization of occurrence prevention and improve Strengthen initiatives to prevent reoccurrence quality information database, and strengthened the preventechnological ability to prevent probbased on re-analysis of past failure examples tion system lems Implement a voluntary action plan on product Implemented voluntary action plan relating to product safety, safety Philosophy and Management Execute the Product Safety Action Plan and ensured thorough safety-ﬁrst actions Minimize risk by accelerating and streamlining and put safety ﬁrst in every action Shared accident information and revised the design and collection of accident information manufacturing standards through cause analysis Establish a system for responding to safety laws Ensure accurate compliance with all laws Implemented an internal safety survey, and veriﬁed legal comand regulations related to safety pliance measures Promote continuing measures to improve customer satisfaction, based on Identiﬁed issues based on an after-sales customer satisfaction surveys of after-sales customer satisfacsurvey tion levels Continue to promote measures to improve customer satisfaction through after-sales customer Increased direct requests for repairs by improving convesatisfaction surveys Promote ongoing improvement of cusnience of Casio online repair system tomer support websites Promote customer satisfaction improvement by Added content to the customer support website strengthening the Casio online repair direct rePromote ongoing improvement of cusquest system Changed repair fees for digital cameras in order to improve Update the customer service website tomer satisfaction by enhancing repair customer satisfaction service Strengthen feedback for product quality imContinued to analyze customer comments and use the inforprovement, by ensuring the thoroughness of the Strengthen analysis of customer feedmation as feedback market monitoring function back, and create a database for information distribution and sharing Started update of database for improvement proposals and sharing Improved production planning speed by improving the simulaExpand the operation area for production function (already introduced at sites in Japan, and will be tion management system integration progressively expanded overseas) Diversify China concentration risk Simplify site allocation policy by standardizing production facilities and sharImprove and streamline production system ing management systems at production Promoted cooperation with sites in and outside Japan in the Restructure and integrate functions in Southern sites in China eﬀort to move from standardization to automation and fewer China personnel Implement SCM production in close adStrengthen technological abilities at production herence to the sales plan sites in Japan Begin full-scale operation of the planning system. Promote logistics process Partial operation with a new logistics system (SPACE) reform at the global level together with Casio SCM 53 Responsibilities to Stakeholders ■ Suppliers FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Continued implementation of CSR questionnaires in and outside Japan (responses were received Continue CSR questionnaires for suppliers in and from 128 companies in China and 41 in Thailand) Continue to implement CSR questionnaires for outside Japan An online questionnaire was conducted in Japan, suppliers in and outside Japan (Investigating a with a response rate of 95% (85% rate in the change in the question format for overseas previous ﬁscal year) questionnaires to one using a response scale of 1 to 5) Implemented inspections of CSR measures at Expand CSR inspections for suppliers outside supplier sites outside Japan with local CSR Japan (plan and implement inspections by CSR Urge CSR promotion by suppliers outside Japan promotion project staﬀ (3 companies in China and promotion project members at overseas sites, through the activities of the CSR promotion proj2 in Thailand) from planning to inspection result evaluation) ect with new CSR organizations overseas After inspection completion, held exchange of Continue implementation of model initiative opinions with supplier top management in order to presentations by suppliers that have received deepen understanding of Casioʼs CSR objectives onsite CSR measure inspections (present model Make model CSR initiative presentations by reprecases where improvements have been made on sentative suppliers a regular feature at vendor At vendor meetings in China and Thailand, a issues identiﬁed in onsite inspections) meetings outside Japan, and use the meetings as selected supplier presented model CSR initiatives. an opportunity for dialogue Environmental Initiatives ■ Employees FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Conducted an awareness survey among female employees and managers concerning female employee advancement Established an action plan based on the results Conduct an awareness survey among female em(action guidelines and targets) ployees and managers concerning female employListened to details of initiatives taken at three ee advancement, and establish a female employee leading companies in the advancement of female advancement action plan based on the results employees Held two female employee role model presentations Continue activities for the advancement of female employees Held seminars for female employees and managers (3 seminars / 450 attendees) Maintain the employment rate of persons with disabilities within the Casio Group in Japan Employment rate of persons with disabilities rose Continue to provide job opportunities to employees Continue to promote achievement of the legally from 1.76% to 1.86% for the consolidated Casio t h a t h a v e r e a c h e d t h e a g e o f m a n d a t o r y mandated employment rate of persons with Group in Japan, achieving the legally mandated retirement disabilities, group-wide Philosophy and Management rate (1.8%) Continue to maintain the percentage of eligible Continued to provide rehiring opportunities to female employees taking childcare leave at above Continue to provide employment opportunities to e m p l o y e e s t h a t h a v e r e a c h e d m a n d a t o r y 90% retirees retirement age Continue initiatives for reducing overtime work Continue to maintain the percentage of eligible M a i n t a i n e d p e r c e n t a g e o f e l i g i b l e f e m a l e Ensure recommendation of proper medical female employees taking childcare leave (above examinations at medical institutions for those with employees taking childcare leave (above 90%) 90%) high-risk results in a regular health check Began health and safety activities group-wide, and Continue smoking cessation support program provided health counseling to employees including Promote activities to reduce overtime work as well those posted outside Japan as health and safety activities, group-wide Computerized attendance management system at Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Began health and safety activities across Japan including group companies, and implemented Promote awareness raising activities for better smoking cessation support programs to raise employee health awareness through guidance relating to the safety, health and hygiene of employees. ■ Local communities FY 2011 Action Plans FY2011 Performance FY2012 Targets & Plans Provided opportunities for learning to a total of Expand activities by further improving content of 1,932 students from kindergarten to high school, Expanded activities by enhancing the content of programs for educating the next generation through the development of programs in which the school visit program many children can participate (an increase ofContinue support for cutting edge science and 1,132 students compared to last year) technology research Provided a total of 39 research grants totaling Continue support for victims and for the disaster Continue to support cutting-edge science and 50.75 million yen, through the Casio Science region after the Great East Japan Earthquake technology research Promotion Foundation 54 Independent Verification Independent Verification Report 11 July 2011 CASIO COMPUTER CO., LTD. K.K. Satisfactory International 3-12-8 Hacchobori Chuo-ku Tokyo, Japan Representative Director Komatsu Takeshi Objective of Verification Casio Computer Co., Ltd (Casio) has commissioned K.K. Satisfactory International (KKSI) to conduct verification of Casio’s environmental performance data of the financial year of 2010 (1 April 2010 – 31 March 2011) for inclusion in the Casio Sustainability Report 2011(Report). The aim of this verification is to consider the accuracy of environmental performance data detailed in the Report and to provide a verification opinion based on objective evidence. Scope The scope of the verification work covers the activities including 1)Inputs: Energy(Electricity and fuels), Water resources, SF6, GHGs other than SF6, VOC, PRTR substance, rainwater use and waste water use. 2)Outputs: GHGs (CO2, SF6, Other GHGs㧕, Air Pollutants (NOx, SOx, Dust), VOC emissions, Waste water, BOD, PRTR substance, waste generated, Landfill Disposal, Recycle waste, 3) CO2 emissions from Logistics and Sales, 4) CO2 emissions from products use. The total of 50 business sites are covered, which comprises of 6 production sites and 20 offices in Japan and 4 production sites and 20 offices overseas. Methodology KKSI has conducted its verification activities by document reviews, five site visits, enquiries to person in charge and verification of the documents to determine the following. y The reliability and adequacy of data collection and aggregation systems and related processes. y The relevance of the scope of data selected for inclusion in the report. y The reliability of measured and collected data and accuracy of aggregated data. y The validity of conclusions drawn from and reported against aggregated data. Verification Opinion y There is no material error found in the reported data. y All errors in reported data identified during the verification process have been duly corrected. y The data measurement, collection and aggregation systems are credible and appropriately operated. 55 Independent Opinion Independent Opinion on the Sustainability Report 2011 The opinion presented here was written based on the content of this report (website version) and interviews with Casio personnel responsible for environmental, procurement, human resources, and CSR initiatives. The report makes it reasonably clear that Casioʼs CSR initiatives have begun to use the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle with a focus on reducing the companyʼs environmental impact. Commendable efforts by Casio ● I commend the company for including eﬀorts to build a sent to 169 suppliers in China and Thailand based on low carbon society and protect biodiversity as themes in the results of questionnaires on the reduction of enviits mediumto long-term environmental policy. As Casio ronmental impact, initiatives to protect the human works toward these goals, I have high expectations for the rights of workers, and other matters, plus onsite invesprogress of its initiatives across the entire product lifetigations of some companies. Casio also evaluates supcycle. In addition to the companyʼs efforts within the pliers in Japan based on a ﬁve-point scoring system for group and across its supply chain, I look forward to seeing all 340 items in the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment how the company helps its customers to make the most Guidebook, published by the Japan Electronics and Ineco-friendly use of its products, including improving recyformation Technology Industries Association (JEITA). cling rates at the end of the product cycle. I also expect Going forward, I hope that the company will further the company to disclose information on its progress. raise the visibility of its suppliersʼ initiatives and issues ● Regarding the CSR initiatives for suppliers, it is admiby providing specific examples, while continuing to rable that Casio is ascertaining, “visualizing,” and sharbuild a system of dialogue for sharing case studies, ing data about suppliers. For instance, feedback was rewarding outstanding suppliers, and resolving issues. Points for improvement while commending progress to date ● Regarding eﬀorts to make Casio a better place to work, ● Regarding the hiring of employees with disabilities, Casio the company deserves congratulations for achieving deserves applause for exceeding the legally mandated 3.96% in the percentage of employees who make use of employment rate within the consolidated group in Japan leave and reduced working hours programs for childcare and for starting a follow-up program that makes it easier and nursing care. Now Casio needs to more proactively for persons with disabilities to keep working within the create opportunities for users of these programs to share group and ensures cooperation between employment their awareness of issues and how they overcame them. sites and the personnel department. Now the company ● Regarding the improvement and utilization of human reshould work at building community based on the diﬀerent sources diversity throughout the group, Casio should be types of disabilities and occupations, and continue making commended for giving consideration to diﬀerent cultures Casio an easy place for persons with disabilities to work. and the environment at production sites and other sites. ● Regarding the CSR initiatives for the entire group, Casio Now it is essential for the group to further globalize its busishould be commended for the fact that many divisions ness development. Casio should take a ten-year perspecstarted proposing initiatives following the reorganization tive, and plan a global personnel portfolio that goes beyond of its CSR Committee in at the end of ﬁscal 2010 to allow division and company boundaries. Along with the appointeach division to independently look into and pursue isment of a global personnel oﬃcer to oversee and promote sues of concern to society. In the future, Casio will need personnel hiring, training, and interaction, the group should to further promote bottom-up approaches like these. build a human resources database for getting a compre● On a related matter, Casio should be praised for continuing hensive grasp of its personnel, including the national staﬀ to feature articles about CSR in its internal newsletter. I hope in each country. In these and other ways, Casio needs to that the newsletter will continue to cover particularly imporestablish strategies and systems that can make the most of tant CSR issues and initiatives from diverse sites within the its diverse workforce as a truly global company. group, in and outside Japan, as well as from suppliers. Points for improvement International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) Hideto Kawakita Chief Executive Oﬃcer ● Regarding the environmental impact reduction data in this report, it is commendable that details are provided Proﬁle of IIHOE: International Institute for on the principal sites in and outside Japan including Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) group companies. My hope, however, would be that Cais a nonproﬁt organization (NPO) that has been supporting NPO management and sio will continue to increase the level of accuracy of CSR capacity building since 1994. group reporting, not only for environmental data, but http://blog.canpan.info/iihoe (in Japanese) also for personnel and procurement initiatives and data. 56 Responses to the Independent Opinion on the 2010 Report Points for improvement while commending progress to date Independent Opinion introducing universal design fonts and other such Regarding the CSR initiatives for the entire group (pagsteps. es 32-33), Casio should be commended for reorganizing its CSR Committee in March 2010, in order to allow Casio’s Response each division to independently look into and pursue isCasio began using universal design fonts, mainly for the sues of concern to society. In the future, Casio will need new models of multifunction watches such as OCEANto promote and establish bottom-up approaches to US, EDIFICE, and PROTREK, making increased clarity the make the most of this new framework. highest goal. This eﬀort resulted in the user manual for the OCEANCasio’s Response US winning an award for excellence in the 1st category In keeping with the reconsideration of the operation of of booklet operational manuals in the Japan Manual the CSR Committee in ﬁscal 2011, Casio decided to Contest 2011. operate the committee as follows from ﬁscal 2012: The number of pages increased with additional prod1) In order to conﬁrm societyʼs expectations of Casio, uct functions, but from here on the company will strive the committee held a stakeholder meeting in April to reduce the number of pages through measures such and extracted themes that Casio should address. as improving the heading organization and wording. 2) These themes were broadly grouped into four cateThese eﬀorts will then be expanded to other products. gories. Working groups made up of members from relevant divisions were established for each theme. The working groups delved into the speciﬁc issues Independent Opinion that should be addressed in ﬁscal 2012 and set a Regarding the environmental impact reduction data in priority order. this report, it is commendable that details are provided 3) Based on the conclusions of these working groups, on the principal sites in and outside Japan including each division responsible envisioned how resolving group companies. My hope would be that Casio will conthese issues would change their operations, devised tinue to increase the level of accuracy of group reportannual action plans, and committed to carrying out ing, not only for environmental data, but also for personthe plans in a concrete manner. nel and procurement initiatives and data. Through the establishment of the above system, Casio is promoting a bottom-up approach to resolving Casio’s Response issues. In the 2011 report, Casio worked hard to disclose data on group company initiatives, to the extent currently possible, in the area of social activities in addition to inIndependent Opinion cluding a special feature on the initiatives of Casio (ThaiOn a related matter, Casio should be praised for conland) Co., Ltd., which is one of the groupʼs principal tinuing to feature articles about CSR in its internal newsproduction sites. letter. I hope that the newsletter will continue to cover The company will continue striving to improve the particularly important CSR issues and initiatives from level of its reporting. diverse sites within the group. Casio’s Response Independent Opinion In ﬁscal 2011, Casio continued to introduce CSR initiaRegarding the employment of persons with disabilities tives undertaken by group companies in and outside (page 68), Casio deserves congratulations for maintainJapan using an internal website in addition to articles in ing the legally mandated employment rate, which had the internal newsletter. A total of 73 articles on CSR been an issue for many years. Now however, the comwere published, taking up issues such as the creation of pany must work with the parties concerned to make it comfortable work environments at production sites, coeasier for persons with disabilities to keep working operation in community development events, site tours within the Casio group. and other educational support, and relief eﬀorts for areas stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Casio’s Response In ﬁscal 2011, the entire group in Japan reached Japanʼs legally mandated employment rate for persons with disIndependent Opinion abilities. Going forward, the group will continue with It is also admirable that Casio cut paper usage by 39% proactive hiring of all persons, regardless of level of abilcompared to the previous year by reducing the size and ity, who are ready for a challenge and have the will to number of pages for user manuals for products such as work and demonstrate creativity. electronic dictionaries and other measures. Now the company should make an even greater contribution by 57 Points for improvement Independent Opinion Independent Opinion Casio must take steps to promote reuse of the rare metThe improvement and utilization of human resources als used in high-performance products such as digital diversity throughout the group is essential for the comcameras and electronic dictionaries, for which recycling pany to further globalize its business development. Casystems have not yet been established. Measures could sio should take a ten-year perspective, and plan a global include further studies with other companies in the same personnel portfolio that goes beyond division and comindustry and recovery of rare metals in used products. pany boundaries. Along with the appointment of a global This, in turn, could be linked to sales promotion, and to personnel oﬃcer to promote this goal through various development of products that use recycled metals. channels including personnel hiring, training, and interaction, the company needs to establish recruitment and Casio’s Response training systems that can make the most of a diverse In recent years, study groups looking into the recycling workforce as a truly global company. of rare metals contained in cellular phones, digital cameras, and other used small electronic devices have been Casio’s Response launched, mainly by Japanʼs Ministry of Economy, Trade In ﬁscal 2011, the company began needs-analysis and and Industry and Ministry of the Environment. These other preparatory studies regarding the development groups are studying the issue, including facilitating reand implementation of a human resources management covery demonstration pilots by local governments. system beﬁtting a global company. First, the company The Mobile Recycling Network operated jointly by celidentiﬁed the issues and needs not only of the personnel lular phone network carriers is already recovering and department, but also the relevant departments and each recycling cellular phones. Digital cameras are collected of the Casio sites in and outside Japan. Based on these and disposed of as general waste by local governments eﬀorts, Casio then began implementing speciﬁc meaand there are also secondhand markets. Accordingly, sures for the building of a global human resources manthe industrial associations concerned are jointly estabagement system. Going forward, the company will conlishing study sessions on the recycling of used small tinue to strengthen these eﬀorts. electronic devices and looking into how to handle this issue. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Environment is putting together the outline of a new recycling program, creating a system with intermediate processors and reﬁning companies centered on municipalities, and moving ahead with plans to extract metals such as gold, silver, copper, zinc, and palladium. Also, a bill on other rare metals is anticipated to be submitted into a regular session of the Japanese Diet in 2012. Casio will therefore closely monitor these developments and consider how to respond. (Main products: Cellular phones, digital cameras, electronic dictionaries, calculators, and AC adapters) 58 About Casio Computer Co., Ltd. Company data (as of March 31, 2011) Name Casio Computer Co., Ltd Paid-in capital ¥48,592 million 1-6-2, Hon-machi, Shibuya-ku, Headquarters Net sales ¥341,678 million Tokyo, Japan Operating income ¥12,042 million Established June 1, 1957 Ordinary income ¥11,702 million President and CEO Kazuo Kashio Net income ¥5,682 million Employees 2,629 The Casio Group’s Global Reach Europe: 9 companies Japan: 19 companies Asia: 12 companies Americas: 6 companies Net Sales and Income ■ Sales and operating income by reportable segment ■ Sales by region Others Consumer Asia and other Sales: ¥43,084 million (12.6%) Sales: ¥252,083 million (73.8%) Operating income: ¥16,521 million 24.3% Operating income: ¥576 million • WLP processing consignments • Watches • LCDs • Clocks • Molds, etc. • Electronic dictionaries • Calculators Japan • Label printers and photo printers 47.5% • Electronic musical instruments • Digital cameras, etc. Europe Net sales 15.9% ¥341,678 million System Equipment Sales: ¥46,511 million (13.6%) Operating loss: ¥1,488 million • Handheld terminals North America • Electronic cash registers (including POS) • • • Oﬃce computers Page printers Data projectors, etc. 12.3% 59 Products and Services FOR CONSUMERS FOR PROFESSIONALS Timepieces Handheld terminals Casio provides highly appealing timepieces unCasio is bringing the beneﬁts of IT to a variety der the G-Shock, Oceanus, Protrek, and other of diﬀerent industries with its extensive lineup brands. Casioʼs timepiece product developof durable, intuitive handheld terminals. These ment and marketing approach are unique, range from communication terminals for imdriven by advanced electronic technologies, proving retail customer service, to handheld such as a solar-powered radio-controlled functerminals for logistics that have special features tion that can receive standard time signals for people working up high in a warehouse. from six radio towers worldwide. In 2009, Casio surpassed the 50-million mark for G-Shock watches sold. Casio has the top share of the global market for radio-controlled watches (Casio survey). G-SHOCK GW­9300 IT­300 Digital Cameras Data projectors Casio digital cameras deliver outstanding All Casioʼs data projectors are equipped with its performance in fundamentals like image quality original Laser & LED Hybrid Light Source. This and battery life, but thatʼs not all. They also technology oﬀers high brightness without using oﬀer people entirely new ways to do digital a lamp containing mercury, which is hazardous photography made possible by Casioʼs highto the environment. These advanced, next-genspeed image processing technology and ultra eration projectors have been well received by high-speed burst shooting, and a revolutionary many kinds of users. function for creating composite moving images right on the camera. Casio is constantly redeﬁning what the digital camera can do. XJ­H1650 EXILIM EX­TR100 Electronic Dictionaries Page printers At over 50%, Casio has the top share of the Casioʼs page printers are both environmentally electronic dictionary market in Japan (accordfriendly and economical, leveraging a unique, ing to a 2010 GfK Japan survey). The company all-in-one system that includes the main printer oﬀers a full lineup of products for diverse cusunit, the toner and the printing software. Casio tomer segments including high school students, was the ﬁrst in the industry to oﬀer toner feaforeign language learners, and businesspeople. turing a carbon oﬀset, and also provides free While delivering ease of use through intuitive printing tools to help users save paper. Users touch-panel operations and easy-view color appreciate all these advanced features. screens, Casioʼs electronic dictionaries appeal to the universal desire to learn and are packed with all the resources people need to get the job done. EX-word XD-B10000 SPEEDIA GE5000 Calculators Electronic cash registers Casio also commands the largest portion of the Casio has the largest share of the electronic calculator market in Japan, with a share of over cash register market in Japan (according to a 50% (according to a 2010 GfK Japan survey). 2010 RJC Research survey), thanks to an exThe company has sold over 1 billion units tensive oﬀering of functions and uses. With the worldwide. The diverse lineup of models ranges 2007 development of the Net Register service, from practical business calculators that meet which enables users to perform sales tracking the needs of accounting and ﬁnance experts, and management over an Internet connection, to scientiﬁc calculators that are useful for Casio cash registers are popular with restaumathematics education. Casio calculators are rants and retailers. popular worldwide thanks to their convenient functions and superior quality. DS­20DT QT­6000 Label printers and photo printers System Solutions Casio products meet a diverse range of printing Casio Information Systems develops specialized needs from the home to the oﬃce. Casioʼs systems for various industries, business types, unique label printers and photo printers can be and operations. One such system solution is used as stationery tools. The Name Land conveRakuichi, which provides support for sales manniently prints beautiful labels, and the Purinagement, accounting, and payroll operations at sharu prepares and prints custom postcards small and medium-size companies. Casio Huwithout a computer. man Systems oﬀers the ADPS Personnel System and other tools to support the eﬀective use of human resources. Purinsharu Rakuichi Cellular phones Electronic components Casio develops innovative cellular phones for Casio Micronics is engaged in consignment the Japanese and US markets. Casioʼs cellular production of cutting-edge semiconductor phones make the most of toughness technolopackages (WLP), which are used in many degies from the companyʼs other waterproof and vices including smartphones. Kofu Casio manshock-resistant products and oﬀer advanced ufactures electronic components such as small camera performance based on Casioʼs work and medium-sized STN/TN LCDs. with the Exilim digital camera. * The cellular phone business is operated by WLP NEC Casio Mobile Communications, Ltd. au G'zOne IS11CA Electronic musical instruments Molds and plastic molding Casio aims to make the joy of music accessible Utilizing the molding technologies it has develto as many people as possibly by providing a oped for making Casio products, Yamagata diverse lineup of instruments. Casio oﬀers elecCasio is engaged in consignment production tric pianos with the beautiful sound and rich of molds, and the molding of plastic parts for power of expression of a grand piano, as well as cellular phones and electronic components in high-grade keyboards that oﬀer the enjoyment automobiles. of making songs and creating original sounds. It even makes electronic keyboards for beginners with keys that light up and show where the ﬁnMold gers should go. Privia PX­830BP 60 History of Casio Four Kashio brothers start commercial production of the 1957 worldʼs ﬁrst all-electric compact calculator, the 14-A. Casio Computer Co., Ltd., founded. 001 transistor-based electronic desktop calculator 1965 released. Export of electronic desktop calculators 1966 to overseas markets begins. 1967 Europe oﬃce established in Switzerland. Casio Inc., a sales subsidiary, established in the US. 1970 Casio stock listed on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Casio stock transferred to the ﬁrst section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 1972 Casio Mini, the worldʼs first personal electronic calculator, released. 1974 Casiotron digital wristwatch released. Casio Taiwan Co., Ltd., a production subsidiary, 1978 established. 1980 Casio Tone electronic keyboards released. 1981 TR-2000 electronic dictionary released. 1983 First G-SHOCK shock-resistant wristwatch released. 1985 China oﬃce established in Beijing. ADPS R1, an oﬃce information processing device that 1989 requires no user program, released. QV-10, a digital camera with an LCD monitor, released. 1995 FKT-100 radio-controlled watch released. C303CA, a waterproof, shock-resistant cellular phone, 2000 introduced for sale by the IDO/DDI Cellular Group. EXILIM, then the worldʼs thinnest, wearable card-sized 2002 digital camera, released. Charter of Creativity for Casio established. 2003 Casio enters the data projector market. OCEANUS, a solar-powered radio-controlled watch with full 2004 metal case, released. Casio achieves total sales of 1 billion calculators 2006 worldwide. 2008 EX-F1 high-speed burst shooting digital camera released. 2009 Casio achieves total sales of 50 million G-Shock watches. 2011 Imaging Square online service launched. 61
