Global Responsibility 2012 Health Communities Environment Table of Contents 1 To our stakeholders 2 Introduction 8 HEALTH 20 COMMUNITIES 36 ENVIRONMENT 9 New record set for improving health profile 21 Volunteerism: Our values in action 37 Working toward our sustainability goals 9 Lucky Charms gets a boost 22 Our legacy of community involvement 38 Reducing our energy usage 10 Whole grain is No. 1 23 Harnessing brand power for education 39 Sharing best practices uncovers energy savings 10 CPW boosts whole grain 23 Yoplait impact on breast cancer research 40 Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 11 Trimming sugar in kid cereals 24 Fighting hunger in our community 41 Turning oat hulls into innovation 12 Trimming sodium across our portfolio 25 Nourishing lives in Africa 42 Protecting the environment, one tree at a time 12 Removing trans fat from our products 26 Expanding community support around the world 43 Reducing our water usage 13 More nutritious new products 27 Helping communities following natural disasters 43 Saving water by ‘greening’ our red sauce 14 The challenge of creating healthier products 28 Volunteering for the environment 44 Conserving fragile habitats 15 Healthier school breakfasts 29 Respecting, developing and investing in our people 45 Identifying and managing our water risks 16 Reaching out to diverse communities 30 Working to improve workplace safety 46 Reducing solid waste generation rate 17 Champions for Healthy Kids best practices 31 Programs for employee health 46 Tackling food waste 18 General Mills UK signs on to ‘Responsibility Deal’ 32 Engaging employees in healthy lifestyles 47 Recycling expands in Albuquerque 18 Nature Valley: Emphasizing a healthy balance 33 Deepening relationships with minority suppliers 48 Reducing our use of transportation fuel 19 Updating our child marketing guidelines 35 Doing the right thing: A core value 49 Promoting sustainable agriculture 51 Reducing our packaging footprint 53 Summer of Sustainability 54 ISSUES 62 APPENDIX 54 Responsible sourcing 62  isclosures on management D 56 Standards, communication and collaboration approach: Environmental 58 Replacing BPA in food packaging 63  isclosures on management approach: D 58 Minimizing waste while protecting food safety Labor practices and decent work 59 Supporting global food security 65  orkplace Safety and Environmental W Protection Policy 60 Climate change 66  isclosures on management D approach: Human rights 66 Disclosures on management approach: Society 67  isclosures on management approach: D Product responsibility 68 GRI G3.1 Sustainability Report Context Index To our Stakeholders: Welcome to our 2012 Global Responsibility report. We’re very pleased to provide this update on the progress we’re making to enhance the nourishment we provide … to strengthen the communities we serve … and to protect the planet we share. General Mills’ mission is Nourishing It was a recently retired manufacturing These are just a few examples of how our Lives, and this report marks our manager who doggedly pursued the employees are making a real difference for 42nd year of reporting back to our idea of burning discarded oat hulls for General Mills and our global community. communities and our stakeholders. energy – an initiative that continues to Around the world, General Mills employees be held up as a model of innovation and are working to improve the health profile Our approach to global responsibility creativity in the food industry (p. 41). of our products, volunteering in their is straightforward. It’s all about living communities and integrating sustainability our values – one of which is “We It was one of our scientists whose desire into every facet of our business. Ken Powell do the right thing, all the time.” to lose weight sparked the creation of Chairman, Chief Executive Progresso Light soup – just one of our Every day, we work to earn the trust Officer, General Mills When a company’s values are in ongoing efforts to steadily improve the of consumers. Being a responsible alignment with employees’ values, health profile of our products (p. 9). corporate citizen is integral to good things happen. My hope is that maintaining that trust. We are proud you will see our values reflected in this And it was an R&D employee of the progress we’re making – and report – both in our performance and who planted the initial seeds for we are committed to doing more. in the stories behind the numbers. Partners in Food Solutions, a nonprofit organization linking the food expertise Thank you for your interest, and Box Tops for Education, the leading of General Mills employees with small we welcome your questions education cause-marketing program food companies in Africa (p. 25). and comments, as always. in the U.S., is one example. It was Today, more than 500 General Mills two of our salesmen who dreamed employees contribute their time, Sincerely, up the idea for Box Tops, which has knowledge and talents to helping raised more than US$400 million African food producers solve a wide WATCH VIDEO for K-8 schools (p. 23). range of quality and other issues. General Mills Global Responsibility 01 INTRODUCTION At General Mills, corporate social responsibility is at the core of our Nourishing Lives mission, culture and business strategy. We believe that doing well for our shareholders goes hand in hand with doing well for our consumers, our communities and our planet. We organize our corporate social responsibility focus areas – and our annual reports – into three basic categories. Health Communities Environment The nourishment we provide The people we serve The planet we share Every day throughout the world, Today, our Cheerios business provides assured. Our GRI Index on page 68 attributes of the food we create. We’re our 35,000 employees work an example of how we bring our has a comprehensive list of the GRI continuing to work with governments to carry out this mission. Nourishing Lives mission to life in our indicators we are addressing this year. and a number of organizations around day-to-day operations (see illustration the world to promote healthier lifestyles. We’re proud of our sustainable You’ll see references to these on page 3). Sustainability is built into heritage, which dates back decades, indicators throughout this report. One of our biggest challenges is every phase of our process – from the and, in some cases, even longer. maintaining the preferred taste of our growing of oats to the burning of leftover Health performance products while reducing ingredients In the 1940s, for example, our Green oat hulls to fuel our oat milling plant. & challenges: Overview such as fat, sugar and sodium. We Giant agricultural research team In 2011, our U.S. Retail division set a new Adopting GRI reporting know from experience that a healthier published a report outlining the benefits record for improving the health profile guidelines food cannot provide nutritional of crop rotation and later pioneered the of our products. As measured by our Our 2012 report marks the first time benefits if it is not eaten. Finding use of integrated pest management for internal health metric, 24.6 percent of we are adopting the Global Reporting that balance between health and reducing pesticide use across all crops. these retail sales were comprised of Initiative (GRI) 3.1 guidelines. Our taste is a perennial challenge – and Over the past 30 years, we’ve cut the products with improved nutrition profiles. intention is to increase the accessibility opportunity – for General Mills. pounds of pesticides used by 80 percent. of information for interested stakeholders In recent years, we’ve accelerated efforts Each of our reformulated products – as And in the 1990s, we worked with – a reflection of our commitment to to improve our overall health profile. well as new ones – undergoes extensive paper mills, counties, cities and waste become more transparent. GRI is a From fiscal 2005 to the end of fiscal 2011, taste tests before being introduced. management companies to promote nonprofit organization that has developed 64 percent of our U.S. Retail product sales curbside recycling. More importantly, one of the most prevalent standards for volume has been nutritionally improved. All of our Big G kid cereals, for example, we helped create an even larger corporate social responsibility reporting. are now at 10 grams of sugar or less As significant as these gains are, we – market for recycled paperboard by In our first year, our report is undeclared, per serving – down from 12 grams or and the entire food industry – are under using it in our food packaging. and the report is not externally more just a few years ago – and we’ve increasing scrutiny to improve the health continued on page 4 w General Mills Global Responsibility 02 Cheerios: Circle of Goodness 6 Nourishing communities A sustainable crop 1 The Cheerios brand supports community Oats are among the most sustainable programs such as Spoonfuls of Stories, crops and usually require less fertilizer which has distributed 60 million and pesticide than other major crops. children’s books in Cheerios boxes And they typically rely entirely on in the past decade. rainfall – instead of irrigation – for water. 5 A healthy, Efficient cereal processing 2 nutritious breakfast Since fiscal 2006, the facilities that produce Each serving of Cheerios contains healthy Cheerios have reduced, on average, their whole grain, and just 1 gram of sugar. Oats energy consumption rate by 12 percent, contain beta-glucan, a soluble fiber that’s solid waste generation rate by 20 percent been proven to lower cholesterol.* and water usage rate by 31 percent. 4 Recycled packaging Renewable energy source 3 for decades Our biomass burner in Fridley, Minn., Like all General Mills cereals, Cheerios is designed to burn discarded oat hulls boxes are made from 100 percent from this oat milling plant to supply up recycled paperboard and have to 100 percent of the processing steam been since the 1930s. and heating needs for the facility. * Three grams of soluble fiber daily from whole grain oat foods, like original Learn more about Cheerios and sustainability in the Responsibility section of GeneralMills.com. Cheerios cereal, in a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, may reduce the risk of heart disease. Original Cheerios cereal provides 1 gram per serving. General Mills Global Responsibility 03 pledged to reduce all of these cereals to Advertising Initiative in the U.S., the A high level of employee engagement is culture of giving to more of our single digit grams of sugar per serving. Department of Health in the United the norm at General Mills – 83 percent international locations and programs. Kingdom, Health Canada in Canada, of our U.S. employees volunteer in the On page 11, you can see the progress We have been making progress – and the World Health Organization community – nearly three times the on our sugar reductions in cereal and particularly with the food security in many other parts of the world 29 percent average reported in a survey of know that more reductions are on the programs we have helped establish in on several health-related issues. more than 150 Fortune 500 companies. way as a result of recent taste tests. several African countries through our Communities performance Today, our challenge – and Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) & challenges: Overview opportunity – is to grow these efforts program. PFS links the expertise The important role General Mills plays in around the world as we expand to of General Mills employees (as the community around our headquarters become a more global company. well as employees from Cargill and in Minneapolis and throughout the DSM) with small and mediumIn fiscal 2011, Foundation giving state of Minnesota is well-known. Since sized food processors in Africa. internationally reached nearly our Foundation was created in 1954, US$400,000 – almost double the We firmly believe that cereal – we’ve given more than US$1 billion US$220,000 in fiscal 2010. This, sweetened or not – is one of the to a variety of charitable causes. however, represents just a relatively best breakfast choices people can The same holds true for communities small slice of our total giving. make. It has fewer calories than where we have production facilities, like To date, more than 500 General Mills Likewise, our volunteerism rate for many other breakfast options, has Cedar Rapids, Iowa, or Hannibal, Mo. employees have contributed their employees outside the U.S. is 51 percent many of the nutrients that make up General Mills employees are typically time and knowledge to this award– significantly higher than the average a healthy diet, and it is affordable. leaders in the community when it winning program that is helping lay for Fortune 500 companies, but leaving comes to giving, volunteerism and the groundwork for improved food We continue to work with the plenty of room to grow. Again, the other civic engagement endeavors. security in several countries in Africa. Children’s Food and Beverage challenge is to extend General Mills’ continued on page 6 w 83 percent Eighty-three percent of our U.S employees volunteer in the community – nearly three times the 29 percent average reported in a survey of more than 150 Fortune 500 companies. General Mills General Mills GlobAl Global Responsibility Responsibility 04 General Mills is one of the largest food companies in the world, with more than 100 consumer brands. $14.9 $1.8 $118.7 35,000 100+ $2.9 145 billion billion million employees consumer brands billion years Global net sales* Net earnings* Community About half work outside Our many brands can be Net sales for our We have been contributions the United States. found in more than 100 International making lives countries on six continents. business segment* healthier, easier and richer for more than a century. *Includes $1.2 billion proportionate share of joint venture sales All figures represent fiscal 2011 results. General Mills Global Responsibility 05 And a separate program, Join My Village, be a challenging year, largely because – across all of our plants, which will has been extended so all of our employees of a slight decrease in our business allow us to better focus our operations to – not just those based in the U.S. – can volume. Because our sustainability conserve natural resources and money. For more on global responsibility contribute to this program that is designed goals are rate-based, they are affected at General Mills, see Taken together, we believe these to empower African women and girls. by the volume of what we produce. GeneralMills.com/responsibility. initiatives position us very well to face In addition, Join My Village – which to There are many fixed costs – such as environmental challenges and to make date has raised more than US$1.3 million heating and lighting at our facilities significant progress in the years ahead. to help 2,000 families in Malawi, Africa – – that are incurred regardless of how Engaging stakeholders has expanded to India in recent months. much food is produced. So we did We solicit input from groups like Ceres not make as much progress against (a coalition of investors, environmental our goals as we had hoped. organizations and other public interest But we made significant groups that works with companies By designing programs like Partners in advancements in other areas. to advance their environmental and Food Solutions and Join My Village – social performance) to ensure we With help from several external and organizing all of our philanthropic address issues of concern to them. organizations, we’ve developed efforts around our core food business a sustainable sourcing model for We are also a member of the United – we leverage our scale and know-how ingredients we purchase to make our Nations Global Compact, a collaboration to address problems like food security products. We are now developing of businesses, NGOs (nongovernmental and poverty. Our work in these areas is specific strategies for sustainably organizations) and the United Nations still young and the challenges great. sourcing several of these ingredients. dedicated to improving human rights, Environmental labor, the environment and business We also have begun asking our suppliers performance: Overview practices. We are committed to working to complete our “supplier scorecard,” We continue to move forward on which asks for data on energy use, water globally on these important issues. reaching our 2015 solid waste generation, use and solid waste generation that We have been participants in the water usage, greenhouse gas emissions is associated with the ingredients and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since and other sustainability goals. material we use to make our products. its inception in 2000 and regularly We’re already more than halfway report our greenhouse gas emissions toward achieving three of the goals and climate change strategies to this – on reducing water use, solid waste initiative. The CDP compiles data generation and packaging. And we’re from 2,500 organizations in some making progress on reducing energy 60 countries around the world. usage, greenhouse gas emissions and In addition, we are now in the process transportation fuel, our other three goals. of rolling out a new global safety and In absolute terms, we improved environmental data management system slightly across all of our sustainability called GSTEMS (Global Safety Tracking metrics versus last year, meaning and Environmental Management We believe these initiatives position us very that we used fewer resources and generated less waste in fiscal 2011 System). The system will enhance realtime tracking of our energy and water well to face environmental challenges and than in 2010. But fiscal 2011 proved to use – among many other measurements to make significant progress in years ahead. General Mills Global Responsibility 06 Concerning nutrition, we work with n 100 Best Companies to Work Those with ultimate responsibility for this several organizations including For (No. 58), Fortune report are the General Mills leadership the American Gastroenterological team, including Kim Nelson, senior n Top Companies for Leaders Association (AGA), the American vice president of External Relations (No. 2), Fortune Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and president of the General Mills the American Society for Nutrition (ASN), n 100 Best Companies, Working Foundation, and our Board of Directors’ and the Academy of Nutrition and Mother (for 16 straight years) Public Responsibility Committee. Dietetics (formerly the American Dietetic The committee reviews a draft of n Top 50 Companies for Association) to fund nutrition research the report and provides input before Diversity, DiversityInc and help promote nutrition education. the final document is published. Increasingly, our reputation as a good And we work with a variety of The environment section of the report is corporate citizen is becoming better organizations on food safety – from developed under the leadership of Jerry known internationally. Among the the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Lynch, our chief sustainability officer, recognitions we received in 2011: forum to the Institute of Medicine and who reports to Nelson and John Church, the National Organic Standards Board. n UK’s 50 Best Workplaces, The senior vice president of our Supply Chain. Great Place to Work Institute External recognition for our responsibility efforts n 2011 Top Employeurs in Our efforts to build a responsible, France, Corporate Research Foundation Institute Our efforts to build a responsible, sustainable and forward-looking company have been recognized by n Recommended Employer in the Food sustainable and forward-looking company several third-party organizations in 2011. Industry, Australian Business Awards have been recognized by several thirdOnce again, we were included in Corporate Responsibility magazine’s n Outstanding Foreign Firms Based party organizations in 2011. in the Republic of China, General list of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens, Chamber of Commerce of the ranking No. 12. The list is based on several Republic of China (Taiwan) criteria, including our stances on human rights, climate change, environment, Global Responsibility philanthropy, employee relations, report scope finance and corporate governance. This report is assembled by General Mills Corporate Communications And we were also again included on with help from subject matter experts The Ethisphere Institute’s list of the throughout the company. The scope is World’s Most Ethical Companies. global, except where otherwise noted. Among the other recognitions Our progress on sustainability metrics we have received in 2011: is reported for fiscal 2011. We also n World’s Most Admired include information about some of our Companies (No. 47), Fortune other activities for calendar year 2011 to illustrate progress on newer initiatives. n America’s Most Reputable Companies (No. 15), Reputation Institute General General MillsMills GlobalSocial Corporate Responsibility Responsibility07 07 HEALTH The nourishment we provide Overview Our mission is * RHeformulated products Nourishing Lives – * Updated ealthier new products * guidelinesmarketing making lives healthier, easier and richer. * Ahealthy decade of providing kids grants * Pbreakfasts romoting school globally Our goal is to provide people with nutritious foods that – when combined with exercise and activity – can help people live healthier lives. For decades, we’ve been providing To help us reach our health goals, of government-approved health Health Goals people with nutrition information – we created the Bell Institute of claim – whether from the U.S. Food Reduce sugar in cereals from the “Betty Crocker Cooking Health and Nutrition in 1998, and Drug Administration, Health advertised to children under 12 School of the Air” in the 1920s to our and our Health & Wellness Canada or other governmental entity. to single digit levels per serving. EatBetterAmerica.com collection Center of Excellence in 2005. Improving the health profile of our Reduce sodium by 20 percent, of “healthified” recipes today. It’s also why we began products is integral to our success on average, in our top 10 We’ve also worked closely with systematically measuring our as a company. At the same time, product categories. governments around the world to “health profile” progress in 2005, we set a high bar for ensuring that Remove trans fat from enrich our foods to address health and have set specific goals. our healthier products taste good. our products. issues. We began enrichment of Gold Long ago, we recognized that Because we’ve learned from Medal flour with thiamine and iron in health was very important to our experience that a healthier product is the 1940s and fortified all Big G kid consumers. Many of our bestof little value if no one buys and eats it. cereals with vitamin D in the 2000s. selling products carry some type General Mills Global Responsibility 08 Health Communities Environment New record set for Raising the health bar improving health profile Our U.S. Retail division set a new record in fiscal 2011 for improving the health profile of its products – besting fiscal 2010. 64% of our U.S. Retail sales 24.6 of our U.S. Retail volume in fiscal 2011 was sales volume in fiscal made up of products that 2011 was made up of As measured by our internal In all, from fiscal 2005 to the end had been nutritionally products that had been health metric, 24.6 percent of of fiscal 2011, 64 percent of our improved – or introduced nutritionally improved or with strong nutrition introduced with strong U.S. Retail’s product sales were U.S. Retail product sales volume profiles – since 2005. nutrition profiles. comprised of products with has been nutritionally improved. improved nutrition profiles. Percent Nutritional 60% 64% Outside the U.S., progress continues Improvement 45% The biggest gains came from reducing on many fronts, including trimming the 40% 33% trans fat and sodium, which each fat and salt from several Old El Paso 21% 16% accounted for 26 percent of our fiscal products. And with the July 2011 2011 improvement. The next largest acquisition of the Yoplait international gains came from adding vitamins business, several new healthy FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 and minerals (19 percent), and from yogurt products have been added increasing whole grain (12 percent). to our international portfolio. PR1 How we measure progress Lucky Charms gets a boost 600 or more of our We measure improvements on our internal health metric in one or more of the following ways: Increasing nutrients such as whole grain, fiber or An example of a product we reformulated in fiscal 2011 vitamins and minerals by at least 10 percent. to improve its nutritional profile is Lucky Charms, one U.S. products have been nutritionally Increasing key food groups such as of our most popular and best-selling cereals. fruits, vegetables, low or non-fat dairy to improved since reach at least a one-half serving. Lucky Charms now has 20 percent Since 2005, General Mills has 2005. more fiber, 25 percent more whole improved the nutrition profile Reducing calories, fat, saturated fat, trans grain and 10 percent less sodium of more than 600 different fat, sugar or sodium by 10 percent or more. than it had the year before. General Mills products in the Formulating or reformulating a product U.S. Some products – like so it qualifies for government-approved And it has 10 grams of sugar per Lucky Charms – have nutrient or health benefit claim. serving – down from 12 grams in 2007. been improved Formulating or reformulating a product We’re working to reduce all of our several times. to meet specific internal requirements, cereals advertised to kids under age 12 to single digit grams per serving. including limiting calories. General Mills Global Responsibility 09 Health Communities Environment Whole grain is No. 1 Ninety-five percent of Big G cereals provide people in the U.S. with more whole grain Americans still aren’t than any other breakfast food from any other food company. eating enough whole Whole grain is also listed as the first Today, our Big G cereals deliver about ingredient, which is important to 38 million whole grain servings grain. We’re working health-conscious consumers who per day – a 50 percent increase in look to the ingredient list to assess the whole grain servings over 2004. to change that. nutritional value of the food they eat. Big G cereals are the No. 1 source The multiyear reformulation effort of whole grain at breakfast represents a continuation of an initiative for people in the U.S. begun in 2005 to convert all of our In connection with healthy living, going Big G cereals to whole grain. That effort with whole grain has been linked to was the single-biggest, health-driven healthier body weights, and it may product improvement in our history. help reduce the risk of heart disease. CPW boosts whole grain Our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture – the second largest cereal provider in the world – is also making significant improvements in the health profile of its many cereals. Since 2003, CPW has increased global In 2009, CPW pledged to reduce the consumption of whole grain by sugar by an additional 20 percent in its more than 3.4 billion servings and cereals that are advertised to children. reduced sugar by more CPW is the joint venture between than 9,141 tons. General Mills and Nestlé that 1st All of its global brands – makes and markets cereals Fitness, Cheerios, Chocapic under the Nestlé brand globally and Nesquik – now have outside North America. The first ingredient at least 8 grams of whole grain per serving. At least 9 grams of whole grain listed on Big G cereals per serving in every Big G cereal is whole grain. General Mills Global Responsibility 10 Health Communities Environment Trimming sugar in kid cereals Since 2007, we’ve lowered sugar levels in our cereals advertised to children under age 12 by more than 14 percent, on average. In 2009, we strengthened our serving. And we’ve reduced sugar in Today, all of our Big G kid commitment by pledging to reduce the many of our other cereals as well. cereals contain 10 grams of sugar in all of our cereals advertised sugar or less per serving. Cheerios has 1 gram of sugar per to children under 12 to single digit serving, Rice Chex has 2 grams, Kix grams of sugar per serving. For more information on the benefits 3 grams, MultiGrain Cheerios 6 grams of cereal, see CerealBenefits.com Today, all of our Big G kid cereals and Honey Nut Cheerios 9 grams. contain 10 grams of sugar or less per PR1 Progress on reducing sugar 15g 14g 13g 13g 12g 12g 12g 12g 11g 11g 10g 10g 10g 10g 10g 10g 10g 10g 9g 9g KEY 2007 Sugar level 2011 Sugar level 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 07 11 * * * * Cereals at single-digit sugar levels 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 6g 6g 5g 4g 3g 3g 2g 1g 0g * Additional cereals at single-digit grams: Wheat Chex (5g), Fiber One Honey Clusters (6g), Dora the Explorer (6g), Chocolate Chex (8g), * Cereals advertised to children: Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Cocoa Puffs, Frosted Toast Crunch, Honey Nut Cheerios, Lucky Charms, Reese’s Puffs, Trix. Cinnamon Chex (8g), Cinnamon Crunch Total (9g), Yogurt Burst Cheerios – Strawberry (9g). General Mills Global Responsibility 11 Health Communities Environment Trimming sodium across our portfolio We’ve made significant progress on our pledge to reduce the Green Giant is lowering the salt in its canned sodium by 20 percent, on average, in more than 400 of our U.S. vegetables by 5 to 35 percent across Europe, Retail products in our top 10 product categories by 2015. Russia, Africa and the Middle East. This sodium Since fiscal 2005, we have reduced the reduction effort has already been implemented sodium by at least 10 percent in 195 in 90 percent of Green Giant products – products, including: Cheerios, Honey including sweet corn, artichokes and hearts Nut Cheerios, 60 varieties of Progresso soup, more than 20 Hamburger Helper of palm – in these markets. The reduction products, most Totino’s pizza rolls, In Europe, we are supporting the UK supports the UK Department of Health’s goal of and 16 Muir Glen tomato products. decreasing dietary sodium to 2.4 grams per day. Department of Health’s 2012 sodium We continue to work on reducing reduction targets and are working to meet the sodium in our remaining product these goals. In addition, nutrition standards categories as we approach 2015. have been implemented for each brand to ensure that sodium levels are a key Likewise, we’re reducing sodium consideration when developing new products. levels in our international portfolio. PR1 Removing trans fat from our products We continue to make progress toward our goal of removing trans fat from our products. Since 2005, we have Most flavors of Betty reduced trans fat in Crocker SuperMoist Since 2005, we have more than 120 of our cake mixes, virtually all reduced trans fat in U.S. Retail products. Pillsbury Toaster Strudel more than 120 of our products, and many As of the end of fiscal Pillsbury Crescent varieties U.S. Retail products 2011, about 83 percent of are among the products General Mills’ U.S. Retail that have been reduced to sales volume was comprised zero grams of trans fat. of products with zero PR1 grams labeled trans fat. General Mills Global Responsibility 12 Health Communities Environment More nutritious new products Among the healthier new products we introduced in fiscal 2012 are: 500 The number of U.S. Retail products with 100 calories or less per serving. n P  rogresso Reduced Sodium Tomato Parmesan soup, which  old Medal White Whole n G Wheat flour makes it easier n B isquick – a baking staple in American kitchens since  ew Fiber One 80 Calories n N cereal provides 40 percent of 800 The number of has 30 percent less sodium to add more whole grain 1931 – is now available with the Daily Value of fiber and than Progresso Vegetable to our diets. The flour can whole grain for making calcium, plus 25 percent of the U.S. Retail products Classics Hearty tomato soup, be used for making sugar pancakes and waffles. Daily Value of eight vitamins with 150 calories is a good source of fiber cookies and other baked goods and minerals including iron. or less per serving. (3 grams) and has 100 calories. that call for white flour.  ew Green Giant Valley n N n A  Yoplait Chocolate Banana n S  imply Fruit Rolls have one Fresh Steamers Pasta and Smoothie has 130 calories serving of fruit and just Vegetables with Alfredo Sauce per serving and 50 percent of 50 calories per serving. was designed to help get kids the Daily Value of calcium. to eat more vegetables. GeneralMills General MillsGlobal GlobalResponsibility Responsibility 13 Health Communities Environment The challenge of creating healthier products It may seem like a simple task to remove the salt, sugar or fat from a product. But the reality is that it’s a subsequent products better to their ideas on how to solve $ lot more challenging. meet consumer demand for technical challenges such as healthy, great-tasting products. removing salt from products. In 2006, for example, we 31 launched Nature Valley Fruit Since 2004, we’ve increased For our efforts, General Crisps. But the dried and R&D spending on health Mills was named to Forbes baked slices of apple, with and wellness initiatives by magazine’s “The World’s Most just 50 calories per pouch, 75 percent. And we look for Innovative Companies” list. Our rank 75% Since 2004, we’ve didn’t meet consumers’ ideas from both inside and We ranked No. 31 among the increased R&D among Forbes spending on health demanding taste requirements outside the company. 100 firms listed. and wellness by 75%. magazine’s list of and were discontinued. PR1 most innovative Our G-WIN innovation portal is Our practice is to learn from designed to allow researchers companies. our past so we can make from around the world to submit General Mills Global Responsibility 14 Health Communities Environment Healthier school breakfasts Recognizing the importance of breakfast in helping children excel in school, General Mills supports breakfast programs in schools around the world. 60 In Canada for the past seven years, every day to school children. We More than 60 General Mills we’ve donated cereal, granola offer more than 60 products made Foodservice products in the bars and Bisquick to more than with whole grain – from Cheerios U.S. contain whole grain. 170 schools in the Toronto area. In to Pillsbury Mini Pancakes. addition to supplying food, General And in the Philippines, we are Mills Canada employees volunteer supporting Food for Hungry Minds, WATCH VIDEO to serve the meals every morning a nonprofit organization that at Brian W. Fleming School near operates a school for poor urban our Canadian office in Toronto. children with high potential. In the U.S., our school breakfast As part of the program, the program provides more than students receive daily breakfast 1 million servings of whole grain and lunch at the school. The number of schools near Toronto $100,000 170 that are supported by our Breakfast The amount in grants in 2011 that General Mills Foodservice has for Kids program. awarded to 39 U.S. schools to improve their breakfast programs. “The dedication and depth of commitment General Mills provides through the breakfast program every day means that our children do not have to go to class without a breakfast. Providing a healthy meal at the beginning of the day means that students can go to class without being hungry and gives them the fuel to think and learn.” – Christine Parr, Principal of Brian W. Fleming Public School General Mills Global Responsibility 15 Health Communities Environment Reaching out to diverse communities General Mills provides health and nutrition information to our many customers in several different ways. One of the most visible is through our grassroots and African-Americans account for education seminars via our Qué Rica Vida initiative. 11.8 percent, while only 6.6 percent of Caucasian Americans are diagnosed as diabetic. Since the outreach program was launched in 2010, we’ve connected with more than 500,000 people We’ve partnered with medical expert in Latino neighborhoods in Chicago, Los Angeles, Dr. Aliza Lifshitz, who has regular health Houston and Oakland, Calif. A topic of special focus programs on Univision television and radio has been diabetes awareness and prevention. as well as syndicated weekly columns in several Spanish-language newspapers. As common as the disease is in the general population, diabetes is even more prevalent among Lifshitz stresses the importance of Latinos. Hispanics account for 10.4 percent of both a wholesome diet and physical adults 20 years and older with this disease, exercise in preventing diabetes. Nutrition Keys GlutenFreely.com EatBetterEarly.com TogetherCounts.com EatBetterAmerica.com PER 1 CUP SERVING 100 CALORIES 0g SAT FAT 160mg SODIUM 1g SUGARS 3g FIBER CALCIUM 0% DV 7% DV 11% DV 10% DV Replacing the front-of-pack labeling We’ve partnered with universities, Our Eat Better Early website to To combat obesity, we’ve joined Our Eat Better America website – icons that have been in place on bloggers and other creators help moms on a budget – including several other companies and where visitors can find “healthified” our Big G cereals since 2004, we’ve of gluten-free food to build a those eligible for the U.S. federal organizations in encouraging versions of traditional recipes – adopted a new system known as new Gluten Freely website that WIC (Women, Infants and Children) families to eat healthy, stay continues to gain readers. With its “Nutrition Keys.” This new voluntary serves as a “one-stop shop” for program – continues to grow. We active and keep score on the combination of recipes, coupons, system, which has been adopted consumers who are looking for now have about 500 recipes on the Together Counts website. free samples and helpful advice, by other food companies, has four information and products to updated site. Each recipe contains more than 1.4 million readers basic icons for calories, saturated lead a gluten-free lifestyle. at least one WIC-eligible food item. subscribe to the e-newsletter fat, sodium and sugar. There and 700,000 visit the website, are also two optional icons that on average, each month. represent “nutrients to encourage.” General Mills Global Responsibility 16 Health Communities Environment Champions for Healthy Kids best practices In 2002, General Mills – in concert with the American Dietetic Association Foundation and the President’s Council on Physical Fitness and Sports – launched Champions for Healthy Kids. The 10-year initiative is designed to General Mills to continue their awardimprove kids’ nutrition and physical fitness winning programs that serve several through 50 yearly grants of $10,000 to demographic groups across the U.S. nonprofit organizations throughout the U.S. The winners range from the Boys & Girls The programs – through initiatives Club of Yellowstone County in Billings, such as the New York-based “Learn It. Mont., to the Health Promotion Council Grow It. Eat It” (pictured at left) – have in Philadelphia, and from the National reached more than 5 million kids. Indian Youth Leadership Program in Albuquerque, N.M., to the Treasure Building on best practices learned Coast Food Bank in Fort Pierce, Fla. from the 450 programs we’ve funded over the past decade, we recently selected 10 Champions for Healthy Kids Legacy Award winners that we “While nearly all of our 450 believe represent the best of the best. Champions for Healthy Kids grant winners continue to Each of the legacy award winners received a US$50,000 grant from provide nutrition education and fitness activities for children, our Legacy Award winners will be able to continue to make a significant The percentage of past impact on hundreds – if not Champions for Healthy Kids thousands – of kids’ lives 98% programs that continue to provide nutrition education. Ninety-four percent continue in the years to come.” – Jeff Peterson, director of innovation and strategy for the to offer fitness activities. General Mills Foundation General Mills Global Responsibility 17 Health Communities Environment General Mills UK signs on to ‘Responsibility Deal’ General Mills UK has pledged to help improve the health of the “As an athlete, I know just how population in the United Kingdom by signing on to the “Responsibility important it is to fuel your body Deal” – a set of voluntary agreements covering food, physical activity with a healthy and balanced and health at work that is backed by the UK’s Department of Health. diet. As our children grow, they Alongside other leading food companies As part of that pledge, Green Giant need their five a day vegetables and retailers, General Mills UK has launched its “High 5” campaign – which and fruit to help build strong committed to improve the nutrition aligns with the government effort to bodies and alert minds.” profile of the foods we provide, promote get people to eat at least five servings – Olympic hurdler Colin Jackson a healthier workplace, encourage physical of fruits and vegetables per day – in is encouraging kids to eat five activity and most recently, promote the fall of 2011. Olympic hurdler Colin vegetables a day in the UK. consumption of fruits and vegetables. Jackson serves as spokesman. PR6 Nature Valley: Emphasizing a healthy balance Throughout the world, our Nature Valley granola bars are closely linked with physical activity and the great outdoors – one more way we emphasize the importance of balance between exercise and eating. Throughout the world, In the U.S., the brand sponsors the Nature parks – and to encourage people to get our Nature Valley Valley Bicycle Festival in Minnesota, which out and enjoy them, whether through granola bars are is considered the premier U.S. bike racing hiking, paddling or other physical activity. event for women. It draws professional closely linked with and elite racers from around the U.S. In the UK, we provide free samples of our physical activity and Nature Valley bars at many outdoor events the great outdoors. And over the last two years, Nature such as the “Race for Life” running series Valley has donated more than $800,000 that raises money for cancer research. through its popular “Preserve the Parks” program to help preserve U.S. national General Mills Global Responsibility 18 Health Communities Environment Updating our child marketing guidelines General Mills has had marketing guidelines in place for more than 30 years, and we update them annually. In July, we joined 16 other food and Because General Mills has been beverage companies to establish aggressively improving the health and uniform nutrition criteria for foods nutrition profile of our products, only three advertised to children under age 12 in of our products – Go-Gurt, Fruit Shapes the U.S. – strengthening guidelines and Fruit Gushers – would not meet the that have been in place since 2007. CFBAI standard. (Reformulation efforts are under way on these products.) Under the new limits set by the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Our marketing guidelines underscore Initiative (CFBAI), about one-third of the company’s commitment to the products currently advertised to responsible advertising by stating that children in the U.S. would have to be all marketing activity should respect reformulated, or they could no longer be three key steps to healthier living: advertised to kids after Dec. 31, 2013. balance, moderation and exercise. PR6 General Mills Global Responsibility 19 COMMUNITIES The people we serve Overview Cultivating a company culture based on * Vtheolunteering community in values is at the core * FMinnesota ighting hunger from to Malawi of our long-term * Hnatural elping victims of disasters business strategy. * Elifestyles ncouraging healthy One of our most cherished values is “We do the right thing, all the time.” We trace this philosophy to a fatal food “whenever possible to avoid So our charitable programs – including $1 billion explosion more than 125 years ago the destruction of edible food.” employee volunteerism – are organized at a Washburn Crosby Company around our core food business: Not only is it the right thing to flour mill in Minneapolis – a do, but we save money by not n T o provide food to those in need. The amount we’ve given to predecessor to General Mills. sending waste to the landfill, and n T o develop and share food solutions. charitable causes since the In response, owner Cadwallader we also gain some tax benefits. General Mills Foundation n T o help families make Washburn established a fund to help More important is the goodwill we nutritious food choices. was created in 1954. the families left behind, financed earn from longtime partners like an orphanage and invested to n T o integrate food with Feeding America and our customers. create safer working conditions. healthy, active lifestyles. Our consumers – and increasingly, That belief system has been with us retailers – want to do business with These are examples of how a ever since and permeates our culture companies that reflect their values. values-based culture is at the core – even down to our corporate policies. of our long-term business strategy. Likewise, employees want to One of those policies, for example, We believe that doing well by doing work for a company that shares specifies that we should donate safe good is a prescription for success. WATCH VIDEO their values. Engaged employees are productive employees. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 20 Health Communities Environment Volunteerism: Our values in action Vanessa Little is a great example of General Mills employees who get involved. $118.7 million The amount we gave to charitable causes She is the type of volunteer who dives in for a Loaves and Fishes event, and in fiscal 2011 – up 18 percent from 2010. when and where she’s needed, literally. helped start a language program so In 2011, she raised money for one her co-workers could learn Spanish. Foundation Grants charity by jumping into a Minnesota lake in the icy month of February. Her commitment to volunteerism is driven $25.4 in part by a memory of one Christmas from million Over the past eight years, Little, a senior her childhood, when her family was going Corporate Contributions/ technician at our Riverside Technical through tough times and couldn’t afford Brand Partnerships $65.1 Center in Minneapolis, has led dozens of presents. A group of strangers stopped volunteer efforts. She launched an “Adopt by on Christmas Eve with food for the Product Donations $28.2 a Troop” initiative to secure donations for holiday meal and gifts for under the tree. million troops in Iraq, and coordinates an annual “It’s still very touching, even as an “Adopt a Family” program that serves local adult, to remember how it felt when I million and international families in need. She realized that someone we didn’t know also heads up a General Mills contingent cared enough to want to help us,” says of Habitat for Humanity volunteers. Little. “I hope by what I’m doing now I Little has also delivered for Meals on can make other people’s holidays a little Wheels, collected socks and mittens brighter and their lives a little easier.” Supporting employee giving Schools, arts groups, United Way and other nonprofit organizations that strengthen our communities have received more than $36 million over the past five 83% years from the General Mills Foundation’s match of employee and retiree gifts. The Foundation’s We’re proud that gift-matching program doubles the impact of 83 percent of our U.S. the dollars our employees and retirees donate employees volunteer by matching gifts of US$25 or more to eligible in some way in their organizations (up to US$15,000 annually). communities. v Vanessa Little and her daughter are among the thousands of General Mills employees and their families who are committed volunteers. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 21 Health Communities Environment Our legacy of community involvement General Mills gives Visit the General Mills Gives “The Pillsburys of Minnesota,” a new book about the Pillsbury legacy in Minnesota, describes Facebook page for stories about the Pillsbury family’s history of civic and corporate responsibility and how their contributions how our employees nourish still benefit Minnesota culture 150 years after the family’s arrival in the state. lives through volunteerism. In the 1860s, John S. Pillsbury – profit-sharing with employees, who wanted to make Minnesota which helped ensure the community a state of well-educated people, maintained a prosperous middle though he had no higher education class. “They built their empire on himself – helped save the University hard work, treating people right, of Minnesota at a time when the unpretentiousness and commitment new institution was cash-strapped. to the common good,” says author Founding support for the Guthrie Lori Sturdevant, a reporter for the Theater, the Minneapolis Institute of Minneapolis-based Star Tribune. Arts, libraries, and even a state forest Competitors for more than a century, are all part of the legacy that the The Pillsbury Company and General Pillsbury family left over the years. Mills share a tradition of community As corporate leaders, the Pillsburys support. That tradition of giving back pioneered ideas, such as corporate and getting involved continues today. $100,000 Employees at our headquarters in Minneapolis collected nearly 10,000 pounds of food and raised more than US$100,000 in our 29th annual food drive to support food shelves in the Twin Cities area of Minneapolis-St. Paul. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 22 Health Communities Environment Harnessing brand power for education Box Tops for Education, the program that has provided more than US$400 million to U.S. schools, had humble beginnings that highlight the culture of caring for the community that is common at General Mills. It began back in the mid-1990s, a Would consumers respond to the largest and best-known education time when schools in California opportunity to raise money for their cause-marketing program in the were facing tough budget cuts. schools by buying General Mills United States. Box Tops for Education products and clipping the “Box provides schools with funding for Mindful that parents care deeply Tops” on products? And would whatever students need, everything about their children’s education retailers support the program? from playground equipment to and equally mindful of low paint, computers to clarinets. redemption rates on General Mills Nearly two decades later, the answer coupons in northern California, is a resounding “yes” to both. Co-founder Iverson retired from sales employees Tom Iverson General Mills in March 2012 after a Today, nearly 70,000 kindergarten and Matt DeFano had an idea. 37-year career, but his legacy – Box to eighth-grade schools are active Tops for Education – continues on. participants in what has become the Our giving culture is reflected in the significant r General Mills’ giving culture was the catalyst that led salesmen Tom Iverson (above) and Matt DeFano to create cause-related marketing efforts across our businesses. what has become known as Box Tops for Education, the leading education cause-marketing program in the U.S. Yoplait impact on breast cancer research $33 million Consumers who want to join the fight against breast cancer in their communities now The total amount we’ve can redeem yogurt lids online as part of the Yoplait Save Lids to Save Lives campaign. contributed since 1998 through For every lid redeemed in fiscal 1998, when Save Lids to Save Lives We donated another US$2 million our Save Lids to Save Lives 2011, we made a donation to breast began, Yoplait has contributed to the cause in 2011 through and Pink Together campaigns cancer programs in the community more than US$25 million to our companywide Pink Together to support breast cancer where the lid was collected. Since promote research and awareness. campaign, now in its fifth year. research and awareness. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 23 Health Communities Environment Fighting hunger in our community General Mills pledged US$1 million to the Hunger-Free Minnesota campaign. About 40 percent of Minnesotans more meals every year to 200 local hunger-relief leaders who don’t get enough to eat are hungry people in the state. gathered to share ideas on how kids. And that can have a lasting to improve access to food and The US$1 million donation impact: Hungry infants and help eligible people get enrolled will help expand existing food young children are more likely in food-support programs. support and child nutrition to have iron deficiencies that programs. Founding partners of General Mills has been battling can affect cognitive and physical Hunger-Free Minnesota include hunger for years. We’re a development, for example. Feeding America food banks in founding partner with Feeding As a food company based in Minnesota, Hunger Solutions America, for example, and Minnesota, we’re committed Minnesota, the Greater Twin have worked with its network to tackling this problem. So in Cities United Way and several of food banks for more than 30 June 2011, General Mills pledged Minnesota-based companies. years. Many of our employees US$1 million in financial support donate their time to hungerAs part of the program launch, to Hunger-Free Minnesota, fighting organizations such General Mills hosted a Twin a three-year initiative that as Meals on Wheels. Cities Hunger Forum, where hopes to provide 100 million $28.2 million Our product donations in fiscal 2011. We work closely with Feeding America, which has more than 200 food banks and distributes over 3 billion pounds of food and + 27% We increased our hunger and grocery products every year. Internationally, we partner with the Global FoodBanking nutrition wellness grants by Network, which operates in 22 countries 27 percent in fiscal 2011. and distributes nearly 3.5 billion pounds of food and grocery products annually. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 24 Health Communities Environment Nourishing lives in Africa In 2011, TechnoServe, a nonprofit organization that works to find business solutions to combat poverty around the world, honored General Mills Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell for his leadership in helping to empower poor people in Africa. In accepting the award, Powell children. Project Peanut Butter treated its life-saving product to global traced the evolution of General more than 60,000 malnourished organizations such as Doctors Mills’ involvement in Africa, children in Malawi in 2011. Without Borders, CARE and local aid starting in 2007 with an initiative agencies and hospitals for distribution PFS currently is providing help to to pack “one million meals for to those who badly need it. new Project Peanut Butter facilities in Malawi.” That commitment has Mali and Sierra Leone, where one in expanded to include Partners in five kids die from malnutrition before Food Solutions (PFS), which links Watch a video about age 5. One project, for example, the expertise of General Mills was led by volunteer James Blair, a how Project Peanut employees and other food industry quality assurance coordinator at our Butter is helping save experts with smalland mediumBerwick plant in the United Kingdom. young lives in Africa. sized food processors in Africa. Blair conducted an inspection of the PFS helps organizations such as Sierra Leone plant to ensure that Project Peanut Butter, which produces it was ready for a UNICEF audit. a high-calorie, peanut-butter-like Meeting internationally recognized paste called chiponde that’s been UNICEF standards means that recognized as the most effective Project Peanut Butter can sell WATCH VIDEO way to treat severely malnourished $1.2 million 500+ That’s the amount of money our Join My Village program has raised to More than 500 General help 2,000 families in Malawi, Africa. Join My Village promotes education Mills employees contribute and economic development by empowering women and girls. And we their time, knowledge and recently expanded the program to help women and girls in India. passion for helping people to Partners in Food Solutions. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 25 Health Communities Environment Expanding community support around the world As an increasingly global company, General Mills continues to expand its community outreach efforts around the world. “As we have more of an Canada that are fighting hunger Grants program reached international presence, we and striving to improve nutrition. nearly US$400,000, reflecting need to bring all that is requests from 18 countries – In China, for example, support is General Mills – including our nearly double the US$220,000 helping expand construction of values – to markets,” says Ellen in support in fiscal 2010. water cellars in exceptionally dry Goldberg Luger, executive areas, providing water to grow and “Our giving reflects our values director of the General Mills cook food. In Nashik, India, nearly and our mission,” says Goldberg Foundation. “It’s not just food, but 2,000 new families will be added Luger. “We are nourishing volunteerism and giving, too.” to a hunger and nutrition program. lives around the world.” The highlight of international And in Canada, General Mills is That effort includes support in calendar 2011 was the providing nutrition and physical volunteerism, too. creation of a new Key Market activity grants to help address Giving Program. Partnering with More than half of General the long-term implications United Way Worldwide, the Mills employees outside of of chronic poverty, as well as company is providing significant the United States volunteer providing school breakfasts financial support – with grants in their communities, and and nutrition education. ranging from US$75,000 to in the United States, that more than US$150,000 – to In fiscal 2011, support from number jumps to 83 percent. organizations in India, China and our International Community “Our giving reflects our values and our mission. We are Nourishing Lives around the world.” – Ellen Goldberg Luger, executive director of the General Mills Foundation General General Mills Corporate GLobalResponsibility Mills Social Responsibility 26 Health Communities Environment Helping communities following natural disasters The importance of lending a hand to disaster victims hit close to home in 2011 when tornadoes struck Minneapolis and Joplin, Mo., two communities where General Mills employees live and work. The General Mills Foundation gave In Japan, where we donated International Disaster Relief US$50,000 to the American Red US$650,000 to the Red Cross fund following severe floods. Cross to support relief efforts in International Disaster Relief In Indonesia, where US$5,000 Joplin, and also matched donations fund to help victims of the was given to help victims of a made by our employees and retirees earthquake and tsunami, and also volcanic eruption on Java. dollar for dollar. Two General Mills matched employee donations. employees lost family members in In New Zealand, where US$35,000 the storm, which devastated the town Watch a video about was given to the New Zealand and killed more than 100 people. how a conference room Red Cross in the wake of a 6.3 at our Joplin, Mo., plant was General Mills donated another magnitude earthquake. used to distribute donated US$25,000 to the American Red In the southeastern U.S., where items – from toothbrushes to Cross to assist tornado victims in more than US$600,000 in cash and clothing – to tornado victims. north Minneapolis. In both cities, food products was donated to the we also pitched in with product American Red Cross after tornadoes donations to feed displaced moved through eight states. people and relief workers. In Australia and Brazil, where We supported other disaster US$50,000 was donated to each relief efforts around the world in country through the Red Cross WATCH VIDEO 2011, including the following. “The entire Minnesotan Somali community Aid to Somalia is impacted by the humanitarian crisis in As a global food company, General Mills was able to help when the Somalia. It means a lot to the community United Nations declared Somalia and the Horn of Africa region to be in a when General Mills takes action. As “state of famine” (the first such U.N. declaration in 30 years). We contributed US$100,000 in food relief to the American Refugee Committee, which leveraged an an employee, it makes me proud.” additional US$200,000 in donations from other Twin Cities companies. Minnesota, – Abdirizak Abdi, Somalia native and General Mills our home base, is also home to the largest Somali population outside Africa. senior applications analyst General Mills GLobal Responsibility 27 Health Communities Environment Volunteering for the environment In April 2011, employees from our Central and Eastern European headquarters in Hamburg, Germany, teamed up with a group of children to convert a field by the kids’ school into a thriving garden. The garden was planted with The new Hamburg garden is a organizations in the Twin Cities vegetables, herbs and flowers, smaller, up-and-coming version area, including Loaves & Fishes which the students at Rebus of another “giving garden” and PRISM Food Shelf, which Billstedt, a school for children near our world headquarters in give or serve the vegetables with special needs, helped tend Minneapolis. The employeeto low-income people. until harvest season in the fall. cultivated Minneapolis garden In 2011, more than 200 generated nearly 1,400 pounds It’s the third garden that General volunteers worked together to of organic vegetables in 2011, Mills volunteers have helped to grow carrots, lettuce, tomatoes, and was expanded from establish at elementary schools beans, broccoli, peppers, 1,600 to 2,750 square feet to in the Hamburg area – giving city cauliflower and other vegetables. accommodate more plants. kids a chance to get outdoors, work together, and learn about The fresh produce grown there nature and how food is grown. is donated to hunger-relief Introducing youth to brand careers In the summer of 2011, we hosted a networking event for students and alumni 1,400 lbs. That’s the total weight from the Minneapolis-based nonprofit organization The BrandLab, which provides young people from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds with exposure of the carrots, beans to careers in marketing and advertising. General Mills is a founding sponsor of and other fresh organic The BrandLab, which offers classes and internships, and to date has awarded vegetables grown for more than 40 $1,000 college scholarships. Watch a video about the event. WATCH VIDEO hungry people at our Minneapolis garden in 2011. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 28 Health Communities Environment Respecting, developing and investing in our people General Mills has earned recognition as a good company to work for, in the U.S. and around the world. Additional At General Mills, we know that General Mills employs about 1,300 leaders (No. 2), while Forbes workplace honors engaged employees drive customer people and has sold products in named us one of the world’s most value and business performance. France for more than 50 years. innovative companies (No. 31). Among the many other awards Our senior leaders work to inspire the company received in 2011: Plus, for the second year in a Our company was also recognized and communicate our culture n 1  00 Best Companies and Best row, General Mills was named for its commitment to operating through their actions to our Companies for Multicultural the “recommended employer” for in a responsible way. We were 35,000 employees worldwide. Women, Working Mother the food industry in Australia. ranked as one of America’s most In 2011, for the fourth year in a row, reputable companies (No. 15) by the n B  est Places to Work in IT Leading business publications also we were named one of the United Reputation Institute and one of the (No. 3), Computerworld ranked General Mills in several “best Kingdom’s 50 best workplaces 100 best corporate citizens (No. 12) of” lists. Fortune included us in its n T  op Workplaces 2011, The by The Great Place to Work by Corporate Responsibility magazine. list of best companies to work for Minneapolis Star Tribune Institute. The Corporate Research (No. 58), most admired companies For more information on creating Foundation, meanwhile, ranked us A complete list of our 2011 (No. 47) and top companies for a great workplace, see page 63. as one of France’s top employers. workplace awards is on GeneralMills.com. 15 years No. 1 In a survey of 250 other large We’ve been on Working Mother’s “100 Best Companies” list for 15 straight years. In 2010, we companies such as General Electric, were inducted into its “100 IBM and Procter & Gamble, General Best Companies Hall of Fame.” Mills’ leadership development programs were ranked No. 1 by Leadership Excellence magazine, a respected leadership trade magazine. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 29 Health Communities Environment Working to improve workplace safety We recorded a total of 185 lost-time accidents among our 35,000 employees in fiscal 2011 at all of our manufacturing facilities globally – up from 177 in fiscal 2010. Our ultimate goal is zero lost-time accidents. Sadly, we did suffer a work-related fatality in fiscal For additional information on workplace 2011. One of our fellow employees died in August safety, see pages 63 and 65. 2010 of an apparent fall at our facility in Albuquerque, N.M. Efforts by responding employees and emergency medical personnel to resuscitate were unsuccessful. LA7 North America – Total Injury Rate North America – Lost-Time Injury Rate Global Total Injury Rate Global Lost-Time Injury Rate Lost-Time injury rate General Mills injury history 1975 to date 0.75 14.00 Lost-time injuries per 100 employees 0.70 12.00 10.00 0.65 8.00 0.60 6.00 0.55 4.00 2.00 GOAL 0.50 0.00 0 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fiscal Year General Mills has been working toward a goal of reducing In fiscal 2011, we recorded a total of 185 lost-time accidents among our 35,000 employees at all of our its lost-time injury rate by 25 percent over five years. manufacturing facilities globally, up from 177 in fiscal 2010. Our ultimate goal is zero lost-time injuries. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 30 Health Communities Environment Programs for employee health General Mills provides a number of programs – which vary from location to location – to assist employees and their families regarding their health. The cornerstone of our long-standing Employees in each group are asked to Many of our facilities have fitness centers In India, we sponsor blood donation wellness initiatives are three complete a confidential online health and wellness counseling programs. In camps that allow employees to get similar programs that are tailored assessment. In addition, employees’ body addition, the company offers a number screened for Thalassemia disease, which for different employee groups: mass index, blood pressure, blood sugar of financial incentives for U.S.-based is most common in South Asia, the and blood levels are measured and tracked. employees who exercise, don’t smoke Mediterranean and Africa. Thalassemia is n T riHealthalon for sales employees. and take the health assessment. an inherited blood disorder characterized Employees are also encouraged to n T otal You for employees at by a decreased ability of the blood consult with our on-staff team of Our programs are tailored to meet local corporate headquarters. to carry oxygen throughout the body, doctors, physicians’ assistants, nurses needs. In Canada, for example, we provide resulting in fatigue and anemia. n H ealth Number for and physical therapists concerning a workshop on seasonal affective disorder LA8 manufacturing employees. the results of these tests, as well for those affected by shortened daylight as any other medical concerns. during winter in northern latitudes. Company’s energy czar boosts personal output to lose 80 pounds Jon Russett’s job requires The turning point came which was to eat just half of the the fitness center, the fitness him to look for ways to save when Russett saw his doctor food in front of me and throw the coaches and wellness groups, the company energy. But before moving from our rest away, and to start exercising.” and other incentives. It’s also in his personal life, he is plant in Belvidere, Ill., to helpful to see your co-workers And that’s just what Russett constantly looking for ways Minneapolis in 2006. exercising. There are plenty of did. When he moved to to expend more energy. resources and support available “I was starting a new job with Minneapolis, he took advantage – you just have to figure out The facilities engineer – who the company, moving to a new of the company fitness center, what works for you,” he says. oversees the company’s city – and my health was not where he worked out on the global effort to trim energy good. I was overweight and on treadmill. He increased his Just this winter, Russett finally costs – lost 80 pounds over medication for high cholesterol time gradually and eventually quit wearing his old winter the past few years by moving and high blood pressure. Even worked up to a 5-mile run. coat – now many sizes too big. more and eating less. though I had undergone back But he keeps his old photo on Support from his wife, co-workers surgery a few years earlier, I still his employee badge, looking He ran 50 miles the week he and company have made a needed pain medication for my at it from time to time to turned 50 last year. “When huge difference to Russett. back. The doctor told me I would remind himself of his former I was in high school, I was so have to do something different “At General Mills, the culture size – and the effort it took r Jon Russett conserves energy in his role out of shape I couldn’t run a if I wanted to enjoy my life. He of health and wellness is to lose those 80 pounds. overseeing the company’s global energyreduction efforts but expends extra personal mile, and now I can run five made a very simple suggestion, everywhere you turn. There’s energy to keep his weight in check. miles a day,” says Russett. GeneralMills General MillsgLOBal GLobalResponsibility Responsibility 31 Health Communities Environment Engaging employees in healthy lifestyles Our Wellston, Ohio, plant was the 2011 winning location of a new award that recognizes the importance of good health to our success as a company. The North American Supply Chain health monitoring station that gives General Mills has been an advocate Global Health Award tracks the employees information on blood of workplace wellness programs – success our plants have in engaging pressure, heart rate, body mass index and the idea that healthy employees employees in a healthy lifestyle, and other key indicators. Wellston are happier and more productive – for fostering a work environment also offers classes on healthy nearly 30 years. Our TriHealthalon that supports smart choices and cooking in the plant’s kitchen. program, for example, started in achieving measurable improvements 1975, has a track record of success “We know how important our in the fitness of team members. in using friendly competition to employees’ health is for their ability help our sales employees make Wellston grabbed the inaugural to contribute to General Mills and healthy lifestyle changes. trophy with a comprehensive health enjoy activities outside of work to program that starts as early as the fullest,” says John Church, senior new-hire orientation. The plant has vice president, Supply Chain. a well-used fitness center with a “We know how important our employees’ health is for 5 million kids We promote healthy eating and The best of health their ability to contribute physical fitness with kids through The National Business Group to General Mills and our Champions for Healthy Kids on Health named us to its program. Since 2002, Champions for enjoy activities outside Healthy Kids has reached more than list of “Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles in 2011.” of work to the fullest.” 5 million U.S. children with grants –John Church, senior vice president, Supply Chain totaling more than US$4.5 million. General GeneralMills MillsGLOBal GLobalResponsibility Responsibility 32 Health Communities Environment Deepening relationships with minority suppliers General Mills’ spending with ethnic minorityand women-owned businesses continues to grow. General Mills’ spending with ethnic The program is about relationships. communities some of our time and some low-income families the opportunity to minority and women-owned suppliers It’s about growth. And it’s about the of our resources, to try to help boys and read and own their first new books. has grown significantly during the past potential for impact that reaches deep girls,” says Randy Bowman, president and The strong relationship between MW decade, reflecting the win-win potential into our business and our communities. co-owner of MW Logistics. The best way to Logistics and General Mills is not unique. on both sides of the table. In fiscal 2011, develop a strong relationship with parents Just ask MW Logistics, a Dallas-based the spending with these suppliers reached is to “demonstrate to working mothers and “This is all about solution development,” company that has provided transportation $552 million, reflecting relationships fathers that you care about their children.” says Darren Harmon, director of Supplier and logistics services to General Mills with vendors that provide everything Diversity & Business Development. for several years. The company not only Operation Uplift currently is in the middle of from energy services to ingredients, legal “We continually strive to build a solid has thrived through the relationship, it a five-year, 7,500-book effort. The initiative services to communications support. pipeline that benefits General Mills, also has been able to help kids learn was inspired by the Cheerios Spoonfuls of our suppliers and our communities.” Highlights of the year include continued to read through Operation Uplift, a Stories program that since 2002 has given growth, heightened attention to womenprogram that has provided thousands of away 50 million books inside Cheerios For more information on diversity owned firms and an initial rollout of books to Dallas-area school children. boxes and donated more than $3.5 million at General Mills, see page 64. a tier-two program that assesses to First Book, the award-winning nonprofit “Our thinking was, if we have any success suppliers’ own diversity spending. organization that provides children from at all, we ought to try to plow back into our 100% In 2011, General Mills once again received a Minority supplier MW perfect 100 percent score Logistics of Dallas was able on the Human Rights to leverage the Cheerios Campaign Foundation’s Spoonfuls of Stories program corporate equality index, to distribute books to Dallaswhich rates companies area school children. Our on policies and practices deepening relationships with related to equality minority suppliers provide in the workplace. benefits on many levels. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 33 Health Communities Environment Purchasing history with minority and women-owned suppliers $700 $600 Recognized for our diversity Spend (in millions) (US$) $500 General Mills’ efforts to create an inclusive, supportive workplace $400 were recognized by a number of organizations in 2011, including: $300  0 n 4 Best Companies n 5  0 Best Companies for Diversity, Black for Latinas, LATINA $200 Enterprise magazine Style magazine $100 n B Companies for Asians  est n B  est Companies for $0 $266 $319 $342 $362 $453 $558 $600 $534 $552 to Work For, The National Multicultural Women, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Association of Asian Working Mother Fiscal Year American Professionals n B  est Places to Work for General Mills’ spending with ethnic minority and women-owned n T  op 50 Employers, Equal LGBT Equality, Human suppliers has grown 14 percent annually during the past decade. Opportunity magazine Rights Campaign Foundation n T  op50 companies for Diversity, DiversityInc “We continually strive to build a solid pipeline that benefits General Mills, our suppliers and our communities.” – Darren Harmon, director of Supplier Diversity & Business Development General Mills GLobal Responsibility 34 Health Communities Environment Doing the right thing: A core value At General Mills, we have high expectations for ethical conduct in every aspect Fraud expert speaks of our business. That commitment starts with senior leadership. at General Mills Our Ethics & Compliance group, led from speaking up when aware of n A n employee from the United James Ratley, president and CEO by the chief compliance and risk wrongdoing. Others may justify their Kingdom who refused a of the Association of Certified officer, is responsible for creating actions by stressing that “everyone vendor’s offer of an all-expenseawareness of our ethical standards is doing it.” Wrongdoers also can be paid ski trip to Austria. Fraud Examiners, was at our – ensuring that employees know motivated by a desire to advance the headquarters in May 2011 to speak n A n employee from Brazil what it means to behave ethically company – and their own reputations. on “Understanding the Mindset of who notified the finance and act in compliance with our the Fraudster.” Ratley discussed In his remarks, Chairman and department and stepped up Code of Conduct and policies. Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell training when expense report several recent high-profile cases Employees are encouraged to seek urged employees to avoid being discrepancies were discovered. of corporate fraud, which costs help when trying to determine the complacent about ethics and fraud organizations an estimated Ethics is a companywide, global right course of action, either through issues. “Don’t be afraid to ask a 5 percent of annual revenues. In concern at General Mills. Our Code their manager or via the Ethics Line, question or raise a concern,” he 2008, General Mills adopted a of Conduct, corporate policies, which provides for anonymous said. “We are proud of our stellar online training and Ethics Line more comprehensive fraud policy reporting. The Ethics Line is available reputation, but this isn’t something are available in 11 languages. that makes being aware of a fraud around the world 24 hours a day, we can take for granted. We’ve got to and not reporting it a violation. seven days a week, through a keep working on it and honoring it.” toll-free phone number or online. To that end, Powell honored At our Ethics in Action event held the company’s three 2011 in February 2011, Pulitzer Prizeethics champions: winning journalist James Stewart n A n employee from India who provided an external perspective 24/7 notified Human Resources on the causes of unethical behavior. when she mistakenly received He cautioned that friendship and pay while on leave. loyalty often prevent employees Our Ethics Line is available to General Mills employees around the world 24 hours a day, seven days a week, through a toll-free In 2011, General Mills was named one of the world’s phone number and online. most ethical companies by the Ethisphere Institute. General Mills GLobal Responsibility 35 ENVIRONMENT The planet we share Overview At General Mills, our environmental sustainability mission is to conserve and * W orking toward sustainability goals protect the natural resources our business * Bforurning energy oat hulls depends on. We do this by continually * Pcleaning lanting trees and rivers improving our environmental performance. * Rnatural educing our use of resources * Rwhat ecycling more of we do use We build consumer loyalty, societal trust and shareholder value by integrating sustainability into our strategies, our operations and our products. $42 million This approach is driven by two the drivers of value for our brands By reducing the number of printers – movements that continue to and to eliminate nonvalue-added and setting computer defaults to print gain traction in our company: costs throughout the supply chain. in black instead of color and on both Continuous Improvement and These savings are then reinvested sides of a sheet of paper – we have: That’s a conservative Holistic Margin Management. to further grow our businesses. estimate of the amount n R educed paper use by Continuous Improvement (CI) Our goal is to accrue US$4 billion in 21 million pages per year. of money we’ve saved encourages total employee HMM savings between fiscal 2010 n S aved US$1.1 million per year. since 2005 by using ownership of all of our processes – and 2020. We’ve made substantial Continuous Improvement This is just one of hundreds of from plant production lines to our progress toward this goal. and Holistic Margin examples where an efficiency executive management team – to Oftentimes, these initiatives result improvement has resulted in an Management tools eliminate and prevent waste. in environmental benefits as well. environmental benefit, and why to make our plants Holistic Margin Management (HMM) Take “PrintSmart,” for example, CI and HMM are at the core of more efficient – and is a similar effort. It calls on crosswhich began in 2007 to curb the our sustainability program. environmentally friendly. functional teams to understand use of printers and paper at our EN 7, EN 26 headquarters in Minneapolis. General Mills Global Responsibility 36 Health Communities Environment Working toward our sustainability goals We’re continuing to work toward our fiscal 2015 goal of achieving Compared with fiscal 2010, significant, measurable reductions in solid waste generation, water usage, in fiscal 2011 we: greenhouse gas emissions and other sustainability metrics. n R educed the amount of solid waste Fiscal 2011 was a challenging year product mix. With our volume down sustainability metrics versus last generated by about 7,000 metric tons. for progress toward our goals slightly in fiscal 2011, we made less year, meaning that we used fewer n C ut water usage by roughly primarily due to a decrease in progress, percentage-wise, toward resources and generated less waste in 560,000 cubic meters. business volume. Because our goals achieving our goals this fiscal year fiscal 2011 than in 2010. Plus, several n L owered greenhouse gas emissions are rate-based, they’re impacted compared with previous years. of our facilities and divisions made by about 10,000 metric tons. by fluctuations in the amount of strong progress toward reducing their In absolute terms, however, n R educed our total energy use by more product that we manufacture, as well environmental footprint this year. we improved across all of our than 49 million kilowatt hours. as other factors such as changes to EN 5, EN 18, EN 26 General Mills sustainability progress† Sustainability Energy Greenhouse Water Solid waste Transportation Packaging metric consumption rate gas emissions usage* generation fuel** footprint** A 6 percent reduction in An 8 percent reduction An 11 percent reduction in our A 34 percent A 15 percent reduction 27 percent of our our energy consumption in our greenhouse gas water usage rate, halfway to reduction in our solid in the transportation packaging volume rate, about one-third emission rate, which is just our 20 percent goal. Our North waste generation fuel we use to ship a has been improved, of the way to our under halfway to our goal American supply chain operation rate, two-thirds of pound of product, moving more than halfway 20 percent goal. of a 20 percent reduction. helped drive that reduction by the way toward our toward our goal of a toward our reducing its water usage rate by 50 percent goal. 35 percent reduction. 40 percent goal. almost 5 percent in one year. Rate reductions FY2005–FY2011 6% 8% 11% 34% 15% 27% Rate reduction goals by FY2015 20% 20% 20% 50% 35% 40% * Measured from fiscal 2006 baseline data. ** Measured from fiscal 2009 baseline data. † Wholly owned global manufacturing facilities General Mills Global Responsibility 37 Health Communities Environment Reducing our energy usage 57 percent We continue to work toward our 20 percent energy usage rate The reduction in reduction goal for 2015. In fiscal 2011, our facilities used the electricity used equivalent of 539.3 kilowatt hours of energy per metric ton of by printers in our production – a 6 percent reduction from our 2005 baseline. Minneapolis offices Our usage rate remained flat use by more than 49 million by consolidating because of lower production kilowatt hours. printers and switching volumes. That is due, in part, to more energyWe continue to make progress on because we have several fixed efficient models. a number of fronts. Our real-time energy costs at our plants – EN 7 sustainability teams at each of equipment like freezers and our plants are identifying energy boilers – that require energy savings and sharing them broadly regardless of production volume. so they can be implemented In absolute terms, however, throughout General Mills’ facilities. we reduced our total energy EN 5, EN 18 Energy consumption rate Total energy consumed 590 2.80 Kilowatt hours per metric ton of product 570 2.75 Billions of kilowatt hours 550 2.70 530 2.65 510 2.60 490 470 2.55 450 2.50 GOAL 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal Year Fiscal Year General Mills Global Responsibility 38 Health Communities Environment Sharing best practices uncovers energy savings As one more step toward reaching our 2015 environmental goals, we’ve launched an energy audit program designed to spread sustainability best practices throughout our production facilities. A recent audit of our Wellston, Ohio, In total, these energy-saving an engineer at our Cedar Rapids, Steaming hot coffee plant, for example, identified 77 opportunities represent about Iowa, plant who helped launch Our Cereal Partners Worldwide different opportunities for curbing US$1 million in annual savings the program. The plan is for key energy use at the facility, from for Wellston, while reducing the personnel at each audited plant to Innovation Center in Orbe, switching to LED lighting in freezers plant’s impact on the environment. attend the next plant’s audit – to Switzerland, a joint venture with (LEDs can be turned on and off in share what they’ve learned and keep Nestlé, generates its backup In addition, the audit process is an very cold temperatures, unlike regular the ball rolling as we strive to work steam heat from coffee grounds opportunity for people across the lights) to capturing more of the heat company to learn from each other smarter and more sustainably. — one of the unique sustainability generated by everyday production at about energy savings and how to EN 5, EN 7 features that helped it earn the plant and reusing it, rather than platinum certification (the highest achieve them, says Mark Robinson, releasing it into the atmosphere. level possible) under Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standards. $1 million That’s the annual energysaving opportunities identified by a recent energy audit of our plant in Wellston, Ohio. General Mills Global Responsibility 39 Health Communities Environment Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Energy efficiency at Arras We continue to work toward our 20 percent greenhouse gas emission rate reduction goal for 2015. Our Häagen-Dazs plant in Arras, In fiscal 2011, our total greenhouse gas emissions due to energy use in our production facilities France, has energy efficiency built was 0.20 metric tons per metric ton of product (as expressed as carbon dioxide equivalents). into its location: All suppliers are local, which results in fresher This is an 8 percent reduction in Greenhouse Gas Inventory derived from energy usage. We ingredients but also fuel savings our greenhouse gas emission rate, Protocol. It should also be noted use natural gas, fuel oil and and a smaller carbon footprint. which is just under halfway to our that General Mills is a participant propane, as well as electricity Conserving energy is a priority inside goal of a 20 percent reduction. in the Carbon Disclosure Project. generated by various sources. EN 7, EN 16, EN 18 the facility as well. By optimizing its Our calculations are based on the Essentially all of the greenhouse air conditioning system to improve U.S. Environmental Protection gases produced by the company’s temperature control, ventilation and Agency’s Climate Leaders manufacturing plants are humidity, for example, Arras saved 578 megawatt hours per year of gas and 824 megawatt hours per year of electricity. Switching to LED lighting in its cold storage area saved another 50 megawatt hours of electricity. EN 5 Greenhouse gas emissions rate Total greenhouse gas emissions 0.23 1.07 Millions of metric tons CO2 (eq.) 1.06 Metric tons of CO2 (eq.) per 0.22 1.05 0.21 1.04 0.20 1.03 metric ton of product 0.19 1.02 1.01 0.18 1.00 0.17 0.99 0.98 GOAL 0.16 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal Year Fiscal Year General Mills Global Responsibility 40 Health Communities Environment Turning oat hulls into innovation The use of oat hulls as an energy source for the company’s first biomass-powered plant received the 2011 Consumer Packaged Goods Award for Innovation and Creativity from the Grocery Manufacturers Association and its Associate Member Council. The biomass burner in Fridley, Minn., Powell, General Mills chairman In addition to producing steam and which opened in January 2011, burns and chief executive officer. “We’ve heat for the Fridley plant, leftover oat leftover oat hulls from the production sharpened our focus on building hulls are used by a local electricity of Cheerios to produce 90 percent sustainability into every step, from provider, Koda Energy, to power of the steam needed to heat the seed to spoon, and this project is approximately 17,000 homes a year. plant and produce oat flour. Burning one of the most recent and visible And the benefits extend beyond oat hulls cuts the plant’s carbon successes from this journey. energy. After the oat hulls have footprint by 21 percent and saves “Accomplishments such as the been burned, the resulting about US$390,000 per year, mostly biomass burner inspire and challenge ash is distributed to nearby from reduced natural gas costs. all General Mills employees to farmers who use it as a nutrient “Our biomass burner addressed two dream big when developing creative supplement to improve soil. compelling business needs – saving solutions to make General Mills an EN 5, EN 7 money and reducing our footprint even more sustainable company.” on the environment,” says Ken Burning oat hulls for energy at our Fridley, Minn., plant saves 21% US$390,000 per year, mostly from lower natural gas costs, and also reduces the plant’s carbon footprint by 21 percent. General Mills Global Responsibility 41 Health Communities Environment Protecting the environment, one tree at a time Over the past 15 years, General Mills employees have transformed the landscape near our facility in Irapuato, Mexico, by planting thousands of trees — trees raised from seedlings right in the facility’s own greenhouses. The greenhouses normally are curb global warming. They also over the years to nurture ash, pine, used to germinate vegetable help prevent the erosion of soil, pirul, mesquite, jacaranda, huisache plants grown by Irapuato-area a precious natural resource that and other seedlings to life. farmers. It’s a seasonal process our business depends on. Our employees’ green thumbs are that leaves some greenhouses It takes time and commitment just getting started. Their goal is empty at times. When space is to condition seeds, get them to to plant an additional 1,500 trees available, it’s set aside for the germinate, transplant them into every year over the next decade. cultivation and care of young trees. pots, and then care for the trees The Irapuato team’s vision is to Planting trees is a natural fit until they’re large enough to be plant enough trees for the facility for our company. Trees absorb planted. Hundreds of employees to become carbon-neutral. carbon dioxide, which helps and their families have volunteered EN 14, EN 18 “Trees are our passion, and planting them throughout the community is our way of doing what we can to protect the environment and preserve the soil that is so important to our business.” – Emilio Lacedelli, Irapuato plant manager General Mills Global Responsibility 42 Health Communities Environment Reducing our water usage In fiscal 2011, our total water usage rate was 2.06 cubic meters per metric ton of production – an 11 percent reduction in our water usage rate and halfway to our 20 percent reduction goal. Water is critical to food clean and sanitize manufacturing areas of high usage and target manufacturing – it is used as equipment. We track the usage opportunities for water conservation. an ingredient, a coolant, and to of water in each facility to identify Water usage rate Total water used 2.30 11.20 2.20 Cubic meters of water per 11.00 Millions of cubic meters 2.10 10.80 2.00 10.60 1.90 metric ton of product 10.40 1.80 1.70 10.20 1.60 1.50 0 GOAL 10.00 9.80 0 1.5 million 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2014 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 That’s the number of Fiscal Year Fiscal Year gallons of water saved each year by improving Saving water by ‘greening’ our red sauce the glass jar washer on our Old El Paso line Continuous Improvement means looking at the familiar in a different light and trying a new in Hannibal, Mo. strategy. That’s what lead mechanic Jack Coons and focus technician Dusty Yates set out to do in improving the glass jar washer on the Old El Paso sauce line at our plant in Hannibal, Mo. What they didn’t expect was that After receiving the jars from our By simplifying the mechanics behind the improvements would save an supplier, the plant washes them the jar-washing process, they have estimated 1.5 million gallons of water before filling them with red sauce. improved the overall efficiency of the per year (enough to supply 12 homes Old El Paso sauce line – at the same The changes save about for an entire year) and an additional time making the line greener and US$22,000 per year ($12,000 1,000 million BTUs of energy to heat more reliable with fewer breakdowns. in water savings and about that water (enough energy to heat $10,000 in energy savings). about 13 homes for an entire year). General Mills Global Responsibility 43 Health Communities Environment Conserving fragile habitats In 2011, Green Giant concluded a three-year partnership with Promoting The Nature Conservancy to help protect the Root River – an ecologically clean water sensitive (and trout-rich) stream in southeastern Minnesota. In May 2011, our Cascadian In 2009, the General Mills storm water ponds and drainage Farm employees cleaned Foundation and our Green ditches that filter runoff from along the DuPage River Giant brand donated a total of farm fields using native plants. Sweep in Naperville, Ill., as US$300,000 to work with farmers General Mills funds were used part of “Change Flows,” (including growers of Green Giant to help 31 landowners reduce The effectiveness of these an Earth Day initiative vegetables) to encourage best management practices to improve or develop plans to reduce soil conservation efforts is being shared celebrating the brand’s erosion on their farms. A total with the broader agricultural long-standing commitment the health of the Root River, the of 12 conservation practices community. In addition, General to sustainability. Mississippi River into which it were installed and another 19 are Mills funds were used to flows, and the Gulf of Mexico. Cascadian Farm also planned. The installed practices secure more federal money donated US$50,000 To minimize erosion and improve have reduced sediment runoff that was used for conservation water quality, project teams have by 486 tons per year, according to the environmental efforts along the Root River. worked with area growers to to The Nature Conservancy’s final group American Rivers. EN 13 recover lost wetlands, and construct report on the three-year project. s Photo courtesy of The Nature Conservancy 486 tons Conservation projects on 12 farms along the Root River in southeastern Minnesota have reduced sediment runoff by 486 tons per year, according to the Nature Conservancy’s final report on the three-year project. General Mills Global Responsibility 44 Health Communities Environment 92 percent According to the Global Water Policy Project, global agriculture consumes 92 percent of all fresh water used annually. Identifying and managing our water risks As part of the development of our sustainable sourcing model (see page 55), we worked with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to complete a comprehensive assessment of the water risks associated with key commodities that we use to make our products. Paving the way We worked with WWF – the world’s water efficiency and managing “The work we did together is part forward largest conservation organization water risks in both our operations of the foundation of the Water Our Milwaukee plant installed – in 2010 to map potential water and throughout our supply chain. Risk Filter that we hope will be risks in our supply chain for the used by many more companies porous, environmentally The framework behind the water friendly pavers in its parking majority of the dairy, sugar, wheat, to examine their risk with an eye risk analysis conducted for General and oats used in our products. toward reducing their water footprint lot that help provide cleaner Mills was leveraged in the creation in water stressed regions and water. Storm water runoff This supply chain water risk analysis of WWF’s online Water Risk Filter – developed by WWF – has helped that was developed with support becoming better water stewards,” passes through crushed General Mills identify potential from DEG, the German Development says Jeff Malcolm, manager of granite between the pavers Supply Chains at WWF, who worked and then through stones of physical, regulatory and reputational Bank. We plan to continue to expand with General Mills on the project. increasing size – a filtering water risks associated with sourcing our knowledge of our corporate these commodities. We have applied water risk by using the Water Risk process that removes this information and developed a Filter to assess and manage water impurities before the water stewardship strategy that risk in our global operations. water enters city sewers. will help us work toward improving General Mills Global Responsibility 45 Health Communities Environment Reducing solid waste generation rate 34% In fiscal 2011, we continued to make progress toward our 2015 goals for solid waste. Our plants generated 0.0355 tons of waste worldwide per metric ton of finished goods – a 34 percent reduction from our baseline year of fiscal 2005. That’s how much we’ve We continue to reduce our solid operations to avoid generating landfills by finding ways to recycle reduced our solid waste waste stream by improving the waste. We also reduce the it or use it for other purposes. generation rate since efficiencies in our manufacturing amount of waste that is sent to EN 22 fiscal 2005. Our goal: a 50 percent reduction Solid waste generation rate Total solid waste generated Metric tons of waste per metric ton of product by 2015. 0.0570 300 0.0520 Thousands of metric tons 250 0.0470 200 0.0420 0.0370 150 0.0320 100 0.0270 0.0220 50 GOAL 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2015 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Totino’s minimizes waste Tackling food waste At our Wellston, Ohio, facility, Recognizing that between 70 billion and 80 billion pounds of food waste is produced every year fusers installed on Totino’s in the U.S., General Mills began an organic food waste collection program in September 2011. pizza production lines have significantly improved how As of the end of December 2011, Minneapolis. The food waste is then in December, and we hope to add well cheese adheres to the more than 50,000 pounds of food used as compost, saving it from the more locations in the near future. has been collected from our cafeteria, landfill, and reducing greenhouse It’s estimated that between 20 and pizzas while they’re being Betty Crocker Kitchens, Culinary gas emissions in the process. 30 percent of the food produced made, reducing food waste by Kitchen and many other locations every year in the U.S. is wasted. about US$200,000 annually. The program was expanded to throughout our Main Office in EN 18 our Bassett Creek office building General Mills Global Responsibility 46 Health Communities Environment 75% In North America, about 75 percent of General Mills’ packaging is recyclable. Approximately 50 percent contains recycled content (post-consumer and post-industrial). EN 2 Recycling expands in Albuquerque One medium-sized trash can now handles all the waste generated by two busy production lines at our plant in Albuquerque, N.M. – a sign of how far the facility has progressed in its commitment to recycling and shrinking its environmental footprint. The plant currently recycles about 90 percent of its output, The plant also added a new recycling center and a loading dock where its Certified gold An expansion at our production “When economic growth and up from 48 percent in 2010. That recycling provider keeps a 48-foot means that every month, about trailer on site. When a trailer is full, plant in Albuquerque, N.M., environmental sustainability 33 fewer tons of waste go into the recycler removes the ready-toearned LEED certification at the come together, it strengthens landfills in the Albuquerque area, recycle materials from our facility. “gold” level in recognition of its the health and vitality of says David Mendez, the facility’s energy efficiency and aggressive New Mexico for all those who It’s an arrangement that’s enabled Continuous Improvement leader. recycling program. Out of nearly live and work here. It is truly the plant to reduce trash pickups Working with recyclers, Mendez and trips to the recycler, generate 8,000 LEED-certified projects a great acknowledgement expanded the plan to include about US$2,500 more per month worldwide, fewer than 10 are of what you have done corrugated boxes, and also carton in recycling revenue, and shrink food production facilities. here at General Mills.” cores, sacks and other items that its landfill output by 80 percent. – New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez typically just get tossed out. General Mills Global Responsibility 47 Health Communities Environment Reducing our use of transportation fuel 150,000 miles In 2011, we reduced the fuel used to ship a pound of product by 15 percent from our 2009 baseline. The reduction is largely due to in fiscal 2012 and reduce our plan when, where and how our increased efficiency in transportation greenhouse gas emissions. raw materials, products and other By consolidating our heavier canned planning, how we load shipments, inventory should be delivered and The system helps us consolidate Green Giant vegetables produced in what delivery methods we stored. It’s expected to save more choose and how we source. and combine loads from different than US$2 million annually and France with our lighter Nature Valley suppliers. Now vehicles are filled as bars and Old El Paso Mexican meal reduce our environmental impact. One of our new transportation close to capacity as possible, and kits made in Spain, we’ve been able efficiency projects uses sophisticated fewer vehicles and trips are required The prediction capabilities allow us to pack sea-going containers more software to get raw materials – like to get deliveries to our plants. to plan transportation a year out – efficiently and transport them to ingredients and paperboard used instead of just a few days out – and in our packaging – to our plants Another transportation initiative that leads to more efficient deliveries. the UK and Ireland. We’ve already uses an algorithm and software trimmed 2.3 million road miles more efficiently. It’s projected EN 18, EN 29 program to better predict and per year by shipping 90 percent to save more than US$4 million of our UK-bound goods by sea. This initiative will reduce an additional 150,000 road miles by allowing more of our goods to be shipped directly to Ireland by sea. 35% We’ve set a goal for our North American operations to reduce the fuel used to ship a pound of product by 35 percent by fiscal 2015 (using fiscal 2009 as a baseline). Achieving this would reduce our greenhouse gas emissions generated from shipping products by 35 percent. General Mills General Mills GLoBal Global Responsibility Responsibility 48 Health Communities Environment Promoting sustainable agriculture Working to create ‘healthier’ oats Thanks, in part, to a General Mills seed grant, a genetic roadmap of oats has been completed that is already spurring more research into making this important food crop an even healthier food source. Back in 2009, General Mills American Millers’ Association and the soluble fiber, which has been shown to contributed US$318,000 to the U.S. USDA’s Agricultural Research Service) to reduce the risk of heart disease when Department of Agriculture in hopes support the work of an international team eaten with a diet low in saturated fat and that it would encourage others to at 10 U.S. universities, nine international cholesterol. Researchers are also working invest in research about a crop that laboratories and five Agricultural to boost levels of healthful vitamin E in oats. has been in decline for decades. And Research Service (ARS) locations. that’s exactly what has happened. Using conventional oat-breeding About US$1.8 million has been raised techniques, for example, the researchers (including investments from the North are exploring ways to boost levels of r Bloggers from throughout the U.S. tour our Green Giant facility in Le Sueur, Minn. – the original “Valley of the Giant” – to learn more about our long-standing sustainable approach to growing vegetables. Measuring the environmental impact of wheat and other key crops General Mills is working with two field-to-market organizations to measure and improve the environmental footprint of growing several crops. In eastern Idaho in the U.S., General up of producers, agribusinesses, to more environmentally sustainable U.S., but tailored to fit the climate Mills recently launched a three-year food companies and conservation and economical production of wheat. and geography of western Canada. pilot project with 25 wheat growers to organizations working together to create A similar effort is under way in western “Whether you are growing oats in Canada study the environmental impact of wheat sustainable outcomes for agriculture. Canada. We’re working with grower or harvesting wheat in Idaho, these production, which will include data on General Mills is collaborating with groups to study two decades of projects will help farmers build more greenhouse gas emissions, irrigation water the wheat growers to analyze their sustainability indicators – land use, soil sustainable practices into their operations use, energy use, soil loss and land use. farming footprint for the 2010, 2011 loss, energy use and climate impact – on with the goal of improving yields with General Mills is working on the project and 2012 growing seasons. Ultimately, eight different crops, including wheat, fewer impacts on the environment,” says through “Field to Market,” the Keystone the program will allow growers oats, lentils, canola, peas and flax. Tom Rabaey, a senior scientist with the Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture’s to share best practices in nutrient General Mills Agricultural Research Center. The approach is similar to the one initiative to improve the agricultural management, pest management and developed by Field to Market in the supply chain. The alliance is made other farming practices that will lead General Mills Global Responsibility 49 Health Communities Environment Reducing greenhouse gas emissions with organic fertilizers With guidance from General Mills, more and more farmers from central Mexico are using organic compost from nearby chicken farms – instead of synthetic fertilizer – to spread on broccoli, cauliflower, carrots and celery. 12,000 The organic chicken manure was about 3 pounds of greenhouse gas. “This initiative is a ‘win’ for us on every tons per year used on about 4,000 acres in fiscal The switch is estimated to reduce level,” says Tom Rabaey, a senior scientist That’s the amount of 2011 – up from just 250 acres in greenhouse gas emissions by about with the General Mills Agricultural greenhouse gases we fiscal 2009. General Mills acquired 12,000 tons per year, the equivalent Research Center. “It takes a byproduct estimate our contract a manure spreader that our 50 or so of taking 2,000 cars off the road. from the poultry industry and uses it to contract growers can use to apply it. grow vegetable crops – increasing yields, farmers are saving per The manure is also cheaper than synthetic year by using organic saving farmers money, and reducing water It requires a lot of energy to produce fertilizer, helps retain soil moisture so use and greenhouse gas emissions.” fertilizer instead of synthetic fertilizer – every pound the crops require less water and boosts EN 18 energy-intensive of synthetic fertilizer generates yield by about 3 percent, on average. synthetic fertilizer. 1.1 billion gallons per year That’s how much water we estimate is being saved by encouraging more use of drip irrigation in central Mexico. About 43 percent of the acreage used by our contract farmers who grow broccoli and cauliflower now uses drip irrigation, which consumes half the water of conventional furrow irrigation. That is up from about 32 percent in fiscal 2009. In 2008, our Agricultural Research Center established a revolving loan fund that our contract growers can use to buy this more efficient equipment. Our intention is to provide the loans for 10 years so we can expand drip irrigation acres by about 5 percent a year. General Mills Global Responsibility 50 Health Communities Environment Reducing our packaging footprint We’re on track in our efforts to achieve our 2015 packaging reduction goal. At the end of fiscal 2011, the packaging for 27 percent of our sales volume had been improved. Four key indicators are used to assess improvement: packaging weight; recycled content and recyclability; renewable content and ability to compost; and truck-loading efficiency. The improvements are measured from our baseline year of fiscal 2009. Following are some examples of recent improvements, which in total are saving more than US$12 million per year. 750 tons EN 2, EN 26 In the United Kingdom, the Betty Crocker brand is on target to reduce total packaging weight by 750 tons by the end of fiscal 2013. That’s one step toward our companywide goal that, by 2015, 40 percent of our global product volume will be n I n January 2011, we started n A new material allows us to use a n I n January 2011, we started using sold in improved packaging. wrapping the packaging around thinner plastic liner in our cereal a lighter weight corrugated fiber our chewy Nature Valley and boxes while still maintaining to pack and display our cases Fiber One bars a little tighter. solid protection for our cereal. of snacks like Chex Mix, Bugles Trimming the pouch size reduced We changed 43 percent of our and Gardetto’s in convenience our wrapping – a metalized flexible retail cereal box volume to this stores. This lighter corrugated laminate material – by more liner, which weighs 10 percent fiber means the packaging for than 200,000 pounds a year. less than the previous plastic each case weighs less by half a liner. The switch, which was pound – or 13 percent. It’s saved fully implemented in the second an estimated 1.1 million pounds of quarter of fiscal 2011, means paper-based packaging per year. we’re saving about 775,000 pounds of plastic per year. General Mills Global Responsibility 51 Health Communities Environment Nine decades of recycling We began using recycled materials in paperboard cartons in the 1930s. Today, we’re among the largest users of post-consumer n I n 2011, we developed new cereal n I n 2011, we started shipping our n W  hen Cascadian Farm Organic recycled paper packaging packaging technology that allows Bugles 7.5-ounce products in a Cinnamon Crunch cereal is in the United States. us to pack in more cereal while smaller case in the U.S. This more shipped, a corrugated paperboard using less packaging material. efficient, tighter form allows us tote or box is used for stacking What was previously sold as one to fit more Bugles bags on each and shipping. Beginning in August extra large carton of cereal at club pallet, meaning fewer trucks 2011, we started reusing the same stores, such as Sam’s, Costco are needed to ship the same corrugated container repeatedly for and BJ’s Wholesale, is now being amount of product. The packaging production and shipping, and this sold as two boxes connected change is saving an estimated has saved US$138,000 per year. together. This new version – and US$780,000 a year. the technology that packs cereal EN 29 in more densely – allows us to fill each box with 10 percent more cereal by weight while using less paperboard. The technology will save more than 200,000 pounds of paper weight per year. And because we’re fitting more cereal into more compact boxes and more boxes can fit on each truck, it will reduce our trucking needs by 10 percent annually. That saves fuel and reduces our carbon footprint. The new boxes began appearing on store shelves in February 2012. EN 29 General Mills Global Responsibility 52 Health Communities Environment Summer of Sustainability The third annual General Mills Summer of Sustainability initiative gave employees Employees worldwide from around the globe a chance to share tips on preserving our planet’s natural resources, and make concrete changes to how they live and work every day. ‘Think Global, Volunteer Local’ The Summer of Sustainability n C  reating videos about says Paul Earl-Torniainen, General program has driven change in sustainability-related projects Mills sustainability manager and Employees and retirees from how we operate. Following up at work and home. Viewers one of the Summer of Sustainability across the company packed on a pledge made last year, for voted on their favorites, and coordinators. “A food company food for the hungry, cleaned example, our Big G division has the winners received cash depends on agriculture, which beaches and city streets, planted reduced printing by more than prizes to donate to one of five depends on natural resources, trees in parks, and tackled other 30 percent, exceeding its goal of a environmental organizations. and we need those resources community-minded projects as 20 percent reduction. Every month, available and intact in order to part of “Think Global, Volunteer n M  aking pledges in three each business unit in the division succeed as a business.” areas: saving money, living a Local,” an annual companycalculates and shares its printing use. healthy lifestyle and sustaining sponsored initiative celebrating Employees participated in the the global community. Earth Day and National Volunteer summer-long series of events by: Employees made pledges to Week. More than 3,000 help reduce the company’s employees and retirees from 65 n C ontributing to the Green Spark impact on the environment. website, a “green” virtual water locations worldwide volunteered. cooler where employees discuss “As a food company, we rely heavily Below: General Mills volunteers sustainability best practices. on natural resources to generate the in Athens, Greece, replanted an ingredients we use in our products,” area devastated by wildfire. “A food company depends on agriculture, which depends on natural resources, and we need those resources available and intact in order to succeed as a business.” – Paul Earl-Torniainen, General Mills sustainability manager General Mills Global Responsibility 53 ISSUES Responsible sourcing Responsible sourcing is a critical part of our Nourishing Lives mission and business – and we are gratified that our efforts to operate sustainably and ethically have been recognized by several third-party groups, such as the Ethisphere Institute, Corporate Responsibility magazine and Forbes. Responsible corporations around the growers and producers. Partnering from Specifically, General Mills is funding world are increasingly making responsible village to plate is clearly difficult, but cutting-edge research to map the sourcing a material consideration increasingly possible. This is the model vanilla genome. Already under way at when managing their supply chains. we are working to advance: generating the University of California–Davis, this better sources, improving sustainability, research will help lay the foundation General Mills believes in the protection and fostering greater economic vitality for natural and conventional breeding of human rights. General Mills’ Supplier for cocoa growing communities. improvements to increase disease Code of Conduct, for example, prohibits resistance or even to enhance flavor. the use of forced labor and child labor in Vanilla the making of its ingredients and products. A tropical crop, vanilla is grown in a select It is our hope that by better understanding We are signatories to the United Nations few areas of the world. Unfortunately, the vanilla plant, our efforts will help vanilla Global Compact (UNGC) and are guided vanilla growers are quite vulnerable farmers generate more income from larger, r A cocoa farmer in West Africa with a cocoa pod. by the International Labour Organization’s It’s our view that a greater share of cocoa revenue to a number of external factors, more consistent, higher-quality crops. (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental should accrue to the people who produce the crop. including price volatility, inclement Palm oil Principles and Rights at Work. We hold weather and recurrent crop disease. sourcing model. Sustainable methods and General Mills is concerned about the role our suppliers to these same principles. improved production practices could help General Mills is working to help of palm oil expansion in the deforestation We are committed to reinforcing and raise living standards for cocoa growers. vanilla growers by deepening global of the world’s rainforests and about the elevating our standards every day. HR 6 understanding of the vanilla plant itself. impact of deforestation on biodiversity, In 2011, we joined the World Cocoa Cocoa Foundation (WCF). This 70-member endangered species, greenhouse gas nonprofit group is working to encourage emissions and indigenous peoples. We care about our ingredients and the lives of the people who produce them. socially, economically and environmentally Cocoa is one example. General Mills responsible and sustainable cocoa does not buy cocoa directly from farmers; farming. It is a multiyear effort that rather, we source products such as reflects General Mills’ core beliefs. chocolate from ingredient manufacturers. It is our view, however, that a greater share of the benefit of more socially But we also believe we may be able to help cocoa growers by helping to improve 52 million The United Nations the value chain. Too often, too much and economically sustainable cocoa value accrues to cocoa aggregators and estimates that 5.2 million production practices should accrue to processors, and too little to cocoa growers. hectares of forest are being r Vanilla is produced from vines like this one in the people who produce the crop. Indirect vertical integration holds promise Madagascar, an island just west of the southern tip of lost globally every year. Africa. We’re helping fund a program to map the vanilla Cocoa is one of the priority commodities for its potential to link the entire ingredient genome in the hope that it will help vanilla farmers we are addressing in our sustainable supply chain to ensure better returns for generate more income and create an improved crop. General Mills Global Responsibility 54 development of certified sustainable palm On these and other topics, we continue In Europe, Häagen-Dazs – our largest oil production practices, General Mills has to engage with and learn from a international business – is working committed to striving to source 100 percent broad network of external groups with local suppliers to increase the of our palm oil from responsible and and partners, such as the World volume of eggs available from freesustainable sources by 2015. Wildlife Fund, Rainforest Alliance, range hens. As a result, we now expect and Rainforest Action Network. to source 100 percent free-range for Our Global Sourcing team is advancing all Häagen-Dazs products in Europe our pledge by identifying and securing External engagement helps broaden our in 2013, while continuing to support sources of sustainably produced palm perspective and deepen our expertise local sourcing and local suppliers. oil in a phased approach. By taking – and it is a necessary best practice in a leadership position with peers and advancing global social responsibility. To encourage the development of suppliers – and by supporting necessary alternative production methods in the U.S., r Our sourcing director, Steve Peterson (with pole), Eggs traveled to the Indonesian island of Sumatra in 2011 work on the ground to encourage General Mills is buying 1 million cageto examine sustainable palm oil sourcing practices. We care about the humane treatment sustainable palm oil production – we free eggs for its U.S. portfolio in 2012. of animals – and we acknowledge hope to help champion the production To help ensure that our purchases are not the discussion about egg production of palm oil in an environmentally in any way associated with deforestation and the impact of production and socially responsible way. of rainforests, and to reinforce the conditions on egg-laying hens. Advancing a sustainable sourcing model With help from several external They were measured against dozens of We recognize that General Mills accounts “We want to be proactive – not reactive organizations, General Mills has potential risk categories, such as animal for only a portion of the environmental in how we source our ingredients,” says developed a sustainable sourcing welfare, greenhouse gas emissions, soil footprint of our products. A large share Jerry Lynch, vice president and chief model for ingredients we purchase loss, water quality and water use. of the environmental impact occurs sustainability officer. “Our business to make our products. upstream of our facilities. With our relies on these natural resources, so Our model calls for us to focus first on supplier scorecard, we will be able to make we need to do everything we can “The development of this model is a ingredients like oats, wheat, vanilla and a greater impact on the total footprint. to protect and conserve them.” major step forward in our mission to palm oil. With the model completed, we conserve and protect the natural resources are now developing specific strategies for that our company depends on,” says sustainably sourcing these ingredients. Steve Peterson, sourcing director for General Mills. “We now have a solid In addition, in November 2011, we began “Our business relies on these natural asking our top suppliers to complete our model to guide us for the future.” “supplier scorecard,” which asks for data resources, so we need to do everything we In 2011, we worked to complete a comprehensive, in-depth on energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, water use and solid waste generation can to protect and conserve them.” assessment of all the ingredients that is associated with the ingredients or – Jerry Lynch, vice president and chief sustainability officer and materials we buy worldwide. material we use to make our products. General Mills General Mills Global Global Responsibility Responsibility 55 Standards, communication and collaboration The foundation of General Mills’ n T o provide an ethical workplace Standards and Ethical Sourcing Policy compliance program concerning free of corruption. set standards for ourselves, as well responsible sourcing is: as for our suppliers, vendors and n T o strive to create an environment other business partners, regarding n O ur clear commitment to of mutual trust and respect. the protection of human rights. protecting human rights As part of our efforts to meet our in our own workplace. These standards are based in high standards, we include all of part on the International Labour n O ur communication of our own plants in our third-party Organization’s 1998 Declaration our expectations to our auditing program. Additionally, on Fundamental Principles suppliers through our we have multiple systems for and Rights at Work. Guided by Supplier Code of Conduct. providing feedback so employees the 1998 Declaration, General around the world can freely speak n O ur expanding program to Mills respects the principles of up when they have a concern assure compliance with our collective bargaining and freedom about standards not being met. Supplier Code of Conduct. of association, and prohibition For example, we provide our of discrimination, child labor Starting with our r General Mills is committed to protecting human rights employees with a hotline and and forced labor – including that own workplaces in our workplaces and throughout our supply chain. website to report concerns – associated with human trafficking. We have a Code of Conduct anonymously, if they choose HR 5, HR 6, HR 7 that we communicate to all – regarding Code violations. employees around the world. Communicating our The Code reflects our commitment values and expectations to, and expectations of, our own General Mills is committed to employees. Through our Code we protecting human rights in our communicate our commitments: workplaces and throughout n T o provide a safe and our supply chain. We are signatories to the United Nations Global respectful workplace. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets Compact (UNGC) and are guided by the International n T o comply with labor and out our expectations of our suppliers employment laws. in these areas. Together, our Supplier Labour Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Code of Conduct and Workplace Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. General Mills Global Responsibility 56 Third-party auditing members are able to promote member companies and their General Mills uses internationally responsible sourcing throughout the suppliers from around the globe. recognized third-party auditors to consumer packaged goods supply Four in-person sessions were held test compliance with our responsible chain by sharing best practices, in Johannesburg, Beijing, Mexico sourcing standards at our own leveraging training and awareness City, and Nairobi, Kenya. Three plants and with third parties that opportunities, and participating in webinars were held in Europe and produce finished goods for us. a mutual recognition program. North America. General Mills We are on pace to complete audits PROGRESS has a mutual recognition hosted the North American webinar at each of our in-scope finished program that allows members that was attended by more than goods suppliers by the end of 2012. and their suppliers to leverage 300 people from General Mills, its Our team carefully reviews the the data collected in audits suppliers and partners, and other results of each audit conducted, conducted by other members. AIM-PROGRESS member companies and, where noncompliance Through collaboration and mutual and their suppliers and partners. exists, requires remediation. recognition, we increase the capacity of each participating In 2011, we also revised our audit member’s responsible sourcing tool to provide more in-depth data gathering on business integrity program and facilitate commitment Protecting human rights through our and buy-in from suppliers. and anticorruption matters. responsible sourcing program is a critical Responsible We will continue our efforts in sourcing training part of our Nourishing Lives mission. this important area and continue In 2011, AIM-PROGRESS held to evaluate the best way forward responsible sourcing supplier that is consistent with our values, awareness and training events that our codes and our commitment were attended by approximately to continuous improvement. 1,700 people from AIM-PROGRESS Broadening our reach, elevating the industry We continue to be leaders in AIMPROGRESS, a forum of consumer packaged goods companies assembled to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices. Through collaboration, on a precompetitive basis, PROGRESS General Mills Global Responsibility 57 Replacing BPA in food packaging BPA (bisphenol A) has been used for decades to help maintain the safety of many food products. Most canned food and drink products in products intended for small children. The liner we now use has been used in will be identified for other products on the market today use BPA in the General Mills and companies across the food products for over 20 years. The in time. As viable alternatives prove can lining or can lid to protect food food industry are working with suppliers majority of the tomatoes processed safe and effective for other products, from spoiling and prevent metal and manufacturers to develop and on the U.S. West Coast use this type we expect can suppliers and the food food packaging from corroding. test can linings that do not use BPA. of liner and have done so for many industry – in response to consumer years. Transition has come at a cost, interest – to convert to alternatives Scientific and governmental bodies Technical challenges remain, but however, and when viable alternatives that do not incorporate BPA. worldwide have studied BPA and progress is being made. For example, are identified for other applications, we have concluded that the weight of General Mills identified a safe, viable expect those alternatives to increase evidence supports its safety. alternative for our Muir Glen tomatoes the cost of products. Future transitions, in the United States, and with the fall Despite broad scientific and regulatory when possible, will also take time. 2011 tomato harvest, we successfully consensus on the safety of BPA, we transitioned Muir Glen tomato products That said, research continues, and we know that some consumers would to cans that do not use BPA. remain optimistic that alternative linings prefer to see alternatives – particularly Minimizing waste while protecting food safety Packaging plays a critical role in protecting and ensuring the safety of food, as well as communicating vital nutritional and ingredient information to consumers. Packaging also plays a key role in the But packaging also contributes to largest users of post-consumer recycled a goal of ensuring by 2015 that at least critical issue of reducing food waste. landfill waste. Clearly, the challenge paper packaging in the United States. 40 percent of our global product volume is to maximize the effectiveness of will be sold in packaging that has been The Food and Agriculture Organization Approximately half of the packaging by packaging in reducing food waste, while improved since 2010 through changes to of the United Nations (FAO) weight that we use in the U.S. is recycled minimizing the impact of packaging on packaging weight, recycled or renewable estimates that, globally, one-third content, and we continually look for ways raw material usage and the waste stream. content, or truckload efficiencies. of food is wasted every year. to increase our use of recycled materials. General Mills has long been committed See page 51 to learn more about Packaging can help. To cite one example, In 2011, General Mills announced a to environmentally thoughtful package the gains we’ve made in reducing according to the U.S. Department new packaging metric to guide and design and sourcing. We actually began our packaging footprint. of Agriculture, packaged foods and drive our efforts in this important area. incorporating recycled content in our vegetables have more than 50 percent less As part of General Mills’ broader paperboard packaging in the 1930s, waste than fresh fruits and vegetables. commitment to sustainability, we set and today, General Mills is one of the General Mills Global Responsibility 58 Supporting global food security Ensuring food security is a critical global need. The world’s population surpassed 7 billion of this technology will continue to also enables Green Giant to use less water in October 2011 – and it is growing. The depend on its ability to achieve broad and 80 percent fewer pounds of pesticides. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) consumer acceptance and support. General Mills has a positive story to tell as projects that the global population will swell Ingredients improved through a company. But clearly more must be done to nearly 9 billion by 2040, and the number biotechnology have been used for to address the issue of global food security. of middle class consumers – forecast to 15 years. The U.N. World Health increase by 3 billion by that date – will Global governments and food producers Organization, the FAO, the U.S. Food increase demand for food exponentially. must innovate and collaborate to increase and Drug Administration, the U.S. yields on currently producing lands. The world will need at least 50 percent Department of Agriculture, the U.S. We must aid and empower farmers to more food, 45 percent more energy Environmental Protection Agency, steward arable lands and produce in less and 30 percent more water to and Health Canada have all found productive soils. And we must do all of meet this growing need. approved biotech crops are as safe this using less water and less expensive and acceptable as their conventional That is why fighting global hunger – and inputs to conserve important resources. counterparts. Yet, some consumers sustainably growing and responsibly remain opposed to biotechnology for We would urge greater focus on research, managing the global food supply – is ethical, religious or cultural reasons. especially on drought and disease such a priority for General Mills. r Our “sustainability plot” in Le Sueur, Minn., illustrates how our resistance among global crops that are conventional plant breeding program has doubled sweet corn As a consumer-focused company, General yields. It now requires just half the acreage (far right) to grow the We live in a world already stressed by and will be critical to world food supplies in same amount of corn as it used to take (left) 35 years ago. Mills tries to deliver what consumers want hunger and volatile food prices. Some decades to come. At the same time, we will and need. For that reason, products we countries saw food riots in 2010; tens of restate our opposition to the use of global produce for Europe do not use genetically thousands protested food price increases food crops in the production of alternative modified ingredients, and we offer our in 2011. Food prices and shortages are fuels, such as ethanol. While we support U.S. consumers leading brands of organic even cited, in part, for adding fuel to the the development of alternative, sustainable products as a non-GMO choice. revolutions that toppled governments. sources of energy, we oppose the use of Within our own businesses, General Mills major food crops as a principal feedstock. The need is clear. We must increase global is also working to increase yields and food production by 50 to 70 percent, General Mills understands the critical sustainably reduce water use. Through and we must do so safely – sustaining role of food in the world. No issue conventional plant breeding and seed our planet’s land, water and natural will be more important than the need development, as well as enhanced resources for future generations. to ensure food security for a hungry production practices, our Green Giant world. The time is now. In global Though we have long held that vegetable business, for example, now terms, 2040 is only seconds away. biotechnology holds promise to alleviate produces twice the sweet corn on the chronic hunger and prevent disease, same amount of land as 35 years ago. Our and to enhance sustainability, nutrition strong embrace of sustainable agriculture and taste, we believe the success practices and production improvements General Mills Global Responsibility 59 Climate change Climate change is a serious issue. The potential effects transcend national boundaries – with broad implications for agriculture and the world’s food supply. We see a clear role for responsible our energy usage rate by 20 percent In our North American transportation companies around the world. We by 2015. By fiscal 2011, we successfully system, General Mills has set a goal of believe every responsible corporate reduced our energy usage rate 6 percent reducing the amount of fuel used to ship The General Mills plant in citizen can and should help mitigate from our 2005 baseline. In absolute terms, each pound of product by 35 percent San Adrian, Spain, sources the risk of climate change by reducing our manufacturing plants consumed more by fiscal 2015, from a fiscal 2009 greenhouse gas emissions. than 100 million fewer kilowatt hours in baseline. Achieving this goal would 100 percent of its electricity 2011 than in 2005, using the equivalent of reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from renewable sources. General Mills is addressing this issue 539.3 kilowatt hours of energy per metric associated with transporting products by in a number of ways. We reduce our ton of production – nearly one-third of the a corresponding 35 percent. We reduced greenhouse gas emissions through General Mills has partnered with a way toward our 20 percent reduction goal. fuel use by 15 percent in fiscal 2011, using improved energy efficiency and the use of number of academic and industry bodies this same metric over a 2009 baseline, diverse energy sources, of course. But we Clearly, the challenge of climate to support and advance sustainable largely by becoming more efficient also consider the environmental aspects of change – and the global need to agriculture practices throughout the with transportation planning, shipment packaging design and raw material inputs. reduce greenhouse gas emissions – food chain. We are a member of the configurations and delivery methods. will be a focus area of innovation for Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI), Specifically, General Mills is working responsible companies going forward. We recognize that a significant portion which recently collaborated with the to achieve our stated goal of reducing It’s already a focus of innovation and of the environmental footprint of our International Dairy Federation to develop our greenhouse gas emission rate experimentation for General Mills. products occurs upstream of our a common global carbon footprint by 20 percent by 2015. As of fiscal supply chain – primarily in agriculture. approach for dairy. We are also a 2011, we had already cut our greenhouse For example, General Mills has been We believe we can also impact those leading member of Field to Market and gas emission rate by 8 percent a pioneer in the use of alternative and inputs by sourcing responsibly. the Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy. from the baseline of 2005. renewable energy sources. In Fridley, Minn., a biomass unit now burns discarded oat For example, in November 2011, we Deforestation and forest degradation Most of our greenhouse gas emissions hulls removed in the milling process to began piloting a “supplier scorecard” that are also a source of greenhouse gas come from our manufacturing plants and produce about 90 percent of the steam includes data on energy use, greenhouse emissions. Deforestation can be the result from the transportation of ingredients needed to heat the plant and make the oat gas emissions, water use and solid of land clearing for agriculture, or tree and and finished products. Virtually all of flour used in Cheerios and other products. waste generation associated with the timber harvesting for paper and packaging. the greenhouse gases produced in Burning oat hulls has already reduced the ingredients or packaging materials used Trees capture carbon dioxide as part our manufacturing and distribution plant’s carbon footprint by 21 percent, to make and package our products. of their natural life cycle. Deforestation systems are the result of burning saving about US$390,000 per year, fossil fuels to generate energy. mostly from reduced natural gas costs. Our focus on reducing energy consumption is therefore a And we’re striving to develop solar We believe every responsible corporate citizen complementary goal to reducing and wind power. For example, General Mills’ plant in San Adrian, Spain, is can and should help mitigate the risk of climate greenhouse gas emissions. Our sustainability goal in this area is to reduce already sourcing 100 percent of its change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. electricity from renewable sources. General Mills Global Responsibility 60 not only removes “carbon sinks,” but our global product volume will be sold also releases carbon dioxide – along in packaging that has been improved with methane – into the atmosphere. over the last six years through changes in packaging weight, recycled content, General Mills has specific policies in place renewable content, or configuration to help reduce or stop deforestation. For for greater truckload efficiencies. example, to help ensure that our palm oil purchases are not in any way associated Responsible corporate citizens around the with deforestation of rainforests, and to world are working to minimize the impact reinforce the development of certified of their operations on global warming. sustainable palm oil production practices, Like other concerned companies, General we are committed to striving to source Mills is working to manage and reduce 100 percent of our palm oil from its greenhouse gas emissions both within responsible and sustainable sources by and beyond our supply chain. You’ll find 2015. This is just one element of our more about what we are doing to reduce commitment to responsible sourcing our carbon footprint in our responses of palm oil outlined in detail in our to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Statement on Sustainable Palm Oil. SO 5 Our commitment to sustainable sourcing also extends to beef. We will either be assured that our beef suppliers are not linked to deforestation of rainforests, or we will change our sources of beef supply. We also focus on the reduction of packaging – along with recyclable and renewable content – through our Packaging Sustainability Metric. Less packaging means fewer greenhouse gas emissions from extracting and processing raw materials like virgin wood and aluminum. Today, General Mills is one of the largest users of postconsumer recycled packaging in the United States, and we continue to work to improve our performance in this area. Our goal is that by 2015, 40 percent of General Mills Global Responsibility 61 APPENDIX the relevant executives within Additional performance indicators: environment Disclosures on business units, supply chain, and management approach: production facilities. Corporate GRI GRI description Fiscal 2011* Description Environmental sustainability objectives, Indicator performance and strategies are See Environment section for goals reviewed regularly by the Board’s Direct energy Burning of fuel oil, and performance (page 37). Public Responsibility Committee. EN3 consumption by primary source 1.5 billion kwh natural gas, and LP gas as expressed in kwh. Training and awareness. Training At General Mills, our occurs with relevant employee Indirect energy environmental sustainability mission is to conserve and groups. Each year, we hold two EN4 consumption by primary source 1.13 billion kwh Electricity usage companywide events ¬ “Think protect the natural resources Global, Volunteer Local” and our business depends on. We do “Summer of Sustainability” – that 10.2 million cubic meters this by continually improving our Most of our fresh emphasize the importance of Total water withdrawal environmental performance. sustainability for the company. EN8 by source Ground water 1.2 million Municipal 9 million cubic water is drawn from municipal supplies. We build consumer loyalty, cubic meters meters Global Safety and Environment societal trust and shareholder also holds regular meetings value by integrating sustainability where best practices are shared Scope 1 greenhouse gas into our strategies, our about environmental initiatives. emissions are generated operations and our products. 994,000 metric tons at our facilities. Specific training occurs annually Total direct and indirect Organizational responsibility. Our chairman and CEO has with relevant personnel in each production facility and EN16 greenhouse gas emissions by weight Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions are generated ultimate accountability for by the utilities we targeted commercial units. Scope 1 Scope 2 purchase energy from, environmental sustainability Monitoring and follow-up. 272,000 722,000 typically electricity. performance, which is included metric tons metric tons Quarterly measurement of in his annual performance progress towards sustainability 176,000 metric tons objectives. In addition, senior goals are reviewed with senior Total weight of We currently recycle executives in Supply Chain, External Relations, and management, production EN22 waste by type and disposal method Recycled 141,000 Disposed 35,000 Hazardous waste about 80 percent of our total solid waste. facilities, and business units. metric metric 19 metric Sustainability have responsibility tons tons tons** for development, coordination and execution of programs to Total number No significant spills or releases within achieve corporate-wide goals. EN23 and volume of significant spills our manufacturing operations. Corporate wide goals are broken down and assigned annually to *All numbers are approximate. **Hazardous waste data is for North America only. General Mills Global Responsibility 62 Employment. The best companies win addition, we help our employees invest in external expectations. Any deficiencies Disclosures on management talented, committed employees who their futures with wealth-building benefits. identified are tracked until completion. approach: Labor practices grow and develop to achieve their highest Occupational health and safety. Our Training and education. We are singleand decent work potential, making significant contributions ultimate workplace health and safety minded when it comes to development to the business. This is especially true See also Communities section (page 20). goal is zero injuries and illnesses. General – we plan for it, we invest in it, we – and important – at General Mills, Mills has set interim improvement track it and evaluate it. It is essential to because we hire people for a career, not targets which are the basis for our plant develop production employees, salaried Goals and performance. At General for a specific job. General Mills conducts safety metrics. Historically, the company employees, managers and executives Mills, we know that year in and year out, an annual Climate Survey of all our U.S. has had one of the best records of our alike. We’re dedicated to always having engaged and empowered employees employees – both salaried and production peer food group manufacturers. a depth of leadership trained and ready drive shareholder value and business employees – so they can provide to step up and take new responsibilities performance. Our senior leaders confidential feedback about what General General Mills has a corporate policy for if and when they’re needed. Eighty work to inspire and communicate the Mills is doing well and what it needs to workplace health and safety. This policy percent of our managers come from company’s culture and commitment to improve. Nearly 90 percent of employees directs all operations to implement employees through their actions. We participated in our 2010 Climate Survey. respect, develop and invest in people. The results were the strongest yet, General Mills is a mission-driven with an 80 percent favorable response General Mills devotes significant attention to company, and our mission is Nourishing overall, up 3 percent from 2008 and nearly 10 percent over the past decade. shaping the culture as performance-driven, Lives. We accomplish our mission by living our values: Do the right thing, Additionally, we field a comprehensive where people work hard to achieve goals and all the time; innovate in every aspect Global Climate Survey every other year. are excited by the challenges of their jobs. of our business; build great brands; General Mills is committed to respect, develop and invest in our people; providing both our union and nonmanagement systems, programs and and strive for consistently superior union production workers with the within the company. General Mills procedures that will lead the company to performance. Languages and cultures wages and benefits that recognize their consistently receives external recognition our goal of zero injuries and illnesses. may vary, but our values don’t. invaluable contributions to our company’s for our performance in this area. success and the economic well-being Workplace health and safety is the General Mills devotes significant attention At General Mills, development takes many necessary for raising their families. responsibility of line management and to shaping the culture as performanceforms. The opportunities are extensive, each individual employee. All employees driven, where people work hard to achieve Labor-management relations. General available and supported throughout the are expected to work safely by following goals and are excited by the challenges of Mills takes its responsibility to our company – from an employee’s Individual all rules, procedures and training. their jobs. At the same time, we strive to production workers and their communities Development Plan (IDP) to our Great provide a workplace that is supportive and seriously. In the U.S., for example, it is not Employees are trained in all applicable Manager initiative, and from mentoring does not require employees to lose sight uncommon for a General Mills plant to be health and safety subjects relevant to and courses at the General Mills Institute of family and community commitments. one of its community’s economic pillars, their jobs. This is done to ensure that all to peer networking. There are numerous such as our Hannibal, Mo., operation, employees know how to perform their programs, courses and online learning Additionally, we are signatories to which is the largest employer in the area. jobs correctly and to comply with all local, classes that support professional the United Nations Global Compact regional and country requirements. development, networking opportunities (UNGC) and are guided by the We offer competitive pay, retirement International Labour Organization’s and diversity and inclusion programs. programs, employee assistance programs, General Mills has an active auditing (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental education assistance and encouragement program to monitor our operations to Diversity and inclusion. At General Principles and Rights at Work. to give back to our communities. In ensure compliance with all internal and Mills, diversity is both a value and a General Mills Global Responsibility 63 business strategy. Embracing diversity Equal remuneration for women and leaders at multiple levels. Reflecting the helps us attract and retain top talent men. We believe our compensation, importance of people to our business, while driving innovation and consumer benefits and incentive plans are among General Mills has a vice president of engagement around the world. the best in our industry. That’s because Global Diversity and Inclusion; a vice we also believe our people are the best. president of Global Health Services; a vice General Mills creates a diverse workforce president of Engineering, Global Safety and by recruiting the best and brightest talent n A t General Mills, we value all our Environment; and a Chief Learning Officer. from all communities. We cultivate an employees and reward them with a inclusive environment by considering highly competitive “Total Rewards” At the board level, the Compensation all dimensions of diversity – not just the compensation and benefits package. and Public Responsibility Committees primary areas such as gender, race and maintain responsibility for issues n W e have good relationships with sexual orientation – but also cultural related to labor and decent work. our unions. Our labor contracts aspects including values, preferences, are typically settled on time and Training and awareness. See beliefs and communication styles. without work disruptions. Training and Education on page 63. General Mills fosters inclusion by n O ur Annual Performance and Awards Monitoring and follow-up. General living all of our core values, including statement was developed and revised Mills has established key metrics and respecting, developing and investing in response to employee suggestions. measurement approaches to understand in our employees. Our employees are performance as it relates to labor developed through participation in General Mills prohibits discrimination and decent work . Examples include professional development training, based on age, race, sex, national origin, a refined performance management mentoring programs and employee disability, citizenship, sexual orientation process, annual employee surveys and networks. Experience has taught us that or other class protected by law. a clearly articulated Code of Ethics. what’s measured gets done, and so we This Equal Employment Opportunity have a suite of metrics that we leverage to (EEO) policy applies to employment monitor and advance our diversity efforts. practices and procedures including We also seek to fully integrate diversity and inclusion into existing HR practices. compensation practices. At General Mills, diversity is both a value General Mills is committed to increasing Organizational responsibility. Our and a business strategy. Embracing Chairman and CEO has ultimate the diversity of its suppliers. Our first-tier accountability for ensuring a healthy, diversity helps us attract and retain spending with minority and female owned businesses exceeded $550 million in productive and motivated workforce. Governance for our labor practices lies top talent while driving innovation and fiscal 2011. The company now has created Partners in Diversity for primarily within our Human Resources, consumer engagement around the world. Legal and Supply Chain organizations. At companies doing business with General an operational level, the Human Resources Mills that share our commitment to organization leads key employee initiatives workforce and supplier diversity. in partnership with company business General Mills Global Responsibility 64 n Injuries and pollution are preventable. n Effective training for all employees to assist in complying with government Workplace Safety and n  othing we do is worth getting injured N n C  ontinuous improvement of our regulations, (c) review and audit safety Environmental Protection Policy or damaging the environment. programs and standards and environmental programs, (d) advise the Company on potential n Everyone is responsible for their own In the event of an incident, it must be safety and environmental risks, including General Mills will operate in a manner that safety and protecting the environment. thoroughly investigated to find the root those involved with acquisitions promotes a safe workplace and protection Each business unit will implement a causes and prevent recurrence. Business and divestitures, and (e) lead efforts of the environment. The responsibility and safety and environmental management units need to manage injuries to ensure toward continuous improvement in accountability for effective injury prevention system based on the following areas: that employees receive appropriate care safety and environmental protection; in and pollution prevention rests with each and return to useful employment as n  ommitment of management and C consultation with the Law Department employee and each business unit manager. soon as medically able. They must also expectations for employees and other appropriate personnel. respond in a timely and effective manner 1. Every business unit manager and 4. Our Law Department shall work n Involvement of all employees to a spill or release to protect employees, each employee shall comply with with the business units and the n Goal setting and action planning the public and the environment. all applicable laws, regulations Department of Health, Safety and and Company standards n Checking and corrective action 3. Our Department of Health, Safety Environment to identify and manage pertaining to workplace safety and Environment shall: (a) develop, n Technical and regulatory programs risks associated with safety and and environmental protection. implement and administer effective environmental issues, and shall provide n S  afe and environmentally safety and environmental programs, 2. Our efforts are based on legal advice and guidance regarding sound practices (b) develop guidelines and programs the following values: safety and environmental laws. (LA7) Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender Recordable Injury Rate Lost-Time Rate Days Lost Rate North America 1.91 0.28 11 International 2.81 1.97 24 Global 2.11 0.66 14 n T  otal number of employees tracked = approximately 28,000 n Injury rates do not include first aid (LA13) Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Composition of governance bodies: See also GeneralMills.com/investors Employees: Numbers take into account approximately 90 percent of global workforce. Gender Age Male Female Age Percent 57.63% 42.36% <30 23.6% 30-49 51.8% Age 50+ 24.6% General Mills Global Responsibility 65 prohibition of discrimination, child labor Training and awareness. We Disclosures on management and forced labor – including that associated Disclosures on management achieve these goals by regularly approach: Human rights with human trafficking. A third party approach: Society communicating and training. auditing program helps ensure – should See also Issues section (page 56). See also Communities section (page 20). For an overview of our policies and actions we find or become aware of violations of as it relates to ethics and compliance, our standards – required remediation. please reference our Code of Conduct. Goals and performance. General Mills Goals and performance. General Mills is Organizational responsibility. At General is committed to protecting human rights proud of our legacy as a strong corporate Additional contextual information. Mills, we believe that responsibility for in our workplaces and throughout our citizen. We believe that as a business, For over 50 years, the General Mills human rights lies with each employee supply chain. As signatories to the United we create value through our products, Foundation has made grants to the and in every decision. Senior leaders Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and business practices and actions in broader communities in which we operate. across key functions like Supply Chain, the International Labour Organization’s society. Being a trusted corporate Our Foundation recognizes the great Legal, Human Resources and External (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental citizen is fundamental to our values opportunity and responsibility we have Relations provide guidance and set Principles and Rights at Work, we are and our mission of Nourishing Lives. to unleash the power of food to nourish policies related to human rights. guided by broad international frameworks. lives of families around the world. Our Code of Conduct for Employees Monitoring, follow-up and remediation. Our giving focuses on three key areas: Organizational risk assessment, impact reflects this commitment to our mission We are leaders in the AIM-PROGRESS hunger, nutrition and wellness, and assessment, training and awareness. and our value, “Do the right thing.” We Responsible Sourcing task force, whose fitness. We support the communities Our Code of Conduct and Workplace have high expectations for ethical conduct mission is to promote responsible in which our employees work and, in Standard and Ethical Sourcing Policy help in every aspect of our business. General sourcing by sharing best practices recent years, have become engaged our employees understand these issues, Mills’ global reputation as an ethical and promoting efficiency in the in Africa to promote food security. and act in accordance with company company depends on each employee to packaged goods supply chain. policies addressing employee health and always act consistent with the law, our As a company, we have given away over safety, labor standards, environmental We believe that the protection of human policies and our values. General Mills $1 billion in grants, product donations protection, and anti-corruption. rights through responsible sourcing is a employees receive a Code of Conduct and corporate contributions since the critical part of our Nourishing Lives mission. that outlines our ethical expectations Foundation was created in 1954. Our Supplier Code of Conduct details As with all of our efforts, we continually and provides practical tips and examples our expectations of our suppliers in these seek ways to improve our entire supply for how to act with integrity in every areas. Together, our Workplace Standards chain’s performance in this important area. decision, every action, every day. and Ethical Sourcing Policy and our Supplier Code of Conduct set standards Organizational responsibility. Our Ethics for ourselves, as well as for our suppliers, & Compliance group, led by our chief vendors and other business partners, compliance and risk officer, is committed regarding the protection of human rights. to continuing General Mills’ long-standing culture of integrity by ensuring that These standards are based in part on the employees know what it means to behave ILO 1998 Declaration on Fundamental ethically and to act in compliance with our Principles and Rights at Work. Guided Code of Conduct and policies. In addition, by the 1998 Declaration, General Mills key business leaders own responsibility for respects the principles of collective ethical market and brand development. bargaining and freedom of association, and General Mills Global Responsibility 66 We spend five times the amount Performance indicators: Disclosures on management on food safety we spent five years society approach: Product responsibility ago, and our supplier audits have increased dramatically in recent (SO2) Business units analyzed years. In fiscal 2011, we conducted for risks related to corruption. Goals and performance. As a more than 800 supplier audits. consumer foods company, General Mills is committed to the safety of Organizational responsibility. We recently conducted a comprehensive the products we produce and market Operationally, product responsibility corruption risk assessment across our around the world. That commitment is lies within the R&D and Marketing international business operations. This fundamental to the way we do business. organizations. Responsibility for consumer assessment included analysis of specific health and safety, product and service business operations data, geographic This emphasis on food safety has long labeling is held by the senior vice president corruption risk, electronic employee addressed issues such as spoilage and of Supply Chain, senior vice president of questionnaires and live employee contamination, as well as allergenicity R&D and the vice president of Quality interviews. The results of this risk and ingredient simplification. and Regulatory Operations. Responsibility assessment were then used to inform our We work hard to prevent problems for Marketing communications is held global anticorruption compliance program before they occur, and maintain stringent by the Chief Marketing Officer. and internal anticorruption controls. internal standards and requirements to Training and awareness. In October We also include corruption as a risk ensure safety across all processes and 2011, we held our first “supplier school” factor in the annual risk assessment operations. The company continually – whose theme was “Protect-Educatefielded by our Global Internal Audit reviews its processes and procedures. Partner” – to help our ingredient suppliers function. This risk assessment touches all Policy. More than 30 years ago, General improve food safety, sanitation and of our business units around the world. Mills developed the Hazard Analysis quality management. We plan to hold In addition, we ask detailed questions and Critical Control Points (HACCP) more sessions in 2012 and beyond. related to corruption risk during each routine, in-depth business unit audit process with NASA. HACCP details We are also working to build a safer by our Global Internal Audit team. a process for ensuring food safety global food system. We – along with by identifying critical stages in the several other food companies – are (SO4) Action taken in response production process in order to minimize collaborating with the Partnership to incidents of corruption or eliminate potential food safety issues. Training Institute to develop a food safety All allegations of bribery and corruption Today, the comprehensive HACCP curriculum that can be broadly shared. relating to General Mills’ business preventive process is not only required operations are promptly and thoroughly of General Mills’ businesses around investigated, in accordance with our the world, but it has also become Ethics & Compliance procedures and the food industry’s gold standard. corporate policies. Upon completion of the investigation, our Ethics & Compliance General Mills adopts and applies the team oversees appropriate disciplinary same high safety and quality standards actions (including termination of thirdeverywhere we do business. All party relationships), remediation steps employees are stewards of our brands, and internal/external reporting. and food safety is integral to this mission. General Mills Global Responsibility 67 GRI G3.1 Sustainability Report Content Index Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/page(s) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/page(s) Strategy and Analysis Report Parameters 1.1 Statement from the most senior p.1, Annual Report, General 3.7 State any specific limitations on the p. 7 decision-maker of the organization Mills Foundation Report scope or boundary of the report. to the Community 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 10K 1.2 Description of key impacts, p. 2-7, p. 54-61, 10K subsidiaries, leased facilities, risks, and opportunities. outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Organizational Profile comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 2.1 Name of the organization. 10K 3.9 Data measurement techniques and p. 8-9, p. 30, p. 37 2.2 Primary brands, products, p. 5, 10K the bases of calculations, including and/or services. assumptions and techniques 2.3 Operational structure of Annual Report underlying estimations applied to the organization. the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 10K 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any NA 2.5 Number of countries where GeneralMills.com/countries re-statements of information the organization operates. provided in earlier reports, and 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 10K the reasons for such re-statement 2.7 Markets served. GeneralMills.com/countries (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Annual Report of base years/periods, nature of 2.9 Significant changes during the Annual Report business, measurement methods). reporting period regarding size, 3.11 Significant changes from previous NA structure, or ownership. reporting periods in the scope, 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. GeneralMills.com/awards boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the p. 68-71 Report Parameters Standard Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice p. 2 3.1 Reporting period. p. 7 with regard to seeking external 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. April 2011 assurance for the report. 3.3 Reporting cycle. p. 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding p. 7 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. p. 6 4.1 Governance structure of GeneralMills.com/investors 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, p. 7 the organization. (corporate governance) divisions, subsidiaries, leased 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of GeneralMills.com/investors facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). the highest governance body (corporate governance) is also an executive officer. Key to indicators: Fully Partially NA not applicable General Mills Global Responsibility 68 Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosures Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/page(s) Profile Disclosure and Description Reported Location/page(s) Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.3 For organizations that have a GeneralMills.com/ 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the GeneralMills.com/ unitary board structure, state the investors (corporate precautionary approach or principle responsibility (environment/ number and gender of members governance/board of is addressed by the organization. sustainability) of the highest governance body directors) 4.12 Externally developed economic, p. 6-7 that are independent and/or environmental, and social charters, non-executive members. principles, or other initiatives 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders GeneralMills.com/ to which the organization and employees to provide investors (corporate subscribes or endorses. recommendations or direction to governance/contact 4.13 Memberships in associations or p. 6-7 the highest governance body. the board) advocacy organizations. 4.5 Linkage between compensation 2011 Proxy Statement for members of the highest GeneralMills.com/ 4.14 List of stakeholder groups p. 6-7 governance body, senior investors (annual and engaged by the organization. managers, and executives and other reports) 4.15 Basis for identification and selection p. 6-7, p. 44-45 the organization’s performance. of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest GeneralMills.com/ 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder p. 6-7, p. 44-45 governance body to ensure conflicts investors (board engagement, including frequency of interest are avoided. of directors), Code of engagement by type and of Conduct by stakeholder group. 4.7 Process for determining the GeneralMills.com/ 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have p. 2-7, p. 54-61 composition, qualifications, and investors (corporate been raised through stakeholder expertise of the members of the governance) engagement, and how the highest governance body and organization has responded to its committees, including any those key topics and concerns, consideration of gender and including through its reporting. other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements GeneralMills.com/ of mission or values, codes of company (mission) conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance GeneralMills.com/ body for overseeing the organization’s investors (corporate identification and management governance) of economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the GeneralMills.com/ highest governance body’s own investors (corporate performance, particularly with governance) respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Key to indicators: Fully Partially NA not applicable General Mills Global Responsibility 69 Disclosures on Management Approach Disclosures on Management Approach and Performance Indicators and Performance Indicators Economic DMA EC Annual Report, 10K Performance Indicator and Description Reported Location/page(s) Performance Indicator and Description Reported Location/page(s) Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. p. 44 Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated Annual Report, 10K, EN14 Strategies, current actions, and p. 42 and distributed, including revenues, GeneralMills.com/ future plans for managing operating costs, employee foundation impacts on biodiversity. compensation, donations and other community investments. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EC2 Financial implications and p. 60-61, Carbon EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse p. 40, 62 other risks and opportunities Disclosure Project gas emissions by weight. for the organization’s activities EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas p. 40, Carbon Disclosure due to climate change. emissions by weight. Project EC3 Coverage of the organization’s 10K defined benefit plan obligations. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas p. 37-38, 40, 42, 46, 48, 50 emissions and reductions achieved. Environmental DMA EN p. 36, p. 62 EN22 Total weight of waste by type p. 46, 62 and disposal method. Materials EN23 Total number and volume p. 62 EN2 Percentage of materials used that p. 47, 51 of significant spills. are recycled input materials. Products and Services Energy EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental p. 36-37, 51 EN3 Direct energy consumption p. 62 impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN4 Indirect energy consumption p. 62 by primary source. Transport EN5 Energy saved due to conservation p. 37-41 EN29 Significant environmental impacts p. 48, 52 and efficiency improvements. of transporting products and other EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy p. 36-41 goods and materials used for the consumption and reductions achieved. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. p. 62 Key to indicators: Fully Partially NA not applicable General Mills Global Responsibility 70 Disclosures on Management Approach Disclosures on Management Approach and Performance Indicators and Performance Indicators Social: Human Rights DMA HR p. 65 Performance Indicator and Description Reported Location/page(s) Performance Indicator and Description Reported Location/page(s) Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies p. 64-65 Freedom of Association and and breakdown of employees Annual Report; Collective Bargaining per employee category according GeneralMills.com/ HR5 Operations and significant suppliers p. 56, GeneralMills.com/ to gender, age group, minority investors (corporate identified in which the right to responsibility (sourcing) group membership, and other governance) exercise freedom of association indicators of diversity. and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk. Social: Society DMA SO p. 66 Child Labor Corruption HR6 Operations and significant suppliers p. 54, 56, GeneralMills.com/ SO2 Percentage and total number p. 35, 66 identified as having significant responsibility (sourcing) of business units analyzed for risk for incidents of child labor. risks related to corruption. SO4 Actions taken in response to p. 66 Forced and Compulsory Labor incidents of corruption. HR7 Operations and significant p. 54, 56, GeneralMills.com/ SO5 Public policy positions and p. 54-61, GeneralMills.com/ suppliers identified as having responsibility (sourcing) participation in public policy responsibility (communities/ significant risk for incidents of development and lobbying. civic involvement) forced or compulsory labor. Social: Product Responsibility DMA PR p. 67 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA LA p. 29, p. 63 Customer Health & Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which p. 2-4, 9, 11-12, 14, 67 Occupational Health and Safety health and safety impacts LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, p. 30, 65 of products and services are lost days, and absenteeism, and assessed for improvement. number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Marketing Communications LA8 Education, training, counseling, p. 31, 63 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, p. 4, 18-19 prevention, and risk-control programs standards, and voluntary codes in place to assist workforce members, related to marketing communications, their families, or community including advertising, promotion, members regarding serious diseases. and sponsorship. Key to indicators: Fully Partially NA not applicable General Mills Global Responsibility 71
