OVERVIEW Sustainability has become one of those meaningful issues that periodically emerge that cannot be dismissed as merely a trend. Government agencies, businesses and individuals alike have embraced the concept in a much broader sense than merely an economic one. Sustainability must be integrated into human rights, societal issues and perhaps most important, the environment. It is a generational issue — perhaps the major issue of our time. At Lexmark, we operate our business in a manner that results in a better world from both a humanitarian and an ecological perspective. We build products that positively impact all the people our company touches and all those who touch our products. From the first glint of an idea, to a product’s end of life; from our employees and their families, to our neighbors; from our suppliers to our shareholders; from our political governments, to their citizens. We believe that accessible and regular documentation of our efforts to be a responsible corporate citizen is critical to improvement in our sustainability efforts. We are committed to transparency in running our business as well as in the reporting of environmental and social progress. This report addresses 100 percent of all GRI indicators including environmental, product, finance and economics, society, human rights and labor. We have identified five components of sustainability that, in particular, have substantial materiality to our operations and this report is segmented by those components. Measuring progress against and in the context of goals and objectives is an integral part of Lexmark’s management approach. Lexmark is committed to honest exchanges and believes that exploration and dialogue relative to these issues will result in advancing our efforts. We want to engage our stakeholders on every level and we realize their input is relevant and beneficial. In support of this objective, this year we have changed our Corporate Social Responsibility report from a view-only PDF document to one of considerable interactivity. In essence, we are all stakeholders in each other. Constructive feedback is an important tool to help us enhance our sustainability. Click here to contact us. HIGHLIGHTS Key Performance Indicators Lexmark's global presence Letter from Paul Rooke Operations, Product and Community Key Performance Indicators, also A map of Lexmark's global operations An introduction to our sustainability Awards known as KPI, help an organization with information on each location. report by Lexmark's CEO. Lexmark product excellence, social define and measure progress toward View Map Read Letter awareness and environmental organizational goals. sensitivity are recognized. View KPIs Read More CEO LETTER Dear Friends, At Lexmark, the way we conduct our business is as important as the quality of our products, solutions and services. We are a socially responsible company in our global community. We strive to maintain best practices for sustainability balancing economic, environmental and social concerns. We are committed to being a company with a strong respect for human rights, safe work conditions, and environmentally sound business practices, for our own organization and those with whom we partner. In a struggling economy, why is sustainability still so important to us? Because its core tenets remain constant: balancing the goals of a thriving corporation, protection for the environment and its resources and social responsibility. Together, they lead to an improved quality of life for future generations and ourselves, and make Lexmark more efficient, environmentally responsible and competitive. Compiling this Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report is an opportunity for us to reflect on the successes and challenges of the past year as we pursued this vision, and to share our goals for the future of economic, social and environmental sustainability. For the second consecutive year, we reached a high degree of transparency by addressing 100 percent of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) performance indicator topics. Lexmark was selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Enlarged Index (DJSI World Enlarged) and recognized as a Sustainability Leader in the 2012 Sustainability Yearbook. Our product line was enhanced with new socially and environmentally beneficial hardware and software solutions. We recently released two phenomenal accessibility solutions that help users with limited sight be more independent and productive in the workplace: the Lexmark Speech Solution and the award-winning Lexmark Accessibility Solution. We also announced cutting-edge products that offer our customers superior energy savings, including our new Office Edge business inkjet and C740/X740 Series color laser printers and MFPs. For the second year in a row, Corporate Responsibility (CR) Magazine listed Lexmark as one of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens. This list is recognized as one of the top corporate responsibility rankings, analyzing corporate performance in categories that include environmental impact, governance, human rights and employee relations. In September, I was deeply honored to accept, on behalf of Lexmark and its employees, the Responsible CEO of the Year award from CR Magazine. Corporate social responsibility is everybody’s job at Lexmark, so we were all pleased that our CSR efforts were recognized. I'm an extremely fortunate CEO to have a dedicated and forward-thinking social responsibility team that’s more than 13,000 employees strong. While these successes validate the strength of our CSR program, we recognize that there is always more that can be done. Going forward, we will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and will conduct business in a manner that is sensitive to societal and environmental issues that align with the principles of that compact. We will remain diligent in maintaining a leadership position in our sustainability efforts. We will also strive for continuous improvement, consistent with the strategy we pursue throughout our business. It is my pleasure to present Lexmark’s 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report. Sincerely, Paul A. Rooke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL JUSTICE POLICY Lexmark International’s commitment to environmental justice and corporate social responsibility is simple and clear: we will constantly strive to develop responsibly designed products and to set high standards across all areas of operation. We are good corporate citizens, serving both our employees and our neighbors with the dignity and respect they deserve. Our commitment will be proven through: The way we design our products and services, The way we manage resources, The way we live and work. We envision Lexmark to always be associated with a respect for human rights, safe work conditions, and environmentally sound business practices, for our own organization and those with whom we partner. We invite you to view more specific and detailed statements of Lexmark's commitments to environmental protection and social responsibility by utilizing the links at the end of this page. The fundamental principles of the policy, however, are these. 1. Lexmark is committed to acting as a socially responsible company in our global community. This means that we will fully comply with both the letter and the spirit of the laws, rules and regulations of the countries and communities in which we operate. 2. Our operations include high standards of environmental performance to minimize environmental impacts. We will continually monitor those standards to seek ongoing improvement. 3. As we modify, develop or acquire facilities, we will incorporate environmental justice issues into those processes. We will continually strive to minimize our environmental footprint where we operate. 4. We maintain open and transparent communications with all stakeholders in our operations, including stockholders, customers, employees and governments so that they may contribute to our environmental justice success. 5. We respect the human rights and dignity of our employees, offering safe working conditions and environmentally sound business practices. We recognize the critical importance of standards regarding freely chosen employment, child labor, discrimination, harsh or inhumane treatment, minimum wages, working hours, and freedom of association. We expect our business partners to do the same. 6. We strive to understand and respect the cultural values wherever we operate. Lexmark will be a good corporate citizen and a good neighbor. 7. We operate under a clear and strong code of ethics at every level of the company. All employees are expected to understand how they are to conduct business. 8. At Lexmark, diversity reflects our commitment as a company and as individuals to embrace and apply the wealth of backgrounds, nationalities, cultures, experiences and viewpoints of our employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in pursuit of customer satisfaction and business success. This policy is fundamental to Lexmark’s business practices and vision. Every executive, manager and employee is expected not only to understand the policy, but to act and make decisions based upon the policy and conduct themselves in a manner consistent with this policy. Each person is also expected to help continually improve both performance and standards. Paul A. Rooke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. HIGHLIGHTS Environmental Health and Safety Corporate Social Responsibility Supplier Code of Conduct Climate Change Policies and Policy Policy Programs CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Lexmark International, Inc.’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities are fundamentally guided by the Lexmark Vision and Values – the cornerstone of the corporate character we have built at Lexmark. Lexmark is committed to acting as a socially responsible company in our global community. This means that we will fully comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which we operate. It also means that we will go further by continually evaluating our business practices using the principle of sustainability. At the heart of sustainability lies the desire to maintain a balance between the economic, environmental and social needs of our world today without compromising the opportunities of future generations. We want Lexmark to always be associated with a respect for human rights, safe work conditions, and environmentally sound business practices, for our own organization and those with whom we partner. Acting as pillars in our overall commitment to social responsibility are the following areas of focus: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Lexmark strives to understand and respect the cultural values and laws wherever we operate. Lexmark actively supports important initiatives in those communities where our employees live and work. This commitment is visible in our contributions of financial, equipment and volunteer support. Where feasible, we also maintain programs that encourage our employees to support initiatives that are important to them. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Lexmark maintains extensive ethics and corporate governance structures. These include but are not limited to the Board of Directors, Board Committees and Articles and By-Laws of the corporation. We also actively communicate and enforce a detailed Code of Business Conduct for all employees worldwide and provide numerous communication channels through which employees, subject to local law, can report possible code violations. DIVERSITY Lexmark strives to value and respect the individual differences of our employees, customers and business partners and is committed to achieving diversity in our global work force. We believe that a diverse work force provides employees with a better place to work and our company with a competitive business advantage. The company actively seeks out and implements programs designed to foster mutual respect and achievement of personal success, striving for each individual to reach their full potential. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Lexmark works diligently to develop and implement industry-leading environmental practices that relate not only to our products, but to everything we do, everywhere in the world. We focus these efforts through the Lexmark Environmental Program, which has three main areas of concentration: The way we design our products and services The way we manage resources; and The way we live and work. HEALTH & SAFETY Lexmark endorses the principle that the quality of products and services, consistency of production and workers’ morale are enhanced by a safe and healthy work environment. Lexmark maintains health and safety programs for its facilities around the world and assists our first-tier suppliers in developing programs appropriate to their facilities. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Lexmark is committed to upholding the human rights of workers and to treating them with dignity and respect as understood by the international community. The company’s commitment includes adhering to and recognizing the critical importance of standards regarding freely chosen employment, child labor, discrimination, harsh or inhumane treatment, minimum wages, working hours, and freedom of association. SUPPLIER REQUIREMENTS Lexmark works with our suppliers to help them treat their workers and employees fairly and with dignity and respect, maintain safe working conditions, and conduct manufacturing activities in an environmentally safe and responsible manner. This statement and the principles upon which it is based were developed with guidance from many sources, including but not limited to the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct, and the U.N. Global Compact. In addition to adhering to the above requirements and standards, Lexmark does not tolerate retaliation against anyone who reports in good faith through the appropriate channels a suspected violation of any provision of the above statement. CONTINUING EDUCATION AND CAREER ADVANCEMENT Lexmark encourages professional and personal growth for each employee and supports continued education as a way to help employees become more effective in their current positions and develop skill sets for future positions. Development opportunities are based on employees’ development plans that highlight their career goals, interests, strengths and development areas, both short term and long term. Employees are encouraged to find a mentor, in addition to utilizing their manager, to provide guidance and support to their growth efforts. Continuing education opportunities include a tuition reimbursement program. The requirements and benefits vary by location, but provide financial assistance to employees who wish to continue their education by attending undergraduate or graduate courses. Additionally, funding for external training programs varies by location and is provided to develop employees skills, knowledge and ability. Internal learning opportunities include extensive training in technical and business skills 2011 CONTINUING EDUCATION TRAINING delivered both at the corporate level and through resources within various business areas. Learning occurs through instructor-lead courses and 24/7 via iLearn, Lexmark’s worldwide online learning platform, which offers extensive libraries, including proprietary offerings. At the corporate level, leadership training and participation in such company-wide development programs as operational excellence and change management are offered. All employees are required to complete the Code of Conduct, IT Security as well as various required learning courses based on location every year. Additional examples of course offerings include Global Teamwork courses to help employees understand and Executive Vice President 59 25 1,475 work more cohesively together in an international environment as well as on boarding, and open enrollment sessions to learn more about the business. In the U.S, new Director 188 40 7,520 managers are required to attend at least 24 hours of training with similar programs being offered worldwide. Manager 1,129 40 45,160 Individual Contributor 11,867 40 474,680 Lexmark’s Educational Leave of Absence allows employees with at least two years of regular employment, and who have demonstrated professional ability and potential, to enhance their educational experiences and resumés for their benefit as well as These numbers are based upon the corporate-level systems that Lexmark's. Approval is based on the relevance of the study program to Lexmark's goals capture employee development activities and do not include formal and interests, academic and work records and the business needs at the time of the education paid for in part by Lexmark. Therefore, the actual hours proposed Educational Leave. The duration of an Educational Leave depends on the time will be greater than reported in some employee categories. required to complete the approved course of study, but is typically no more than four years. *Lexmark senior management includes Directors and Executive Vice Presidents. All of our regular, worldwide employees work with their managers to create performance management objectives that support department, division and company goals. Success criteria are established for each objective. Employees then use a system-based, multi-rater feedback tool and other forms of data gathering to solicit feedback on their performance against their objectives. Eighty-five percent of Lexmark employees participate in this process. The 15 percent that do not participate in this process are hourly workers in two plant locations and do not have access to the system containing the multi-rater tool. These employees use site-specific processes and tools to set and review performance expectations. Managers and employees have performance progress discussions at the end of each performance period. RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND IMPACTS IMPACTS Lexmark’s social and environmental impacts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE are broken down into three focus areas and Please refer to the Company's Form 10-K for are addressed by corresponding initiatives – expanded information with reference to Product Initiatives, Operational Initiatives and governance. Community Initiatives: Form 10-K Product Initiatives include all products and processes we develop to help our customers reduce their environmental footprint and meet the accessibility needs of their workforce. Operational initiatives include all the things we do to reduce our own environmental footprint at Lexmark facilities and make Lexmark a better employer and business partner through commitments to human rights and fair labor practices. Community initiatives include all the things we do to environmentally and socially improve the communities in which we live and work. Legal compliance in these areas is priority one at Lexmark. We make sure that we are within legal standards wherever we have operations, after which, we balance and prioritize our approach by addressing what needs to be done to best meet the needs of all stakeholders as completely as possible. RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Corporate social responsibility trends have led imaging organizations, including Lexmark to evaluate the potential of physical risks and regulatory possibilities for our business as well as to consider potential opportunities to enhance and capitalize on our product offerings thereby helping our customers achieve their environmental sustainability and social responsibility goals. ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS AND WASTE OBLIGATION Lexmark's operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations, particularly relating to environmental matters that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. For further information on the impacts of these regulatory matters, please refer to Lexmark's Form 10-K. WASTE OBLIGATION Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ( WEEE ) Directives issued by the European Union require producers of electrical and electronic goods to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The Company's estimated liability for these costs involves a number of uncertainties and takes into account certain assumptions and judgments including average collection costs, return rates and product lives. Should actual costs and activities differ from the Company's estimates, revisions to the estimated liability may be required. CLIMATE CHANGE The potential impacts of climate change have led lawmakers across the globe to take a precautionary approach, proposing and implementing new regulations to guide governments, businesses and citizens in their efforts to reduce global warming. These regulations have the potential to impact all businesses. Regulations requiring reductions in energy usage will motivate consumers and businesses to replace wasteful equipment with energyefficient products. Lexmark recognizes that cutting energy use is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a major contributor to climate change. Lexmark’s environmental policies and programs support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within Lexmark’s own operations and those of our customers. OPERATIONAL RISKS Climate change and associated weather disruptions have the potential to affect the operations of all organizations. Our operations and those of our manufacturing partners, suppliers and freight transporters are subject to natural and man-made disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, environmental hazards, power shortages, water shortages and telecommunications failures. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. As Lexmark continues to consolidate certain functions into shared service centers and moves other functions to countries with lower-cost labor, the probability and impact of business disruptions may increase over time. Lexmark has a business continuity plan in place at each site that faces risks due to climate change. PRODUCT OPPORTUNITIES Lexmark offers a wide range of environmentally beneficial and highly accessible imaging devices and software solutions that help customers print less and meet the accessibility needs of their workforces. Demand for such products and solutions can have a positive financial impact for Lexmark. REPORT PARAMETERS Lexmark’s CSR Report is global in scope and covers major operations, manufacturing and research and development facilities in the Americas, Europe and Asia for the full year ending December 31, 2011, unless GRI GUIDELINES otherwise noted. The basis for reporting on other matters specific to the operations of our business, including joint We considered the Global Reporting ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can affect comparability from Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting period to period, can be found in Lexmark’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is filed with the Securities and Guidelines (G3) when preparing this report. Exchange Commission (SEC). We intend to continue to publish an annual CSR Report. If you have questions regarding this report or any of its contents, please contact us here. This report REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY addresses 100 percent At the heart of Lexmark's sustainability efforts lies our desire to maintain a balance between the economic, of all GRI environmental and social needs of the world today without compromising the opportunities of future generations. indicator We understand that this commitment to sustainable principles requires continual, diligent evaluation of our topics including environmental, product, business practices in light of our aspirations. The scope of this report includes the following social responsibility finance & economics, society, human rights areas. and labor. Lexmark self-declares this report to GRI Application Level A. Community involvement View the GRI/UNGC Index Corporate governance and ethics Diversity Environmental responsibility Health and safety PREVIOUS CSR REPORTS Since Lexmark began CSR reporting, no Human rights and labor standards restatements have been made. Supplier requirements Please click on the links below to download This report is designed to address the disclosure needs of our stakeholders by providing data on the significant and view previous Lexmark CSR reports. CSR issues and the effects of those issues on our business processes and performance. To help ensure that our reporting efforts are productive, we have identified and reported on the issues we believe to be the most relevant, useful and timely. 2010 CSR Report MATERIALITY 2009 CSR Report Lexmark identifies critical social issues within our sustainability strategy through communications with stakeholders including customers, shareholders and employees. Our efforts are prioritized based on their needs 2008 CSR Report but balanced to maintain alignment with our vision and values. 2007 Environmental Sustainability Report This matrix visually shows the relative emphasis Lexmark places on the various CSR areas. REPORT ASSURANCE The CSR reporting process itself continues to give us an ever clearer picture of how we can strengthen the report and make it more meaningful. We are applying lessons learned and instituting procedures to improve future reports. We have chosen not to seek external assurance for this report but will continue to evaluate assurance options as we go forward. GOVERNANCE AND EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Lexmark is governed by a 12-member Board of Directors, consisting of one executive and 11 independent, non-executive directors. The Board is chaired by CEO, Paul Rooke. Please refer to the Company's Form 10-K for expanded information with reference to governance. Additional information related to the Board composition, qualifications and performance evaluation and compensation linkage is available on our Corporate Governance Web page. BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRUCTURE The Lexmark Board of Directors regularly reviews the Company's corporate governance practices including Lexmark’s current classified Board of Director’s structure. There are valid arguments in favor of and in opposition to a classified board structure. After careful consideration, including valuable shareholder input, the Board determined that it would be in the best interests of the Company and stockholders to declassify the Board which, when fully implemented, will allow the stockholders to vote on the election of the entire Board each year, rather than on a staggered basis as with the current classified board structure. To implement this change, stockholders will need to approve an amendment to the Lexmark’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation. This vote to declassify the Board of Directors will be proposed by the Board at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Board of Directors urges the Company’s stockholders to vote in favor of approving an amendment to Lexmark’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board and allow for the annual election of directors. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT Lexmark engages in public policy and standards development through our involvement in industry coalitions and trade associations at the local, state, federal and international level. The Information Technology Industry Council (ITI), ITI Environmental Leadership Council, DIGITAL EUROPE, the Greater Lexington Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Information Technology Office, the National Chamber of Commerce, Australian Information Industry Association (AIIA), Business Imaging Association of Australia (BIAA), Information Technology Association of Canada (ITAC), American National Standards Institute (ANSI), Ecma International, Association Connecting Electronics Industries, Bundesverband Informationswirtschaft Telekommunikation (BITKOM), European Imaging Association (EURIMAG) and Deutsches Institut für Normung (DIN) are a few of the organizations with which we engage. Lexmark is active in these groups because we want to participate in the industry and public policy discussions led by these organizations and take advantage of those collective resources. We engage with these groups in meetings and by participating in and leading committees, conference calls and electronic communications. TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICS ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES We believe that ethical behavior is critical to Lexmark's vision, “Customers For Life.” All Lexmark business units VISIONS AND VALUES are regularly analyzed for risks related to corruption. The Company has designed and adopted employee and Our employees have defined our vision and supplier codes of conduct that help to mitigate these risks. A formal risk assessment focused on corruption is values. We live these concepts every day. included in Lexmark’s audit plan. The audit plan is reviewed and approved by the Finance and Audit Committee More than mere words, these statements are of Lexmark’s Board of Directors on an annual basis. truly a framework for how we operate. To learn more about our vision and values, All allegations of employee corruption/fraud are thoroughly investigated by the appropriate business unit, in Click here. collaboration with Human Resources, Internal Audit and Lexmark’s Legal Department. Results of such investigations determine disciplinary action and whether the incident requires investigation by outside agencies and formal charges. ETHICSPOINT While incidents of corruption are infrequent, they do occur. In accordance with Lexmark’s zero tolerance policy The Ethics Line is a reporting structure toward bribery and corruption, Lexmark decided to dismiss certain employees during the reporting period based designed for you to ask questions regarding on non-systemic, personal-level incidents of fraud or dishonesty. the Code of Conduct or to report something improper that you believe has occurred or Lexmark’s zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption also applies to Lexmark business partners. may be occurring. View the EthicsPoint Lexmark will terminate business relationships with business partners that operate in an unethical manner. website. Lexmark recently terminated its relationship with an electronic component manufacturer after discovering that the Click here company violated an environmental regulation and refused to take the required corrective actions. Incidents of corruption involving Lexmark employees are reported to Lexmark’s Ethics Committee and to the Finance and Audit Committee of Lexmark’s Board of Directors. No legal cases regarding corrupt practices were brought against the company or its employees during 2011. All Lexmark business units are regularly analyzed for risks related to corruption. Corruption risk factors are considered in the formation of Lexmark’s Internal Audit plan which is reviewed by the Finance and Audit Committee of Lexmark’s Board of Directors on an annual basis. Lexmark has designed and adopted employee and supplier codes of conduct that help to mitigate the risk of corruption. All Lexmark employees are expected to adhere to the policies set forth in Lexmark’s Code of Business Conduct. The code addresses a variety of business ethics issues including anti-corruption and bribery. All Lexmark International Inc. employees including executive management are required to annually review and certify understanding of Lexmark’s Code of Conduct. In the interest of further mitigating such risks, Lexmark is developing targeted training courses to educate select employee groups about risks of corruption specific to their job function. These targeted anti-corruption and anti-bribery training courses will be rolled out to employees worldwide in 2012. All suppliers are expected to adhere to the Lexmark supplier code of conduct. Lexmark has adopted the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct as its supplier code of conduct. This code addresses a variety of issues including corruption. For more information on Lexmark’s adoption of the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct, please visit the supplier section of this report. All Lexmark employees are expected to adhere to the policies set forth in our Code of Business Conduct that addresses a variety of business ethics issues including anti-corruption and bribery policies. All Lexmark regular (both full-time and part-time) employees are required to annually review and certify understanding of Lexmark’s Code of Conduct. The Code covers the following topics: personal conduct, conflicts of interest, accounting records, internal controls and audits, complying with laws and regulations, supplier relationships, customer relationships, information concerning others and corporate social responsibility. All employees are required to verify compliance on an annual basis. In 2011, 100 percent of Lexmark International Inc. regular employees worldwide (including managers and non-management employees) reviewed the Code of Conduct and verified the receipt and understanding of the code. The status of this annual review process is tracked by Lexmark’s Human Resources Department on an annual basis and is reported to the Lexmark Ethics Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. All modifications to the Code of Business Conduct are reviewed by the Ethics Committee prior to any updates. Lexmark has established programs, policies and procedures that ensure the effective implementation of Lexmark’s Code of Business Conduct. Education Program: All Lexmark employees are required to reaffirm their understanding of the Business Code of Conduct through an annual online training module. Gift and Gratuity Policy: Lexmark’s gift and gratuity policy states that no Lexmark employee or member of his or her family may accept a gift or gratuity from a supplier or prospective supplier unless it is of nominal value (no more than $25 U.S. dollars). Cash gifts of any kind are prohibited. Ethics Hotline: Lexmark’s Ethics Line is a 24-hour, international toll-free telephone number established to assist Lexmark employees with questions about the Code of Business Conduct or concerns that something improper has occurred or may be occurring. A third-party provider operates the Ethics Line. The third-party providers of the telephone lines are prohibited from providing a caller’s identity to Lexmark without the caller’s permission. Calls are reported to Lexmark for investigation and review by Lexmark senior management. Contact Line for the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors: Lexmark’s Contact Line for the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (Contact Line) is a 24-hour, international toll-free telephone number that allows employees to anonymously raise concerns such as questionable accounting or auditing matters or possible unethical or illegal conduct to the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. A third-party provider operates the Contact Line. The third-party providers of the telephone lines are prohibited from providing a caller’s identity to Lexmark without the caller’s permission. Call information is forwarded to the Finance and Audit Committee for review and further investigation. Enforcement Policy: Any officer, director, employee, agent or stockholder acting on behalf of Lexmark who violates the code may be subject to substantial government fines and/or imprisonment in addition to Lexmark disciplinary action including termination. Transparency: Lexmark publicly reports on breaches of the Business Code of Conduct that impact investors. Lexmark and our suppliers also adhere to the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct, an industry specific code that addresses a variety of ethical issues including corruption, bribery, transparency, intellectual property, fair business practices and whistleblower protection. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Lexmark supports efforts to preserve and foster fair and honest competition within a competitive market system. We take care to ensure that our business practices do not violate competition laws (also known as antitrust, monopoly, fair trade or cartel laws) that prohibit business practices that unreasonably restrict the functioning of the competitive system. Lexmark was not a defendant in any anti-competitive behavior lawsuit during the reporting period. Please refer to Lexmark's 10-K for additional information on this topic. MONETARY FINES As a result of Lexmark’s commitment to ethical business practices, Lexmark has not been subject to any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations related to accounting fraud, workplace discrimination or corruption during this reporting period. INTERACTIVE MAP BOULDER, COLORADO SHAWNEE, KANSAS LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY JUÁREZ, MEXICO GENEVA, SWITZERLAND BUDAPEST, HUNGARY MOSCOW, RUSSIA JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA KOLKATA, INDIA SHENZHEN, CHINA CEBU CITY, PHILIPPINES LAPU-LAPU CITY, PHILIPPINES AWARDS Year after year, Lexmark product excellence is recognized by trade magazines and industry associations in their respective competitions. Likewise, Lexmark's social awareness and environmental sensitivity is cited by PRODUCT AWARDS governments and other social entities. Awards from industry experts, conservation groups and trade publications Lexmark Product Awards are nice in and of themselves. But moving beyond that they are a validation of the company’s efforts and successes in social responsibility. Even more important, these awards will translate into well served customers who will feel like they received a good value when they purchase one of our products and that they will have supported a socially conscious and environmentally minded company. CORPORATE AWARDS 2009 Corporate Awards DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 2010 Corporate Awards In 2011, Lexmark was added to the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Enlarged Index (DJSI World 2011 Corporate Awards Enlarged). Launched by Dow Jones in 2010, the DJSI World Enlarged tracks the performance of the most sustainable 20 percent of companies of the largest 2,500 companies in the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Index. The DJSI is considered the premier sustainability index, valued around the world by investors and customers alike. PAUL ROOKE NAMED RESPONSIBLE CEO OF THE YEAR Corporate Responsibility (CR) Magazine named Lexmark Chairman and CEO Paul Rooke as Responsible CEO of the Year in the public company category. Winners were selected based on the scope of their impact on their organization and community, the extent to which they drove key initiatives, and the individual reputation or professional risk taken to achieve significant change. Lexmark Chairman and CEO Paul Rooke receives the Responsible CEO of the Year award. 100 BEST CORPORATE CITIZENS In 2011 and 2012, Lexmark earned a spot on the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Magazine again named Lexmark to its “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list. The 100 Best Corporate Citizens list identifies U.S. publicly traded companies that excel at serving a broad range of stakeholders. The annual survey has gained national recognition as an indicator of best practices in the area of corporate responsibility. Data is collected in seven categories: environment, climate change, employee relations, human rights, governance, finance and philanthropy. LRDC IS PEZA OUTSTANDING EMPLOYER OF THE YEAR Lexmark Research and Development Corporation (LRDC) garnered two top awards in 2011 from the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA). LRDC was honored as 2011 Outstanding Employer of the Year and for 2011 Best in Community Projects, the second year in a row for that award. LRDC joined three other companies in the category for outstanding employers in the IT sector. The award is given to companies that have generated the most number of jobs and have maintained labor-management harmony. The award is also for companies that provide the best care to their employees. The outstanding community projects award was in recognition of LRDC’s participation in several continuing projects, including: Adopt-A-School program – training seminars for teachers, tutorial classes for students, mural painting, dental/medical missions Environmental program – tree and mangrove planting Gawad Kalinga Build program – building homes for those less fortunate in partnership with the nonprofit, volunteer-based Gawad Kalinga organization, among others. KENTUCKY EARTH DAY AWARD Lexmark Sustainability Manager, John Gagel, was the recipient of the 2012 Earth Day Award, presented by the Kentucky Environmental Quality Commission. The award recognizes Mr. Gagel’s efforts to protect the environment, particularly his organization of the Cane Run Creek clean up. That waterway had been declared “impaired” due to invasive honeysuckle and accumulated waste. 2011 ACCESS AWARD The American Foundation for the Blind Announces named Lexmark a 2011 Access Award Winner. Lexmark was recognized for the Lexmark Accessibility Solution. Darren Burton of the AFB congratulated Lexmark for ...taking the initiative to create this access solution in a product category where there are few options for accessibility. LEXMARK'S GREEN AWARD The Lexmark Green Award, established in 2009, is a worldwide multilevel program to recognize and encourage responsible sustainability and environmental practices. Customers, resellers, partners, suppliers and employees are all eligible for the award. In 2011, the award was expanded to recognize specific customer achievements in the areas of paper savings, cartridge returns and energy reductions. Criteria for each category were set, resulting in Bronze, Silver and Gold award levels. ALFRED P. SLOAN AWARD In 2011, Lexmark received the When Work Works, Alfred P. Sloan Award for Excellence in Workplace Flexibility. The award recognizes model employers of all types and sizes across the U.S. for their innovative and effective workplace practices. Lexmark’s flexible work/life balance programs enhance operational efficiency, promote business goals and enrich the quality of life for employees. TRUST ACROSS AMERICA For the second consecutive year, in 2011, Trust Across America named Lexmark to its Top Ten Most Trustworthy Public Companies list. Then, early in 2012, the organization named Lexmark CEO Paul Rooke among the country’s Top 100 Thought Leaders in Trustworthy Business Behavior. Almost 3000 public companies were audited in the selection process. Among the criteria for inclusion in both of these lists are financial stability and strength, accounting conservativeness, corporate integrity, transparency, sustainability and long-term reputation preservation. 2011 CORPORATE AWARDS AWARD Corporate Responsibility Magazine award to CEO Paul Rooke as Responsible CEO of the Year Corporate Responsibility Magazine named Lexmark to its “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list The Alfred P. Sloan Award for Business Excellence in Workplace Flexibility Anfor Group’s Quality Certification award to Lexmark Italy Lexmark added to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Enlarged Index OfficeMax’s Technology Vendor of the Year Lexmark Research and Development Corporation (LRDC) received the 2011 Best in Community Projects from the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) 2010 CORPORATE AWARDS AWARD Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality, Human Rights Campaign. Click here to learn more. Norwegian magazine, IT Bransjen, Printer Vendor of the Year Cannata Report's Dealer Survey, Printer Manufacturer of the Year Safety Organization of the Philippines Excellence Award for one year without a lost time accident. Safety Organization of the Philippines Award of Distinction for five million man hours without a lost time accident. Juárez, award for reuse of packaging materials Juárez, award for plastic recycling in new product Award for promoting sustainability in all areas, University of Kentucky Boulder, Perfect Compliance Award for Industrial Pretreatment Program Lexington Environmental Commission for stream bank restoration at Shadybrook Park 2009 CORPORATE AWARDS AWARD Partner Award of Excellence, Target Corp. Office Depot's Technology Vendor of the Year ENVIRONMENT As a global corporate citizen, Lexmark is sensitive to global ecological issues. We are committed to being a responsible neighbor and employer. Lexmark has identified three areas in which our company has ecological impacts customer, operations and community. We have taken substantial and dramatic steps in product recycling, water conservation and reforestation initiatives that move us closer to our goals and aspirations. Implementing good management practices helps us reduce our environmental impact. Significant financial resources are dedicated to efforts that reduce the environmental impact of our operations and result in the development of environmentally preferable products. Lexmark spends millions of dollars annually on environmentally beneficial facility upgrades, the development of environmentally beneficial technologies and supporting programs that improve the environment where we live and work. Utilizing a wealth of talented people and our financial resources, we have become a leader in the area of environmental stewardship, product design and efficient operations. HIGHLIGHTS Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index Partnerships for sustainability Water conservation Reducing carbon emissions Lexmark is ranked 15th out of the top CSX Corporation is a valued Lexmark Lexmark emphasizes water Lexmark is committed to reducing its 100 companies on the 2012 Maplecroft customer and a partner in sustainability. conservation and encourages water carbon impact through efficient use of Climate Innovation Index. recycling at all Lexmark facilities energy in products and operations. Visit Maplecroft Read More worldwide. Read More Read More CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY All Lexmark employees are required to know the environmental impacts of their jobs. They are trained in the corporate environmental policy as well as job-specific environmental issues during new-employee training and during annual refresher courses. Training records are managed by on-site Lexmark personnel who confirm that employees maintain the level of training prescribed in their job descriptions. Lexmark conducts its business in a manner that supports environmental justice. Lexmark’s environmental justice efforts are guided by the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct (EICC). This commitment is reflected in our corporate environmental policy, which states: Lexmark is committed to sustainable excellence in all our business activities, products and services. Through continual improvement in our environmental, health and safety programs, Lexmark is committed to: Be an environmentally responsible provider of high-quality products and services Be a good environmental steward, preserving and protecting our natural resources and practicing pollution prevention Be a responsible neighbor and employer, committed to compliance with relevant environmental, safety and health regulations, laws and other criteria to which Lexmark subscribes Be a provider of safe and healthy workplaces Lexmark senior management is responsible for this policy and its scope, for communicating it and ensuring its implementation. Lexmark managers are responsible for integrating these commitments into their decision-making processes and operational practices with objectives to measure and improve performance. All employees are expected to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with this policy. Paul A. Rooke Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lexmark International, Inc. To view our CSR Policy click here. ENERGY USE AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Lexmark has made a commitment to reduce the consumption of natural resources at all our leased and owned manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities and office spaces worldwide. Lexmark tracks LEXMARK ITALY greenhouse gas emissions as well as usage of natural gas, fuel oil, diesel, gasoline and electricity using the Lexmark Italy’s new Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology. Lexmark has established the following corporate goals to guide our Lexmark@Work energy-conservation efforts. headquarters, that opened in Milan in 2010, was designed to have minimal impact on the environment and encourage the exchange of LEXMARK'S GOALS LEXMARK'S PROGRESS information and the generation of new ideas. Lexmark established three long-term, While there is still much work to do, Learn More waste-management goals for the Lexmark has made significant progress corporation. toward achievement of these goals. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Reduced total greenhouse gas LIFEGATE ZERO IMPACT by 20 percent (2005-2017) emissions by 29 percent from 2005 to 2011 Lexmark has participated in Achieve a 20-percent reduction in “Impatto Zero”, an electricity consumption for Reduced total annual energy environmental project promoted headquarters, manufacturing and consumption by 16 percent by LifeGate, since 2004. development (2005-2017) compared to baseline year 2007 LifeGate has been called the Italian version of the Kyoto protocol, with its specific mission of Reduced direct energy consumption reducing carbon emissions and its general by eight percent between 2007 and approach of promoting awareness of the 2011 environment. Reduced indirect energy Learn More consumption by 20 percent from 2005 to 2011 NET-ZERO AND POSITIVE ENERGY BUILDINGS ENERGY CONSERVATION AT LEXMARK Lexmark France has joined a new consortium FACILITIES working together to Click Image to view High Resolution design the first positive REDUCING GREENHOUSE energy green office building. GAS EMISSIONS Learn More Lexmark’s energy reductions have been largely inspired by the company’s desire to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Cutting energy use is one of the most effective ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a major contributor to climate change. Lexmark publicly reports greenhouse gas emissions related to the use of direct and indirect energy through the Carbon Disclosure Project. Lexmark calculations of greenhouse gas emissions are based on the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). The aforementioned efforts to reduce Lexmark's use of direct and indirect energy and travel translate directly into reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The greenhouse gas emissions chart shows Lexmark’s Scope 1 (Direct), Scope 2 (Indirect) and Scope 3 (Other) greenhouse gas emissions for the years 2005 through 2011 in metric tons of CO2 equivalents. Lexmark reduced its total greenhouse gas emissions by 29 percent from 2005 to 2011. This reduction exceeds Lexmark's voluntary goal for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. While there was an overall decrease in greenhouse gas emissions, there was an increase in Scope 1 emissions due to the use of diesel-fueled emergency generators after a weather related electrical outage at a site in the Philippines. In the past year, Lexmark has acquired several companies. The acquisition of these companies impacted our total greenhouse gas emissions. TOTAL ENERGY USAGE Lexmark headquarters in Lexington, Kentucky has been the subject of multi-year energy conservation projects including Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system upgrades and a facility reduction of 44,026 m2 with additional site size reductions planned for 2012. This site has also been the subject of an extensive employee education campaign that focused on teaching employees about energy wasting habits such as the use of space heaters, personal refrigerators and personal printers. The campaign encouraged employees to use more energy-efficient practices to meet their needs. Similar energy conservation projects have taken place at Lexmark facilities in the Philippines, including the installation of high-efficiency chillers. Facilities Energy Management Team – Lexmark International Philippines, Inc. (LIPI) Facilities Department has created an energy management team which will conduct an energy audit to identify energy savings opportunities and waste minimization. Saturday and Sunday Reduced Production – In an effort to reduce energy consumption, LIPI reduced production volumes on weekends. Clean Dry Air (CDA) and Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning-related power consumption is reduced 10-15 percent on Sundays and five percent on Saturdays. Water consumption is also reduced on Saturdays and Sundays. The Total Energy chart shows Lexmark’s total annual energy consumption. By the end of 2011, Lexmark reduced its total annual energy consumption by 16 percent compared to baseline year 2007. A portion of this savings is attributable to Lexmark’s ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency of operations at our facilities worldwide. DIRECT ENERGY USAGE Lexmark operations make use of several direct energy sources in its operations (the driver of Lexmark's Scope 1 emissions), specifically natural gas, fuel oil and diesel. These non-renewable energy sources are purchased from local vendors then used to generate steam, power backup generators and provide heat at Lexmark facilities. Lexmark does not currently use direct renewable energy sources such as biofuels (i.e. ethanol) or hydrogen. Lexmark does not produce renewable or non-renewable primary energy sources for internal use or for external markets. Lexmark’s direct energy consumption decreased by eight percent between 2007 and 2011, as shown in the Direct Energy chart. No direct energy renewables were used by Lexmark in 2011. Total direct energy consumption by non-renewable primary sources is shown in the table below. NON-RENEWABLE FUELS MWH GIGAJOULE Natural Gas 86153 310150.8 Diesel/Gas Oil 1632 5875.2 Distillate Fuel Oil No. 5 8 28.8 Propane 329 1184.4 Renewable MWh Gigajoule Biofuel 0 0 Hydrogen 0 0 INDIRECT ENERGY USAGE Lexmark operations make use of only one indirect energy source (the driver of Lexmark's Scope 2 emissions): electricity. The electricity used at Lexmark facilities is primarily purchased from local energy providers and pulled from the local grids. The electricity supplied by local power companies is generated using a variety of non-renewable and renewable primary energy sources including coal, nuclear energy, solar power, wind power, geothermal energy and hydro energy. The Indirect Energy chart shows Lexmark’s total indirect energy (electricity) consumption for the years 2005 through 2011. Lexmark’s use of indirect energy decreased by 20 percent from 2005 to 2011. This decrease is a result of more energy efficient operations, reductions in facility space and reductions in production. OTHER ENERGY CONSUMPTION TRAVEL RELATED ENERGY CONSUMPTION Lexmark’s efforts to reduce energy consumption expand beyond the walls of our facilities. As with most companies, business needs frequently require that some Lexmark employees travel for faceto-face meetings with customers, partners and coworkers, many of whom are separated by significant distances (the driver of Lexmark's Scope 3 emissions). We always encourage the use of lowerimpact, real-time alternatives such as conference calls, Web-based meetings and videoconferencing. Integrating high-tech solutions not only saves energy, but also increases the frequency and quality of our communications. When air travel is necessary, Lexmark sends only those employees who are absolutely essential to accomplish business objectives. Whenever possible, employees are encouraged to optimize their travel itineraries by combining several business trips and using public transportation such as trains and buses instead of taxis and rental cars. Lexmark, in collaboration with our vehicle provider, tracks miles traveled using Lexmark owned, leased and rented vehicles in the U.S. and Europe. In collaboration with our travel agency, we track air travel worldwide. Distance traveled has decreased by 20 percent since 2005. The increase against 2009 is due to the addition of Perceptive Software, Cebu and China vehicle travel and improved business conditions. While Lexmark does not track distances related to our employees’ daily commutes, we do have work-at-home programs in place that are aimed at reducing the environmental impact of commuting and improving work-life balance for our employees. For example, the Lexmark Competence Center in Budapest, Hungary offers employees options for environmentally preferred commuting. The facility has bike racks and showers for employees who pedal to work and offers those who prefer public transportation, discounted monthly or yearly fares. Lexmark employees who work at the company's Lexington facility have a new opportunity to help reduce pollution due to a public transit bus stop being added in the parking lot. PRODUCT TRANSPORTATION Transporting our products is part of our business. We rely on transportation every day to deliver our products to customers around the world. While there is no avoiding the necessity to transport goods, we have measures in place to decrease the adverse environmental impacts associated with these activities. Lexmark works with environmentally progressive partners who apply innovative ideas and best practices to their transportation processes such as the use of diesel hybrid trucks or the use of rapidly renewable biofuels. In September 2008, Lexmark joined the U.S. EPA SmartWay Transport Partnership and exceeded the program’s requirement for the amount of allowable freight to be shipped using SmartWay carriers. SmartWay is a collaborative program between the U.S. EPA and the freight industry designed to increase the use of energy efficient vehicles and includes impressive goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and lower air pollution emissions. In an effort to help curb climate change, Lexmark pledged to continuously minimize the environmental impact of its product shipments throughout the U.S. It is with great pride that we continue our efforts to shrink our carbon footprint by reducing the energy consumption and emissions associated with transportation. Other measures we take to promote more efficient transportation include the following: Cube Utilization – Maximizing the use and capacity of containers for the transport of our products is an effective practice we have adopted to handle more cubic feet of freight per container shipment. Direct Ship Model – In the direct ship model, our goal is to reduce the total mileage our products travel by utilizing direct ship and direct import models. Delivery service providers move freight directly from the port to the customer’s destination, which ultimately eliminates warehousing en route. Similarly, in the direct import model, ocean carriers pick up customer-directed products at key supplier points and transport the goods directly to the ultimate consignee, eliminating inland cargo moves that increase energy usage and air emissions. Intermodal Freight Transportation – Lexmark is expanding the use of intermodal freight transportation, an approach that optimizes the transportation of freight per vehicle by using multiple modes of transportation, such as ocean, rail, air, inland water and road. Also referred to as multimodal, this approach reduces the miles a container travels as well as the number of times a product is handled during shipment, which saves time, money and fuel. SUPPLIER LOCATIONS In the interest of efficiency, cost effectiveness and environmental benefits, Lexmark engineers are encouraged to select suppliers that are close to the location where their products will be shipped (such as to a manufacturing location) when possible. The use of locally 2 based suppliers is both environmentally and financially preferable, resulting in reductions in transportation impact and cost. REGULATED AIR EMISSIONS Lexmark is committed to the Montreal Protocol, an 2011 AIR EMISSIONS UNIT: TONS PER YEAR international treaty aimed at reducing the use of ozone-depleting chemicals. Lexmark prohibits the Lexington Boulder Cebu Juárez use of such chemicals in the manufacture and development of its products. The Company does Methane 0.16 – 0 NR use some ozone-depleting chemicals, specifically refrigerants for HVAC systems that cool our Volatile facilities. Lexmark cannot eliminate the use of Organic refrigerants at this time since all HVAC systems Compounds 0.44 6.06 0.001 23.6 require the direct or indirect use of refrigerants. (non Reported refrigerant emissions in 2011 resulted in methane) an ozone depletion potential of 18 pounds of CFC11 equivalent and we are taking steps to minimize SOx 0.12 0 0.03 0.25 their usage. Lexmark monitors HVAC systems for leaks using stand-alone system sensors. We also NOx 7.75 0 0.14 2.29 choose to purchase chillers that use environmentally preferable refrigerants. For CO 2 8,342 13,908 127.13 3,087 example, in 2008, Lexmark installed chillers that use refrigerant R-134a, a hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) Particulate 0.59 0.07 0.02 0.28 refrigerant, replacing previous chillers using R-11, Matter(PM10) a clorofluorocarbon (CFC) refrigerant. (CFC Hazardous refrigerants have the highest Ozone Depletion 0.12 0.45 NA NA Air Pollutant Potential [ODP]. The refrigerant used in the new chiller has an ODP of zero.) As an added benefit, Toxic these new chillers have variable frequency drives, Release NA 1.9 NA NA enabling less electrical demand at part load than Inventory previous chillers without frequency drives. 1. Emissions Scope Canada, China, France, Hungary, India, US, Mexico, Geneva 2. The definition of local varies depending upon the availability of services. In some cases, local is considered 'in country' and in other cases, local is considered 'in geographic' (geographic = Europe, Middle East and Africa; North America; Asia Pacific; Australia, New Zealand; Latin America) LEXMARK@WORK ITALY Lexmark Italy’s new Lexmark@Work headquarters, opened in Milan in 2010. This facility is designed to have minimal impact on the environment and encourage the exchange of information and the generation of new ideas. It was built using environmentally sustainable materials such as flooring that is free from heavy metals, halogens and other hazardous substances and made of recyclable materials. Its walls are made from recycled glass and its furniture from Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified woods and recycled materials. This facility is also energy efficient, utilizing an occupancy sensor system and energy-efficient, light-emitting, diode (LED) lighting. LIFEGATE LEXMARK PARTNERSHIP WITH LIFEGATE Lexmark has participated in “Impatto Zero”, an environmental project promoted by LifeGate, since 2004. LifeGate has been called the Italian version of the Kyoto protocol, with its specific mission of reducing carbon emissions and its general approach of promoting awareness of the environment. Through this program, Lexmark has participated in the replanting and the preservation of green areas in Costa Rica and Italy, resulting in 500 tons of carbon emission savings over three years. Lexmark’s collaboration with LifeGate continues through the LifeGate Energy project, that encourages the use of renewable energy. Through this program, LifeGate supplies Lexmark Italy with clean energy. NET-ZERO AND POSITIVE ENERGY BUILDINGS In 2009, Lexmark France joined a new consortium, launched by Bouygues Immoblier, a leading French office building promoter. These corporations, all experts in their own industries, worked holistically to help field a positive energy green office building. This positive energy building, which will produce more energy than it will consume, opened in 2010 on the outskirts of Paris. The consortium called GIE or “Enjeu Energie Positive” focuses on carbon footprint reduction, energy efficiency and integrated building operations to achieve a net positive energy building. Nine partner companies – Bouygues Immobilier, Intel, Lexmark, Schneider Electric, Siemens, Philips, Tandberg, Sodexo, Steelcase – are jointly developing programs to decrease the energy consumption of the green office building program and to increase the capacity of such buildings to produce renewable energy. Printing is a critical element of the green office because non-optimized printing processes can result in significant amounts of waste. Chosen for its “Print Less, Save More” solutions, Lexmark is helping refine environmentally beneficial printing solutions in green office buildings. Lexmark will also participate in specific innovative research programs, including a joint project with Intel to monitor and personalize the energy consumption within the modern office. The objective is to reduce the energy consumption by two-thirds, by monitoring and setting personal energy goals for printing, PC use, and other electrical plug-loads in the office. Using a prototype application from Intel Labs, Lexmark France has introduced in its own offices a visually compelling personal energy tool for office workers and building managers. The tool provides each office worker a graphical garden on their PC representing energy consumed by PC, printer, lighting and ambient conditions. This allows employees to set and monitor personal energy goals, and compare themselves with colleagues, building a social discussion around energy goals. They can also express their level of personal comfort back to the building manager. Intel is providing the PC-embedded sensor data ‘fusion’ mechanism that drives the personal garden graphics on each user’s PC as well as a centralized management console with finer-grained insight for Building Energy Managers, while Lexmark is providing the ability for shared printers to feed personal paper and energy consumption back to the console, as well as report to all end users on shared Multi-Function-Printer touchscreens the total building consumption. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ISO 14001 is a voluntary standard that guides organizations by providing a framework for environmental management for their businesses. It provides a framework for environmental management. Lexmark owned and ISO 14001 CERTIFICATES leased manufacturing facilities in Boulder, Colorado, Cebu, Philippines and Juárez, Mexico, have received ISO Boulder, Colorado Certificate 14001 certification. Lexmark’s Lexington, Kentucky facility in the U.S. also holds ISO 14001 certification. Lexmark Budapest, Hungary Certificate spends up to $10,000 per facility with external consultants for site-specific services such as environmental testing Cebu, Philippines Certificate and over $100,000 for corporate services such as legislative tracking and MSDS management. Juárez, Mexico Certificate Lapu-Lapu, Philippines Certificate Each Lexmark facility sets site-specific goals for continually improving its performance within this important Lexington, Kentucky Certificate management system. Environmental goals include reducing energy usage, improving water conservation, generating less waste and improving emergency preparedness and response planning. Emergency response teams are established for each major manufacturing and development facility to support these efforts. VIEW OHSAS CERTIFICATES The fact that Lexmark has received only one fine in the past six years–a $1500.00 levy for an administrative, CLICK HERE. environmental non-compliance–is testimony to the effectiveness of our environmental management system. We will remain steadfast in our diligence and efforts. WATER MANAGEMENT LEXMARK’S COMMITMENT TO WATER CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION LEXMARK'S GOALS LEXMARK'S PROGRESS Reduce water usage 20 percent (2005-2017) Achieved a 39-percent reduction in water usage versus baseline year 2005 Complete Lexmark's six-point water conservation plan by the end of 2017 Exceeded our goal of reducing water usage by 20 percent by 2017 WATER USAGE The manufacturing and research and development operations that take place at Lexmark-owned and leased facilities have a substantial impact on the company’s water consumption. This usage varies somewhat with product demand, but is relatively stable. Lexmark uses water for three purposes: manufacturing and development, sanitation and HVAC. Lexmark water usage is also driven by the need to control temperature. As external temperatures rise, we use more water in our HVAC systems to cool our facilities. We cannot control the underlying primary variable in our cooling-driven water usage – external temperature. We must therefore aggressively monitor, control and reduce water usage where opportunities exist. Lexmark has undertaken numerous initiatives at facilities worldwide to reduce consumption of water including installing more efficient HVAC systems and improving the efficiency of existing HVAC systems, installing low-flow plumbing fixtures, desert-scaping (sometimes referred to as xeriscaping) and reusing process water in manufacturing facilities. By the end of 2012, Lexmark plans to have recently spent nearly $2 million upgrading Lexington headquarters underground city water piping systems to reduce leakage and improve reliability. We have made a commitment to track and reduce the consumption of natural resources at all our leased manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities and office spaces worldwide. Lexmark has established the following corporate goals to guide our water conservation efforts. View High Resolution Lexmark total water usage (as purchased from local utility providers) is shown in the Total Water Usage chart. We have achieved a 39 percent reduction in water usage versus baseline year 2005. This exceeds our goal of reducing water usage by 20 percent by 2017. This year's reduction can be attributed to milder summers in North America and improved control of cooling tower chemistry, which in the first year alone resulted in a 28 percent reduction in blow down at headquarters. Also aiding in the reduction was the finding and repairing of underground leaks and an increased reuse of water in Cebu, where there was a significantly large increase in recovered water at LIPI between 2010 and 2011 and an even larger decrease in reported total water use for the same period. Some of this usage reduction can be attributed to the reuse of water. Lexmark reuses water in our manufacturing facility in Lapu-Lapu City, Philippines and in Boulder, Colorado. Our facility in Lapu-Lapu City collects used water and condensate from the air conditioning system in a non-potable water cistern. This water is later used for flushing toilets and for irrigation. The Lapu-Lapu City facility reused 17,110 m3 of water in 2011. Similar reuse takes place in Boulder. That facility collected and reused 15,142 m3 of water in 2011. Reused water accounts for nearly five percent of Lexmark's total water use, not including unmetered rain water. WATER CONSERVATION PLAN Unpredictable temperatures and fluctuations in production result in positive and negative changes in Lexmark's water usage. To help control this, Lexmark implemented a six-point water conservation plan in 2009. This plan will help us achieve more significant, controllable and sustained reductions in water usage going forward. Increased water use in 2010 versus 2009 resulted from an abnormally hot U.S. summer, the economic recovery driving increased production and the increased scope of reporting to include China and Perceptive Software. Lexmark’s Six Point Water Conservation Plan Point Goal Projects 2011 Progress Reduce Install low-flow plumbing fixtures in all new Consumption construction and replace outdated plumbing Aged existing plumbing fixtures were replaced by sensor operated and low 1 (Intentional fixtures with low-flow plumbing fixtures during flow fixtures at Headquarters in 2010 and 2011. use of water) remodels/repairs Reduce Lexmark, in partnership with GE Water and Process Technologies, cooling Consumption Upgrade water consuming facilities equipment tower water controls improved control of cooling tower chemistry, resulting in 2 (Intentional to improve water usage efficiency fewer purges and a 28% reduction in the amount of water lost to use of water) purges/blow downs. Reduce Losses In the first quarter of 2011, a significant leak in an underground main and 3 Reduce losses due to leaks from main pipes (Accidental several other smaller leaks were identified and repaired. use of water) Reduce Losses In the first quarter of 2011, a significant leak in an underground main and 4 Reduce losses due to plumbing leaks (Accidental several other smaller leaks were identified and repaired. use of water) Lexmark has made special efforts through Lexmark's internal web site and Complete at least one employee education signage posted throughout our facilities to educate internal facilities team 5 Education communication on water conservation per members and facilities contractors about water conservation appropriate to geography per year their jobs. Designated employee at each facility to keep Lexmark personnel at each manufacturing facility have been assigned this 6 Education abreast of new water conservation opportunities responsibility. and technology WATER WITHDRAWS AND DISCHARGES Where our water comes from and where it goes is of great importance to Lexmark. We understand that access to clean, abundant and affordable water is a critical issue of environmental justice. We also understand that our commitment to responsible use of our water resources and protection of local watersheds helps to ensure that our neighbors have access to clean, abundant and affordable water. Most Lexmark facilities withdraw water exclusively from municipal water supplies and other water utilities. A limited amount of rainwater (unmetered) is collected and used by some Lexmark facilities. Lexmark Facility Utility Provider Original Source(s) of Water* Lexington, Kentucky, United States Kentucky American Water Kentucky River, Jacobson Reservoir and Lake Ellerslie (Headquarters) Boulder, Colorado, United States City of Boulder Utilities Barker Reservoir, Lakewood Reservoir, Boulder Reservoir and Carter (Manufacturing) Division Lake via the Boulder Feeder Canal Junta Municipal de Agua Juárez, Chihuahua, México (Manufacturing) Hueco Bolson, underground aquifer Saneamiento de Juárez Cebu, Philippines (Research and The Buhisan Dam and 113 deep wells and the diversion weir in Barangay Metropolitan Cebu Water Development) / Lapu-Lapu City, Philippines Jaclupan, Talisay City and rainwater collection system for non-potable District (MCWD) (Manufacturing) use Shawnee, Kansas (Perceptive Headquarters Water One The Missouri River and Kansas River and wells along the Kansas River and Hedge Lane) Multiple sources, but water from the Danube River (from wells located Budapest, Hungary Fövárosi Vízmüvek near the river) dominates the supply La Lyonnaise Des Eaux, Val de Five storage tanks throughout the city Orleans Plaza, France loire Syndicat Des Eaux Des Boigny, France Usages, Mairie De Vennecy Nine drilled wells located around Orleans 45760 Shenzhen, China Shenzhen Water Company Pearl River the biggest river in south China *To our knowledge, none of these bodies of water are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function or status as a rare, threatened or endangered system and none support a particular endangered species of plant or animal or are considered a nationally or internationally proclaimed conservation area. And none of these water sources are significantly affected by Lexmark water withdrawal. View High Resolution PLANNED DISCHARGES Waste water from Lexmark operations is primarily discharged to local utility systems for treatment. Lexmark discharges some water directly to nearby bodies of water in accordance with local laws and regulations. These discharges have had positive impacts. For example, Lexmark occasionally discharges environmentally neutral water to the Cane Run Creek that flows through Lexmark’s property in Lexington, Kentucky. The wildlife that depends on the Cane Run Creek, an impaired surface stream creek that is particularly vulnerable in times of drought, benefits from the occasional addition of water that allows fish, birds and other wildlife to survive during times when the water level in the creek would otherwise be detrimentally low. Annual water discharges are assumed to be equivalent to total water consumption. All water discharges, whether planned or unplanned, destined for the local utility or nearby bodies of water, are closely monitored by site facilities and environmental teams that test for water quality. UNPLANNED DISCHARGES In an effort to prevent negative impacts on the environment, Lexmark has established site-specific, pollution-prevention plans that encompass compliance with applicable environmental regulations, outline Lexmark’s proactive pollution-prevention efforts and specifically address spill prevention, hazardous-waste management, recycling and water quality. These plans cover multiple pollution routes including discharges to ground, air and water. They cover all Lexmark owned manufacturing and research and development facilities worldwide. Lexmark reported no significant spills in our 2011 financial statement. In an effort to continually improve our processes, we record and investigate all spills, regardless of size or impact, as directed by site ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and other corrective and preventative action programs. For 2011 compared to 2010, Lexmark reduced its total water spend by 0.82 percent (the overall spend at non-US facilities increased in 2011) with some sites reducing spend by as much as 29 percent. Due to water conservation efforts in Lexington, water spend year-to-year was reduced by 12 percent. The spend at Lexmark's manufacturing facility in the Philippines was reduced by 26 percent. In Lexington in 2011 about $20,000 was spent to fix a major underground leak and to replace some defective isolation valves. Another $50,000 was spent to purchase ultrasonic leak-monitoring Permalog devices now being deployed. About $800,000 was spent to reduce water losses from the high-pressure, pumped firewater loop. A secondary city water main was run to provide redundancy to the existing main as required by the property insurers. A follow-up program to remove the main fire pumps and water tanks south of New Circle is planned and includes removal/rehabilitation of aged domestic water lines. 1. Emissions Scope Canada, China, France, Hungary, India, US, Mexico, Geneva LAND AND BIODIVERSITY Lexmark owns or leases facilities used for manufacturing or research and development in the United Sates, Mexico and the Philippines. Though Lexmark does not operate in areas that are known to be protected or home GAGEL AWARD to IUCN Red List species and has no future plans to operate in these areas, we take care to ensure that all The Kentucky operations do no harm to the local environment. Environmental Quality Lexmark is particularly sensitive to the need for care with operations in the Philippines. Many organizations Commission recognize the entire country as an area of high biodiversity. Lexmark owns two facilities in the Philippines. The presented its Lexmark Research and Development Corporation (LRDC) located in Cebu, Philippines, is a 30,817 m2 research annual 2012 and development operation. Lexmark International Philippines, Inc. (LIPI), located in Lapu-Lapu City, Philippines, Earth Day is a 33,817 m2 manufacturing facility. Lexmark employees in the Philippines work diligently to restore nearby award to Lexmark's John Gagel. habitats, focusing on reforestation and watershed protection. Lexmark employees in Cebu, Philippines, continued Read More their efforts with the Buhisan Watershed Project, a habitat protection and rehabilitation program that was implemented in 2008. Lexmark’s effort to participate in the Save the Buhisan Watershed activity with the help of Philippine Business for Social Progress (PBSP), a non-government organization, helps to ensure safe drinking water supply for Cebu and promotes diversity by planting indigenous trees. Lexmark also participated in the TREES FOR TRACKS reforestation of two hectares of the protected zone. CSX's Trees for Tracks program recently brought together 170 volunteers from Lexmark, CSX and the Lexington community as a whole to plant trees. Read More Save the Buhisan Mangrove reforestation Tree planting in Cebu Buhisan Watershed Watershed Project Forum The use of Lexmark products requires paper, the manufacture of which has impacts on the environment, specifically natural resource consumption (trees) and use of water. To give back or undo our impact, many of Lexmark’s community engagement efforts are focused on reforestation and watershed protection. Here are a few examples. BUHISAN WATERSHED DONOR'S RECOGNITION DAY In March 2011, officials and employees of Lexmark Research and Development Corporation (LRDC) and Lexmark International Philippines Inc. (LIPI) attended the Save the Buhisan Watershed Project Donor's Recognition and Forum at the MCWD facility in the Buhisan Watershed and Forest Reserve. The Save the Buhisan Watershed Project was organized by partners from the public and private sectors and aims to sustain the Buhisan Watershed through alliances of eco-friendly businesses and environmental rehabilitation initiatives like reforestation. The event was our opportunity to acknowledge the institutions that have made our success in the Buhisan Watershed possible. This affair showcased the different projects we have implemented in Buhisan, which are sustainable and replicable examples of corporate social responsibility initiatives. The Save the Buhisan Watershed Project was launched as part of Cebu’s environmental response to the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals. During the last three years, we worked with some 20 partners and donors and collectively mobilized 5.6 million Philippine pesos to support various projects. The Blessing and Inauguration of the Nature Center was funded by LIPI and LRDC and was followed by a walk through the Buhisan Reservoir. TREE PLANTING With the aim of having a sustainable water resource available for Cebu, where LIPI and LRDC have facilities, a Buhisan Watershed and Forest Reserve enhancement planting activity was conducted. Employees from different department areas of LIPI and LRDC participated in this activity and they were able to plant over 3000 seedlings of native trees. Lexmark employees in the Philippines have sponsored annual mangrove reforestation activities since 2002. NATURE CONSERVANCY TREE PLANTING It took approximately 25 million pieces of paper to do necessary testing before launching our new OfficeEdge Series of business inkjet MFPs. To replace 25 million pieces of paper, we would need to re-plant approximately 3,000 trees. We are working with the Nature Conservancy to replant 6,000 trees in a nature preserve in Garrard County so that we will more than offset the impact. LEXMARK SUPPORTS LAND AND BIODIVERSITY THROUGH OUR CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT, BELOW ARE A FEW EXAMPLES: REFOREST THE BLUEGRASS The 12th annual Reforest the Bluegrass event, co-sponsored by Lexmark, was held at Liberty Park in Lexington. Lexmark volunteers helped to replace trees that have been lost to disease and storm damage. Over the years, our employees have volunteered and contributed to the planting of more than 200,000 tree seedlings. CANE RUN CLEANUP Again, in 2011, Lexmark volunteers helped collect trash along the banks of Cane Run Creek in Lexington. In addition, our employee-volunteers helped haul away invasive and undesirable honeysuckle. Lexmark employees and families at Cane Run Creek Cane Run Creek Trees for Tracks Reforest the clean-up clean-up Bluegrass To see more examples of Employee Engagement Visit Here TREES FOR TRACKS CSX Corporation is a valued Lexmark customer and a partner in sustainability. Its Trees for Tracks program recently brought together 170 volunteers from Lexmark, CSX and the Lexington community to plant trees along the Legacy Trail in Fayette County. The program aims to plant one tree for every mile of the 21,000 miles of train track across the CSX network. The company intends to plant more trees than it must remove in order to keep train tracks safe for passage. The goal in Lexington was to plant about 400 trees. In the end, the volunteers spent a cold November morning planting more than 600 trees in Lexmark’s Shadybrook Park. For more information on the Legacy Trail please visit here. WASTE MANAGEMENT Lexmark is committed to disposing of waste generated by our facilities in a responsible manner. The Company’s waste generation and disposal figures over the past several years are indicative of the level of progress we have made toward our waste reduction goals. LEXMARK'S GOALS LEXMARK'S PROGRESS Lexmark established three long-term, waste-management goals for While there is still much work to do, Lexmark has made significant the corporation. progress toward achievement of these goals. Achieve a 20 percent reduction in waste generated (2007-2017) Lexmark Lexington has already exceeded its quantitative waste goal by reducing hazardous waste by 61 percent since 2009. Achieve a 25 percent improvement in the amount of waste that Further reductions are ongoing. our plants currently recycle (2007-2011) Lexmark achieved a 24 percent improvement in the amount of Achieve a 30 percent increase in hardware collection and waste that our plants currently recycle from 2007 to 2011, just shy recycling by 2014 as compared to baseline year 2007 per unit of our 25 percent goal. sales Lexmark is moving toward its goal of 30 percent increase in GEOGRAPHIC hardware collection. From 2010 to 2011 Lexmark increased its hardware collection rate by 48 percent putting Lexmark back on Expand coverage of the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program track to achieve its goal by 2014. Expanded coverage of electronic recycling programs in Canada increased Lexmark’s hardware collection rate by 50 percent in 2011. WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING PROGRAMS BUSINESS WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING PROGRAMS Lexmark has established business waste-management and recycling programs at its facilities worldwide. For example, Lexmark headquarters in Lexington, Kentucky, has established programs to collect and recycle a variety of materials including construction waste, cafeteria waste, electronic waste (such as end-of-life computers and telephones), aluminum cans, batteries, cardboard, office paper, glass bottles, metal scraps from our tool rooms, plastic bottles, florescent light bulbs and cell phones. Several of these waste streams are recycled in unique ways. Carpet recovered during remodeling efforts and scraps from new construction projects are recycled in a closed loop process. The carpeting and backing are separated, processed and then made into new carpeting. Cafeteria waste from the food preparation process is composted, and eventually fertilizes gardens throughout the city of Lexington, Kentucky. Office papers from Lexmark offices are recycled into bathroom tissue and paper towels. The table/graph below shows the progress Lexmark has made over the past five years in the collection and recycling of business waste. WE ARE PROUD OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS IN BOULDER COLORADO: Reuse of plastic trays with Flortum for drum packaging. A worldwide project that avoided 103 metric tons of waste this year Recovery and reuse of 2.7 million PC Drums (84 percent from Juárez and 16 percent from Boulder). That represents 333 metric tons of waste recovered. Reclaiming and reusing waste solvent to be used in our photoconductor manufacturing process. Composting food waste and paper towels. Sending out our scrap wooden pallets to be reused. Scrap paper, glass, plastic and cardboard is recycled instead of sending it to landfill. Scrap aluminum and metal is reclaimed to be used again. Much of our liquid and solid wastes that have some BTU value are sent out as a fuel substitute. Lexmark Boulder continues to reduce its non-renewable energy demand by purchasing 1,000,0000 KWH’s of wind energy and implementing energy reduction initiatives LEXMARK’S FACILITIES IN JUÁREZ MEXICO HAVE HAD MANY SUSTAINABILITY SUCCESS STORIES IN 2011: Since September 2011, an average of 12,700 kg/month of developer roll scrap has been recycled. Hazardous Waste generation was reduced significantly in this plant by buying smaller rags and using markers with alcohol instead of rags with alcohol. Implementation of a battery recycling program for Campus employees and contractors. Employees and contractors are allowed to bring their spent batteries for recycling. $500,000 has been invested to upgrade the water treatment plant. Addition of flocculation and coagulation process and a filter press. With this improvement we will recover more water for the process and we will reduce the sludge generation. With a five-time reuse program for the ink mix drums we avoid the purchasing of 426 drums and their disposition. Reduce the generation of non-hazardous waste by 44 percent, most of the non-hazardous waste reduction was with direct projects in the operations (cartoners, baggers, etc.) The Laser Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP) in Juárez Mexico is housed in a Gold LEED certified building. The program is designed to insure that a large percentage of laser cartridges are returned to Lexmark for reuse and recycling. The program generates: 1439 metric tons of Cartridges and parts for remanufacture 3419 metric tons of cartridges, parts and toner for recycling 197 metric tons of Plastic HIPs for recycling into new cartridge parts 1913 metric tons of recyclable cardboard 543 metric tons of other recyclable material (Plastic, Aluminum, Wood, Metals) Lexmark has additional programs in place to recycle packaging. For example, Lexmark has established a Gaylord reuse program with its primary electronic waste recycling partner. Additionally, wooden pallets are sent for reuse and recycling (damaged pallets are chipped and used as mulch) and certain types of Styrofoam are sent to an extruder for reuse. In Lexington, many of the surrounding counties that employees live in do not provide curb side recycling services for recyclables out of the home. Therefore, Lexmark has partnered with the Lexington Fayette Urban County Government to collect those recyclables on site. A large recyclable bin is available for employees to drop off items such as newspapers, plastics, glass bottles, cardboard, and aluminum cans. An estimated 225 tons of recyclables has been processed through this program since inception in 2007. LCCP LEED Certified Building DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT AND RECYCLING The development, quality testing and manufacturing of Lexmark’s imaging devices can result in the generation of unique waste streams including chemical waste (from ink, toner and component development and manufacture), paper waste (from print testing) and printers and other electronic components (from performance and quality testing). Chemical waste is primarily processed in an energy recovery facility which generates electricity while processing the chemical waste. A portion of the toner chemical waste is processed by a company that uses the toner as a colorant in plastics. Toner waste is also used as an additive to concrete. Paper from print testing is recycled into bathroom tissue and paper towels. WASTE GENERATION AND RECYCLING STATISTICS Lexmark generated a total of 18,316 metric tons of waste in 2011. Waste generation in 2011 was higher than 2010 as a result of increased production volumes of printer supplies. At our Lexington site, ongoing consolidation of our facilities generated additional waste in the form of recycled construction debris. This short term waste impact will provide long term benefits from reducted CO2. Lexmark expects this short term increase in waste to yield long term environmental benefits from ongoing projects to reduce waste and optimize process and facility operational efficiency. Hazardous waste accounts for approximately 10 percent of Lexmark’s total waste. The primary hazardous waste materials generated are residues from manufacturing and development processes. Hazardous waste that is generated in Lexmark’s research and development and manufacturing facilities is managed by external companies that specialize in the management of hazardous waste. WASTE RECYCLING Disposal methods for waste are determined through the collaborative efforts of Lexmark and its waste-management partners. Working together, we have identified new opportunities for recycling waste, reducing our usage of incineration and landfill while increasing usage of waste-to-energy recovery where other recycling options are unavailable. Since 2007, Lexmark has increased its waste recycling rate from 63 percent to 78 percent. Lexmark achieved a 24 percent improvement in the amount of waste that our plants currently recycle from 2007 to 2011, just shy of our 25 percent goal. ELECTRONIC WASTE RECYCLING Lexmark offers its customers environmentally sound disposal choices for disposal of their end-of-life products. Electronic waste, including printers that have reached the end of their usable life, should be recycled by specialized firms whose processes ensure any data stored on those devices will not be compromised and that are committed to recycling those devices in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. Lexmark has partnered with recyclers that offer a broad range of services and processing capabilities, have a proven record of compliance with government mandated criteria for recycling facilities, are certified in the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard and are Certified by R2 or e-Stewards. Our recycling partners are audited regularly to ensure that they continue to maintain the high level of service and regulatory compliance that we expect of our recycling partners. The R2 Standard is a comprehensive global standard for e-recyclers on the market and requires responsible management of used computers and other electronics. EStewards is a rigorous, internationally compliant certification program that assures full conformance to a comprehensive suite of e-recycling best practices. Both R2 and eStewards are working to ensure the electronics recycling industry is environmentally sustainable. Lexmark’s primary recycling partner, Sims Recycling Solutions, the world’s largest electronics recycler, is R2 certified. Sims Recycling processed more than 5,500 metric tons of electronic waste on behalf of Lexmark in the United States, Canada and Europe in 2011. Lexmark also partners with GES, offering solutions for customers that prefer e-Stewards. Global Environmental Services, with facilities in Georgetown, KY and Austin, TX, is the seventh largest electronics recycler in North America. Lexmark’s service organization works with our recycling partners to reclaim parts that can be used to refurbish printers keeping them in service longer, reducing the need to recycle used hardware. Devices that are returned to Lexmark go through a process that assesses if they can be refurbished for reuse and if not are harvested for parts that can be used in refurbishment. Lexmark has set a goal to achieve a 30 percent Sims Recycling Solutions Global Environmental Services (GES) increase in hardware collection and recycling by 2014 as compared to baseline year 2007. From 2010 to Lexmark currently offers standardized recycling programs in many countries and variable programs in other countries. 2011 Lexmark increased its hardware collection rate We expanded the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program in 2011 and plan to further expand it in 2012. by 48 percent putting Lexmark back on track to achieve its goal by 2014. UNITED STATES In the United States, we offer the Lexmark Equipment Collection Program. Customers can return their Lexmark-branded hardware products to Lexmark by whatever shipping method is most convenient for them and we will recycle the equipment for free. For business customers that are in the process of installing a large fleet of new Lexmark products, Lexmark develops customized collection strategies. We work in partnership with certified electronics disposal agencies to collect the customer’s used devices, mark them for recycling and arrange for them to be sent to the nearest recycling facility. Over the past four years, electronic waste legislation of one form or another has been proposed in a majority of states in the U.S. By the end of 2010, 11 states–Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, North Carolina, Vermont and Wisconsin–enacted extended producer responsibility (EPR) legislation that includes printers. While the details of the legislation vary greatly from state to state, the basic premise is that the producers of electronic devices are required to collect and responsibly recycle covered electronic devices (CEDs) at the end of the devices’ usable lives. CANADA Lexmark is a member of Electronic Product Stewardship Canada (EPSC), an organization dedicated to promoting and implementing sustainable solutions for end-of-life electronics. The Company participates in a number of government sponsored and industry supported recycling programs in Canada, that vary by province. Some provinces require electronic manufacturers to pay a fee that is used to recycle electronic equipment in those respective provinces. Alberta: Lexmark participates in the Alberta Recycling Management Authority (ARMA) program. This state run program has been in place since October 2004 and offers 260 collection sites for businesses and consumers. Saskatchewan: Lexmark participates in the Saskatchewan Waste Electronic Equipment Program (SWEEP) that launched in February 2007. SWEEP is the first industry led stewardship program in Canada and it offers over 70 recycling depot locations. British Columbia: Lexmark participates in the Electronic Stewardship Authority British Columbia (ESABC) recycling program, an industry led initiative begun in July 2010. Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island: Lexmark participates in the Atlantic Canada Electronic Stewardship (ACES) program. This program was begun in Nova Scotia in February 2008 and Prince Edward Island in July 2010. Ontario: Lexmark participates in the Ontario Electronic Stewardship (OES) program which was started April 2010. Manitoba: Lexmark participates in the Electronic Products Recycling Association (EPRA) Manitoba which will begin collection in August 2012. Recycling regulations are anticipated in Quebec, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Yukon in 2012-2013. EUROPE In many parts of Europe, our equipment take-back strategy is implemented through country-specific programs that are operated in accordance with the European Union Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) directive (2002/96/EC). Consumers in the European Union can take their equipment to locally authorized collection centers or, in some cases, to local retailers. For business customers in the European Union, Lexmark has established a fully compliant logistics system for transporting used products to the nearest storage and sorting facility, where the equipment is properly processed for recycling. ASIA PACIFIC AND LATIN AMERICA (AP/LA) A primary focus for Asia Pacific environmental work in 2011 has been preparation for the Australian national end-of-life Information Technology (IT) equipment and recycling program. This was formally announced by the Australian Federal government in November 2009 and had been anticipated for some time. Lexmark has been an active participant in this process for six years. The announcement indicated national legislation would come into place in 2010 and the scheme will formally commence in 2012. The scheme will be Australia-wide and underpinned by government regulation. All IT manufacturers and importers will be responsible for their shares of actual waste collected. Customers will return their end-of-life IT equipment to designated collection points from which the waste will be taken to central consolidation and collection points for recycling by accredited recycling operators. The pilot for this national plan has been the ‘Byteback’ program operated in the state of Victoria. Lexmark was a founding member of this operation which is a free (to the consumer) IT equipment take-back program. There are nine other founding IT industry members. Byteback has been in operation since 2007 and is collecting some 10,000 items per month. It has proven invaluable in collecting data on IT hardware recycling, understanding consumer behavior and has received very strong community support. Lexmark will continue its pioneering work in this area by actively contributing to the IT industry working groups now preparing for the forthcoming national legislation and the resulting commencement of the national take-back plan. The regions of Central and South America present many logistical challenges for recycling. Several countries and local governments, including Columbia and the Brazilian state of São Paulo, have recently enacted forms of Extended Producer Responsibility legislation. Lexmark is working closely with our recycling partner, Sims Recycling Solutions, to set up regional recycling centers to meet these new requirements LEXMARK ELECTRONIC WASTE RECYCLING Click here for more information on electronic waste recycling. DESIGNING PRODUCTS WITH THE ENVIRONMENT IN MIND The environmental performance of products has become a key issue for businesses, as society and consumers are increasingly concerned about the environmental impact of the products they use. Our Design for Environment efforts focus on minimizing the environmental impacts of our products in these essential areas. Product life cycle Product energy use Acoustics Product emissions Supplies Packaging Materials Environmental solutions LEXMARK PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIFICATION In 2011, Lexmark released an updated version of the Lexmark Product Environmental Specification. This publicly available specification defines the minimum environmental requirements for the design, manufacture and marketing of Lexmark parts and products. These requirements are based on global regulatory obligations, international treaties and conventions and certain market demands. The 2011 update reflects the latest worldwide regulations and directives including the REACH Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) directive in Europe and the recast of the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances (EU RoHS) directive. To support these efforts, Lexmark invested in and began implementing a new materials content data collection and management system. This system will optimize our ability to communicate with our suppliers regarding substances used in parts and assemblies they provide to Lexmark for use in our products. This system will also increase our ability to respond to customer inquiries on the presence of substances of concern in our products and to address regulatory issues regarding substances of concern. LEXMARK PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIFICATIONS LINKS Product Environmental Specifications are available here as pdfs. Environmental Specification (English) Click Here Environmental Specification (Simplified Chinese) Click Here Declaration of Conformity Click Here PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE SHEETS Additional information about product specific environmental features can be found on Product Environmental Profile Sheets. Current Product Environmental Profile Sheets Click Here PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE To clearly understand the environmental impact of our printers, CASE STUDY Lexmark examines each phase of a The LCA studies product's life, from manufacturing to provided a realistic, databased assessment of end-of-life, using a product Life tradeoffs in product Cycle Assessment (LCA). design, manufacturing, transportation, end life and the potential to We use the standardized LCA to make system-wide improvements. Lexmark analyze our products in accordance incorporates the LCA results into our product with the ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 design process to develop sustainable products that combine high standards of methods. We also commissioned performance, efficiency and environmental LCA studies on our laser and inkjet stewardship. products to third-party environmental Learn More companies. The LCA studies were performed in compliance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044, including an independent review. The study measured our products’ environmental impact on multiple indicators, in accordance with a methodology established in 2002 by the Institute of Environmental Sciences, Leiden University, in the Netherlands. Some of the environmental indicators measured include the following. Nonrenewable resource depletion (abiotic depletion) Nonrenewable primary energy Global warming and climate change (carbon footprint) Water footprint The LCA studies provided a realistic, data-based assessment of tradeoffs in product design, manufacturing, transportation, end-life and the potential to make system-wide improvements. Lexmark incorporates the LCA results into our product design process to develop sustainable products that combine high standards of performance, efficiency and environmental sensitivity. Lexmark commissioned LCAs for several of our products in 2011, including the Lexmark X544de laser MFP, and the Lexmark OfficeEdge Pro 5500 and Lexmark Genesis inkjet printers. The LCA for the Lexmark OfficeEdge Pro 5500 indicates that the main environmental carbon and water footprint results from the printer’s use phase; the 40 percent of the carbon footprint and 85 percent of the water footprint result from paper consumption during printing. The LCA for the Lexmark Genesis indicates that, like the OfficeEdge Pro5500, the main environmental carbon and water footprint results from the use phase; 16 percent of the carbon footprint and 67 percent of the water footprint result from paper consumption during printing. The 200 series cartridges for the new OfficeEdge printers announced in 2012, improve upon the environmental benefits seen with the introduction of the Lexmark Vizix inkjet technology. A life cycle assessment of the Vizix cartridges determined a 30 percent reduction in the carbon footprint compared to the previous integrated inkjet cartridges. The new 200 series cartridges provide an additional 50 percent carbon footprint reduction on a per-page basis. CASE STUDY LEXMARK X646DTE MFP Recently, a life cycle assessment was performed by an independent organization on the Lexmark X646dte MFP, one of the company’s best-selling products. Read More The LCA studies provided a realistic, data-based assessment of tradeoffs in product design, manufacturing, transportation, end life and the potential to make system-wide improvements. Lexmark incorporates the LCA results into our product design process to develop sustainable products that combine high standards of performance, efficiency and environmental stewardship. Lexmark commissioned LCAs for some of our recent products and cartridges in 2010, including the Lexmark X736de color laser MFP and the new generation of Vizix inkjet cartridges. The color laser printer assessment indicated the main environmental carbon and water footprint of the Lexmark X736de color laser MFP results from the use phase, with the majority of the impact (62 percent for carbon footprint and 85.4 percent for water footprint), attributed to the paper that is consumed during the printing phase. 1 Comparing the carbon and water footprint of the new generation of inkjet cartridges Vizix, with the previous integrated inkjet cartridges, the life cycle assessment determined a 30 percent reduction in the carbon footprint and a 60 percent reduction in the water footprint for Vizix inkjet cartridges.2 [1] Results are based on the LCA of the Lexmark X736de color laser MFP. This ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 compliant life cycle assessment was conducted by Bio Intelligence Services. [2] Results are based on the life cycle assessment of Vizix and integrated inkjet cartridges used to print 15,000 pages. This ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 compliant life cycle assessment was conducted by Bio Intelligence Services. * 23.8 seconds versus 180 seconds PRODUCT ENERGY USE The demand for products that consume less energy, and ultimately result in lower A CASE STUDY IN INNOVATION emissions, is ever increasing. Whether at Significant home or at work, our customers wish to product energy lower their impact on the environment reductions. while simultaneously reducing energy Read More costs. At Lexmark, we continually strive to update our products with innovative features that make them more energy efficient. For example, Lexmark’s C79x / X79x product family features a highspeed instant warm-up fuser as well as a dramatic reduction in ready mode power BLI PRODUCT ENERGY AWARD consumption and an 87-percent reduction in time to print from sleep1 Buyers versus earlier models of this product. Laboratory Inc. (BLI), the world’s leading Lexmark has also introduced a new machine power architecture that allows different parts of the machine to be independent turned off while in sleep mode, thereby reducing power consumption. Hibernate mode is a new, ultra-low mode tester of that helps reduce energy consumption when a product is not in use for extended periods of time. Users can document program their products to automatically enter and exit Hibernate mode at chosen times of day and days of the imaging products, awarded “Outstanding week. Achievement” honours to the most energyefficient models tested. PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL PROFILE SHEETS Additional information about product specific energy consumption can be found on Product Environmental Profile 2010 Outstanding Achievement Awards sheets. Lexmark X651de Read More Click here for current Product Environmental Profile Sheets. 2011 Outstanding Achievement Awards 1. 23.8 seconds versus 180 seconds Lexmark X792de Read More PRODUCT ACOUSTICS Acoustics is the science of sound and vibration. Designing products for the environment includes considering audio comfort in the workplace. Lexmark printers offer an ideal combination of performance and quiet operation to aid in increased worker comfort and thus productivity. Lexmark’s design teams assess our equipment acoustics and focus on reducing unwanted noise while selectively incorporating helpful sounds. Finding technical solutions to “noise pollution” requires creativity and innovation. All laser products announced since 2009 have been designed with a quiet mode feature that allows users to adjust the sound level of their printer to meet their personal preferences. Germany’s Blue Angel eco-label was one of the first to include noise levels in its certification criteria. Today, all of Lexmark’s laser printing products meet the noise requirement in the Blue Angel (RALUZ 122) specification. The Lexmark Acoustic-Energy Lab PRODUCT EMISSIONS Emissions from printers in the workplace are subject to the occupational exposure limits of individual countries for specific chemicals. Lexmark printers are tested throughout their development for emission of styrene, benzene, PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL ozone, total and individual volatile organic compounds, total and ultrafine particulate. PROFILE SHEETS Additional All laser printers emit small amounts of volatile organic compounds due to the heating of plastic parts and information produce small amounts of dust (mostly paper fragments) as a result of moving paper through the printer. about productspecific Current Lexmark laser printers do not generate more than trace amounts of ozone. The printing technology that emissions can resulted in significant ozone generation is no longer used. be found on Product All Lexmark printer families are tested for emissions following the protocols of the internationally recognized Environmental German Blue Angel environmental certification. Results are compared to the Blue Angel limits and summary Profile sheets. reports are available to customers upon request. For current Product Environmental Profile Sheets. Click here LEXMARK SUPPLIES LEXMARK CARTRIDGE COLLECTION PROGRAM: REDUCING WASTE TO LANDFILL The Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program continues to divert millions of Lexmark toner and inkjet cartridges from landfills annually by enabling our customers to return used print cartridges to Lexmark free of charge for reuse or recycling. Customers can return individual toner cartridges simply by placing the used cartridge in the new cartridge box and applying the pre-paid label provided for shipment. Other methods of return for toner cartridges include bulk returns or container pick-up service for large-volume customers (availability varies by country). For inkjet cartridge returns, customers can request free recycling bags from Lexmark’s easy-to-use Web site, in addition to other country-specific inkjet cartridge collection methods. Currently, our collection programs are available in more than 60 countries, which represent approximately 90 percent of our global market. Our extensive cartridge collection network has made Lexmark an industry leader in the recovery, remanufacturing and recycling of empty toner cartridges, and the number of empty cartridges we collect and process continues to be impressive. In 2011, our customers returned to Lexmark for appropriate end-of-life management approximately one out of every three toner cartridges shipped. In some regions, the Lexmark return rate is even higher. In the U.S., for example, the number of toner cartridges returned has continued to average between 40 and 50 percent of shipments over the past several years. We believe that industry average collection rates are between 20 and 30 percent. The percentage of inkjet cartridges Lexmark collects has also grown steadily. Lexmark began collecting and recycling inkjet cartridges in 2004 and by 2011 we achieved nearly 700 percent growth. Lexmark inkjet cartridges are now collected in virtually every country where Lexmark printers are sold. We credit these achievements to our customers’ exceptional environmental commitment, along with creative incentives that make it easy to do the right thing for the planet, such as: C540/X540 Series Rewards Program: This unique environmental program for our new C540/X540 series color laser printers rewards customers for recycling their used toner cartridges with Lexmark. Customers can earn free High Yield toner and Imaging Kits for returning their empty cartridges to Lexmark for recycling or reuse. Lexmark Return Program cartridges, offered for many of our most popular printer models. These toner and inkjet cartridges are sold at discounted prices in exchange for agreeing to return the empty cartridges only to Lexmark for remanufacturing, reuse or recycling. High-profile recycling campaigns and partnerships with leading global recyclers, such as Cartridges 4 Planet Ark and Close The Loop. In Australia, Lexmark teams with Planet Ark to provide collection boxes in convenient locations such as office buildings, stores and postal offices. The cartridges are then recycled by Close the Loop, which ensures that 100 percent of the materials are recycled into other uses. In Singapore, Lexmark participates in the Project Homecoming initiative supported by the National Environmental Agency (NEA) and the National Library Board (NLB). The initiative aims to encourage the recycling of cartridges through easily accessible bins in 13 NLB libraries. CHARITABLE TIE-INS: In South Africa, the Cartridge Recycling Initiative for Babies (CRIB) seeks to protect the environment and children. By returning empty laser and inkjet cartridges to Lexmark for recycling, customers can contribute directly to Cotlands, an organization that cares for abandoned and abused babies or those who have HIV-AIDS. Contributions to the fund are made on a per unit basis on both inkjet and laser cartridges. Since 2002, CRIB had donated more than 60,000 “Baby Days” to Cotlands. One Baby Day equals the cost of housing, feeding, clothing and care for one child at Cotlands for the period of one day. In France, Lexmark has continued its partnership with the Cancer League charity, S’inscrire dans le temps, donating one euro per empty cartridge collected through the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program. Part of the funds are used to support a program aimed at helping teenage cancer patients stay connected to their friends and school through personalized diaries focused on a brighter future. In Japan, Lexmark participates along with other manufacturers in the Ink Cartridge Homecoming Project sponsored by Japan Post, which donates three yen per collected inkjet cartridge to the United Nations Environmental Program to help support its environmental conservation programs. GIVING CUSTOMERS A CHOICE Helping keep toner cartridges out of landfills is easy, especially with Lexmark’s broad selection of cartridge offerings. Lexmark regular cartridges can be returned to Lexmark through the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program. Lexmark Return Program cartridges give you an up-front discount in exchange for your agreement to return the cartridge only to Lexmark. Lexmark Certified Reconditioned toner cartridges are the quality-assured remanufactured alternative. NEW CARTRIDGE RETURN METHODS IN 2011 In 2011, Lexmark added a SmartSolution enabling its inkjet customers to order ink cartridge return bags directly from their device touch screen. Lexmark also expanded its program of Cartridge Recycling Containers which had been available just in Europe to the U.S. The Cartridge Recycling Containers are designed to be displayed in a customer’s location and can be used to recycle both toner and ink cartridges. The Containers enable Lexmark Eco Reports which provide customers with a measure of the sustainability benefits for their returned empty cartridges. The LCCP container, which is available in EMEA will soon be offered in the U.S. Through the program, Lexmark provides free containers to customers to be filled with empty laser and inkjet cartridges. When a container is full, it’s returned to Lexmark free of charge for recycling. More than 20,000 customers in more than 25 European countries are already taking advantage of the container program. CASE STUDY CARTRIDGES FIND NEW LIFE AS INK PENS The world’s first pen made almost entirely from materials recovered from end-of-life inkjet cartridges. Read More Conserving our planet’s natural resources is a key sustainability challenge as the world population and economy continue to grow. According to the World Business Council on Sustainable Development, natural resource consumption is expected to rise to 170 percent of the Earth’s bio-capacity by 2040*. This makes the recycling and reuse of products more urgent than ever before. At Lexmark, we recognize this challenge and, since our founding in 1991, have been dedicated to providing our customers with free and easy ways to return their used Lexmark supplies to us for responsible end-of-life management. With the help of our customers, Lexmark continues to make excellent progress in keeping cartridges out of landfills so that these products can be recycled or reused, reducing the need for new raw materials and helping to preserve our environment. RESOURCE CONSERVATION THROUGH RECYCLING AND REUSE Not only does the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program help reduce waste to landfill, but it also conserves natural resources in conjunction with our recycling program. When managing the end-of-life for the empty cartridges our customers return to us, Lexmark always aims to be at the top levels of the standard environmental hierarchy. At the bottom of the hierarchy is landfill disposal, the least desirable option. At the highest levels are recycling and reuse, which produce the greatest sustainability benefit for the environment. In order to consistently push up this environmental hierarchy, Lexmark follows a zero-landfill policy for all of the empty cartridges that we collect and 100 percent of the empty cartridges returned to Lexmark are either reused or the material is recycled. Our ultimate goal is to give as many cartridges as possible a second life through materials reuse. Since 1996, Lexmark has reused over 31 million pounds of recovered cartridge material by converting millions of empty toner cartridges into Lexmark Certified Reconditioned toner cartridges. The eligible empties that we collect are disassembled, cleaned, and critical components are replaced with genuine Lexmark components. Each reconditioned cartridge is tested to assure high-quality output and reliable performance. Between 2004 and 2011, Lexmark was able to achieve a more than threefold increase in the absolute amount of cartridge materials reused through our collection program by continually optimizing our collection and remanufacturing processes. In doing so, we have been consistently moving up higher in the environmental hierarchy. Lexmark toner cartridges that cannot be successfully reconditioned are demanufactured using a process that maximizes materials recovery for use in secondary products. In 2011 alone, we recycled or reused more than10,000 metric tons of plastic, metals and packaging. Conserving these materials for reuse in cartridges and other products translates into fewer raw materials that need to be mined or extracted, reducing the impact on the environment. END-OF-LIFE MANAGEMENT: TONER CARTRIDGE CARBON FOOTPRINT Lexmark extensively utilized Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) in 2011 to better understand the environmental impact of our cartridges and as a guideline when considering potential product and process design improvements. An LCA is designed to evaluate the environmental impact of a product throughout its lifetime – from raw materials extraction, production, distribution and use, to end of life. These studies demonstrate just how significant the benefit to the environment can be by recycling a used toner cartridge through the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP). The Lexmark LCA cartridge studies performed by a third party in accordance with the ISO 14040 and 14044 guidelines for LCA, demonstrates that sending a used Lexmark toner cartridge back to Lexmark for recycling, as opposed to discarding it in a landfill, reduces the overall carbon footprint of those cartridges studied by up to 50 percent (excluding paper consumed during the use phase). USE OF POST-CONSUMER RECYCLED CONTENT In 2011, Lexmark continued its use of post-consumer recycled plastics in the manufacture of certain new toner cartridges. The Lexmark toner cartridge product line contained, on average, 10 percent by weight of post-consumer recycled plastic. In some models, the post-consumer recycled content of newly molded plastic components can provide up to 28 percent by weight of the plastic used. SUSTAINABLE BY DESIGN Supplies for the Lexmark OfficeEdge devices (Pro4000 & Pro5500) contain at least 60% PCR plastic content. Preliminary LCA results indicate >50% C02 reduction vs. current design. Lexmark was recently announced as a 2012 Manufacturing Leadership 100 (ML100) Award recipient for Sustainability. Lexmark was recognized for having implemented closed loop post-consumer recycled content in both its inkjet and laser supplies through the Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program (LCCP). SMART-SUPPLY PROGRAM In May of 2011, Lexmark introduced its new Smart-Supply program deigned to help our high-usage SMB customers to save money and help the environment. Customers which sign up for the program, receive four ink or toner cartridges at a 10-percent discount (plus free shipping). Each of these cartridges has a postage-paid postcard attached that is addressed to Lexmark. When customers install one of these cartridges, they simply remove the postcard and drop it in the mail. Upon receipt of the card, Lexmark sends a replacement cartridge and charges the customers’ credit cards – again at a 10-percent discount plus free shipping. All Lexmark replacement cartridges are shipped with a postage-paid return pouch for customers to return depleted cartridges for recycling. Lexmark Electronic Waste Recycling More information on electronic waste recycling is available on the Lexmark Web site. Click Here * Sustainable Consumption Facts and Trends.” World Business Council on Sustainable Development, 2009. PACKAGING The Lexmark packaging team assesses the life-cycle impact of packaging on the environment. We focus on how much packaging is delivered to the customer as well as how packaging designs affect transportation efficiencies along PACKAGING EFFICIENCY the way. In addition, we carefully study component choices as they relate to the environment, minimize materials use IMPROVEMENTS and choose materials that are easy to recycle whenever possible. Examples of Lexmark’s We design our packaging with the environment in mind. At the design phase, engineers look at the shipping efficiency requirements of the product. Our engineers consider the overall size of the product, the shape of the outer covers and improvements how this can affect the accessories shipped with the printer. The overall ruggedness of the printer is another in packaging significant factor. Simply stated, the more rugged the printer is, the less packaging the unit requires. It should be noted efforts can be that Lexmark applies this eco-logic not only to printers, but also supplies and service parts. found by following the link. Click Here Less packaging helps reduce costs and material disposal in landfills. Less packaging also ensures that goods are being transported in the most efficient manner. Our efficiency can be quantified through the LCA, with the anticipated output consisting of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, energy savings and natural resource conservation. SHIPPING AND PACKAGING GUIDELINES AND FORMS Shipping and packaging guidelines are available as a pdf. Click Here Packaging Certification Forms are available as a pdf. Click Here For additional information on materials used in packaging please visit here. MATERIALS The variety of advanced technologies in Lexmark printers lends itself to the inclusion of many different material types. Lexmark printers contain a broad range of materials from plastics to metals to ceramics. The largest quantity by volume are plastics like high-impact polystyrene (HIPS) and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS). Other plastics used include polyesters and polyamides and filled or blended versions of these materials. These plastics are generally manufactured from gas and petroleum feedstocks, but recycled plastic supplies are also used. The metal content in Lexmark printers is dominated by steel products sourced from both recycled and new feedstocks. Many other metals, ceramics and semiconductors are used in smaller components of the systems. Lexmark printers and supplies are packaged using materials derived from both renewable and non-renewable sources. Packaging materials derived from renewable sources include corrugated (cardboard) boxes, cushioning materials made of molded pulp and wooden pallets. Packaging materials derived from non-renewable sources include cushioning materials made of expanded polystyrene (EPS) or expanded polypropylene (EPE), polyethylene bags, fasteners including staples, twist ties and tape, plastic pallets, plastic strapping and plastic stretch wrap. POST CONSUMER RECYCLED CONTENT When specifying materials used in printers, supplies and packaging, Lexmark strives to utilize post-consumer MINIMUM RECYCLED CONTENT OF recycled (PCR) materials. Use of PCR materials can have a positive impact on the environment, reducing both PACKAGING MATERIALS consumption of natural resources and the amount of waste in landfills. Minimum Recycled Content Lexmark recognizes the environmental benefits of reutilizing metal content, understanding that recycled metal Material Specified stock can be used for some, but not all metal components. Published industry averages indicate that many commercial grades of steel commonly contain between 30 to 80 percent recycled content. Lexmark is committed to Corrugated 25 percent utilizing these grades wherever possible. Fibreboard Consistent use of post-consumer plastics has been a more significant challenge for both Lexmark and the EPS Foam 5 percent electronics industry as a whole. Despite the environmental benefits of recycled plastics, the technical difficulties of the process have caused widespread recycling of engineering plastics to lag behind the recycling of metals and Molded Pulp 100 percent commodity plastics. Using new technologies, the plastics recycling industry has begun to overcome these hurdles and may soon achieve products that allow more mainstream adoption of recycled engineering plastics. Lexmark has been a leader in recycling its plastic feedstreams and using post-consumer plastic content in its products. In the mid1990s, Lexmark worked to incorporate recycled plastics in its Optra series of printers, utilizing a controlled North American feedstream and in some cases closed-loop materials. In recent years, changing regulations have led to an increase in suppliers offering quality recycled plastic materials. Lexmark engineers have studied the broader use of post-consumer recycled plastic in our products. Study of new grades and sources has shown that monitoring the consistency of both supply and quality of post consumer plastic is of critical importance. This research has identified a number of PCR resin suppliers with grades that have desirable properties and compare favorably with their virgin counterparts. As they are approved, grades with suitable quality and competitive pricing will make their way into Lexmark products. Lexmark’s research has identified a number of PCR resin suppliers with grades that have desirable properties and compare favorably with their virgin counterparts. Gradually, grades with suitable quality and competitive pricing are making their way into Lexmark products. In one example of these efforts, engineers for the Lexmark C790 series of laser printers were able to incorporate high-impact polystyrene derived from used electronic waste into several components of the printer, boosting its post-consumer recycle plastic content to four percent from zero percent in previous models. This achievement is especially notable for its closed-loop use of electronic waste into new electronic products. CLOSED-LOOP RECYCLING Lexmark continues to innovate with closed-loop toner cartridge recycling operations. Capitalizing on its award-winning Lexmark Cartridge Collection Program, Lexmark’s engineers are able to reclaim a feedstream of high-impact polystyrene plastic. After returning this material to near virgin quality, it is incorporated into new toner cartridges. This material contributes to Lexmark’s industry leading 10 percent average post-consumer plastic content across Lexmark-branded toner cartridges. Lexmark also continues to sustain its closed-loop recycling of inkjet cartridge plastic. It reclaims cartridge bodies from its return program and reutilizes this material at a 25 percent level in a closed-loop recycled plastic used for manufacturing components for new Lexmark-branded inkjet cartridges. In 2009, Lexmark also successfully implemented closed-loop recycling of its inkjet cartridge plastic. It has succeeded in reclaiming cartridge bodies from its return program and reutilizes this material at a 25 percent level in a closed-loop recycled plastic used for manufacturing components for new Lexmark-branded inkjet cartridges. These two programs led Lexmark to be the first printer manufacturer to successfully implement a closed-loop recycling system for both ink and toner cartridges. This is one of the key principles of sustainability: taking material from recovered products, bringing it back to the raw material state and using it again to make the same product. Lexmark is proud to have achieved this milestone in its recycling programs. RESTRICTION OF THE USE OF CERTAIN HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES IN ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT (ROHS) When specifying materials used in printers, supplies and packaging, Lexmark also evaluates compliance with material restriction directives and legislation. Lexmark complies with international legislation that restricts the use of substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) flame retardants, as outlined in the European Union’s 2003 passage of the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS). In fact, a few years before the RoHS requirements went into effect, Lexmark completely eliminated PBBs and PBDEs from our products. Since July 1, 2006, all Lexmark products, including the ink and toner cartridges (which are not included in the scope of the RoHS), have been fully compliant with the RoHS directive. RESTRICTIONS OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (ROHS) The European Union has adopted the Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). Lexmark is committed to providing RoHS compliant products to world markets. The RoHS directive limits the amount of four metals (lead, mercury, hexavalent chromium, cadmium) and two brominated flame retardants (poly brominated biphenyl and poly brominated diphenyl ether) that can exist in a product. Some of these materials are related to basic technology of electronics and the elimination will impact technical product designs throughout the electronics industry. Lexmark is developing new products and working closely with all of our suppliers to ensure that all materials going into Lexmark products are compliant with the RoHS directive. Lexmark is committed to continuously improving the environmental design of all of our products and services. The reduction of environmentally harmful materials such as the ones in the RoHS directive is a part of our commitment. The Lexmark vision is Customers For Life, and we believe the best way to ensure this is by designing superior products that deliver the ultimate printing solutions for our customers. REGISTRATION, EVALUATION, AUTHORIZATION AND RESTRICTION OF CHEMICALS (REACH) Lexmark, in cooperation with our suppliers, ensures that proper processes are in place for our continued compliance with international material restriction regulations including the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) regulation, which seeks to improve the public health and the environment by controlling the production and use of harmful chemical substances. In 2008, Lexmark completed the first steps of REACH, including pre-registration, material review and required communications associated with the initial release of the Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) candidate list of chemicals. As REACH evolves with chemical registration deadlines and new chemicals being added to the SVHC list on a regular basis, Lexmark will continue to track REACH developments and comply with all requirements of the REACH legislation. More information regarding Lexmark’s REACH initiatives can be made available to our customers by request. MONTREAL PROTOCOL Lexmark products also follow the Montreal Protocol. Lexmark prohibits the use of ozone-depleting chemicals in the manufacture and development of Lexmark products. PAPER Lexmark aggressively tests recycled papers specifically papers made with 30 percent, 50 percent and 100 percent post-consumer recycled content on all Lexmark imaging devices. Our expectation is that the runnability of recycled papers in Lexmark devices will be equivalent to the runnability of virgin fiber paper. While no allencompassing official standard exists for office equipment use of paper, Lexmark has studied and employed European Standard EN12281 as a minimum properties and runnability guide for test paper. Test paper includes 100 percent recycled papers from Europe and Asia, to ensure breadth of testing, as well as testing at eight percent to 80 percent relative humidity, in an attempt to cover all physical paper variables relevant to office equipment use. Testing includes automatic and manual duplex printing which has the potential to be challenging with some recycled papers. Lexmark has begun offering a limited number of environmentally preferable papers for sale in the Europe. Lexmark’s PerfectFinish ™ photo paper is made with materials harvested from Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification certified forests. This paper is readily available at retail in Europe and on the Lexmark Web site in Europe. MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEETS Current Material Safety Data Sheets are available on the Lexmark Web site. Click Here ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS Making Green Easy with Lexmark’s Environmental PRINT LESS & LEXMARK Solutions Lexmark is helping customers conserve energy and paper. Watch Video LEXMARK AT WORK (L@W) After more than two years in Around the world, Lexmark is focused on educating customers on the conservation of paper and energy. A recent operation, LaW survey conducted by Lexmark found that UK workers are printing fewer business documents. The poll found that continues to 73 percent of respondents were printing fewer emails, while another 53 percent had cut back on printing general leverage business and marketing documents. A further 41 percent said they were also more restrained when it came to Lexmark’s printing financial records. global capabilities and complete portfolio of offerings – technology, software, solutions However, the green message was ineffective in some cases as some users admitted they forgot to use and services – with impressive results. New environmentally preferred print settings. solutions and services have been introduced as the program has expanded to all Lexmark Lexmark aims to help customers reduce print impacts on the environment and change some ingrained employee locations around the world, and have resulted habits. Here are some of the print solutions that automatically help customers reduce paper and energy usage. in tremendous gains globally, cutting the impact nearly in half. ECO-MODE In 2009, Lexmark began offering Eco-Mode on all of its inkjet printers. Eco-Mode allows users to save paper and energy with a touch of the button. Eco-Mode automates two-sided printing, faxing and copying, saving businesses up to 50 percent of their paper usage and lowering overall costs. Eco-Mode also enables energy-saving features including power-saving mode (printer sleeps after 10 minutes of inactivity) and dimming of the LCD screen reduce power consumption by up to eight percent. No other printer manufacturer offers such a convenient method to set environmentally friendly print settings. Eco-Mode is also available on Lexmark laser products and can reduce energy consumption by up to 25 percent. ECO-WIDGETS In 2009, Lexmark released its first environmentally beneficial widget, EcoCopy. EcoCopy is one of Lexmark's SmartSolutions which can be downloaded for use with Lexmark’s Webenabled, all-in-one devices. EcoCopy gives users the ability to reduce paper and ink waste with the touch of a button. PRINT RELEASE Studies have shown that one out of every five-to-six pages printed are never picked up. This waste can be eliminated with Print Release. Print Release allows users to send a print job from their workstations or mobile devices to be stored and printed at a later time on select Lexmark MFPs and stand-alone devices. The solution enhances security by eliminating the gap between document printing and pickup so that confidential jobs do not sit at the printer. It also cuts costs by deleting jobs from the queue if not printed within a specified time — no more unnecessary printing of “forgotten” or obsolete jobs. Some Lexmark customers use Print Release to help meet their companies' sustainability goals through its ability to reduce the amount of pages printed. Other customers use Print Release as a “Print Anywhere” solution for their traveling employees. Traveling employees can print their jobs to the Print Release driver and release the job at the Lexmark device at whichever office they happen to be in that day. There is no need to load print drivers for that office or find someone to print them. Lexmark’s newest Print Release application, which was released in 2011, provides enhancements that position us to better serve customers’ needs: My e-Task – Authenticate once and the device is set to your desired language, copy and e-mail settings and shortcuts Session based authentication – Start another task without swiping your badge or entering your credentials again Print and keep – Keep a print job on the queue after it is printed so you can print it again later Print preview – On select models, preview a job before printing and print only the desired pages Scan to self – Easily scan documents to your e-mail User delegation – Delegate authority to release your print jobs to another user such as your administrative assistant User web portal – View your Print Release queue, personal job summaries and reports, assign a print release delegate, and set My e-Task preferences and shortcuts DUPLEX By far, the dominant contributor to the carbon footprint of a multi-function printer is paper. An MFP will print millions of pages during its service lifetime and paper consumption will account for up to 80 percent of its total carbon footprint. In response to this negative impact, Lexmark is committed to designing and producing more and better duplex printers. ADVANCED DEVICE STATISTICS With Advanced Device Statistics, data is gathered from the managed assets in place at the customer’s locations throughout the world, and reports are generated on various statistics such as use of duplex and scanning options. The reports also compare customer metrics to other managed accounts in the same industry. The wealth of information can be turned into actionable recommendations to reduce print, lower costs, and generate additional sustainability benefits to the organization. DOWNTIME REPORTS Lexmark develops software solutions that not only make processes more effective and efficient, but also reduce printing and its impact on the environment. One such solution is Downtime Reports, which was developed for the healthcare industry. Following is an example of the economic savings and environmentally positive results of Downtime Reports. Lexmark partnered with Gwinnett Medical Center (GMC), a not-for-profit healthcare network north of Atlanta, to implement a software solution that would ensure patient information was available during a network outage without printing a single page. Medical personnel need to have access to patient records 24/7. When network outage occurs at a hospital, patient records on the network become inaccessible. To address this issue, GMC printed patient records – approximately 5,000 pages of backup patient reports were printed twice daily. The reports were rarely used and contained outdated information (information could be up to 12 hours old). The approach was also costly to the medical center and to the environment. In fact, the practice consumed 3.6 million sheets annually, the environmental equivalent of 471 trees per year. Adding to the complexity and cost of this approach, HIPAA privacy requirements mandated that these reports be confidentially shredded. To eliminate the twice-daily printing – and shredding – of rarely used reports, GMC implemented Lexmark downtime Reports on its Lexmark MFPs. Downtime Reports ensures 24/7 access to critical patient forms and reports. As IT generates updated information, information is aggregated and streamed to the secure, encrypted internal hard drives of designated on-premises Lexmark printers or MFPs. During a downtime event, an authorized user can visually open an electronic folder on the Lexmark MFP touchscreen and choose which records to print. All that’s needed is electrical power. Thanks to this and other solutions provided by Lexmark, GMC retired 40 single-function printers, faxes, and scanners and reduced printing by 3.6 million pages annually, saving more than $200,000 on paper alone. VOLUNTARY ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATIONS ENERGY STAR ® Lexmark is committed to designing energy-efficient products. This is evident by the number of our products that are Energy Star certified. Launched in 1992, Energy Star is a joint program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy that has grown into a globally recognized symbol for energy-efficient products and practices. As a charter Energy Star partner, Lexmark is committed to supporting the Energy Star program through energy-efficient product design. In fact, 100 percent of Lexmark devices released in 2011 are Energy Star certified and included an Auto Duplex feature. This was achieved through the development and release of products with Instant Warm Up fusing technologies and factory-standard duplex options. On a global scale, many available Lexmark laser products meet the power consumption requirements of Germany’s highly-respected Blue Angel environmental certification. YEAR ON YEAR, LEXMARK INCREASED THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF ITS ENTIRE FLEET OF PRODUCT OFFERINGS. Product Segment 2010 Energy Efficiency Metric Metric 2011 Energy Efficiency Metric Inkjet Products 1 Fleet Average of 0.515 kwh / week Fleet Average of 0.425 kwh / week Laser Products 2 Fleet Average of 0.153 Energy Star TEC / PPM Fleet Average of 0.150 Energy Star TEC / PPM YEAR ON YEAR, LEXMARK INCREASED THE NUMBER OF ENERGY STAR QUALIFIED MODELS. % of Product Offerings that meet Energy Star Product Segment 2010 Product Offerings 2011 Product Offerings Inkjet Products 92% 100% Laser Products 83.5% 89% 3 MODELS THAT MEET ENERGY STAR ENERGY STAR QUALIFIED MODELS THAT DO NOT MEET ENERGY ENERGY REQUIREMENTS BUT DO NOT MODELS STAR ENERGY REQUIREMENTS MEET THE AUTO-DUPLEX REQUIREMENTS Color laser products C540dw, C543dn C540n C544dn, C544dtn, C544dw, C546dtn C544n C746dn, C746dtn C746n C748de, C748dte C748e C925de, C925dte C950de X543dn X544dn, X544dtn, X546dtn X544n X548de, X548dte X746dn, X746dtn X748de, X748dte X792de, X792dte, X792dtfe, X792dtme, X792dtpe, X792dtse X950de X952de, X952dte X954de, X954dhe Mono laser products E260d, E260dn, E260dtn E260n E360dn, E360dtn E360n E460dn, E460dtn, E462dtn T650dn, T650dtn T650n T652dn, T652dtn T652n T654dn, T654dtn T654n T656dne W850dn, W850dtn W850n X203n, X204n X264dn, X264dw X463de, X464de, X464dte, X466de, X466dte, X466dwe X651de, X652de X654de, X656de, X656dte X658de, X658dte, X658dfe, X658dme, X658dtfe, X658dtme 6500e+T654dn X860de 3, X860de 4 X862dte 3, X862dte 4 Inkjet products 4 Pro4000, Pro4000c, Pro5500, Pro5500t Pro 912, Pro915, Pro919 Pro715, Pro719 S515, S519 S415, S419 S315, S319 BLUE ANGEL Lexmark product designers have long looked to the Blue Angel standard for environmental design guidance. Blue Angel, an environmental certification established 1978 in Germany, is one of the most prestigious green certifications awarded worldwide. In the summer of 2008, Lexmark first sought Blue Angel RAL-UZ 122 certification for select Lexmark laser products and has worked to expand the number of Blue Angel RAL-UZ 122 certified devices. As of 2011 the following products held Blue Angel certification: C540n C792de T652dn X543dn X658dtfe X860de 3 XS734de C543dn C792dhe T652dtn X544dn X658dtme X860de 4 XS736de C544dn C792dte T654dn X544dtn X734de X862de 3 XS748de C544dtn C950de T654dtn X544dw X736de X862de 4 XS796de C544dw CS748de T656dne X546dtn X738de X862dte 3 XS796dte C546dtn CS796de W850dn X548de X738dte X862dte 4 XS860de 4 C734dn E260d X264dn X548dte X746de X864de 3 XS862de 4 C734dtn E260dn X363dn X651de X748de X864de 4 XS864de 4 C734dw E360d X364dn X652de X748dte X864dhe 3 XS950de C736dn E360dn X364dw X654de X792de X864dhe 4 XS955de C736dtn E460dn X463de X656de X792dte X950de XS955dhe C746dn E460dw X464de X656dte X792dtfe X952de C746dtn E462dtn X466de X658de X792dtme X952dte C748de T650dn X466dte X658dfe X792dtpe X954de C748dte T650dtn X466dwe X658dte X792dtse X954dhe Lexmark is actively monitoring the Blue Angel RAL-UZ 122 revision and will assess product status when the requirements are finalized in 2012, placing new requirements as design goals if not already achieved. ELECTRONIC PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT TOOL (EPEAT) On October 5, 2009, President Barack Obama signed Executive Order 13514, which calls for federal agencies to purchase products that are environmentally preferable and to give procurement preference for Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) registered electronic products. Lexmark supports the U.S. federal government in its goal of setting a leadership role in environmental stewardship, energy efficiency and economic recovery. The EPEAT system and the environmental criteria for computers and monitors were originally developed in a multi-stakeholder process. EPEAT’s environmental criteria are contained in an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) public standard, IEEE 1680. The system currently covers desktop and laptop computers, thin clients, workstations and computer monitors (IEEE 1680.1). The IEEE Standards Association is currently balloting the IEEE 1680.2 standard, which will be used by EPEAT to qualify imaging equipment. The standards development process is complicated, requires the participation of many stakeholders with various agendas and requires the completion of numerous review processes before the standard is approved and subsequently published. Lexmark is participating in the ongoing IEEE 1680.2 standard development process. Approval and publication of the standard is anticipated within the next 12 to 18 months. Until the standard is approved and published, requirements will be uncertain. Lexmark, therefore, cannot provide forward looking statements as to whether specific products will be qualified to any anticipated standard criteria level required for the EPEAT registry. When IEEE 1680.2 is approved, Lexmark will make a full assessment of our product offerings and reveal that assessment to our clients. OTHER CERTIFICATIONS Lexmark products are certified to a number of other voluntary environmental certifications worldwide. These certifications include the Canada Eco Logo (CCD-035), China certification HJ/T 302-2006 and Taiwan Green Mark. ECMA 370 (THE ECO DECLARATION) Lexmark has provided ECMA 370 (The Eco Declaration) for laser and inkjet products for many years. Formerly known as IT Eco Declarations, ECMA 370 declarations provide objective and comparable environmental information. Lexmark, along with other Imaging Equipment Manufacturers, signed the Industry Voluntary Agreement on Improvement of Environmental Design of Imaging Equipment in the EU in June 2011. This agreement commits manufacturers to make certain environmentally friendly changes, including posting ECMA 370 (The Eco Declaration) on a publicly available web site. Click here to view the ECMA 370 (The Eco Declaration) listing. Additionally, Lexmark provides IT Eco Declarations for laser and ink print supplies upon request. 1. Inkjet Product Energy Efficiency Metric is the Electricity Usage Per week (kwh/week) calculated using the usage pattern for Workgroup Inkjet Printers/MFDs given in Table 40 of the EuP Preparatory Study Lot 4 (IE), Task 4 Final Report, pg 47 2. Laser Products Energy Efficiency Metric is the Energy Star Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC) divided by the product Speed in Pages per Minute (PPM). Since the TEC Metric increases products usage with the product speed, dividing by product speed normalizes the TEC value. 3. At the time of the release of this report 4. While 89 percent of Lexmark's currently available models are Energy Star certified, nearly 100 percent (all but one model) meet the energy requirements of Energy Star. ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT At Lexmark, we believe in the importance of developing a culture of sustainability. This culture goes well beyond operations that make efficient use of resources and designing products with the environment in mind. Our goal is to engrain sustainability in all we do at work and at home. North America SUSTAINABILITY SPEAKERS SERIES In Lexington, Lexmark sponsored a program as part of its Sustainability Speakers Series with Anna Newell Jones, freelance journalist, CNN contributing editor, photographer and blogger based in Denver, who talked about her year of sustainable living. For a full year, Ms. Jones and her husband downsized their lives. They took the bus or walked instead of using the car and they turned the thermostat down. In 2010, their only purchases were necessities – no eating out, no clothes shopping, no store-bought gifts. The result: A dramatic reduction in their environmental footprint and a financial savings of nearly $18,000. To learn more about Ms. Jones, click here. Sustainability Speakers Series featuring Anna Newell Jones ARBOR DAY VOLUNTEERS Lexington employees annually collaborate with the Lexington Fayette Urban County Government / University of Kentucky Arboretum and other local businesses and organizations to sponsor a community Arbor Day celebration that was open to the public. Arbor Day festivities included environmental exhibits and demonstrations, educational sessions, entertainment and visits from Smokey the Bear, Woodsie and Rosie. Latin America EARTH HOUR Lexmark employees in Juárez, Mexico, and elsewhere around the globe, participate in Earth Hour each year by turning off the lights at work and at home for one hour. To learn more about Earth Hour, click here. Arbor Day celebration sponsored by Lexmark Europe ENERGY EXPOSITION The 2011 International Environmental Industry, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Exhibition was held in Budapest in 2011. The event, termed Okoindustria, covered many environmental issues: renewable energies, energy efficiency, eco-building, climate protection, prevention, waste, secondary raw material and production from waste, water, soil, biotechnology, air, noise and vibration protection. Lexmark participated and many employees attended. TESZEDD CAMPAIGN Lexmark Budapest joined the Hungarian nation wide “Teszedd” campaign. Over 160.000 volunteers helped clean up certain underdeveloped public areas in their neighborhood. Lexmark employees collected dozens of sacks of waste. Lexmark Budapest employees at Okoindustria KINDERGARTEN RENOVATION In Budapest, Lexmark employees and their family and friends renovated and painted the wooden benches, jungle gyms and rest huts at a kindergarten. Afterward, a well deserved meal was served at the site. Asia Pacific BUHISAN WATERSHED AND FOREST RESERVE Employees of Lexmark International the Philippines Inc. (LIPI) attended the Save the Buhisan Watershed Project Donor's Recognition and Forum at the MCWD facility in the Buhisan Watershed and Forest Reserve. The Save the Buhisan Watershed Project is implemented with partners from the public and private sectors and aims to sustain the Buhisan Watershed through multi-stakeholder partnerships, eco-friendly livelihood and enterprise development and environmental rehabilitation initiatives like reforestation. This engagement showcases the different projects implemented in Buhisan, that are sustainable and replicable examples of corporate social responsibility initiatives. The Save the Buhisan Watershed Project was launched in 2008 as part of Cebu’s environmental response to the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals. We are now in the fourth year of the project, during which time we Ribbon cutting at Save the Buhisan Watershed helped collect PHP5.6 million to support various projects. Project Donor's Recognition and Forum FINANCE AND ECONOMICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND MARKET PRESENCE Lexmark International, Inc. (NYSE: LXK) provides businesses of all sizes with a broad range of printing and imaging products, software, solutions and services that help customers to print less and save more. Perceptive Software, a stand-alone software business within Lexmark, is a leading provider of process and content management software that helps organizations fuel greater operational efficiency. In 2011, Lexmark sold products in more than 170 countries and reported more than $4 billion in revenue. For information regarding Lexmark's organizational profile; direct economic value generated and distributed; the financial implications; and the coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations and related topics, please refer to the current 10-K in the investor relations section of the Lexmark Web site. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Lexmark’s presence has positive impacts on the economies of the communities surrounding our locations through our efforts to provide above-average employee compensation and use of local resources where possible. A significant portion of Lexmark employees – including those in the United States, Mexico and the Philippines – work in locations that have minimum-wage rules. Lexmark is committed to rewarding our employees for their hard work. Lexmark and its subsidiaries around the world offer salaries and benefit plans that are highly competitive in each of the countries in which we operate. Plans are benchmarked frequently to ensure that compensation and salary levels remain competitive and allow us to attract and retain employees in each region. These efforts to provide above-average employee compensation have a favorable economic impact on the markets in which we do business. Lexmark received no significant financial assistance from the government in 2011, and government is not present in the shareholding structure. HIGHLIGHTS Dow Jones Sustainability Maplecroft's Climate Innovation Financial transparency Recent acquisitions World Enlarged Index Index Our redesigned investor relations Web To learn more about Lexmark Lexmark has been selected for Lexmark is ranked 15th out of the top site makes it easier for interested acquisitions, click here. inclusion in the prestigious index. 100 leading companies on the parties to access information. Read More Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index. Read More Read More SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTING Investors today are not only seeking companies that perform well financially but also those that perform well through the lens of social responsibility. In particular, people want the companies in which they invest to be conscious of the environment, highly regard human rights and be good citizens to their neighbors. Socially responsible investing is coming to be the norm. In keeping with this trend, Lexmark's three ongoing investment agreements include human rights clauses specifically prohibiting investments in companies which engage in discrimination based upon race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or veteran status. Lexmark engaged in several non-traditional significant investment agreements during this reporting period– the acquisition of Brainware, ISYS Search Software, Nolij Corporation and Pallas Athena. All four companies join Perceptive Software, a stand-alone business unit within Lexmark. These investment agreements moved Lexmark into a position of ownership of these entities. FINANCIAL TRANSPARENCY It's easier than ever for interested parties to get financial information from Lexmark, thanks to a redesign of the Company's investor relations Web site. The aim of the changes was to allow users to quickly access the information they need to better understand Lexmark. Information is now close at hand and easy to access directly from the landing page of the site. Information such as quarterly earnings materials, recent news releases, audios of conference calls and 10-Q quarterly filings are readily available in one spot. The enhancements can be seen below and at http://investor.lexmark.com. WORKPLACE Safe, healthy working conditions, job security and an opportunity for growth and advancement are considered fundamental human rights for employees of Lexmark. All decisions related to our workforce – internally and through our supply chain – are made with those rights in mind. The pages within this section expand upon our commitment to the betterment of our employees’ and their families’ lives including opportunities for personal growth and empowerment such as training and ongoing education. Among the many commitments discussed in this section are fair employment practices and diversity. We adhere to these practices in hiring, as well as when interacting with our employees. Lexmark embraces the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) that aim, among other things, to promote open channels of communication among employees. Lexmark has long been committed to diversity in our workplace. That diversity not only stimulates and benefits our employees, but is good for business. Challenges, issues and questions studied through the lenses of diverse perspectives are those that have the best chance of successful resolution. We also have a supplier diversity program in place that helps ensure that all businesses have ample opportunities to become a part of the Lexmark supply chain. Adhering to all of these principles means that we can hire and retain the best people and that they can do their best work. We are committed to cultivating our most valuable partnership—that which we have with our employees. HIGHLIGHTS Addressing conflict minerals Child care and wellness Employee engagement Supplier code of conduct Lexmark is committed to positive labor Child care and wellness are concerns Communication with employees is an All Lexmark suppliers are required to practices in our facilities as well as our for our employees and are being important part of the Lexmark comply with the human rights guidelines supply chain. implemented in our employee benefits. community and culture. outlined in the supplier code of conduct. Read More Read More Read More Read More HUMAN RIGHTS Lexmark upholds the human rights of its employees and treats them with dignity and respect as understood by the international community. We follow well-regarded guidelines, such as the Universal Declaration of Human LEXMARK'S POSITION ON Rights (UDHR), Social Accountability International (SAI) and the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI). CONFLICT MINERALS Conflict EMPLOYEE RIGHTS minerals are Lexmark is committed to providing a work environment free from harassment or discrimination based on race, minerals mined color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, or for any in conditions of other unlawful reason. This policy is driven by Lexmark's respect for the dignity of the individual and commitment armed conflict to treating all persons equitably. We investigate all credible complaints of discrimination brought to the attention of and human management and deal with them in an expedient and non-retaliatory manner. For example, in the U.S., rights abuses, notably in the eastern employees who are found to have engaged in harassment or discrimination according to the terms of this policy, provinces of the Democratic Republic of the or to have misused their positions of authority in this regard, are subject to immediate disciplinary measures, up Congo. The most commonly mined minerals to and including dismissal. are cassiterite (the chief mineral used in the production of tin, the main ingredient of Like Lexmark, Perceptive upholds the human rights of its employees and treats them with dignity and respect as solder), wolframite (a source of the element understood by the international community. Perceptive closely monitors its operations to ensure that adherence to tungsten and is not usually used in electronic accepted standards regarding freely chosen employment, child labor, discrimination, harsh or inhumane treatment, equipment other than telephonic vibrating minimum wage and freedom of association. Perceptive has not been cited for any human rights violations. mechanisms), coltan, a derivative of columbite-tantalite (primarily used in capacitors), and gold (sometimes used in Lexmark adheres to the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) that aim to promote workers' electronics such as semiconductors). These rights, fair employment opportunities and unimpeded channels of communication among employees. Lexmark minerals are extracted and passed through a honors its employees’ free choices and complies with all state and federal workplace laws and guidelines, variety of intermediaries before being including those associated with labor-organizing activities. Lexmark has not identified any operations where purchased by multinational electronics employee rights to exercise freedom of association of collective bargaining may be at risk. companies. Other ILO and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiatives include the abolition of forced labor, the Consistent with our commitment to social freedom of association and the prohibition of child labor. These initiatives are discussed in Lexmark's Supplier responsibility, Lexmark works through the Code of Conduct to which Lexmark and applicable Lexmark suppliers are bound. The Supplier Code of Conduct EICC to support positive labor practices. We also discusses Lexmark’s policy on Freely Chosen Employment. The Company has not found any of its work directly with our suppliers–and their operations to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor or child labor or young workers suppliers in turn–to ensure that minerals we exposed to hazardous work. use do not originate from conflict sources. Exploitation and trade of conflict minerals No Lexmark employees are represented by collective bargaining units. Works Councils are established at certain originating in the Democratic Republic of the of Lexmark's European locations which, on behalf of employees, require employers to provide company Congo are challenging issues for all information for review and to engage in consultation on certain company decisions. Information on the European companies since there is no mechanism to Works Councils (EWCs) is available at http://www.etuc.org/r/57 chemically trace minerals to their source. All of Lexmark's security personnel – including contracted security personnel–have been trained in the organization's policies on, or specific procedures for, human rights issues and their application to security. In our experience, open communication and direct engagement between workers and management are key factors in resolving any workplace issues. Whenever possible, Lexmark provides employees several weeks notice of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. Lexmark has not identified any incidents involving indigenous rights among the organization's own employees or in communities near existing operations that are likely to be affected by planned or proposed future operations. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) Lexmark is committed to equal opportunity in all areas of our operations. All Lexmark business activities and employment-related activities are administered without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age or veteran status. Lexmark does not have a global policy for granting preference to local residents when hiring in significant locations of operation. However, most employees at each location are local hires and have continuing education opportunities to develop skills for job advancement. We also have a geographic transfer training program that gives employees the opportunity to transfer locations for a few weeks or for as long as a few years. Lexmark currently requires training on the human rights aspects of EEO and Affirmative Action which is part of the 40 average hours of training per manager. Starting in 2011, all new Lexmark employees were required to review the supplier code of conduct, which addresses EEO and aspects of human rights relevant to operations. We investigate all credible complaints of discrimination brought to the attention of management and deal with them in an expedient and non-retaliatory manner. In the interest of privacy and respect for legal limitations, Lexmark cannot disclose information about specific cases. Actions taken in response to incidents include reviewing the incident as well as the development and implementation of remedial plans. EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of Lexmark employees is of paramount importance to company management. We strive to offer places of work that are free from unsafe equipment, situations and practices and monitor facilities for safety OHSAS CERTIFICATES issues on an ongoing basis. All of our main locations, including Boulder, Lexington, Budapest, Cebu and Juárez Boulder, Colorado Certificate have safety committees comprised of Lexmark employees. The members of these committees represent the Cebu, Philippines Certificate interests of all workers. Juárez, Mexico Certificate Lapu-Lapu, Philippines Certificate Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services (OHSAS) is a multidisciplinary organization with expertise in a Lexington, Kentucky Certificate comprehensive range of occupational health and safety skills. OHSAS 18001 is a voluntary standard that guides organizations in establishing health and safety management systems for their businesses. All Lexmark-owned and leased manufacturing facilities in Boulder, Colorado; Cebu, Philippines; Lapu-Lapu, Philippines; Lexington, KY; and Juárez, Mexico, have received OHSAS 18001 certification. To assure our facilities are ISO 14001 and TO SEE ISO 14001 CERTIFICATES OHSAS 18001 certified, Lexmark spends up to $10,000 per facility for fees related to that certification. CLICK HERE. The effectiveness of Lexmark's Safety Program is determined by OHSAS 18001 objectives and targets as well as internal audits and top management reviews of our safety management system. These audits and reviews are conducted in conjunction with the conformance audits required as part of OHSAS recertification. We use both audits’ findings to improve our internal processes and promote best practices across our operations. Lexmark SAFETY PERFORMANCE employees are involved in setting the objectives for our health and safety management systems. MEASUREMENTS Two important measures of safety All Lexmark facilities are guided by the Company’s Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety Instructions, performance are injury rate and lost workdays which define the essential programs that each facility must manage in order to meet the objectives of our health rate. Lexmark's overall reportable rate for and safety policies. It is mandatory to develop written programs that assure legal and regulatory compliance has 2011 was 0.37 and the industry average was been adequately addressed. Any changes to health and safety procedures are communicated to all applicable 1.50. Our lost workday rate was 0.25 while the employees through bulletin boards, internal Web site postings, electronic communications, handbooks and industry average was 0.80. meetings with managers.1 Lexmark has corrective and preventive-action teams that work with responsible personnel to monitor and report on progress and determine if actions are completed. Internal audit teams determine the effectiveness of actions taken to address nonconformities with the Health and Safety Management System. All employees and contractors receive health and safety training and are encouraged to report concerns about health and safety issues. This training includes policy and is provided in stand-up classrooms, online courses and on the job, depending on which best fits the need. Training requirements are determined by health and safety program managers as well as employees' direct managers and are based on job requirements, equipment and materials used, regulations and other factors. Lexmark does not have workers who are involved in occupational activities that have a high incidence or high risk of specific diseases. Safety performance of subcontractors is reviewed during initial contract discussions. The subcontractors must have proof that their employees are properly trained and aware of all health and safety aspects of the jobs they will perform on behalf of Lexmark. Compliance and safety teams conduct audits and inspections on a regular basis with all aspects of the health and safety management systems covered in these activities. Findings are documented, entered into the corrective and preventive action system and tracked to ensure actions are completed in a timely fashion. Follow-up inspections verify completion and effectiveness of the actions taken. Best-practice measures are then implemented in other areas or sites. Each Lexmark manufacturing and development facility is required to maintain an emergency preparedness plan as well as an emergency response team. One feature of emergency preparedness training is an icon on Lexmark's internal Web site that will play audio of the different tones of a fire alarm and a tornado warning. 1. Lexmark employees are not represented by unions; therefore, there are no formal work agreements in which health and safety is addressed. CONTINUING EDUCATION AND CAREER ADVANCEMENT Lexmark encourages professional and personal growth for each employee and supports continued education as a way to help employees become more effective in their current positions and develop skill sets for future positions. Development opportunities are based on employees’ development plans that highlight their career goals, interests, strengths and development areas, both short term and long term. Employees are encouraged to find a mentor, in addition to utilizing their manager, to provide guidance and support to their growth efforts. Continuing education opportunities include a tuition reimbursement program. The requirements and benefits vary by location, but provide financial assistance to employees who wish to continue their education by attending undergraduate or graduate courses. Additionally, funding for external training programs varies by location and is provided to develop employees skills, knowledge and ability. Internal learning opportunities include extensive training in technical and business skills 2011 CONTINUING EDUCATION TRAINING delivered both at the corporate level and through resources within various business areas. Learning occurs through instructor-lead courses and 24/7 via iLearn, Lexmark’s worldwide online learning platform, which offers extensive libraries, including proprietary offerings. At the corporate level, leadership training and participation in such company-wide development programs as operational excellence and change management are offered. All employees are required to complete the Code of Conduct, IT Security as well as various required learning courses based on location every year. Additional examples of course offerings include Global Teamwork courses to help employees understand and Executive Vice President 59 25 1,475 work more cohesively together in an international environment as well as on boarding, and open enrollment sessions to learn more about the business. In the U.S, new Director 188 40 7,520 managers are required to attend at least 24 hours of training with similar programs being offered worldwide. Manager 1,129 40 45,160 Individual Contributor 11,867 40 474,680 Lexmark’s Educational Leave of Absence allows employees with at least two years of regular employment, and who have demonstrated professional ability and potential, to enhance their educational experiences and resumés for their benefit as well as These numbers are based upon the corporate-level systems that Lexmark's. Approval is based on the relevance of the study program to Lexmark's goals capture employee development activities and do not include formal and interests, academic and work records and the business needs at the time of the education paid for in part by Lexmark. Therefore, the actual hours proposed Educational Leave. The duration of an Educational Leave depends on the time will be greater than reported in some employee categories. required to complete the approved course of study, but is typically no more than four years. *Lexmark senior management includes Directors and Executive Vice Presidents. All of our regular, worldwide employees work with their managers to create performance management objectives that support department, division and company goals. Success criteria are established for each objective. Employees then use a system-based, multi-rater feedback tool and other forms of data gathering to solicit feedback on their performance against their objectives. Eighty-five percent of Lexmark employees participate in this process. The 15 percent that do not participate in this process are hourly workers in two plant locations and do not have access to the system containing the multi-rater tool. These employees use site-specific processes and tools to set and review performance expectations. Managers and employees have performance progress discussions at the end of each performance period. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS Lexmark and its subsidiaries around the world offer benefit plans that are highly competitive in each of the countries in which we operate. Plans are benchmarked frequently to ensure that compensation and salary levels remain competitive and allow us to attract and retain quality employees in each region. Offerings include defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans that cover certain regular employees as well as two supplemental plans that cover certain executives. We also provide medical, dental and life insurance plans for U.S. retirees and retirees from certain nonU.S. subsidiaries. In 2011, Lexmark engaged Horizons Workforce Consulting to evaluate how we can better support the needs of our employees and their families. A short employee survey was an essential part of this process. Our employees’ input provided insight into how we can help add balance to their busy lives and make Lexmark an even better place to work. Part-time employees in the U.S. are eligible for the same benefits (on a pro-rated basis) as full-time regular employees. They have access to the same health-care plans and pay the same rates as regular full-time employees. In addition to traditional benefit plans, Lexmark offers three days of paid Volunteer Time Off to allow employees to contribute to their communities without taking vacation time or time off without pay. Additional information regarding our benefits obligations can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Lexmark employees may receive the following benefits. (Benefits vary by location.) FINANCIAL TIME AWAY FROM WORK AT WORK WELLNESS Healthcare Insurance Adoption Assistance Vacation Nursing Facilities Dental Insurance Education Benefits Special Leave Childcare in Close Proximity (Marriage/Bereavement/Compassionate) to Lexmark Facilities Vision Insurance Relocation Assistance Paid Sick Days Travel Assistance Programs Life Insurance Employee Bonus Program Paid Maternity/Paternity Leave Service Awards Accidental Death and Employee Referral Programs Dismemberment (AD&D) Modified Working Schedules for Marriage, Birth, Condolence Insurance Lexmark Incentive Program Nursing Mothers Recognition Shortand Long-Term Disability 401(k)/Retirement Plans Sabbatical Program Social Clubs Insurance Healthcare and Childcare Flexible Flex Time Program Onsite Childcare (coming Employee Assistance Program Spending Accounts 2012/2013) Telecommute Program Wellness/Fitness Program Employer Retirement Contributions Work/Life Support Program Onsite Health Clinics Employee Discounts Onsite Fitness/ Allowances (meal, rice, transportation, Sporting/Recreation Facilities laundry and medical) Onsite Wellness Facility (coming Disaster Assistance 2012/2013) Health Savings Account Financial Planning Tools Tuition Reimbursement EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND HOUSING PROGRAMS Recognizing that adequate housing and proper healthcare are vital human needs, Lexmark endeavors to provide its employees access to these two basic necessities. At corporate headquarters in Lexington, Kentucky, we maintain a free allergy clinic for employees who need regular shots and a travel clinic that allows employees who are traveling to stay current on required immunizations. This service allows employees the convenience of onsite care and improves productivity. U.S. employees also have access to an online wellness program that allows them to track their health-risk factors, receive online education on health issues and provides a secure site for the storage of personal health records. In addition, Lexmark's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) makes professional counseling available for employees and family members on a wide range of personal problems, including substance abuse and marital issues. Lexmark sponsors a weight-loss program for its employees. In one special program, teams of two to four were eligible to participate. Each member of the team with the highest total percentage lost will receive a $250 voucher toward the purchase of a gym membership or home fitness equipment. Lexmark offers its employees a wide range of training, educational materials and preventative measures including appropriate tools in the workplace for prevention of serious diseases. For example, during H1N1 outbreaks, employees were offered hand sanitizer and masks, and were encouraged to stay home when they were ill. Lexmark does not have workers who are involved in occupational activities which have a high incidence of high risk of specific diseases. Employees are trained on ergonomic issues related to their jobs, receive guidance on injury prevention and are offered a variety of preventative equipment such as chairs and other workstation equipment to prevent injury. Employees can receive physical therapy as needed. Prior to international travel, employees have access to free vaccinations at the company's travel clinic. They can A Lexmark seminar for students and parents on drug also obtain a travel kit that includes antibiotics, antidiarrheal medicines and pain relief medicines. A medical and prevention emergency assistance program designed to serve the needs of employees while working internationally is also available. In Juárez, Mexico, and Cebu, Philippines, employees have use of onsite medical care to help ensure that they and their families have access to modern facilities as well as health and wellness education. Also, in Juárez, employees receive free screening for various illnesses, preventative vaccines and eye exams. In the U.S., employees can choose to receive full medical, dental and vision insurance for themselves and their families. In China, employees are eligible for medical insurance, medical reimbursement for children, an annual routine health checkup, personal accident insurance, household property insurance, social pension insurance, a welfare fund and a housing fund. Also in China, where housing costs are high and availability is low, Lexmark offers some benefits related to living facilities. Utilizing these benefits is not mandatory, but it is available for those employees who wish to take advantage of this service. Lexmark also offers programs such as education assistance, flexible scheduling and paid time off for volunteer activities. In September 2009, Lexmark received the When Work Works, Alfred P. Sloan Award for Excellence in Workplace Flexibility. Lexmark’s flexible work/life balance programs enhance operational efficiency, promote business goals and enrich the quality of life for employees. The Lexmark Telecommuting Program allows U.S. employees who receive approval from their manager to work from an alternate workplace. The Lexmark regular part-time program allows U.S. full-time employees to work a reduced schedule, with a minimum schedule of 20 hours per week. Lexmark also offers a paid Volunteer Time Off Program to encourage employees to participate actively in the life of their communities by volunteering their time, talents and resources. Full-time employees qualify for up to 24 hours of volunteer time off per calendar year. Part-time employees qualify for up to 12 hours per calendar year. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Communication with employees is an important part of the Lexmark community and culture. We strive to make that communication a true discourse, rather than a single channel, one-way dissemination of information. For example, Lexmark managers hold engagement ( stay ) conversations with individual employees and round tables with employee groups. This commitment results in true engagement with employees that in turn results in mutual goodwill. The following are just a few examples of employee engagement at Lexmark. QUESTIONS TO MANAGEMENT Quarterly, a CEO update meeting is held for all employees that ends with an open question and answer session for the CEO and his direct reports. TOWN HALL MEETINGS Throughout the year, in an effort to keep employees informed on the many aspects of Lexmark's business activities, the Company holds Town Hall meetings, wherein various members of senior management report on a wide range of subjects. These include general business updates, marketing and product strategies, results on initiatives, research and development progress and many other topical issues. Question and answer sessions are included. DEMOGRAPHICS Lexmark is committed to promoting a diverse and inclusive business culture where employees can reach their full potential. We strive to show continuous progress in the hiring and promotion of people with diverse thoughts, experiences and backgrounds as well as under-represented groups such as women and minorities. LEXMARK WORKPLACE Lexmark’s workforce includes regular employees, temporary employees (limited assignments, students and co-ops) and contingent workers around the world. Our total workforce is approximately 17,600, of which 75 percent are regular employees. The complete breakdown by geography follows. GEOGRAPHY REGULAR EMPLOYEES TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES/ CONTINGENT WORKERS AP 4,480 737 EMEA 1,376 683 LA 3,221 527 North America 4,124 2,477 TOTAL EMPLOYEES: 13,201 4,424 Lexmark recognizes the value of tracking the turnover rate of our employees in the many countries in which we operate. We continuously look at ways to improve our view of employee attrition and are establishing system processes to enable us to better report and analyze global information. There was a slight decrease in regular employees in the Asia Pacific region while temporary employees and contingent workers increased in that region. The opposite was true in Latin America, where regular employees increased by four percent and temporary employees and contingent workers decreased by 15.5 percent. Overall employment increased slightly from 2010 to 2011. BOARD OF DIRECTORS/EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Lexmark’s Board of Directors is comprised of 12 directors, 11 of whom are independent. Two of the 12 board members (17 percent) are female while two (17 percent) are African-American. Eleven of the 12 board members are over 50 years of age. One of the seven executive management team members (14 percent) is female and one (14 percent) is Hispanic. Three of the team members (43 percent) are over 50 years old while four (57 percent) are 30–50 years old. EQUAL PAY Salaries vary within Lexmark, as they do in all companies, depending upon the location of employment, education level, job function and a number of other factors. Lexmark is committed to equal pay for work of equal value. This commitment includes equal remuneration for male and female workers. In support of this commitment, we contract with third-party agencies to conduct remuneration studies and we conduct other studies internally. For example, in the United States, an annual analysis is done by a thirdparty entity to ensure pay equity based on demographics. Actions taken in response to these analyses, including promotion of educational and career advancement opportunities and salary adjustments, help Lexmark uphold its commitment to equal pay for equal work. LEXMARK SUPPLIERS SUPPLIER DIVERSITY At Lexmark, we strive to encourage and afford opportunities to minority suppliers. Lexmark’s supplier diversity program is founded on the Company’s values of mutual respect, corporate citizenship and integrity. Diverse businesses comprise a vital segment of the economy, and healthy diverse businesses are therefore advantageous to our financial performance and our community. Lexmark sets goals annually to increase contracting opportunities for eligible minority suppliers. These goals are reviewed to determine if they are attainable and represent a meaningful contribution to Lexmark’s supplier diversity program. All Lexmark employees are encouraged to take an active role in the support of the supplier diversity program by ensuring that all vendors are encouraged and given an opportunity to do business with Lexmark. SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY Our membership and participation in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® (EICC) has further strengthened our organizational efforts in support of human rights, labor standards and other CSR values. The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® Code of Conduct is a code of best practices adopted and implemented by some of the world’s major electronics brands and their suppliers to improve conditions in the electronics supply chain. The code sets forth performance, compliance, auditing and reporting guidelines across five areas of social responsibility including labor, health and safety, environment, management systems and ethics policies. In accordance with EICC guidelines, beginning in 2008 Lexmark requested third-party audits for a number of its Tier 1 suppliers to monitor compliance in these areas. Lexmark works with a multitude of direct and indirect suppliers. Approximately 100 of these account for the majority of Lexmark's direct spend. All Lexmark suppliers are required to comply with the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct which addresses human rights. In addition, we have increased the scrutiny of the human rights records of Lexmark suppliers. ANALYZING AND MANAGING SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY To better understand corporate social responsibility risks in the supply chain, Lexmark undertakes a spend analysis of that chain, analyzing for basic information (total number of suppliers, geographic spread, etc.), as well as social and environmental aspects such as supplier diversity and environmental factors. These spend analyses are conducted using specially developed data-collection tools and are conducted in collaboration with consultants specializing in supply chain analyses. Over the last three years, 100 percent of Lexmark’s procurement spend was subject to our spend analysis process. Through this process we have identified critical suppliers–our high-volume/high-spend suppliers, suppliers of critical components and non-substitutable suppliers. Lexmark has nearly 13,000 suppliers, 2.7 percent of which have been identified as critical 1 . We have also noted that the percentage of our critical Tier 1 suppliers for which Lexmark procurement represents more than 30 percent of the supplier’s total revenues is less than one percent. Less than one percent of our suppliers were determined to be of high risk, with the depth of that analysis varying based on the criticality of the risk. Based on the results of the spend analysis, Lexmark has chosen to conduct a deeper analysis of economic (cash management), environmental (weather-related) and social (war and political instability) risk factors. These risks are managed in part through the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® (EICC® ). This code prescribes best practices related to environmental performance in operations, human rights (forced or child labor, freedom of association, ILO conventions), working conditions (working hours, layoff practices, remuneration), occupational health and safety and business ethics (corruption, anti-competitive practices). Self audits and site audits against this code are conducted through the EICC. To date, approximately 200 Lexmark suppliers–including global key and strategic suppliers, those with which 2009 spend was over $1 million and those that are Lexmark critical-part suppliers–were asked to complete the EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and enter performance data into a Web-based data collection and analysis tool that helps companies collect, manage and analyze social and environmental responsibility data from suppliers. These suppliers account for a significant percentage of Lexmark's total procurement spend. Based on 2011 spend, 236 suppliers make up about 80 percent of our spend and our top 100 suppliers comprise about 65 percent of our spend. In 2012, additional key and strategic suppliers are being asked to provide this data. We expect that by 2014, 100 percent of the top 80 percent of our suppliers (by spend) will have completed the SAQ. SUPPLY CHAIN RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM AT LEXMARK Lexmark’s Global Vice President of Supply Base Management is the senior person responsible for delivering on the environmental, social and governance (ESG) objectives we’ve identified above. At the operational level, the Global Manager of Corporate Supply Base Management has responsibility for driving the ESG-objectives implementation. A direct reporting line exists between these two individuals. All of Lexmark's prime contact procurement staff have received training in environmental, social and governance issues related to our procurement processes. Procurement personnel also have access to a database of supplier information that includes the suppliers' environmental, social and governance commitments as well as their performance metrics. All Lexmark staff that engage with suppliers are expected to consider the environmental, social and governance impacts of engaging with a supplier prior to entering into a relationship with the supplier. Procurement staff are incentivized to integrate ESG factors into supply chain-related decisions because performance impacts team and individual appraisals. Sustainability is integrated into Lexmark’s supplier selection and retention processes. Rather than assign a weight to specific ESG factors in the analysis process , Lexmark has set EICC compliance as the minimum threshold for existing suppliers to meet for retention and for new suppliers for selection. Lexmark offers long-term contracts, agrees to fill production volume at suppliers’ facilities, buffers stock, consolidates suppliers and offers collaborative development and engineering to incentivize suppliers to adhere to EICC guidelines. 1. Critical suppliers are those with an annual spend over $1 million USD. CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE When our customers buy Lexmark products, they can be assured they're purchasing from a company that is not only determined to provide a quality product and unique solution at a good value, but that is sensitive to health, safety and environmental issues. At Lexmark, the impacts of our products are analyzed at all life-cycle stages that include concept, research, manufacturing, distribution, storage, disposal, reuse and recycling. Our products are designed not only to perform beyond our customers' expectations, but to exceed stringent standards for the welfare of our customers, as well as for the sustainability of the environment. We've made notable progress in these areas, and emerging technologies offer us exciting possibilities for future breakthroughs. In exploring this section of our CSR report, you'll come to understand the firm commitment Lexmark has made to these issues and the outstanding dedication of our employees to making Lexmark products the health, safety and environmental standard by which all others are judged. HIGHLIGHTS Product accessibility for everyone Innovation fuels new solutions Understanding and solving Using social media to support Improving product usability for Innovation is fostered at Lexmark in a customers’ needs customers customers with disabilities creates a variety of ways, including a series of Lexmark has a corporate vision of The Lexmark News Channel on better user experience for all our symposiums and presentations. “Customers For Life.” YouTube has helpful videos our customers. Read More Read More customers can access. Read More View Them Here UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Lexmark has a corporate vision of “Customers For Life.” A LEXMARK LISTENS TO TWEETS dedicated customer experience team exists within Lexmark with Every day, Lexmark pays a goal of creating a valued customer experience. But our a brief visit to the Twitter commitment doesn’t stop with them. The entire organization, site as Lexmark Listens from the CEO through each employee, is engaged in for comments about understanding and solving customers’ needs and concerns. All Lexmark. We are looking Lexmark employees have at least one annual performance for requests for help with a Lexmark product objective focused on the customer (Customer Focused and when we see one, we respond. Objectives). Follow us on Twitter. Click To Follow At Lexmark, various methods are utilized to regularly connect with, listen to and understand our customers. Lexmark also incorporates surveys at all phases of our customers’ experience including 30 days after purchase, post-service experiences, broadly to end users in specific key accounts, with our Business Solutions Dealers (BSD) and on an annual basis with our Managed Print Services (MPS) customers. Lexmark generates key conclusions for each of the surveys and understands the results from each respondent. Best practices are used LEXMARK LISTENS TO SURVEYS to prioritize the feedback and provide the insights to drive action that meets customer needs. Key conclusions are Lexmark’s survey generated for each type of respondent (decision makers, end users, service providers) across industries and strategy seeks customer geographies. input across the entire customer lifecycle, from The Voice of the Customer (VOC) in social media is captured with Mystery Shopper, online panels, industry prepurchase through awards that are reviewed and online Web commentary. Finally, Lexmark seeks to improve our newest products usage and replacement. with the use of Beta testing with select customers. Each of these VOC methods is incorporated back in the Read More business in various formal processes to ensure that we are listening to our customers and designing products and services that meet their needs. The Net Promoter Score has been adopted by the customer experience team as a common language used to broadly communicate and set targets for improving customer satisfaction. Lexmark has established a set of repeatable processes that utilize direct customer feedback to improve our products and services, driving a deeper understanding and continuous improvement in customer experience. CLOSED LOOP QUALITY SYSTEM The Closed Loop Quality System (CLQS) is a continuous process that utilizes direct customer feedback to better understand and resolve the negative issues that our customers experience. This feedback is combined, categorized by theme and then prioritized, taking into account customers' loyalty and concerns. A team of crossfunctional leaders addresses each theme using robust problem-solving tools. The system is designed to address immediate issues in addition to improving the processes for prevention of similar problems in the future. Finally, the system has a check phase to ensure that the particular theme has been improved. The CLQS at Lexmark ensures that our process-improvement efforts are focused on customers and addressing what matters most to them. DESIGN AN INTENDED CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Lexmark leverages customer needs-based research in innovation processes as a part of the creation of product lines, future technology planning and detailed product and service requirements. These processes include methods to systematically and predictably identify opportunities and then design and evaluate concepts that deliver significant new value. CUSTOMER-FOCUSED EMPLOYEES Lexmark employs a worldwide performance program that includes a formal process to assess progress against customer-focused objectives. Every employee sets objectives that focus on improving the customer experience. These individual objectives are based on an understanding of how the work the employees perform connects to the customer and aligns with the strategy of their department and the Company. Each objective has specific success criteria: the difference that it will make to the customer. We believe that this focus on improvement and innovation will lead to a better customer experience. Lexmark’s survey strategy seeks customer input across the entire customer lifecycle, from prepurchase through usage and replacement. This data is gathered from both Lexmark customers and our competitors’ customers. Customer perceptions of products and services are collected and analyzed to enhance both current and future development efforts. Customer needs-based research is also employed to identify ideas and technologies that have the greatest potential for creating customer value in our future efforts. Research employed: Current surveys of customer loyalty and perceptions regarding value, quality, ease of use and service at regular intervals through customers’ expected lifetime usage Needs-based research with our target customers to identify customer needs and opportunities Post-service experience surveys Customer Web panels used to field feedback on new ideas Customer testing on ease of use in early product development to drive improvement prior to start of production Annual Managed Print Services (MPS) survey PRODUCT VALIDATION/USABILITY During the new product-development cycle, Lexmark verifies not only that the product meets all specifications, but that it goes further gathering indirect and direct input from customers to validate how well the product satisfies their needs. Early in the development cycles, Lexmark utilizes an internal team whose goal is to emulate customers in their uses of the product. The team utilizes feedback from current customers to direct their product validation efforts. During this same time period, internal Lexmark customers are recruited to provide early feedback on what actual customers will experience. As the product development cycle continues, future customers are brought into Lexmark and products are sent to their work or home environments to gather specific feedback on the functionality and usability of the products. These processes provide products that not only meet the specifications but, more important, satisfy the needs of Lexmark’s customers. INITIAL CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE/ROLLOUT Lexmark is focused on maximizing the customer experience during the rollout of a new product to our customers. One program sends the product engineering team onsite to engage with the customer and ensure a positive product introduction. Not only is the customer satisfied, but the engineering team takes back the learning to continuously improve the rollout experience for all customers. In 2011, the Lexmark product engineering team was onsite with 10 customer rollouts, in addition to being engaged with the rollout team for more than 50 customers. CUSTOMER VISIT PROGRAM Lexmark launched a new customer visit program, in which our engineers and product designers visit customers who are using Lexmark devices. These face-to-face interactions help us better understand the needs of our customers and will result in the design of improved solutions in the future. LEXMARK LISTENS Lexmark’s survey strategy seeks customer input across the entire customer lifecycle, from prepurchase through usage and replacement. Survey data is gathered from both Lexmark customers and our competitors’ customers. Customer perceptions of products and services are collected and analyzed to enhance both current and future development efforts. Customer needs-based research is also employed to identify ideas and technologies that have the greatest potential for creating customer value in our future efforts. Research employed: Annual competitive survey of customer loyalty and perceptions regarding value, quality, ease of use and service Current surveys of customer loyalty and perceptions regarding value, quality, ease of use and service at regular intervals through customers’ expected lifetime usage Needs-based research with target customers to identify customer needs and opportunities Prepurchase research conducted in aisle at retail locations Post-service experience surveys Customer Web panels used to field feedback on new ideas Customer testing on ease of use in early product development to drive improvement prior to start of production Annual Managed Print Services (MPS) survey This broad spectrum of research provided feedback from over 150,000 customers in 2009 alone. CUSTOMER SECURITY AND PRIVACY The Internet has become a major portal for Lexmark and its customers to interact. Customers and prospective customers use Lexmark’s Web site for a multitude of reasons. To research Lexmark products, solutions and service offerings To buy products directly from Lexmark online or find where to buy them through partners To register a product purchased from Lexmark for warranty purposes To get help for resolving a product issue; either unassisted help via the Lexmark KnowledgeBase or assisted help from a Lexmark Support Representative During these transactions, Lexmark may ask customers for the following personal information: First and last name Title and company name Home, billing, or other physical address (including street name, name of a city or town, state/province, postal code) Credit card number Email address Telephone number Online account ID and password How products are used in their home or business Whether or not they want future contact from Lexmark (marketing materials, special offers and promotions, etc.) Lexmark takes the privacy of personal information provided by our customers very seriously. We are happy to report that we have had no customer complaints regarding breach of personal information collected via Internet marketing and sales activities. Prior to October 2009, Lexmark outsourced the Web store to a third-party channel partner, which administered the store and collected the personal information necessary to complete sales transactions. We have not received any customer complaints for breach of personal information by the third party. SECURITY OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION To protect against unauthorized access, misuse, disclosure or alteration of personal information, Lexmark employs appropriate physical, technical and administrative security measures. Physical security is designed to prevent unauthorized access to database equipment and hard copies of documents. Electronic security measures, such as firewalls, access restrictions and encryption, provide protection from hacking or other unauthorized access. Lexmark limits access to personal information to those persons in our organization, or agents of Lexmark, who have a specific business purpose for maintaining and processing personal information and data. Lexmark regularly reviews privacy compliance. Lexmark offers recourse to customers who feel there has been a breach of their personal data. A designated email and designated postal address are available. website@lexmark.com Lexmark International, Inc. Privacy Mailbox 740 West New Circle Road Lexington, Kentucky 40550 When we receive written questions and concerns at these addresses, it is Lexmark's policy to contact the individual user regarding his or her concerns. We will investigate and attempt to resolve issues regarding use and disclosure of personal information in accordance with the principles contained in this statement. Any concern that cannot be resolved through our internal processes will be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) in accordance with its applicable commercial rules and, as applicable, the Safe Harbor Principles. The exclusive location for such arbitration shall be Lexington, Kentucky. Lexmark’s U.S. privacy policy can be found at: http://www1.lexmark.com/en_US/terms/privacy-security.shtml. MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS It is Lexmark’s policy to avoid any misstatement of fact or misleading impression in any of its advertising, literature, exhibits or other public statements. We insist that all statements made in support of our products and services are true statements that can be supported to the satisfaction of a reasonable person. In addition, any omission of fact, wrongful emphasis or use of illustrative material that would tend to mislead a reader, listener or viewer is to be avoided. No claim, comparison or other statement of fact should be included in a message without having sufficient evidence to support it. It is the joint responsibility of the Corporate Communications Department representative preparing the message and the person in the business area responsible for the product or service involved to see that all facts are true and properly supported. Lexmark also sells no products which are banned in any markets. Lexmark reviews its compliance with these standards annually. Lexmark had no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications in 2011. PRODUCT ACCESSIBILITY WHAT'S THE NEED? There is a very high rate of unemployment in the blind community because today's Navigating office environments can be a challenge for workers with physical, sensory and cognitive disabilities. As office equipment is typically not accessible. a result, the unemployment rate within the disabled community is extraordinarily high. Some studies have The Lexmark Accessibility Solution is a suggested that unemployment rate within the blind community, for example, may be as high as 75 percent. software program that allows us to provide a web interface for our multifunction devices Lexmark is committed to doing its part to eliminate barriers to workplace success-barriers like printing or scanning that allows blind people or the disabled to a document. access all the functionality of the device View Video We apply the principles of universal design to the design of our products with the goal of delivering accessible imaging devices and assistive software solutions that allow all office workers to make the most of their unique skills and abilities in the workplace. SOLUTION FOR MOBILE DEVICES Lexmark has defined processes and methodologies that help us ensure our products and solutions are Traditionally, increasingly accessible. printers and MFPs have only CUSTOMER INPUT displayed the status of the As we develop products and solutions, we seek input from customers with disabilities to better understand their device on the unique needs and challenges, and then incorporate their ideas and feedback into our designs. operator panel. For a user with a visual impairment, these messages may be difficult STANDARDS AND DIRECTIVES or impossible to read. We refer to guidance provided by current and developing standards and directives that prescribe best practices in View Video the development of office equipment, software solutions and communications. Section 508 of the United States Rehabilitation Act, the European Union’s Mandate 376 and Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (W3C) are just a few of the many standards we reference. SOLUTIONS FOR THE COMPUTER CONSULTATION WITH EXPERTS Members of the Lexmark’s Accessibility Cross-Functional Team has established relationships with accessible design experts and American accessibility analysts including the American Foundation for the Blind (AFB) and the National Foundation for the Foundation for Blind (NFB). Our product designers and software developers apply insight acquired through consultations with the Blind these experts to the design of future products and solutions. demonstrate adaptive American Foundation for the Blind Lexmark IT software that helps the blind or National Federation of the Blind disabled use printers in that fit their needs. Featured are the Lexmark Screen Reader Kentucky Office for the Blind Software, Lexmark Screen Magnifier Solution and the Lexmark Voice Recognition System. Ai Squared View Video Freedom Scientific GW Micro Nuance Software AUDIO FEEDBACK Traditionally, EDUCATION AND INSPIRATION printers and MFPs have only To increase awareness of accessibility challenges and inspire innovation, Lexmark hosts education seminars and displayed the lunch-and-learn sessions on the topic of accessibility. status of the device on the In 2011, Lexmark hosted a Design for Accessibility Seminar that educated the engineering community about the operator panel. For a user with a visual need for accessible design, and featured a speaker who talked about the need for accessible office equipment at impairment, these messages may be difficult his business. The seminar also featured representatives from Wounded Warriors, a non-profit organization that or impossible to read. helps wounded veterans return to the civilian workforce; a local organization that provides assistive technology to View Video school-age children; and a Certified Prosthetist and Orthotist (CPO) who demonstrated the use of prosthetic devices and discussed the challenges of using prosthetics with imaging devices and other office equipment. In 2012, Lexmark hosted an education session on socially beneficial innovation featuring Dr. Mario Romero, WEB CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY former Director of the Georgia Institute of Technology Child Study Laboratory. Dr. Romero discussed accessibility challenges, the need for assistive technologies and his development of solutions including BrailleTouch, an eyesIncorporating free text entry application for multipoint touch-screen smartphones and tablets. Web Content Accessibility Guidelines ACCESSIBILITY FEATURES AND SOLUTIONS design features. At Lexmark, we’ve made accessibility a key marker in every phase of our product development process. To further ensure that we meet our goals, we have established a cross-functional committee to manage and oversee Read More our accessibility initiatives. As a result, we’ve been able to incorporate a number of helpful features into our products. ACCESSIBLE HEIGHT AND REACH Lexmark engineers apply the principles of universal design to our products to accommodate the height, reach and force needs of all users. TACTILELY DISCERNIBLE NUMPAD Visually impaired users can orient themselves as they control the printer using bumps on the 5 and Home keys. ON-DEVICE GUIDANCE Large, high-contrast pictures guide users as they perform common tasks. EXTRA-LARGE USER INTERFACE Lexmark offers some of the largest user interfaces on the market. The extra-large color touch screen lets users with reduced vision operate MFPs with ease. ADJUSTABLE DISPLAY Many displays can be tilted to optimize their viewing angle. LEXMARK ACCESSIBILITY SOLUTION This revolutionary solution lets users create job tickets with their computer or smartphone while using assistive technology like the JAWS screen reader. When they enter a shortcut on the printer’s accessible numpad, their job is released. LEXMARK ACCESSIBILITY SPEECH SOLUTION With this solution, users simply press the * and 0 keys in sequence to hear an audio message about the printer’s status (for example, “Tray 1 is out of paper”). ACCESSIBILITY CASE STUDY WEB CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY In the development of this web-enabled report, Lexmark incorporated design features recommended in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG 2.0). UNIVERSAL DESIGN Design features that make the web experience better for all users include the use of fonts whose style, size and color make text more visually distinguishable. Additionally, images that transition such as the slider on the CSR Report home page are designed to allow all users sufficient time to read the text. COMPATIBILITY WITH ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY Design features were included to improve website accessibility for users of screen reader and screen magnifier software. Text alternatives for non-text content (images and graphs), list-oriented navigation and header tags enhance website usability in conjunction with assistive technologies. INNOVATION Innovation is core to Lexmark's business strategy. Innovation allows us to deliver solutions that make them more productive and efficient. Our focus on socially and environmentally beneficial innovation allows us to be more productive and efficient while being respectful of our environment and socially responsible. Refer to the case studies below for examples of recent environmentally and socially beneficial innovations. During training, our employees are made aware that looking for and discovering better, more efficient and improved eco-friendly ways of doing things, is the surest method of bettering our company, helping our customers and safeguarding the environment. Whether it’s improved energy efficiency in our facilities or better ways of making, packaging and shipping our products, we expect all our employees to think outside the box. ENCOURAGING INNOVATION Throughout the year Lexmark offers engineers and designers opportunities to learn about innovation and try their hand at creating solutions. Among the many opportunities in 2011 Lexmark offered the Excellence Symposium, an event where external speakers describe the benefits of particular Lexmark equipment in their operations, and the Entrepreneurial Challenge–a platform for our employees to put forth new and innovative ideas they may have that would benefit Lexmark's customers. INNOVATION CASE STUDIES Environmentally beneficial caster base packaging redesign. PACKAGING INNOVATION Read More Environmentally beneficial fuser packaging redesign. PACKAGING INNOVATION Read More Energy efficient laser printer design. ENERGY INNOVATION Read More Designing the next green office building. SYSTEM INNOVATION Read More Solutions that make imaging devices accessible to all. ACCESSIBILITY INNOVATION Read More INNOVATION CASE STUDY ENVIRONMENTALLY BENEFICIAL CASTER BASE PACKAGING REDESIGN Lexmark’s high-end monochrome laser printers are frequently installed on caster bases. Historically, the caster bases have been shipped on an individual pallet. While this original packaging design ensured complete protection of the caster base during shipping, the design was heavier and bulkier than desired. Recognizing the opportunity for improvement, the packaging team initiated a project aimed at reducing the size and weight of the caster base packaging. The resulting redesigned packaging completely eliminated the need for the pallet as well as much of the bulk and weight of the caster base packaging, thereby reducing shipping impacts and consumption of natural resources. INNOVATION CASE STUDY FUSER PACKAGING REDESIGN Early in 2011, Lexmark’s service team identified an opportunity for improvement related to the packaging of replacement fusers. The service team noticed that the packaging used to protect replacement fusers during shipping was very durable and could easily be reused. They shared their idea for reuse with Lexmark’s packaging engineers. Shortly thereafter, a packaging collection and reuse project commenced. Two challenges had to be overcome to make the New Design Old Design packaging reuse project viable. First, the team had to get the packaging back from the field. Second, the team needed to be assured what they did get returned was the packaging design needed to ship out new fusers. Customers were encouraged to return end of life fusers to Lexmark for recycling, reusing the replacement fuser packaging as the return shipping packaging. Fuser packaging was redesigned so that a single design could be used to protect multiple fuser designs. The new packaging design features foam cushions that can be configured to protect multiple fuser models, can be reused to ship new replacement parts and are made from 65 percent recycled content. INNOVATION CASE STUDY SIGNIFICANT ENERGY REDUCTIONS VERSUS PREVIOUS GENERATION PRODUCTS Lexmark’s newly released C74x color laser printers and X74x multifunction color laser printers (MFPs) exemplify our commitment to innovation for energy efficiency. These models incorporate Lexmark's newest energy innovations including a higher-efficiency power supply and a more energy-efficient electronics design that powers down substantial parts of the product in sleep mode. The model also features a new hibernate mode that allows the user to turn the device on and off on a schedule that meets the needs of their work habits. Hibernate mode also allows the product to meet the requirements of the new European Union Standby/Off Mode regulations that will go into effect in January 2013. The C740/X740 devices offer a 20 percent reduction in the Energy Star Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC) test on the printers and a 37 percent reduction on the MFPs over previous generation products. Even more impressive is the more than 50 percent reduction of power consumed in sleep mode. These power numbers are better than our primary competition in this market segment. INNOVATION CASE STUDY UNVEILING NEW ENERGY-EFFICIENT TOOLS IN ENERGY GREEN OFFICE BUILDING In 2009, Lexmark France joined a new consortium – the Bouygues Immobilier Positive Energy Consortium. This consortium, launched by the leading French office-building promoter, originally gathered eight companies that are experts in their own industries. Members worked together to design the first positive energy green office building. This building, which produces more energy than it consumes, opened in 2010. The consortium focuses on carbon footprint reduction and energy efficiency. The original eight partner companies – Bouygues Immobilier, Lexmark, Schneider Electric, Siemens, Philips, Tandberg, Sodexo and Steelcase – and several new additions including Intel – are jointly developing programs to decrease the energy consumption of the green office building and to increase its capacity to produce renewable energy. Printing is a critical element of the green office because non-optimized printing processes can result in significant amounts of waste. Chosen for its “Print Less. Save More.” solutions, Lexmark is responsible for the implementation of environmentally beneficial printing practices in this green office, including: Print infrastructure Confidential printing Document management User productivity and satisfaction Carbon footprint reduction Lexmark also participates in specific research programs including research related to the energy consumption of information technology equipment in the office. The objective is to reduce the energy consumption by two-thirds. INTEL and Lexmark have recently partnered in a pilot test of another tool called the Personal Office Energy Monitor (POEM). This tool allows office occupants the opportunity to monitor the real time office energy consumption (equipment such as computers and printers as well as heating and lighting). POEM can be used to compare the office worker’s personal energy consumption to the average energy consumption for their department to gauge performance and hopefully adopt energy-saving habits. PRODUCT HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS Lexmark considers the health and safety impacts of all of its products and services at all life cycle stages including conceptualization, research and development, manufacturing, distribution, use, service and disposal (reuse or recycling). Many of these health and safety considerations are mandatory, such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) toxicity testing that Lexmark completes in accordance with OECD 404, 405, 406 and 423, other considerations are based on customer concerns. For example, news coverage of a 2007 study regarding ultrafine particulates concerned some users of laser printers. The study found that laser printers emit particulates in the ultrafine size range. Further investigation revealed that these ultrafine particles were not particles of toner, as originally believed. Though there are no regulations or standards governing ultrafine particulates to which printer emissions can be compared, Lexmark investigates ultrafine particulates and monitors related studies because this is a concern for our customers. Lexmark has not identified any noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Lexmark products or services and no fines have been imposed. PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION Lexmark understands that the safety and compatibility of our products is of utmost importance to our customers. The following product and service information is required by Lexmark procedures for product and service information and labeling: the sourcing of components of the product or service; content; safe use of the product or service; disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts. To achieve regulatory compliance with worldwide standards and local laws, our products are tested annually in laboratories that are accredited by third-party agencies. This accreditation helps ensure that the data collected and the reports submitted for regulatory compliance are obtained from test facilities and personnel that comply with the relevant ISO standards. These laboratories are accredited to conduct tests for certifications associated with specific regulatory standards and agency marks such as Blue Angel, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Comité International Spécial des Perturbations Radioélectriques (CISPR), Underwriters Laboratories (UL) and Conformité Européenne (CE). Additionally, data is collected and submitted to regulatory agencies worldwide such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the China Quality Certification Center (CQC) to obtain the mandatory marks for importation to countries worldwide. To maintain these capabilities, the test equipment in these facilities is calibrated to ISO 17025 / ANSI Z540 standards and tracked for calibration with an ISO 9001 database on an annual basis. This system of certifications is also employed by our suppliers worldwide at subassembly and finished product stages and suppliers are audited regularly for compliance by the respective agencies whose regulatory marks are applied to each product. Any non-compliances or variation notices issued as a result of these audits are promptly addressed within the required compliance period and resolved prior to future product shipments. Lexmark had no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning service information and labeling in 2011 and no fines have been imposed. SOCIETY Lexmark sells its products in over 170 countries around the globe and has facilities or offices in more than 70 of those nations. Such a broad footprint makes it imperative that our operations have a positive effect on the citizens of those communities in which we do business. We strive to be a company that people welcome into their community; the kind of company they’d want to work for — a company that cares. Charitable giving, volunteerism, educational support and commitment to diversity are part of the culture at Lexmark. Those commitments are not only good for society, but the goodwill they generate is beneficial to Lexmark. The need for societal contribution is ongoing and we continually seek opportunities to improve in this area. In this section, we document our efforts to have a positive social impact and discuss some of our plans for future initiatives. HIGHLIGHTS Diversity at Lexmark Volunteerism at Lexmark Lexmark Financial Contributions Lexmark's Inspire Award Embracing our differences makes Lexmark supports the communities Lexmark’s commitment to its Lexmark recognizes middle and high Lexmark a better place to work. where our employees live and work communities takes tangible form in school teachers across Central Read More through our volunteer efforts. donations of equipment, providing Kentucky for outstanding contributions Read More volunteers and offering financial in science, technology, engineering or support. math education. Read More Read More LEXMARK'S IMPACT ON OUR COMMUNITIES WHERE WE DO BUSINESS Lexmark products are sold in more than 170 countries. Lexmark owns or leases 7.4 million square feet of various LEXMARK’S LEGACY TRAIL types of facilities worldwide and operates sales offices in more than 70 countries. We have three manufacturing A 12-mile centers in Boulder, Colorado, Juárez, Mexico and Lapu-Lapu City, Philippines. walking and biking trail that Lexmark has programs and policies in place that guide our decision making and operations prior to entering a is a scenic community, while we are operating in a community and as we exit a community. These programs and policies corridor help to ensure that our impact on the communities we inhabit is positive. connecting urban and rural Fayette County. Read More PRIOR TO ENTERING A COMMUNITY Lexmark carefully considers potential social and environmental impacts of doing business in all locations before building or opening a facility in a community. Our Corporate Real Estate and Facilities Team conducts assessments of all proposed locations, taking into consideration, among other things, the potential for severe weather such as floods or tornadoes, the proximity, availability and reliability of police and fire departments, local crime statistics, government stability and our operations’ potential impact on local utilities and ecosystems. Whenever possible, we choose to do business in locations that have stringent environmental, safety and labor regulations in place that protect the environment and local residents as well as assist Lexmark in compliance. The environmental screening tools and checklists used by Lexmark’s Corporate Real Estate and Facilities Teams have been recently updated with new guidance criteria to ensure that Lexmark sites are as energy efficient as possible from the start. Whether Lexmark builds a new building or chooses to lease an existing facility, our preference is to do so in a previously industrialized area. That choice precludes the deforestation and habitat destruction that comes with building in undeveloped areas. It also offers the benefit of locating our operations near the homes of employees, thereby reducing commuting time and distance which in turn increases employee transportation options (walking, biking, public transportation). WHILE OPERATING IN A COMMUNITY While Lexmark does not have a global policy for granting preference to local residents when hiring in significant locations of operation, most employees are members of the local community and are offered educational and skill-development opportunities. We also offer transfer programs – where employees in one region may go to another to train for a job for a few weeks to as many as a few years. Lexmark’s presence has positive impacts on the economies of the communities surrounding our locations through our efforts to provide above-average employee compensation and use of local resources where possible. A significant portion of Lexmark employees – including those in the United States, Mexico and the Philippines – work in locations that have minimum-wage rules. Lexmark is committed to rewarding our employees for their hard work. Lexmark and its subsidiaries around the world offer salaries and benefit plans that are highly competitive in each of the countries in which we operate. Plans are benchmarked frequently to ensure that compensation and salary levels remain competitive and allow us to attract and retain employees in each region. These efforts to provide above-average employee compensation have a favorable economic impact on the markets in which we do business. The patronage of Lexmark and its employees increases business for local utility companies, service providers, restaurants and retailers. The corporate taxes paid by Lexmark and additional wage taxes paid by our employees help support local governments and schools. These impacts are quantified in terms of dollars spent. For example, highlights of Lexmark’s economic impact on Lexington, Kentucky, in 2011 are: 4,826 trips in and out of Lexington's Blue Grass Airport, producing $3.9 million in airfares. 2,839 overnight Lexington hotel stays valued at $305,369. 3,167 Lexington car rental days generating $117,053 in fees. Average salary of $99,080 for Lexington and surrounding area residents. More than $329 million in local wages – contributing nearly $7.5 million for local government and public schools. Lexmark’s commitment to its communities, including contributions of equipment, volunteers and financial support to social organizations, can also be quantified. Volunteer hours for 2011 were at an all time high due to the tremendous volunteer efforts of Lexmark employees as part of the company's 20th anniversary celebration. The total number of volunteer hours exceeded 140,000 hours of service at more than 212 non-profit organizations. Lexmark has not conducted a formal community needs assessment, but based on feedback from local citizens, charities and governments, needs and requests are addressed when reasonably possible. MAKING DECISIONS TO EXIT A COMMUNITY Over the past several years, business needs, including a changing product portfolio and demand for increased operational efficiency, have resulted in the geographical movement of some Lexmark operations. The obsolescence of a particular type of inkjet cartridge, for example, necessitated the closure of the Lexmark facility in Chihuahua, Mexico that manufactured that component. This, in turn, created an increased production burden on the Lexmark facility in Cebu, Philippine, that manufactures the new type of cartridge. Recent plant closures have included an inkjet facility in Scotland (2006), inkjet supply manufacturing facilities in Juárez, Mexico (2007) and Chihuahua (2008) and a circuit assembly facility, also in Juárez (2009). Communities experiencing losses have had to deal with increased unemployment and a decreased tax base. Lexmark takes care to reduce the impact on the locations that experience those losses. When exiting buildings, we ensure that the locations are clean and secure. We make every possible effort to avoid leaving an unoccupied building and we comply with all local laws to ensure that employees and local governments are given notice of imminent changes and assistance in their efforts to secure new employment, in some instances, even offering some non-exempt employees the opportunity to continue their employment with us at other Lexmark facilities. While there are no standard metrics that can be used to gauge the effectiveness of these efforts, we have seen evidence that these initiatives have eased negative impacts. Lexmark’s inkjet facility in Chihuahua was purchased by a developer who went on to lease this facility to a manufacturer. In transitioning this property to another manufacturer, Lexmark ensured that the existing building was not left unoccupied and the new occupant offered employment opportunities to laborers in the area. When leaving an area, Lexmark is proactive in assisting employees in finding new employment in their community. The Scottish Government’s Partnership Action for Continuing Employment (PACE), posted the following on its Web site with regard to Lexmark’s closing of the Lexmark facility in Scotland. “Lexmark has been in Rosyth for 10 years and employed some 700 staff in the production of printer cartridges. Due to a downturn in demand and company restructuring, the decision was reluctantly taken to close the Rosyth operation. From the outset, Lexmark was extremely proactive and, prior to meeting the representatives of the PACE team, had set up a well resourced Job Shop. Due to the publicity over the closure and successful marketing by both Lexmark Job Shop staff and Jobcentre Plus, employees were made aware of over 1500 vacancies. These covered a wide spectrum of opportunities including engineering, call centre work and care vacancies.” Click here to read more. LESSONS LEARNED As Lexmark traverses each step in the business process, we take what we have learned and apply that knowledge to future engagements. FINANCIAL AND IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS Commitment to Corporate Giving INSPIRE AWARD Lexmark’s commitment to its communities takes tangible form in donations of equipment, providing volunteers and As part of Lexmark's 20th offering financial support to worthy organizations working to meet the challenges and needs of modern society. anniversary celebration, Responsible corporate citizenship is good business. Lexmark applies the same standards of excellence to its we announced INSPIRE: contribution and community support activities that it uses in all business practices. Lexmark's Teaching Award. View Here 2011 U.S. CHARITABLE GIVING United Way U.S. employees and Lexmark's corporate contribution of cash and in-kind gifts to the United Way $1,000,000 totalled more than 20 million dollars in 20 years, making Lexmark the largest supporter of United Way EQUIPMENT DONATIONS of the Bluegrass. Lexmark donates new and used printers to Operation Homefront qualified non-profit Lexmark and Office Depot have teamed up to provide military families with technology to help them $110,146 organizations. stay in touch with their loved ones serving in the armed forces by donating new Lexmark printers to the nonprofit organization. Read More University of Kentucky $200,000 This is part of a larger, long-term $1 million pledge Other cash and equipment donations $1,132,715 Total giving $2,442,861 MULTI-YEAR COMMITMENTS Lexmark Scholarship Fund As part of Lexmark's 20th anniversary celebration, a $250,000 scholarship fund was established at the University of Colorado for students in the College of Engineering and Applied Science. This scholarship $250,000 recognizes Paul J. Curlander, former Lexmark Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of Directors, for his many years of service to Lexmark. Lexmark's INSPIRE Award This teacher recognition program highlights and rewards outstanding science, technology, engineering $3,000 and math teachers. Selected teachers receive a $1000 cash award to further math and science education in their classrooms. Three awards were given out in 2011 and many more are planned for 2012. CORPORATE GIVING PROGRAM As outlined in the Lexmark Vision and Values, we strive to be good corporate citizens in the communities where our employees live and work. Our commitment to local, national and global communities is evident in our contributions of financial, equipment and volunteer support to organizations working to help meet the challenges and needs of modern society. We apply the same standards of excellence to our contribution and community support activities that we use in our business operations. Our Corporate Giving Program in the U.S. focuses on employee volunteerism and educational excellence, specifically in the areas of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). Lexmark contributes to schools and non-profit organizations that have tax-exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Lexmark did not make any charitable contributions that exceeded the greater of $1 million or two percent of a charitable organization’s consolidated gross revenues, to any charitable organization for which a member of the Board served as an executive officer. The Board’s conformance with this guidance prevents potential conflict of interest issues regarding our charitable giving practices. FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS SUPPORT OF THE UNITED WAY Lexmark’s 2011 United Way campaign marked a major milestone for our Company and the community. Not only did we reach our $1 million goal, but we achieved a grand total of $20 million donated to United Way since the Company’s inception 20 years ago. Lexmark finds unique ways to raise money for the United Way including disc golf, ping-pong and softball tournaments as well as the annual auction of our employees’ art. SUPPORT FOR STEM EDUCATION We have created the INSPIRE Award to recognize middle and high school teachers across central Kentucky for their outstanding contributions to Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education. Lexmark’s corporate giving continues to be focused around the improvement of STEM education. Lexmark has committed to donating $1 million to renovate a teacher education facility in Lexington and $250,000 to the University of Colorado College of Engineering for scholarships. Additionally, $100,000 will be given in Cebu, Philippines to renovate and equip a math and science magnet school. NATURAL DISASTERS In times of tragedy, including weather disasters, Lexmark supports relief efforts, especially in those areas where we have facilities. Lexmark employees are encouraged to make personal contributions to the International Red Cross and Red Cross Crescent Societies or the Red Cross International Response Fund. The Company often matches these contributions. For example, in the wake of the earthquake in Japan, Lexmark donated $25,000 to the International Red Cross to help provide relief to the communities affected by this disaster. The Company also offered up to $25,000 in additional funds to match individual employee contributions to the International Red Cross. OPERATION HOMEFRONT For the second year in a row, Lexmark and Office Depot teamed to support Operation Homefront. The special program provides military families with technology to help them stay in touch with their loved ones serving in the armed forces by donating new Lexmark printers to the nonprofit organization. Office Depot and Lexmark hope to donate more than 4,000 Lexmark X2670 printers. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND LOBBYING Lexmark is committed to transparency in its political dealings and relationships. To view Lexmark's policy on political contributions, click here. Lexmark is committed to complying with local laws related to the disclosure of political dealings such as those that require reporting of political contributions be appropriate state or federal political / ethics authorities and publication on their respective Web sites. No financial or in-kind political contributions have been made in the U.S. or non-U.S. countries where we do business or at the national level in the U.S. COUNTRY OF MAJOR OPERATION* 2011 TOTAL MONETARY VALUE OF CONTRIBUTIONS United States (HQ) $0 Mexico (Mfg) $0 Philippines $0 Lexmark employs the services of a remunerated attorney advocate from time to time. This advocate is remunerated for providing Lexmark with guidance on proposed and enacted legislation, and communicates Lexmark's positions on legislation to interested parties. *No reporting required for the countries of Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia and New Zealand as no major Lexmark operations (R&D, manufacturing or HQ) are located in these geographies. LEXMARK EQUIPMENT DONATIONS Lexmark regularly receives requests for donations of new and used printers. Qualified non-profit organizations are considered on an ongoing basis and priority is given to organizations in which Lexmark employees serve as volunteers. Printers may also be requested for donation to fundraising auctions or events sponsored by qualified nonprofit organizations. View the application form here. COMMITMENT TO VOLUNTEERISM UNITED STATES Lexmark supports the communities where our employees live and work and places special emphasis on TREES FOR TRACKS programs utilizing the time and talents of our employees as volunteers. We encourage members of our workforce CSX Corporation is a to be involved with charities that interest them and we have programs in place to support organizations of valued Lexmark particular importance to them. customer and a partner in sustainability. Employee volunteer efforts include such organizations as United Way of the Bluegrass, Junior Achievement, Read More Habitat for Humanity and many more. Over the last 20 years, Lexmark employees have been the leading employee campaign for United Way of the Bluegrass, contributing thousands of volunteer hours in addition to their generous monetary contributions. Lexmark and its employees have donated $20 million (USD) in 20 years to United Way of the Bluegrass. TORNADO CLEAN UP Several Lexmark 20 YEARS OF VOLUNTEERING employees were part of As a way of commemorating Lexmark’s twentieth anniversary, and to reinforce our company’s commitment to the first team that went to volunteerism, we challenged ourselves with a goal of 175,200 man-hours. This is equal to the total volunteer the West Liberty hours compiled during Lexmark’s first 20 years. Though we fell short of this goal in our first attempt, we are asking Elementary School employees to recommit to this ambition in 2012 and plan to continue until we succeed in reaching this goal. (WLES) to help get it set up for classes in a warehouse building after a devastating VOLUNTEER OF THE YEAR AWARD tornado struck in March. Read More Through various programs, Lexmark encourages its employees to volunteer their time, talents and resources to their local communities. We have an exceptional employee talent pool and the Company empowers its employees to give their time and skills by providing innovative programs, such as Volunteer Time Off, Make It Happen Fund, Volunteer Grants and Matching Gifts. We know our employees have interests beyond Lexmark and we support their efforts to be involved in their communities. The Company introduced its Volunteer of the Year Award in 2004 VOLUNTEER TIME OFF PROGRAM and it is designed to support our value of corporate citizenship. Lexmark offers all regular U.S. employees three paid days off each year through the Only Lexmark employees are eligible to be nominated Volunteer Time Off Program. This program for the award, but anyone may submit a nomination, has generated more than 10,000 hours of including outside organizations and individuals. service to more than 200 non-profit organizations and schools and allows our Lexmark’s Global Living the Vision Committee reviews employees time to help organizations that are the candidates and selects the recipient of the award. important to them. Activities include The Committee evaluates criteria such as the volunteering at a local school as a mentor, community need that has been addressed, the number tutoring or working at non-profit organizations. of hours contributed, the number of people impacted as Opportunities are everywhere and we want well as the leadership aspects of the particular example our employees to feel valued as integral parts of volunteerism. of the community. The recipient is honored at an internal event and Lexmark donates $2,500.00 (USD) to an eligible nonprofit organization or school of the winner’s choice. Jeri Isbell, Lexmark Vice President of Human The 2010 Lexmark Volunteer of the Year is Ximena Resources, presents the Lexmark 2010 Volunteer of McCollum. Ms. McCollum was recognized for her the Year award to Ximena McCollum (on the right). service as a 'big sister' to Emily, a young Hispanic girl, whose family is originally from Honduras and her service as an interpreter for Spanish speaking individuals. For information on the 2009 Lexmark Volunteer of the Year Award visit here. VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES UNITED STATES United Way – Lexmark not only supports the United Way through charitable giving, but also encourages employee volunteerism. During 2011, over 300 Lexmark employees volunteered 1,500 hours to the United Way. Employees completed 39 community service projects in Boulder, Colorado and Lexington, Kentucky. Habitat for Humanity – Lexmark’s 15th Habitat for Humanity house was built in Lexington in 2011. Approximately 100 volunteers participated over the course of the entire project. Employees were able to use their Volunteer Time Off to participate in the build. Habitat for Humanity strives to provide affordable and energy-efficient homes to low income families. The organization has helped more than 2 million families worldwide. Proud owners of a new home. Junior Achievement – During the 2010-2011 school year, Lexmark sponsored courses at its adopted school, William Wells Brown Elementary, with close to 50 employees volunteering to teach business and economics courses at this and other Fayette County Public Schools. Engineering volunteers – Lexmark encourages its engineers and scientists to participate in National Engineers Week each February by volunteering to share their passion for math, science and technology with students from across Kentucky. The Company’s volunteers participate by helping to create an engineering station for students to explore at The Fayette County District Science and Engineering Fair. Volunteers also judge student projects. Women in Engineering Career Day is an annual event also held in February wherein high school girls from Fayette County are welcomed for a day of engineering activities. Lexmark volunteers assist with on-site tours and other hands-on activities. Also in February, The University of Kentucky's College of Engineering hosts UK Engineering Day, an event of learning and exploration at UK for students of all ages. Lexmark volunteers support the event with product demonstrations, explanations of science concepts and a behind-the-scenes look at the product development process. Lexmark Teacher’s Institute – Lexmark sponsored the week long institute which pairs K-12 teachers of science, technology, engineering, math (STEM) and language arts with companies to better understand how businesses use what schools are teaching, to gain real-world examples and bring real-life scenarios into the curriculum. The teachers learn about how business works and what students must do to compete in the real world. Substitute teaching initiative – Using the three days of Volunteer Time Off, Lexmark employees are matched with a teacher in one of the STEM fields to provide teachers the opportunity to pursue professional development and provide significant teaching opportunities for Lexmark volunteers. Tubby’s Clubhouse/Dell TechKnow – The Dell TechKnow program is a 40-hour, after-school initiative in which students learn about computers and software applications through hands-on activities. Five Tubby’s Clubhouses in Lexington, Kentucky offer the program and Lexmark provided support through in-kind gifts. Nearly 1,250 middle-school students have graduated from the program to date, with each graduate receiving a Lexmark printer. Kentucky Governor’s Scholars – Lexmark supports the engineering programs and hosts the students for a daylong session focused on applying and using the diverse areas of science and technology. Louisville Science Center and Lexmark team up for National Engineers Week – Lexmark partnered with the Louisville Science Center to celebrate activities during 2011 National Engineers Week. Lexmark volunteers participated in hands-on demonstrations at LSC for school groups to encourage critical thinking. It was also an opportunity for students to learn more about how different areas of science have real-life applications. Trees For Tracks – CSX Corporation is a valued Lexmark customer, but also a partner in sustainability. CSX's Trees for Tracks program recently brought together 170 volunteers from Lexmark, CSX and the Lexington community as a whole to plant trees along the Legacy Trail in Fayette County. The volunteers planted more than 600 trees that day. HUNGARY Employees of Lexmark Budapest and their families renovated and painted wooden benches, jungle gyms and rest huts at a kindergarten in Budapest. Kindergarten painting and renovation Lexmark Budapest employees joined the nationwide “Teszedd” campaign wherein 160,000 volunteers helped clean up many underdeveloped public areas in their neighborhoods. Volunteers help clean up neighborhood Lexmark Budapest organized a Christmas party for children of employees where they met Santa in person. Children who had been ‘good’ all year and placed their clean boots on the window sill found small gifts placed in them. Holiday party for employee's children PHILIPPINES Volunteer employees of LIPI participated in several initiatives to improve the health of local populations including blood drives, cervical and flu vaccinations, anemia screening, eye examinations and health seminars. The employees of Lexmark International Philippines Inc. (LIPI) attended the Save the Buhisan Watershed Project Donor's Recognition and Forum at the Metropolitan Cebu Water District (MCWD) facility in the Buhisan Watershed and Forest Reserve. The project is implemented with partners from the public LIPI employees blood drive and private sectors and aims to sustain the Watershed through environmental rehabilitation initiatives like reforestation. The project was launched in 2008 as part of Cebu’s environmental response to the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals. LIPI employees volunteered to plant tree seedlings near Cebu City in 2011. A total of 350 employee volunteers were able to plant 2000 seedlings in the span of five months. Approximately 50 LIPI employee volunteers built four duplex housing units at the Lexmark Sugbo GK Village located at Tunghaan Minglanilla Cebu. Twenty U. S. Navy personnel who were visiting Cebu City also helped and Ambassador Thomas Harris visited the site. In December, LIPI Employees returned to the area and distributed toys and clothing to the children living there. The 2011 LIPI “Bundles of Joy” was held at Catarman Elementary School. There were 670 students who were recipients of gifts from LIPI employees. INDIA A team of Lexmark volunteers in India recently traveled to a remote village to help provide medical care to people in need. About 250 villagers who have almost no access to healthcare participated in the Free Health Checkup and Health Awareness Camp in Sundarban. The Lexmark volunteers assisted three doctors by arranging patient waiting rooms, enrolling patients and distributing medicine. Free Health Checkup and Health Awareness Camp LEXMARK TORNADO ASSISSTANCE Several Lexmark employees were part of the first team that went to the West Liberty Elementary School to help get it set up for classes in a warehouse building after the devastating tornado struck their town in March. Six people died when a tornado with 150-mph winds ripped through the heart of West Liberty, Kentucky, and the surrounding area. There was devastation everywhere with overturned cars, sheets of tin wrapped around light posts and dangling from power lines, pink shreds of insulation littering the branches of trees and buildings leveled to rubble. The twister qualified as an EF4, with a 60-mile path of devastation that spanned up to five miles wide in places. The whole town was destroyed, including the new courthouse and new phone company. West Liberty was one of the hardest-hit areas in Kentucky and Southern Indiana, where tornadoes killed at least 34 people and injured hundreds. COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY Lexmark strives to value and respect the individual differences of its employees, customers and business partners. Embracing our differences will make Lexmark a more competitive company and a better place to work. LEXMARK'S DIVERSITY Lexmark supports a variety of programs within the company as well as in the communities where its employees NETWORK GROUPS (DNGS) live and work. Diversity can present unique AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY (EEO) challenges for Lexmark adheres to the the requirements and embraces the spirit of affirmative action and equal employment. our employees The concept of affirmative action was developed in the 1960s as a means to eliminate discrimination and provide in the workplace equal employment opportunity to individuals of diverse backgrounds. and their families at Today, Lexmark’s EEO policy incorporates requirements from numerous federal, state and local laws and home. Click here to learn more about prohibits discrimination based on race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, Lexmark's DNGs. religion, disability and veteran status. As a result of legislation and executive orders issued since the civil rights era, federal contractors, such as Lexmark, have specific affirmative action obligations with respect to hiring and promoting women, minorities, FACILITY ACCESSIBILITY individuals with disabilities, special disabled veterans, Vietnam-Era veterans and all other covered veterans. Lexmark is committed to These obligations include: accessibility in all of our facilities with a goal of A UNIFIED VISION continual improvement. Lexmark values diversity in the workplace. The company has adopted a Diversity Mission Statement (see below) Learn More by which our employees abide. It calls for respecting and valuing individual differences among co-workers. These practices help Lexmark operate with one unified vision — a vision that allows us to utilize the talents of our employees and that fosters good relations within the company as well as in the communities in which we live and work. LEXMARK’S DIVERSITY MISSION STATEMENT We, the employees of Lexmark, will value and respect our individual differences. This appreciation of a diverse workforce will help each employee attain his or her full potential, adding value to our company and giving us a competitive advantage in the marketplace. As we achieve a diverse global workforce at all levels, we will fully utilize the talent of all our employees and enjoy a positive reputation in our communities. The economic benefits of diversity will become a reality. As a company and as individuals, we embrace this opportunity and the responsibility to make it happen. A DIVERSE WORKFORCE Lexmark is a global company, and as such, it is our goal to have a highly diverse and inclusive workplace that understands and is responsive to the needs of our customers around the world. Such diversity, while obviously good for the company, can present unique challenges for our employees in the workplace and their families at home. Lexmark is aware of these challenges and we take action to make working for Lexmark a positive experience. We recognize, for example, that employees who have emigrated may face the challenge of dealing with unfamiliar social norms and a longing for their homeland. Lexmark, in conjunction with motivated employees, has developed a number of diversity affinity groups. Lexmark’s Asian Network Diversity Association (ANDA), Christian Business Persons (CBP), Gay-Straight Alliance of Lexmark Employees (GALE), Hispanic Diversity Network Group (HDNG), LexNew, Network Alliance of Black Lexmark Employees (N-ABLE), Veterens Association of Lexmark: Organized to Recognize and Respect and Women@Work (W@W) were created either to help employees adjust to new cultures and serve as support networks that disseminate knowledge and increase comprehension and understanding of minority group issues. LEXMARK'S DIVERSITY NETWORK GROUPS INSPIRE AWARD As part of Lexmark's 20th anniversary celebration, we announced INSPIRE: Lexmark's Teaching Award. Each academic year, Lexmark recognizes middle and high school teachers across Central Kentucky for their outstanding contributions in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education. A $1,000 award is granted to one teacher per month to be used for his or her classroom needs.
