Sustainability & Corporate Social Responsibility Report Including UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (Summary Report 2012) Contents Contents Pages Pages Management Approach and Performance On the GRI Report 2012 3-4 Indicators GRI Index 5-6 5. Economic Performance Indicators (EC) 21 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) 7 6. Environmental Performance Indicators (EN) 36-39 Comprehensive GRI Indicators 7. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Profile (LA) 20-22 1. Strategy and Analysis 8 8. Social: Human Rights (HR) 20-21 2. Organizational Profile 15-19 9. Social: Society (SO) 23-24 3. Report Parameters 3-4 10. Social: Product Responsibility (PR) 25 4. Governance, Commitments, and Notes concerning the application of the GRI Engagement 15-19 Guidelines Report Parameters This is the third Sustainability Report issued by DKG Group and is intended to communicate our sustainability efforts and performance to stakeholders. At DKG Group, we firmly believe that we can deliver positive value by protecting the environment and improving the social conditions of the communities in which we operate while generating economic performance. This Sustainability Report comply with the GRI G3.1 guidelines at the “C level” from the graduated GRI reporting system which enables companies to make step-by-step progress in sustainability reporting. Application level C, which DKG Group has achieved, requires the most comprehensive coverage of all requirements. Information concerning about 10 Performance Indicators contained in the GRI guidelines must be disclosed. This concerns the report profile as well as management approaches and performance indicators in terms of economics (EC), environment (EN), labor practices (LA), human rights (HR), society (SO) as well as product responsibility (PR). A supplementary GRI Report also presents the fundamental information for especially interested parties in the sequence of the GRI indicators. Reporting Period This report covers the period from September 2011 to September 2012,but includes some activities continuing from before and more recent ones. Publication Current issue: September 2012 Next issue: Scheduled for September 2013 Previous issue: September 2011 Contact Information 5 b, Ioustinianou street 551 34, Thessaloniki Hellas (Greece) Tel: +30 2310 488.915 Fax: +30 2310 488.916 Website: www.dkggroup.com E-mail: welcome@dkggroup.com Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content Additional Relevant Websites Materiality for purposes of the GRI report content is a function of the perceived Information level of importance of an issue to stakeholders, and the significance of the DKG Group website http://www.dkggroup.com/ economic, environmental, and/or social impact. No effort to prioritize topics DKG Group linkedin http://www.linkedin.com/company/940474?trk=NUS_ DKG Group youtube CMPY_FOL-pdctd within the report is taken. The report intentionally follows the GRI G3.1 template DKG Group facebook http://www.youtube.com/user/thedkggroup in order to aid readers in their ability to find information easily. DKG Group twitter http://www.facebook.com/thedkggroup http://twitter.com/#!/thedkggroup Boundary of the report Hydroponics.gr website http://www.hydroponics.gr/ Hydroponics.gr blog http://hydroponic-news.blogspot.gr/ The report covers the entire DKG Group. If only part of the company is meant as Hydroponics.gr facebook http://www.facebook.com/pages/hydroponicsgr/4643 an example or due to the availability of data, this is clearly indicated. Hydroponics.gr twitter 64076923968 https://twitter.com/#!/HydroponicsGr IRTC website http://www.irtcs.org/ Specific limitations on the scope or boundary IRTC facebook http://www.facebook.com/pages/IRTC/330186693700 of the report, if any. 186 There are no specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. All Ask Me website http://www.askmein.gr relevant economic, environmental or social effects of the company based on the GRI guidelines have been discussed insofar as corresponding information was IQ Crops website http://www.iqcrops.com/ available. IQ Greening website http://www.iqgreening.com/ Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Live Cell website http://www.thelivecell.com/ operations and other entities Live Cell facebook http://www.facebook.com/pages/The-LiveThe DKG Group is a diversified international group of companies and initiatives Live Cell twitter Cell/374687205929198 https://twitter.com/#!/TheLiveCell with operations in different divisions, we apply due diligence and we take responsibility on what we report on the activities of our partners or suppliers. Drika Farm website http://www.drikafarm.com/ FraoulaBest website http://www.fraoulabest.com/ Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier FraoulaBest facebook http://www.facebook.com/FraoulaBest reports, and the reasons for such re-statement There are no statements which require adjustment MarouliBest website http://www.maroulibest.com/ MarouliBest facebook http://www.facebook.com/MarouliBest Significant changes from previous reporting periods Green Club website http://www.greenclub.gr/ This is the first report to comply with the GRI G3.1 guidelines at the C level Agrisystems blog http://www.agrisystems.blogspot.gr/ GRI Content Index This report follows the format of the GRI Level C Reporting Template. GRI Content Index (Self-declared Application Level C) Section Indicator Chapters Pages Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 5 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 7-11 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 11 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 11 2.7 Markets served by the organization 6 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 14 Report Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 3.3 Reporting cycle 3 3.4 Contact point for questions 3 3.5 Process for defining report content 10 4 3.6 Boundary of the report 4 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 4 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities 4 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 4 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 4 3.12 GRI Content Index 14-15 GRI Content Index Section Indicator Chapters Pages Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 15-18 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 15 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body who are independent and/or nonexecutive 15 members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 15 governance body 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 16 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 10 GRI Performance Indicators Economic 20 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 31 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Labor Practices and Decent Work LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 17, 24 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities 23 by region. Human Rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 22 contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures 22 to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Society SO1 Programs and practices that assess the impacts of operations on communities Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for 29 improvement and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 29 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) DKG Group has declared its support for the UN Global Compact. The Group respects the human-rights guidelines proclaimed in the Global Compact, and upholds international human-rights standards. Additional Principles Summary, measures and results Information Human Rights The DKG Group has had an internal Code of Conduct which states clearly that the Group undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and fair Principle 1: business partner and employer at all times for all people with whom it deals. We recognize local, national and international laws, Businesses should support and respect the directives and standards, and complies with them in full. 16 protection of internationally proclaimed All employees have received training on subjects covered by the Code of Conduct. and new employees receive their training as part of human rights. their job orientation. Principle 2: DKG Group has not been complicit nor does ever expect to be complicit in violation of human rights abuses whether through direct Make sure they are not complicit in human involvement (through beneficial involvement via third party), nor assisting other parties by remaining silent. 16 rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Our employees are completely free to join labor unions, associations and similar organizations. 16-18 association and the effective recognition All employees are currently covered by collective agreements of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and DKG group does not allow the use of any form of forced or compulsory labor. 16-18 compulsory labor. Principle 5: DKG Group categorically excludes child labor. 16-18 The effective abolition of child labor. It is established a clear policy regarding the minimum age for employment, which complies with national law. Principle 6: Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the DKG Group Code of Conduct and specifies how employees are to behave and Eliminate discrimination in respect of how DKG assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination. This includes the discrimination against any 16-18 employment and occupation. employee on the basis of race, color, region, age, sex or disability. Environment Principle 7: The Group's wide Environmental Policy adheres to the Precautionary Principle. Business should support a precautionary ,15 The achievement of the ISO 14001 demonstrates that DKG has implemented a sustainable environmental management strategy approach to environmental challenges. DKG Group has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to environmentally friendly, resourcePrinciple 8: efficient production as well as the development of water-saving and sustainable products. Environmental criteria are considered in all Undertake initiatives to promote greater ,15 decision-making processes. environmental responsibility DKG Group has had achieved certificate for quality and environment in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Principle 9: Sustainable agricultural practices are encouraged to be adopted by all of our clients, in order to increase the quality, the taste and Encourage the development and diffusion of ,15 quantity of their crops environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Our Code of Conduct details the behaviors we expect of our people and it addresses issues of conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. Principle 10: DKG Group fundamentally opposes any kind of corruption and bribery and is committed to high standards in combating them. Businesses should work against corruption in 18 We ensure that all employees can understand and practice the Group Code of Conduct in everyday working life. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. For a series of years, cases of corruption have not been recorded, neither allegations for suspected fraud, bribery or market abuse have been reported. Statement Sustainability requires that we consider the future as a stakeholder in every current choice. This makes clear objectives, continuous learning, innovation and capacity for adaptation keys to sustainability. Based on our understanding of the opportunities to create economic, social, environmental and human value while managing the risks posed by an uncertain future, DKG Group recognizes that the ideas and principles of Evagelos N. Drimtzias sustainability provide the most robust decision-making framework we could ask for. Sustainability underpins President much of what we care about, who we are, what we do and how we do it. To ensure the continued success of DKG Group, our shareholders and clients, we resist sacrificing long-term value creation for short-term returns: the two ideas must be mutually reinforcing. As part of this culture, DKG Group and its employees have a long history of improving the communities where we work and live. Ultimately, sustainability is a business idea. It is about how we help our clients and ourselves to be more successful in an uncertain future where change is the only way forward. DKG Group's strength lies in our great diversity. We are organized to draw upon our deep knowledge, across geographies, markets and disciplines, to broaden the number of things we examine before we make a choice. E very intersection provides the opportunity to consider not just profit but also value creation, risk mitigation and opportunities for future success. Finally, sustainability at DKG Group is a robust management system that allows us to consider the future as a constituent of the present, as we act to help our clients make investment decisions that will create value of financial, natural, human and social significance. We have prepared this report, using the G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Christos D. Katsanos guidelines as a framework, both to inform our stakeholders of our activities and also for our own ongoing Executive Director evaluation purposes. Multiplying sustainable impact through the power of our network 2. Company Profile Our Sustainability Strategy DKG Group is a diversified international group of companies and Throughout our history, we have engaged in a variety of activities initiatives with operations in different divisions. Actually we are a for the benefit of people, planet and prosperity. However, consulting, inspection, urban farming, foliage based architecture, completing a formal reporting process emphasized the intelligent crop supplies and training facilitator body, offering opportunity for tracking and improving our sustainability specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional performance. groups and corporations within the fresh produce and agro supplies trade industry creating value through people, and for We integrated all three components of the triple bottom line – people, all driven by a brand-centric philosophy. people, planet and prosperity –into a new structure and began to prioritize activities. Initially, we developed teams based on our most significant sustainability impacts and stakeholder interests, Although the headquarters of the Group is located in Thessaloniki, focusing on the following topics: Greece, with additional advocacy office operating in Crete, Greece, the activities are conducted principally in Balkan and • Environmental Stewardship Southeast Mediterranean Countries (Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, • Business Innovation Serbia, FYROM, Bosnia, Montenegro, Albania, Cyprus, Egypt and • Community Engagement Turkey). • Employee Engagement • Employee Health and Wellness DKG Group’s Territory Our purpose and core values Our Group of companies is driven by a clear set of Core Values, which define who we are, what we do and how we do it. Code of Conduct Integrity We are honest and ethical in everything we do. We keep our commitments and treat others with mutual respect and trust. Ethics and compliance Employees Our employees are our most valuable and valued resource; they Our Code of Conduct expresses our ethical position on issues make our success possible. We respect and encourage our such as: employees’ ideas, diversity and cultures. Clients • Respect for employees, stakeholders and customers Our success is measured by the success of our clients. We are committed to our clients and to setting industry standards for • A zero-tolerance policy for any form of discrimination or client service and solutions. We are passionate about solving our harassment clients’ problems and exploring new opportunities with them. Excellence • Promoting honest, ethical and transparent conduct including in We strive to achieve excellence in all areas of our business. We the handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interests between pride ourselves on bringing outstanding results to everything we personal and professional relationships do. Innovation • Conducting our business in good faith and with integrity We look for creative, new or better ways to provide our expertise in all dimensions of our business. Creativity, exploration and • Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations imagination are key to our approach to our work. Agility We conduct business on the basis of fairness, good faith and We embrace change, flexibility and adaptation in a rapidly integrity, and expect the same from parties with whom we do evolving world. We strive to anticipate changes in market drivers business. DKG Group expects its stakeholders to show the same and to work with our clients and employees to adapt to those ethical behavior in their business conduct. changes. Safety We are committed to creating a safe workplace for our employees by preventing injuries to people and damage to the environment. Profitable Growth Living and executing these Core Values every day will result in profitable growth, which drives and enables us to create opportunities for our customers and employees DKG Consulting Ltd offers specialized Hydroponic.gr is a web tool where all sustainable solutions to individuals, the experience and practical application professional groups and corporations of knowledge of DKG on hydroponic within the fresh produce industry cultivation will be available for its creating value through people, and for customers and to the public. More people, all driven by a brand-centric specific, this knowledge and experience philosophy. is based on rockwool substrates (Grodan products) and DKG’s Know DKG Consulting services are focused on How. greenhouse and farm activities include general advice regarding hydroponic The website www.hydroponics.gr will techniques, crop or product selection, include general advice regarding cultivar (variety/ies) selection, plant hydroponic techniques, tailor-made propagation processes, general cultivation practices, plant propagation cultivation practices, distance crop processes, manuals and information monitoring, feeding solutions recipes, harvesting, packaging and post-harvest about the right use of rockwool practices based on Total Greenhouse products. Management ®and Total Farm This digital knowledge diffusion will Management® methodologies. ensure that our growers/customers can make the DKG Consulting Ltd is also a service optimum use of its products and provider for quality, environmental & services food safety systems and brand building. by interpreting the company’s knowledge of and experience with DKG Group Website substrate cultivation in terms of up-todate, crop-oriented advice. Hydroponics.gr Website The International Research & Training The AskMe Translation and Localisation Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) is a Department of the DKG Group was training facilitator organisation that formed with the objective to undertake provides a greater understanding of key complex translation projects, offering a issues for the agriculture industry and complete range of translation and provide solutions for those with an localisation services in the Greek interest in the sector, through top market. Over these years, it has quality speakers and presentations from specialised in the development and industry leaders and researchers. implementation of advanced qualityTraining Programs : driven Greek-specific localisation • Total Greenhouse Management techniques and the provision of turn-key localisation solutions (from planning to •Total Farm Management post-production) for the Information • Hydroponic techniques Technology sector. As a result, • Greenhouse personnel technical skills significant framework-contracts and • GLOBALG.A.P. protocol long-term collaborations have been • AGRO 2-1&2-2 standard (Hellenic established between DKG and FOODPLUS , GRODAN GROUP and certification scheme for agriculture EUROPEAN COMMISSION enterprises) DIRECTORATE. • ISO 9001:2008 (Quality) Today AskMe offers a full range of • ISO 22000:2005 (Food safety) technical translation and localisation •Total Quality Management and services almost 6 man-years in total logistics greenhouse management, inspection – (In corporation with DKG Consulting Ltd, certification and Project Management TUV Hellas (TUV NORD) SA, GreenQ B.V tasks. and University of Macedonia, Greece. Askme Website IRTC Website IQ CROPS Ltd (member of DKG Group) IQ GREENING Ltd (member of DKG provides intelligent agricultural Group) supplies to the agricultural sector. provides foliage base architecture practices for a healthier and more In general, IQ CROPS Ltd promotes sustainable urban living environment. innovative solutions based in new technologies and scientific results The following green design practices offering safety to the consumers and such as : the environment towards natural • Vertical Green Walls systems and biological solutions that • Urban Farming promote plant health and growth. • Roof Gardening • Green Sound absorbent Walls More specific: • Trade (wholesale – retail level) and distribution of various agricultural have increasingly become an important products such as special types of component of sustainable urban fertilizers, growth agents and pesticides development in the 21st century. for professional growers as well as hobby market. • Alternative forms of energy solutions IQ Greening Website (e.g. photovoltaic systems, geothermal heat, alternator of heat, wind generators, etc.) Iqcrops.com Website DRIKA Farm was founded in 1996 by Live Cell is the Innovation joint venture Evagelos N. Drimtzias and Katerina between DKG Consulting and Kaparaki. DRIKA Farm's facilities are located Agrotechniki. The know-how series in an area of ​9,5 Ha on the site cover Live Cell Greenhouse, Live Cell Ammoudares -Ierapetra, Crete,Greece, 200 meters from the sea side.Its production biomass, Live Cell Photovoltaic focused in Mini Cucumber. Greenhouse and Live Cell Garden Centers. In 2006 the second level of investments was implemented (upgrading heating oil to Live Cell Website LPG, a thermal, freezer, packing). In 2008 the enterprise was awarded the GLOBALG.A.P. Certification by TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) Certification Body. In 2011 DRIKA FARM became a proud member of The DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives in order to complete the whole chain from the farm to the shelf . Drika Farm Website Corporate Governance Management Approach Our approach incorporates the precautionary principle, management We strive to ensure our corporate governance practices systems, regular audits, and corrective action tracking. provide for effective stewardship in all targeted areas of sustainability. You will find more specific explanations of our high-level management approach on the environment, employee practices, community We have adopted numerous governance and management engagement, societal issues, and product responsibility throughout practices to ensure continual improvement on sustainability this report. issues. Policies Our Board of Directors which comprises the President, the Recognizing that DKG Group is a diversified international group of Executive Director, the Finance Director, the Quality Executive companies and initiatives with operations in different divisions, we and the Project Manager, views effective corporate governance guided each company to be guided by a series of Internal and as an essential element for the ongoing sustainability of the International codes and principles. DKG Group and its operations. We continue to develop our corporate governance practices to ensure that we meet Apart from the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of regulatory requirements. We evaluate our mechanisms on an Business Conduct & Ethics, the Group also recognizes and supports the ongoing basis and strive to ensure our corporate governance principles enshrined in the UN Universal Declarations of Human Rights practices provide for effective stewardship in all targeted areas and is a participant in the UN Global Compact , promoting its ten of sustainability. principles that support human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Additionally, the Group is committed Our corporate governance practices are described in our: to reporting the impacts of its business in a transparent and Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business comparable way as it is an organizational stakeholder of the Global Conduct & Ethics. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Among other topics, the Board is responsible for the following: To make sure our policies are followed, we apply training tools for greater understanding. the strategic direction of the Group the integrity of financial statements and accounting practices the contribution to sustainable developmentthe Human Resources Identification and selection of stakeholders. Our External Commitments We are driven to be the very best at what we do. Our greatest Systematic dialog with stakeholders helps DKG Group identify satisfaction is to provide our clients with exceptional value and possible conflict issues or opportunities for further service. Along the way, we have been honored to receive development. recognition for our leadership, community service and success as a sustainability consulting firm. In accordance with ISO 14001, a stakeholder analysis is also carried out at all production sites as part of environmental In 2011, we were proud to receive the following certificates: management. Requirements are recorded situationally in • ISO 9001 stakeholder dialogs. DKG Group then clarifies its objectives in • ISO 14001 dealings with the stakeholder group and determines potential for conflict or opportunities. As a fundamental rule, DKG Group A big part of our success has come through the sharing and pursues a cooperative approach in order to discuss and further learning that takes place with other leaders in corporate develop possible measures with the stakeholders concerned. responsibility, including: • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Global Reporting Initiative (Organizational Stakeholder) • Quality protocol GLOBALG.A.P. (Associate Member) Stakeholder Groups DKG Group has identified and categorized its stakeholders into five main groups: Employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers and other, the latter including both authorities and society at large. • Employees • Customers • Shareholders • Suppliers • Others (professional and non-governmental organizations, international or regional bodies, authorities and local communities) Eleni Mathaiopoulou Haroula Spinthiropoulou Christina Papaioannou Katerina Partheniou Elena Gadona Dimitra Notiou Head of Translation & Localization Ph.D, Viticulturist & Oenologist Researcher & Trainer at IRTC Sales Technician Visual Communication Management Assistant Evagelos N. Drimtzias Dimitrios Vouris Gregory Daris Lampros Podiotis Dimitris Gartzonikas Haris Giannopoulos President Food Scientistic IT Senior Consultant Finance & Accounting Project Manager Researcher & Trainer at Services IRTC Thanasis Manoloudis Andreas Kiziris Dimitrios Daskalakis Gregory Karaiskos Stefanos Gialias Christos D. Katsanos Energy & Renewable Researcher & Trainer at IRTC Quality Management Partner/ Green Walls Expert Partner / Roof Garden Expert Executive Director Sources Management Executive Executive For more info visit us on Group’s Operational Structure Finance/ Accounting Quality Management EU Projects & Studies DKG Consulting IQ GREENING Ltd IQ CROPS Ltd DRIKA Farm Inc. Ltd AskMe Live Cell IRTC Agroconsultants Ltd Certificates of DKG Group In December 2011 DKG Consulting Ltd (member of the DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives) achieved ISO 14001:2004 Certification, the international standard for environmental management systems. This highlights DKG’s commitment to considering the environmental consequences of all processes and business practices internationally. The achievement of this award demonstrates that DKG has implemented a sustainable environmental management strategy. The certification gained after an exhaustive audit by TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD), the independent auditor used by DKG Consulting Ltd for its ISO 9001 certification, also. The scope of certification is focusing to “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. The resulting certification applies to all solutions and services delivered DKG’s customers worldwide. At the same period DKG Consulting Ltd also successfully renewed its certificate of registration for the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2008 for its Enterprise activities for another three years. To obtain recertification, a company must show continued conformity and effectiveness of its quality management system as a whole as well as the continued relevance and applicability of the management system for the scope of certification which this time extended to “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. The resulting certification applies to all solutions and services delivered DKG’s customers worldwide. Economic Performance 2011 Net Sales DKG Group generates revenue primarily by providing  By segment specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional groups and corporations within the fresh produce industry, Hydroponics/ or by training services........ Greenhouse Technical Support 7%1% Our revenue depends on our ability to attract and retain Open field Technical 10% qualified and productive employees, identify business Support opportunities, allocate our labor resources to profitable and high-growth markets, secure new contracts, and renew Training Services existing client agreements. 82% Importantly, that maintaining the high quality of our work is Translations integral to our revenue generation and profitability. Revenue at December 31, 2011, was…..  By geographic region Total assets at December 31, 2011,were ….. Total liabilities at December 31, 2011,were….. 2% 1% 5% The Netherlands Income from operations for 2011was approximately 20% Romania …. Greece Bulgaria Net income attributable to DKG Group for 2011 were 72% Germany approximately….. Social Performance Human rights & Labor DKG Group’s Code of Business Conduct addresses many of the ethical principles and policies created to deal with issues such as bribery, political contributions, diversity, equal opportunity, respect in the workplace, and environment, health and safety. The Code includes the following key points, among others: • DKG Group recognizes and respects all labor and employment laws – including those respecting freedom of association, privacy and equal employment opportunity. Also believes that working positively and directly with employees best serves their interests. • DKG Group expects employees to avoid any activity or interest that might reflect unfavorably upon the integrity or good name of the Group or of themselves. They are obligated to place Group’s interest in any business transaction ahead of any personal interest or personal gain to either themselves or to their spouse, family member or other individual. • DKG Group complies with all child labor laws. It understands that children may legitimately perform tasks that do not interfere with their education and do not negatively affect their health, safety and development. • It is DKG Group’s policy to provide all employees with an environment of mutual respect that is free from any form of harassment and discrimination. Harassment and discrimination of any form is not acceptable and will not be tolerated. All DKG Group employees are expected to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct in the daily performance of their job responsibilities. Social Performance Human rights & Labor Labor Policy: “We believe that respect for the dignity, rights and DKG Group promotes an environment free from ambitions of all people is a cornerstone of business discrimination and harassment, and is committed to excellence in the 21st century. This policy extends to every ensuring equal opportunities in all areas of employment, of our employee. We expect also the customers, suppliers including recruitment, hiring, training and promotion. It and contractors with whom we do business to embrace strives to ensure all employment practices are objective similar values and standards. We recognize and respect all and free from bias, are based solely upon work criteria labor and employment laws – including those respecting and individual merit, and meet the broader goals and freedom of association, privacy and equal employment objectives of the Group. opportunity – wherever it operates.” Further, it is Group’s policy to provide and maintain a Child Labor Policy: productive atmosphere that is characterized by mutual “We comply with all child labor laws. We understand that respect. The Group prohibits actions that are unlawful or children may legitimately perform tasks that do not inappropriate in the workplace. Our Good Working interfere with their education and do not negatively affect Relationship policy prohibits any conduct that is their health, safety and development. We seek to have a consistent with discrimination, sexual harassment, positive impact on the reduction of unlawful child labor and workplace harassment, victimization, bullying or child exploitation. We expect also our customers, suppliers vilification. and contractors to embrace similar values and standards.” The management team is responsible for ensuring that Anti-Corruption Policy the spirit and intent of this policy is consistently DKG Group expects from all employees, including conflicts practiced. Moreover, each employee has the of interest, bribery, policies on corporate entertainment responsibility to treat every colleague or applicant for and acceptance of gifts and the integrity of our record employment with respect and in a fair, nonkeeping and reporting. Training in this area has been carried discriminatory manner. out and will be refreshed on an on going basis. For a series of years, cases of corruption have not been recorded, neither allegations for suspected fraud, bribery or market abuse have been reported. Social Performance Human rights & Labor Health and Safety Number of Days lost due to indicators incidents incidents Health & Safety 2011 2012 In addition to observing the laws relating to occupational safety and health, we have established our own Number of persons 0 0 injured standards and are striving to improve safety and health. All of our employees have medical insurance according to Number of fatalities 0 0 the Law, and we are working on a program of improvements to ensure the safety of every employee Illness due to work 0 0 working for the Group, promote better health, and create a pleasant working environment. Each and every Other illness 0 0 employee must act to cooperate with the safety and Total 0 0 health measures that have been decided upon. Training and Education With the rapid evolution of the sustainability and corporate responsibility field, we recognize the importance of continuous learning. We set aside professional development funds for education and training opportunities, including conferences, seminars, external training and education opportunities. Compensation and Benefits Our team members are the Group’s greatest resource. We compensate them for their hard work and dedication with wages that comply with all applicable national labor laws. We also offer our full-time employees the benefits of health care, bonus and paid time off for vacation and holidays. Employees by Age (%) It is the Group's policy to afford 7% equal employment 27% > 25 opportunities to all qualified employees and applicants. 27% 26-35 These employment opportunities are based solely 36-45 upon an employee's or <45 applicant's qualifications, skills and abilities without regard to 39% any condition or characteristic that is not job-related. Employees by Gender (%) 36% Female Educational level Male 64% Post-graduate 13% University 54% Visit DKG Group’s profile in Linkedin and learn more about: 33% Technical 1. DKG Group’s employees Educational 2. Some insightful statistics Institutes Social Performance Habits formed early can last a lifetime. Society Engaging children in participatory activities, such as physical, creative and entertainment activities, will serve a variety of • Promoting active, healthy living functions. Children participating in these activities will develop their imaginations, creativity, self esteem and passion. Additionally, DKG Group cares about people's health and well-being and want to healthy, physically active kids also are more likely to be academically make a positive difference in people's lives, both physically and motivated, alert, and successful. That's why we participate and we emotionally. We aspire to help people lead active, healthy lifestyles encourage other parents to such activities like the Olympus through our support of programs that encourage active living. Marathon Kids trail run, Agios Georgios Orienteering or entertainment painting events (during the Friends of Xinomavro As part of our commitment, we are helping our associates to meeting). become more active participants, volunteers or supporters to physical or other activities, such us: Physical activities . Wellness and well-being as key objectives of Groups' activities, encourages successfully its employees to deal with any kind of physical activities. The Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT) event, that took place every year is a tough adventure footrace, strictly for experienced runners who compete in semi-autonomy conditions a . . distance of 100 miles running along abandoned paths and trails through the tremendous scenery of the Rodopi Mountains National Park in Northern Greece. Some members of DKG Group take active part as participants, and some others as volunteers and supporters. . . . . Social Performance Charitable gifts to nonprofit organizations for 2011-2012 Society • Rodopi Ultra Trail (http://www.rout.gr) • Adventure Zone (http://www.a-z.gr) • Volunteer activities • Natalia Papounidou & Babis Giritziotis for Solu Khumbu Trail – The Group serves volunteerism either by providing charitable gifts Nepal (http://www.dkggroup.com/newsdetail.php?id=190&lang=el) to eligible nonprofit organizations or by taking active part ( some members of DKG Group) as volunteers and supporters at the • Athletic Association of Lagada (http://www.asklagada.gr) Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT) event. People who give their time are essential to the prosperity of any event; the ROUT is no exception. In order to be carried this 100 miles running race a lot volunteers are needed. The ROUT, 100 From November 8th till 23rd, 2011, miles running race is carried out at the Rodopi Mountains in the people of the DKG Group mentally and financially support the effort of Northern Greece. The heart of this mountainous ecosystem the athlete Natalia Papounidou and constitutes the Protected Area of Rodopi Mountains. the photographer Babis Giritziotis, The Rodopi mountains has significant aesthetical value, an area of who accompanied the Greek athlete in Nepal and covered both exceptional ecological interest (especially botanical and photographic and journalistic the ornithological), as it has a wetland of International importance, effort all the 13 racing days (300 km) that accommodates more than 300 bird species and constitutes a in the challenging mountain race named “Solu Khumbu Trail” basic link in the chain of wetlands. Apart, here is present a small Read more but sustainable population of the Brown Bear, dears and chamois. These skilled volunteers who help to run out this event do the hard work, either by cleaning the paths under strict directions to keep the natural beauty untouched (protecting the flora, fauna and animals), or by standing for more than 42 hours close to participants by covering any of their needs during the race. . . . Social Performance . . . Society Cultural Heritage The DKG Group contributes to Cultural Orizontas and En Xoro are two The DKG Group is also member of the Heritage by taking active part as a cotelevision show series that aims to Gastronomy Club of Epirus, a club that founder to the Cultural Foundation educate and entertain those who are promotes local, traditional products of Methexis“, that founded to meet the seeking adventure or cultural treasure. Epirus to the broader public via needs and beliefs of founders and its The Orizontas TV show based on exhibitions and national and regional members who place as protractor the natural beauty sides of physical activities events, and through online marketing quality, culture, participation and and places around Greece. The En and social media tools. cooperation and aims to the universality Xoro TV Show seek to preserve and of the individual and the art of everyday exploit the rich cultural heritage of life «The daily art of living». Epirus. For more please visit : www.m-f.gr & For more please visit: For more please visit : www.ekthesisyrrako.blogspot.com/ www.orizontas.org, www.enxoro.gr https://www.facebook.com/groups/gast & www.youtube.com/user/enxoro ronomy.club Social Performance Society Create & Support Associations DKG Group is active in a number of associations and organizations. To share just a few, DKG Consulting is a founding member and has been appointed as the Coordinator of The Green Club®, a Reputation Management Growers Association that consists of 21 member companies. These growers who are located all over Greece grow hydponically a number of different vegetables in greenhouses. They have perfected the growing environment for tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers and lettuce by giving the plants exactly what they need the perfect climate, the right amount of light, the right amount of nutrition, exact amount of water and carbon dioxide and the proper ventilationwhich means that plants can grow strong, healthy and big. By those practices they have achieved a high reputation in the market. All members are certified against Integrated Crop Management processes (GLOBALGAP, AGRO 2-1&2-1) and Food Safety Management Systems (ISO 22000:2005). Green Club Website DKG is also co-founder of “The Friends of Xinomavro“, a group of people who share the same philosophy about life, love Xinomavro (a special wine from an indigenous Greek vine variety) and like to collaborate and share their experiences. Members keep regular meetings for various events and activities, such as: Viticulture activities (pruning the vines, stretching the wires and straightening of the piles, harvesting), Wine testing and lunches, Wine exhibitions, Creative activities in nature (vine and wine paintings by children). The Friends of Xinomavro blog Another Project that DKG Consulting is DKG has also contributed to the idea and the involving since the inception is implementation of CottonBest.eu ™, a Certified CRETACERT, a non profit organization traceability program based on the Pioneer Hicreated for managing the high Bread Hellas protocol and as a reliable, realistic Reputation of the quality agricultural and flexible system promotes the cooperation products of Crete,Greece among all cotton market “players” without binding any of them. Cretacert Website CottonBest.eu Website Social Performance Society DKG Group believes its role is to drive positive change into local communities and across the globe. We place a high value on listening to our communities and strive to be not just a good neighbor, but a global corporate citizen. We understand that our promise is our most vital product and through authentic relationships we are building better, stronger, more sustainable communities in the places where we do . business. DKG Group believes social action is one of the most significant forces impacting companies today. Group's future depends on our ability to understand societal trends and to find positive solutions that address the common good. Sustainable living . One way DKG Group contributes to society is by promoting greening to life through IQ Greening Ltd, a company that provides green design hydroponic practices like Vertical Green Walls, Urban Farming, Roof Gardening and Green Sound absorbent Walls contribute to the sustainable development of the environment via a healthier and more sustainable urban living environment. Such considerable potential mechanisms of remedial urban greening are: Improving building energy performance by reducing energy consumption Improving air quality through pollution adsorption and oxygen generation Mitigating the urban heat island effect Improving visual amenity and increasing a buildings profile Improving building lifespan Cooling down temperatures inside and outside a building . Restoring a diverse ecology to urban areas Recycling storm water and grey water High frequency noise abatement Improving the psychosocial health of a buildings occupants and the general public Addressing the aesthetics of sustainability Sustainable products & solutions One way DKG Group contributes to society is by promoting sustainable products & solutions, a key element of our strategy. Products that provide sustainable advantages to customers, healthy, nutritious, tasty and safe products every day which are good for both people and the environment. The hydroponic FraoulaBest© solution designed by the DKG Group in collaboration with the IRTC (International Research and Training Centre for Sustainability) under the philosophy of Total Greenhouse Management, and the initial experience of growing hydroponic lettuce (MarouliBest© solution). In recent years, the evolution of the system occurs mainly in Cyprus…. Read More The hydroponic MarouliBest© solution designed by the DKG Group in collaboration with the IRTC (International Research and Training Centre for Sustainability) under the philosophy of Total Greenhouse Management. The hydroponic MarouliBest solution has been applied in greenhouses in the Greek market in the last 8 years and has achieved in some cases the vision of producers, 8 crop cycles per year…. Read More Social Performance | Society | Training International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) Research and training are an integral part of our projects, as we aim for participants to be able to assume full responsibility for activities once our involvement with the training is over. The International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) is a training facilitator organisation (member of DKG Group) that provides a greater understanding of key issues for the agriculture industry and provide solutions for those with an interest in the sector, through top quality speakers and presentations from industry leaders and researchers. IRTC with expertise in Branding, Total Greenhouse Management, Total Farm Management, Total Quality Management, Hydroponic Systems, Good Agricultural Practices, provides a series of training programs to . corporations and individuals to help them achieve higher standards. Some of the above training programmes are held in cooperation with the . Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A, the University of . . Macedonia, Thessaloniki, Greece and The Logistics Group consulting company. DKG is certified in accordance of ISO 9001:2008 & ISO 14001:2004 for the scope of Design , Implementation, Supporting and Training of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management. For more visit the following website and blogs: IRTC Total Farm Management Seminars Agrisystems Seminars Social Performance Society Marketing responsibly We have long been a leader in the area of responsible marketing. We are working to provide factual, meaningful and understandable nutrition information about our customers' products ( and DKG’s products). We believe in the importance and power of informed choice and continue to support factbased nutrition labeling and education and initiatives that encourage people to live active, healthy lifestyles. Social Performance We address the following disciplines: Product Responsibility  GAP Good Agricultural Practices DKG Group has committed to publicly share its views on the  GMP Good Manufacturing principles that are the foundation for product safety legislation or Practices regulation. Consistent with our commitment to the principles, we  ISO 22000 (HACCP Hazard Analysis support the development of responsible, science-based laws, Critical Control Point) regulations, standards, practices and procedures that safeguard the  ISO 9001:2000 – Quality community, workplace and environment. Management Systems DRIKA Farm (member of DKG Group) and all of our clients embrace a strong commitment to growing sustainable products by applying Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P) in order to increase the quality, the taste and quantity of their crops, and to promote safe and efficient working practice. Apart, each of our client's products has the ability to trace the history, use or location of a product by means of registered identifications that is vital for consumer’s safety. Life cycle stages DKG use process to evaluate health and safety issues across the lifecycle of its products and services. Through this process, possible risks to human health and the environment are identified. These lifecycle stages include: Sustainable production Basalt, the raw material for stone wool, is extracted according to strict environmental regulations and in non-protected areas. The volcanic rock is turned into stone wool substrate by means of a certified process. Recycling stone wool after use means that less ECOLABEL Certificate is delivered to Mr. Kees Struijk / new basalt is required. Grodan Marketing Manager Substrates Social Performance Product Responsibility Sustainable cultivation DRIKA Farm (member of DKG Group) and all of our clients have a responsibility to practice sustainable cultivation. These sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) ensure that greenhouses have limited environmental impact. Plants are grown in Grodan rockwool. Growing in this material means our plants can stretch their roots, and we can feed them water and nutrients directly where they need it – on their roots – rather than on their leaves or on other parts of the soil. Growing hydroponically means we feed our plants only as much nutrients as they need for optimum growth. Our growing methods mean we don’t use herbicides. A plastic sheet, which suppresses weeds from growing up through our crops, covers the soil in our greenhouses. At the end of each growing season, the plastic sheet is removed to allow for a proper cleaning of the greenhouse. This cleaning ensures no pests or plant diseases from the previous crop are carried into the new growing season. To keep pests at bay we use biological controls. We’re leaders in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) to protect plants from bad bugs and diseases. Our growers introduce predatory insects – like ladybugs – and mites to eliminate harmful pests. Sustainable recycling A sustainable end of life solutions. Used substrate slabs, blocks and plugs are recycled into new stone wool products or used in the production of bricks, cement, potting compost, or soil improvers. The plastic sheet is separated from the stone wool and used in the plastics industry to manufacture dashboards for the automotive industry. Social Performance Product Responsibility Food Safety Although hydroponic farming is one of the most clean methods of growing, food safety is an integral part of DRIKA Farm's and all of our clients' entire operation and is taken very seriously. It consists of standard operating procedures and addresses several areas of food safety practices that are in place in agricultural operation to ensure consumer protection. These safe practices address personal hygiene, reporting, sanitation practices, and proper food handling. Employees receive training and proper documentation is kept on sanitizing policies, personal hygiene policies, training schedule and reporting. Hydroponic cultivation in safe greenhouses in an indoor controlled environment grow the safest produce you can buy. Here is how Without dirt, plants cannot get soil-born diseases, cannot be invaded by grubs or other soil-based insects, and cannot absorb toxins and bacteria found in soil. By applying an intensive Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program that uses beneficial insects to control pests and stimulate healthy plant growth. Outdoors, plants are more vulnerable to various types of diseases and insects whereas in a controlled environment have the ability to keep a lot of these pressures at bay, so we are able to keep our plants healthy by using also bees for pollination and beneficial predator insects. Plants receive just the right amount of nutrient-rich water that gives them everything they need. The plants are not in contact with fields where runoff from animals can carry bacteria. So no chemical residues or bacteria from animals can ever reach a plant. Culture faces no such challenges since the plants grow in the perfect environment, by eliminating the dirt, the pests and the animal waste fertilizers, are unaffected by many diseases that plagues the open field grown. Greenhouse protects the produce from the rain that carries pollutants or weather damage that ranges from bruises, marks and nicks to the loss of an entire crop. Greenhouse growing ensures optimal environmental conditions by using high-tech computer systems that replicates the best natural growing conditions where temperature, humidity and light are just at the right level. Social Performance Product Responsibility Premium Quality Standards Our expert clients are committed to producing products that meet the highest standards of food quality and manage every detail of the growing process to provide their customers with the freshest product available on the market Quality Our clients expertly manage the growing process from seed to harvest with unmatched care and commitment to quality. Products are free of any harmful chemical pesticides, insecticides or herbicides. Integrated pest management solutions are applied, including biological controls such as using beneficial insects to prey on harmful pests. Freshness and Health Crops are grown, cared for, and harvested to achieve optimum taste and nutrition. Products will be harvested just a few hours before they reach a restaurant plate or supermarket shelf, ensuring absolute freshness and nutrition. That ensures that the extended shelf life is passed onto the customer and not the food delivery chain. Environmental Performance About our environmental footprint The global demand for environmental sustainability has grown significantly in the past few years, solidifying our belief in the importance and urgency of what we do. Although some of our greatest examples of advancing environmental sustainability will be referred below, we also strive to respect the environment with our internal operations. Based on our office's utility bills and on our time and billing tracking system from 2009-2011 , we have the following information available as a baseline against which we can measure future performance: Water Electricity Natural Gas Consumption Fuel Paper Printing Consumption Consumption Consumption Consumption Ink cartridge Toner (m3) (kWh) m3 (kWh) (lt) (sheets) 2009 23 2501 353 3949,97 9.552.25 8500 4 x 13ml 9 6 x 13ml 2010 10 2507 449 5030,92 6.093,98 2500 2 x 17 ml 5 1 x 9ml 2011 25 2565 658 7368,77 7187,01 2500 4 x 13ml 12 Although our environment footprint is relatively small, we are trying to reduce carbon emissions (fuel consumption) that are associated with employee transportation and business travel, we have made important steps to encourage our clients to use electronic communications technology, and the two past years transportation has significantly reduced. Environmental Performance Drip irrigation system that feeds Managing environmental issues across our supply chain the water and nutrients directly to plants’ roots 1. Environmental sustainable growing practices Hydroponic growing practices have the following environmental benefits: • Water conservation Hydroponic growing uses just one-twentieth the amount of water of field grown crops. The plants receive just the right amount of nutrient-rich water through a computer‐controlled drip irrigation system that feeds the water and nutrients directly to plants’ roots. Any un-used water from the plants is recycled, sterilized and reused to ensure quality and safety. • Soil & Land conservation Fighting Aphid insects (enemies We exercise soil-free growing practices, by using rockwool substrates, within our of the crop) with natural clean, sanitary, indoor greenhouse environments, which helps to control diseases. enemies! Apart, there is no depletion of soil nutrients and soil erosion. • Integrated Pest Management Practices (IPM) All of our Greenhouse clients implement stringent sanitary practices and introduces beneficial insects to maintain a safe, natural, pesticide free environment, to provide you with products that are not only delicious, but are also Rockwool substrate uses just healthy for your family. one-twentieth the amount of water of field grown crops • Carbon dioxide, heat, ventilation Our Greenhouse clients have turned science into an art. They use high‐tech computer systems that monitor and control carbon dioxide levels, heat, ventilation and plant nutrition. Many greenhouses also store unused heat in large water tanks, that hot water runs through heating pipes during cooler evening temperatures Use bumblebees to help encourage Because of this precision, their vegetables look and taste perfect without doing natural plant pollination, which helps anything unnatural to them. produce the perfect size and shape of their tomatoes Environmental Performance Managing environmental issues across our supply chain Consulting, training services according to Good Agriculture Practices As a consulting and training facilitator body, offering specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional groups and corporations DKG is focusing to meet increasingly high sustainability standards and to enable its stakeholders to positively influence their impact on environment and society. As a service provider and associate member of GLOBALG.A.P® (the global partnership for safe and sustainable agriculture), we commit to respond to its recommendations by providing advice to greenhouse growers/suppliers to apply sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). Also Group's Executive Director Mr. Christos D. Katsanos is Official GLOBALGAP train-the public trainer and in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A. & IRTC, DKG Group offers training programs for corporations and individuals in the areas of GLOBALG.A.P. protocol, AGRO 2-1 & 2-2 standard (Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) and ISO 22000 standard (HACCPClick to enlarge Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point). Finally, the Group's department AskMe officially translates in Greek language GLOBALGAP® documents related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification (Integrated Farm Assurance). Environmental Performance Sustainable Innovations DKG Group has a rich history of innovation in the greenhouse industry. Our people’s twenty years of experience is followed by many significant achievements like branded products (Prima, Lucia, Drama, Tomaccini), hydroponic cultivation method, natural pollination by bumble bees, beneficial organisms use instead of pesticides, climate management by computers, special packing house and renewable fuel (olive core) for heating. So, from our involvement to the first hydroponic greenhouse in Greece (early 90's) comes to 2012 with the installation of the first Photovoltaic (Solar) Glasshouse also in Greece, that designed and developed by the AGROTECHNIKI Ltd and DKG Consulting Ltd in their joint innovation venture LIVE CELL®. The module allows photovoltaic equipment to coexist with flower crops. What is more, it acts as an element for the seasonal control of the radiation and interior temperature of the greenhouse, apart from constituting additional support for the entrepreneur’s economic activity through the sale and/or private use of the energy obtained. Fore more photos please click here Environmental Performance Sustainable product design: focus on packaging We regularly review and reevaluate our clients' sustainable packaging strategy to identify ways to increase the use of sustainable packaging while allowing for flexibility in meeting customers’ needs. We are working on a process to define opportunities to reduce the amount of materials that used by, for example, optimizing seal sizes and finding alternative usage of packaging Case study: Tomacinni In 2012, redesigned the packaging of Tomacinni Product. The new innovative package utilized less material to deliver the same quantity of product to consumers. Importantly that the packaging can be used as a penpencil holder!! We value your opinions and feedback, and we would appreciate your thoughts about our initiatives and communications. Tell us what you liked, what we could improve or what you would like to see in our next report. To do so, please contact with Dimitra Notiou, at notiou@dkggroup.com The committee of CSR & COP Report Editors: Christos D. Katsanos & Dimitra Notiou (Management Assistant) Proof reader: Evagelos N. Drimtzias 2011 COP & CSR Report How we intend to make this CSR available to our Stakeholders  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the UN Global Compact website http://www.unglobalcompact.org  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the GRI's Sustainability Disclosure Database http://database.globalreporting.org  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group website http://www.dkggroup.com  DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group blog http://csr-dkggroup.blogspot.gr/  DKG’s COP & CSR will be sent via e-mail to all our employees Abbreviations AGRO 2.1 & 2.2 Standard (Hellenic certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility GRI Global Reporting Initiative IPM Integrated Pest Management IRTC International Research and Training Centre for Sustainability ISO International Organisation for Standardisation G.A.P. Good Agricultural Practices ROUT Rodopi Ultra Trail UNGC United Nations Global Compact 2011 COP & CSR Report DKG Group : 5 b, Ioustinianou street, 551 34, Thessaloniki –Greece ● Tel: +30 2310 488.915 ● Fax: +30 2310 488.916 ● E-mail: welcome@dkggroup.com ● www.dkggroup.com Find us on: 2011 COP & CSR Report
