Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Management of corporate responsibility Stakeholders Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Social responsibility Safety Reporting Our approach Environment Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Economic Environmental Social responsibility From the President Recognitions CR in Ruukki responsibility responsibility & CEO Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011 Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief From the President & CEO Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Responsibility has importance in Ruukki’s business. Management of corporate During the year we received also international recognitions for our work on the SEE ALSO responsibility sustainable development front. We achieved the position of steel industry Stakeholders leader in two Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. This recognition is the result Values of years of long-term work and the strong competence of our people. Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility Financial information Our operating environment has become very demanding in recent years. As a result, Ruukki has Social responsibility Research and development managed to improve its competitiveness, although we still have much to do. In 2012, we will continue Near-term outlook Safety to improve our competitiveness and efficiency and constantly explore new business opportunities. We Energy-efficient products and also aim for better flexibility to react to changes taking place in the market environment. Reporting solutions We have also clarified the future direction in all our businesses. We will continue with the good work Innovative safety Our approach which the values adopted in 2011 are contributing to. In keeping with our values, we take responsibility, Environment succeed together and challenge tomorrow. Our people Energy efficiency boost competitive edge Society We aim to develop increasingly energy-efficient products and solutions for our customers. There is Reporting a growing demand for energy-efficient solutions in our market areas. Sustainability recognitions During the course of 2011, Ruukki launched new energy-efficient products such as a ground heat solution integrated into steel piles and a solar power solution integrated into façade cladding. Ruukki’s special steel products lighten end-product weight or enable structures that prolong useful working life or that can take higher payloads. The result is decreased emissions and smaller operating costs of the end-customer’s product. Energy-efficient products and solutions play a key role in achieving our strategy. The innovation of new products and solutions requires us to have a good understanding of the needs of our customers and other stakeholders, an enthusiasm to develop new things and good teamwork. Sakari Tamminen President & CEO Rautaruukki Corporation Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/From-the-President--... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 RUUKKI IN BRIEF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Ruukki in brief The Corporation uses the marketing name Ruukki. Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Ruukki provides its customers with energy-efficient steel solutions for better living, working and Management of corporate moving. Net sales in 2011 totalled EUR 2.8 (2.4) billion. SEE ALSO responsibility Ruukki operates in ca. 30 countries and employs ca. 11,800 (11,700) people. Stakeholders Values Read more about our people Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility Our Business Areas Financial information Social responsibility Research and development Ruukki Construction Near-term outlook Safety Energy-efficient products and Lifecycleand energy-efficient steel structure solutions for commercial, office and industrial Reporting construction, single family homes, portand transport infrastructure construction solutions Main market areas: Nordic countries, Russia, Central Eastern Europe and the Baltic states. Innovative safety Our approach Ruukki has a strong market position in all segments in Scandinavia and also in roofing products in Central Eastern Europe. Environment Ruukki Engineering Our people Fully-assembled systems and components for the engineering industry. Society Our core product areas are operator cabins and various energy efficient special steel and other Reporting components. Leading supplier of systems and components to globally-operating OEMs in the materials handling, Sustainability recognitions construction, mining, forest machinery and energy industry and to machinery and equipment manufacturers in the energy industry. Ruukki Metals Energy-efficient special steel products including high-strength, wear-resistant and special-coated products for demanding applications. Steel service centres supply steel products and related prefabrication, logistics and storage services. Strong position in core markets in the Nordic countries and Baltic states. Global, cutting edge manufacturer of special steel products. Diverse range of services in steel service centres in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland and Russia. Read more about our business areas Ruukki's owners Rautaruukki Corporation is a listed company, whose shares are quoted on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (Rautaruukki Oyj: RTRKS). At year-end 2011, the company had 47,501 shareholders (43,575). Non-Finnish and nominee registered owners held 16.9 per cent of Rautaruukki's shares at the end of 2011. Read more about shareholders here Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Ruukki-in-brief Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RUUKKI CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Corporate responsibility in Ruukki The objective of corporate responsibility is to ensure long-term business conditions from the financial, social SEE ALSO Significant recognitions in and environmental aspects. Ruukki seeks a strong 2011 market position in its business areas. This imposes UN Global Compact high standards on, for example, responsible decisionValues making, the development of energy-efficient products Units by country Focus areas of responsible and competent people. Every choice is a chance to do business things better and to go further. Strategy Financial information Corporate responsibility Research and development program and objectives We strive to continuously improve our operations in Near-term outlook Highlights from 2011 different fields in accordance with Ruukki’s values. The Energy-efficient products and goals we have set ourselves and the decisions we solutions Management of corporate make impact on our success. A top level of expertise responsibility Innovative safety and keeping promises are key qualities in Ruukki’s Stakeholders corporate culture. Economic responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Environmental responsibility Significant recognitions in 2011 Social responsibility UN Global Compact Working with stakeholders is an important part of corporate responsibility Focus areas of responsible business Safety We survey our stakeholders’ expectations with the help of studies and ongoing dialogue, among other Corporate responsibility program Reporting things. The aim is for interactive, honest and respectful stakeholder relations, which are achieved and objectives through open communication, actively processing feedback and joint meetings and events. Highlights from 2011 Our approach Environment Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Corporate-Responsibi... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RUUKKI CORPORATE SIGNIFICANT RECOGNITIONS IN 2011 RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Significant recognitions in 2011 Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Recognition in international ratings Significant recognitions in 2011 Ruukki achieved the position of industry leader in two Dow Jones Sustainability indexes: DJSI SEE ALSO World and DJSI Europe. The indexes include the top companies that are committed to sustainable UN Global Compact development. Values Focus areas of responsible Ruukki is included in the DJSI World Index for the fourth year running and in the European index for business Units by country the fifth year. The results show that Ruukki has achieved industry leadership for the first time and Strategy Corporate responsibility heads the world’s eight best steel companies. Financial information program and objectives Research and development In October, Ruukki was awarded Worldsteel’s prize for sustainability reporting. The prize was Highlights from 2011 Near-term outlook based on the fact that Ruukki has produced extensive information and case examples about its Energy-efficient products and Management of corporate corporate responsibility to its interest groups. solutions responsibility In March, Ruukki was chosen for inclusion in NASDAQ OMX’s new OMX GES Sustainability Finland Innovative safety Stakeholders index. Economic responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Environmental responsibility Social responsibility Significant recognitions in 2011 UN Global Compact Safety Focus areas of responsible business Reporting Corporate responsibility program and objectives Our approach Highlights from 2011 Environment Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Corporate-Responsibi... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RUUKKI UN GLOBAL COMPACT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief UN Global Compact Corporate responsibility in In December 2011, Ruukki joined the UN’s Global Compact initiative. Ruukki UN Global compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to enhancing good SEE ALSO Significant recognitions in 2011 corporate citizenship. By signing the initiative, Ruukki is committed to voluntarily promoting sustainable solutions in its operations. UN Global Compact Values The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti Units by country Focus areas of responsible -corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: Strategy business Financial information Corporate responsibility The Universal Declaration of Human Rights The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Research and development program and objectives The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development Near-term outlook Highlights from 2011 The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Energy-efficient products and solutions Management of corporate Read more about Global Compact at unglobalcompact.org responsibility Innovative safety Stakeholders Economic responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Environmental responsibility Significant recognitions in 2011 Social responsibility UN Global Compact Focus areas of responsible business Safety Corporate responsibility program Reporting and objectives Highlights from 2011 Our approach Environment Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Corporate-Responsibi... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RUUKKI CORPORATE FOCUS AREAS OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Focus areas of responsible business Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Focus areas of responsible business at Ruukki Significant recognitions in 2011 In 2011, we drew up a materiality assessment of Ruukki’s corporate responsibility on the basis of, SEE ALSO among other things, Ruukki’s values, code of conduct, external responsibility assessments, the results UN Global Compact of customer and employee surveys, UN Global Compact principles and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) corporate responsibility reporting guidelines. In materiality assessments we identify the focus Values Focus areas of responsible business areas of responsible operations that were the most important issues and on the basis of which we set Units by country our responsibility objectives. Strategy Corporate responsibility Financial information program and objectives Research and development Materiality analysis Highlights from 2011 Near-term outlook Energy-efficient products and Management of corporate Aspect Focus areas Importance to business and stakeholders solutions responsibility Financial Achievement of The achievement of financial targets and profitability Innovative safety Stakeholders responsibility financial targets enable continuity and development. They form the foundation on which all activities are built. Economic responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Environmental responsibility Remuneration At Ruukki, fair, competitive and motivating remuneration and good for excellent performance is not only tangible. Social responsibility corporate Significant recognitions in 2011 citizenship The economic wellbeing we create is shared by various UN Global Compact Safety Focus areas of responsible business stakeholders in society in the form of wages, salaries and Reporting bonuses, taxes, purchases and dividends. Responsibility is Corporate responsibility program also visible in business risk management. and objectives Our approach Highlights from 2011 Environment Compliance with Compliance with good business practices respects our Our people good business stakeholders and, among other things, means compliance practices with laws and regulations and practicing ethical business Society activities. Reporting Social High level of A competent personnel and well-managed human Sustainability recognitions responsibility expertise resources create the foundation for economic sustainability. We are revisiting and improving the efficiency of our ways of working to enable us to continue responding to our customers’ needs. This is possible through a high level of expertise, motivated and committed people and good supervisory work. We strive to ensure that Ruukki people are competent, happy in their work and motivated to participate in taking our business further. Occupational At Ruukki, it is important to support proactive safety work safety and management with the help of studies and by developing, among other things, competence and induction, as well as proactive measures. Leadership Supervisory work is being developed in line with Ruukki’s culture values through development discussions and leadership training and coaching. Consistent mapping of leadership resources and career planning also underpin the development of Ruukki’s leadership culture. Environmental Energy-efficient Ruukki’s energy-efficient products help to enable responsibility products customers to improve their effective use of energy and reduce the environmental impacts of their products ion, among other things, construction, transportation and mobile machines. Operational ecoThe efficiency of energy and resources in Ruukki’s own efficiency production is testimony to our customers of responsible operations. The energy and mineral products created as a by-product in the production process are used as a substitute for virgin natural resources. Steel lifecycle As a material, fully-recyclable steel is a good base for and recycling energy-efficient building solutions. Our recyclable, wearresistant and high-strength special steel products improve the material efficiency of lifting, handling and transportation equipment, and reduce energy consumption over the product’s lifecycle. Environmental A certified ISO 14001 -environmental management system management and is already in place at 99% of our production sites and conformity shows our stakeholders our commitment to the consistent improvement of environmental matters. The system helps us to monitor the achievement of targets set, any noncompliances and compliance with statutory requirements and environmental permits. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Corporate-Responsibi... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RUUKKI CORPORATE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM AND OBJECTIVES RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Corporate responsibility program and objectives Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Objectives Significant recognitions in 2011 The objective of corporate responsibility is to ensure long-term business conditions from the financial, SEE ALSO social and environmental aspects. We are constantly pushing to improve different aspects of our UN Global Compact operations and responsibility is broadly reflected in the decisions we take. Values Focus areas of responsible Continuous improvement in safety and the promotion of energy efficiency are high on Ruukki’s business Units by country corporate responsibility agenda. We want to continue ranking among the best companies in developing Strategy Corporate responsibility responsibility in our sector. Financial information program and objectives Research and development Highlights from 2011 Main objectives of corporate responsibility at Ruukki Near-term outlook Energy-efficient products and Management of corporate Aspects Some of our achievements in 2011 solutions responsibility Innovative safety Stakeholders Financial responsibility Total economic value of € 2,872 million (2,495) was created Economic responsibility for stakeholders Achievement of financial targets Dividends totalling €83.3 million (62.5) were paid 2011 CR REPORTING Environmental responsibility Compliance with Code of Conduct Comparable operating profit was €56 million (38) Social responsibility Code of Conduct was revised Significant recognitions in 2011 UN Global Compact Safety Focus areas of responsible business Social responsibility Safety was improved by enhancing pro-action and induction Corporate responsibility program Reporting Improved safety 6.5 (4.5) safety actions/per employee and objectives Our approach Highlights from 2011 Strengthened top-quality teams held over 26,800 (19,000) safety moments Environment expertise safety was assessed on over 25,400 (20,000) safety rounds Development of leadership Our people culture The personnel took part in an average of 1.76 (1.87) training days a year. Society A total of 92% (80) of salaried employees had development Reporting discussions in which competence evaluation and target Sustainability recognitions setting were key elements. Environmental responsibility Ruukki launched airtight energy panels etc, was the first company to launch a photovoltaic system integrated into a Promotion of energy efficiency façade and piloted ground-source heat solutions integrated Increased recycling and materials efficiency into steel piles Compliance with environmental systems and requirements of Recycling steel and mineral products reduced CO2 emissions environmental permits by 600,000 tonnes (700,000) An ISO 14001 environmental management scheme is in use already at 99% of Ruukki’s production sites. Environmental investments totalled €29 million (29) Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Corporate-Responsibi... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN RUUKKI HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Highlights from 2011 Corporate responsibility in JANUARY-MARCH Ruukki Significant recognitions in SEE ALSO Reduce energy costs with Ruukki’s new energy panels (March 2011) 2011 Ruukki is the only manufacturer in the world to guarantee the exact level of airtightness of exterior wall UN Global Compact Values panels. The new airtight energy panel translates into considerable savings in a building's heating costs Units by country Focus areas of responsible and also significantly reduces a building's carbon dioxide emissions. business Strategy Financial information Corporate responsibility APRIL-JUNE Research and development program and objectives Near-term outlook Highlights from 2011 Ruukki’s first energy piles for Technopolis Jyväskylä (April 2011) Energy-efficient products and solutions Management of corporate Energy piles utilising ground-source energy have been chosen for the foundations of the new responsibility Innovative safety Technopolis Innova 2 office building under construction in Jyväskylä, Finland. Ruukki's steel piles will Stakeholders serve both as the building's foundations and as energy piles to collect free ground-source heat. The building has been designed as energy class B and LEED certification will be applied for. 2011 CR REPORTING Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Ruukki has developed a fully-integrated solar panel façade (May 2011) Significant recognitions in 2011 Social responsibility UN Global Compact Ruukki is the first company to have developed a photovoltaic system that has been fully integrated into Focus areas of responsible business Safety a façade to convert sun rays into energy. The solar power system does not depend on the sun's Corporate responsibility program warmth, only its radiation. The electricity generated is used either to meet the building's own needs or Reporting and objectives is fed into the electricity grid. Highlights from 2011 Our approach Environment JULY-SEPTEMBER Our people Ruukki to launch a smart roof that improves safety (August 2011) Society Sensors fitted to a roof notice any changes in roof loading. Technology developed by Ruukki can be Reporting fitted to both new and existing roofs in which load-bearing sheets have been used. Sustainability recognitions Ruukki achieved position of industry leader in Dow Jones Sustainability indexes (September 2011) Ruukki has achieved the position of industry leader in two Dow Jones Sustainability indexes: DJSI World and DJSI Europe. The indexes include the top companies that are committed to sustainable development. Energy efficiency was the theme in Ruukki’s Green Building Week info event (September 2011) Ruukki participated in the World Green Building Week in September 2011. With internal info event and materials Ruukki promoted the themes of energy-efficient buildings and Ruukki’s commitment to sustainable development. Info sessions are planned also for customers and other stakeholders. OCTOBER-DECEMBER Worldsteel: Climate Action member –recognition for the second year running (October 2011) World Steel Association (worldsteel) has awarded Ruukki with Climate Action membership certificate for 2010 2011 (first certificate 2009 2010). Ruukki won worldsteel’s sustainability prize (October 2011) Ruukki has been admitted to World Steel Assotiation’s (worldsteel) prize of sustainability reporting. The prize was based on the fact that Ruukki has produced extensive information and case examples about its corporate responsibility to its stakeholders. Closure of sinter plant at Ruukki’s Raahe Works (December 2011) Closure of the sinter plant will considerably reduce emissions at the works. In addition to this, Ruukki will increase the fugitive dust removal capacity at the steel plant at the Raahe Works by the end of 2013. Recovery of fugitive dust at the steel plant will be increased by a total of around 40%. This action will reduce deposits of dust particles especially in the immediate vicinity of the works. A start on building the devices will be made in summer 2012 and the project is scheduled for completion by the end of 2013. Ruukki part of the year’s most inspiring recycling project in Sweden (December 2011) Research work carried out by Swerea MEFOS in collaboration with SSAB, LKAB and Ruukki has resulted in a new technique. Working together on the ViLD (vanadium in LD slag) project in Luleå, northern Sweden, they developed a relatively simple, yet ingenious method to separate vanadium from steelmaking slag. Swerea MEFOS’s ViLD project has now received the Swedish Recycling Industries’ Association’s Inspiration Award for 2011. Ruukki’s Capital Markets Day energy efficiency as special theme (December 2011) Rautaruukki's management re-affirmed the company's strategy at the Capital Markets Day held in London. The special theme of the day was energy efficiency and the core message told about Ruukki’s aim to develop increasingly more energy-efficient products and solutions for customers, especially customers in the construction and lifting, handling and transportation equipment industries. Ruukki joined the UN Global Compact initiative in December (December 2011) GlThe United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to enhance good corporate citizenship. By signing the initiative, Ruukki is committed to enhancing sustainable development in its operations. Energy efficiency is an example of this. It is a key aspect of Ruukki’s products and work to develop them. The UN Global Compact's ten principles are in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Corporate-Responsibi... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Management of corporate responsibility In practice, corporate responsibility at Ruukki is shared between our different business areas, Corporate responsibility in Ruukki support functions and sites. This ensures as far as possible implementation of corporate responsibility as an integrated part of everyday business activities. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Ruukki’s values are present in everything we do. Code of Conduct In addition, the company’s operations are driven by: Values Units by country Environmental policy Corporate governance Strategy Code of conduct Quality policy Financial information Corporate strategy Corporate Governance Research and development Ruukki’s Board of Directors approved Ruukki’s revised Code of Conduct in December 2011 and it Near-term outlook Supply chain management entered into force at the start of 2012. Energy-efficient products and Stakeholders solutions The management of different aspects of corporate responsibility are defined in: Innovative safety Economic responsibility Safety management principles Environmental responsibility Environmental policy Quality policy 2011 CR REPORTING Social responsibility Since the start of 2012, Ruukki’s principles of social responsibility have been integrated into Ruukki’s Safety Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Environmental policy Reporting The company’s production sites operate in compliance with certified ISO 14001:2004 environmental Quality policy Our approach management and ISO 9001:2000 quality management systems, which cover 99 per cent of production. Corporate Governance Supply chain management Environment Read more about certified management systems Our people The corporate responsibility task force coordinates the development of corporate responsibility. The Society task force is made up of representatives from Human Resources, Legal, Marketing and Communications, Finance, and the Energy and Environment function. The corporate Energy and Reporting Environment function monitors and is responsible for overall development. Sustainability recognitions On Ruukki’s Corporate Executive Board, the SVP, Technology, Energy and Environment is responsible for corporate responsibility and also chairs the corporate responsibility task force. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report Principles of social responsibility 2011 Rautaruukki Group is committed to upholding universally approved human, children's and Our approach employee rights. Environment This means that the Group is committed: Our people To respecting and promoting human rights in the countries where the Group has operations. Society Accordingly, the Group respects different cultures and their understanding of human rights and children's rights in so far as they do not conflict with universal principles, Reporting To monitoring actively the state of human rights in the countries where the Group has operations, To respect freedom of association and the freedom to belong to trade unions, Sustainability recognitions Not to use child or forced labour Not to show discrimination among job applicants and its employees in any way. Accordingly, the Group commits itself, in salaries, employment, providing training, and promotion, not to oppress minorities on the basis of race, sex, social position, origin, religion, or membership of a political party or any other organisation, Not to use any form of penalties, To opposing corruption. The Group reserves the right to interpret these commitments on a national basis in accordance with legislation in each country, unless the national legislation is in conflict with universal human, children's and employee rights. The Group commits itself in the long term to developing joint operational, management and reporting practices for these matters. The principles have been approved by the Board of Directors on 5 June 2000. Updated/checked: 17 Feb 2012 Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Management-of-corporate-responsibility/Principles-of-socia... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE CODE OF CONDUCT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Code of Conduct Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Compliance with laws and the Code of Conduct Management of corporate responsibility In all its operations, Ruukki complies with the laws and regulations in force, good practices and with the SEE ALSO Code of Conduct, published in 2005 and renewed in 2011. The purpose of the Code of Conduct Code of Conduct adopted by Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors is to highlight the company’s ethical values and to create for the personnel a consistent way to act responsibly around the world. Each Ruukki employee is Values Environmental policy required to be familiar with the legislation and policies applying to his or her own area of responsibility Units by country Quality policy and, without exception, to comply with them. Strategy Financial information Corporate Governance Each of the company’s business areas (divisions) is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Code Research and development Supply chain management of Conduct and laws and regulations in force. Business area management is responsible for the Near-term outlook internal control of operations to ensure that all employees in the business area are familiar with the Energy-efficient products and Stakeholders laws, regulations and principles applying to their own work and that they comply with them. In solutions Economic responsibility conjunction with internal audits, the company seeks to ensure that control has been properly organised Innovative safety and works effectively. Internal audits are carried out by all corporate functions in addition to the internal Environmental responsibility audit unit. Social responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Generally accepted ethical principles and compliance with laws are the basis of good business Safety practice. Ethical and legal issues concerning the company’s operations as well as human rights, Code of Conduct Reporting employment and environmental issues are to be recognized and handled according to these principles. Environmental policy Our approach Responsible operations support the company’s success and competitiveness. Therefore the company Quality policy requires that its business partners, suppliers and sub-contractors comply with this Code of Conduct. Corporate Governance Environment Supply chain management Our people Policies Society Corporate policies applying to different areas of the business reinforce the commitment to achieving Reporting corporate financial and other targets and minimising business risks within the company. Some of these Sustainability recognitions policies are in the public domain and can be found on the company’s website. Personnel have access to the policies on the company’s intranet pages. The Code of Conduct is made known to the personnel during induction training for new employees and through continuous training and internal communication. The employment contracts of new employees include a condition about compliance with the Code of Conduct. In addition, employees taking part in training held in different countries sign to confirm that they have studied the Code of Conduct and that they undertake to comply with it. Reporting misconduct One of the aims of internal control is to prevent misconduct. Ruukki has instructions about how to report any misconduct. Employees are encouraged to report suspected misconduct either to their own supervisor, to other management or directly to the internal audit unit or legal department. Reports can also be sent through post or email (compliance@ruukki.com). Each and every Ruukki employee is responsible for reporting any misconduct or procedure contrary to the Code of Conduct. Suspected misconduct is investigated immediately and confidentially. Proven misconduct is reported to the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. Read more about the Code of Conduct (pdf, 42KB (pdf, 47KB)). Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Approved by the Board of Directors on 16 December 2011 Effective as of 1 January 2012 RUUKKI CODE OF CONDUCT 1. Introduction Ruukki recognises the importance of proper business conduct, which is in the long term interest of the company. It creates loyalty and trust in employees, shareholders, customers, other stakeholders and in the local communities where Ruukki operates. Ruukki’s Board of Directors has approved this Code of Conduct (Code). The Code applies to all Ruukki companies and employees regardless of Ruukki company’s whereabouts or employees’ title or position. Compliance with the Code is a nonnegotiable requirement and all of us should follow this Code without any exceptions. As an experienced and high moral company, we must especially notice our responsibilities to corporate responsibility. Commitment to proper business conduct and fair game are worth upholding. We all must act and work in accordance with this Code. The idea of this Code is to give guidance to Ruukki’s employees and business partners. It does not cover all situations. If you are ever in doubt about its interpretation, do not hesitate to contact your supervisor or Ruukki’s Legal for guidance. Ruukki’s values Ruukki’s values describe our way to work and the things that are important to us. The values engage the employees to share a common way of doing things. They also set the ground by which we want to be successful in the future. Values guide our choices and decision making. We take responsibility We are worth our customers’ trust We keep our promises We work safely and responsibly We work honestly and responsibly as individuals We succeed together We succeed together with our customers We deliver results We trust each other We benefit from our multicultural expertise We challenge tomorrow We understand our customers’ future needs We are curious about new things We quickly take action We encourage continuous renewal and learning 2. Compliance with laws and regulations We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations. It is important for each Ruukki’s employee to be aware of the laws and regulations applying to his or her own job and to comply with them. Wherever Ruukki or Ruukki’s employee works, we respect the local way of doing business under their legislation. Ethics We are committed to doing business in accordance with high ethical standards. Ruukki wants to be a good business partner and to act as a responsible corporate citizen in the community. Fair competition We comply with competition and antitrust laws in all our operations and do our best to avoid working practices that could be regarded as restricting competition. Ruukki as a company or Ruukki’s employee must not take part in any discussions or agreements with competitor where, for example, prices, customers, markets or other activities are agreed and they restrict or could restrict free and open competition. Insiders As a listed company Ruukki complies with all insider regulations. Insiders are provided with strict guidelines and each insider is responsible for ensuring that his or her actions comply with the law, Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority’s (FIN-FSA) standards and Insider Guidelines of Rautaruukki Corporation. Ruukki’s policies Besides this Code, Ruukki also has other policies that guide our work and operations, for example, regarding company information disclosure, corporate governance and competition compliance. 3. Human rights We participate in the UN Global Compact Initiative and promote other universally accepted international declarations, such as the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Accordingly we respect different cultures and understanding of human and children’s rights. Ruukki actively monitors those countries in which we have business activities and under no circumstances do we tolerate child or forced labour. We respect each other in everything we do. Each Ruukki’s employee has freedom of speech, opinion, association and other rights governed by laws and regulations. We do not tolerate working conditions which are in conflict with human rights and treat our employees equally and fairly. 4. Employees Recruitment Ruukki is committed to equal and proper treatment of all job applicants and employees. Therefore, employees are selected and employed on the basis of their professional skills and competence. 2/5 Family, friends or other acquaintances are not employed based on their personal relationship with a Ruukki employee. In such situations, a person having a conflict of interest cannot be involved in the job application process or be the person’s superior. Employment We appreciate the diversity of our employees as well as the experience and history of our personnel. Employees are supported and encouraged to express their opinions and to discuss things with their supervisors. Ruukki also gives employees opportunities to develop their skills by offering training. We do not accept any kind of discrimination based, for example, on disability, race, gender, social position, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief. Neither do we tolerate any kind of harassment or bullying at work. Safety and working environment Everyone has the right to work in an accident-free environment. We aim to permanently change attitudes and the safety culture in our company and to motivate our employees to continuously improve safety and working conditions. This is achieved when all of us pay attention to the instructions and work in accordance with the agreed rules. We must all contribute to making a safe and pleasant working environment. The wellbeing of our working community requires everyone’s commitment. Safety decisions made not only affect yourself, but also other employees your colleagues. 5. Confidentiality and privacy Ruukki respects trade secrets and other confidential information. This applies to Ruukki’s own information and that of its customers and other business partners. Employees are not allowed to use this information with any unauthorised persons or for their own benefits. Data protection laws are followed in all Ruukki Companies. Personal information given by individuals is strictly used for the sole purpose of enabling the company to carry out its obligations. 6. Business conduct Proper business conduct applies in all areas of Ruukki’s business. There is no right way to do the wrong thing. Conflict of interest Each employee must avoid situations where there is a conflict of interest between personal benefit and the company’s benefit. If Ruukki’s employee works for another company or business during working hours and uses Ruukki’s equipment or assets for such work, this can lead to conflict of interest. We all are business cards of Ruukki and should act in the best interests of our company. If you ever suspect conflict of interest and do not know how to handle the situation, do not hesitate to contact your own supervisor or Ruukki’s Legal! 3/5 Gifts and bribery No employee is allowed to give, acquire or accept any financial benefits or other hospitality for their own personal benefit. Common items of low value given or received in the ordinary course of business are acceptable. None of the gifts given or received must influence our business decisions or be a tacit agreement to exchange important information. It is not allowed to accept entertainment during contract negotiations. Blackmailing is not how we work. Any kind of corruption is prohibited. Ruukki as a company does not support government institutions, any political parties or candidates, religions or associations by giving them any funds or donations. All sponsoring must comply with Ruukki’s sponsoring policy and marketing principles. Company assets Each employee is responsible protecting company assets including, for example intellectual property rights, products, manuals, plans and customer lists. All assets belong to Ruukki and they can be used only for the business purposes accepted by management. Theft or misuse of company assets is strictly prohibited. 7. Supplier and customer relations Suppliers and sub-contractors Fairness is a key principle between Ruukki and its suppliers or sub-contractors. We do our best to improve relationship, trust and respect with our partners. Ruukki expects all suppliers and sub-contractors to comply with this Code of Conduct. Ruukki will use its best efforts to enter into contracts with such suppliers and sub-contractors that comply with this Code. If a supplier neglects this Code or legislation, future co-operation with Ruukki might be jeopardised. Possible gifts or hospitalities from suppliers or sub-contractors do not influence our decision-making. We do not trade company or business secrets and we expect our suppliers and sub-contractors behave in the same way. Besides this Code all suppliers and sub-contractors must comply with national laws and regulations of the country in which they operate. Customers We are in business for our customers. Success is achieved when customers are satisfied with our products, we have long-term customers and they choose us time after time. We take responsibility to be worth our customers’ trust and keep our promises. 8. Environment Ruukki is a responsible corporate citizen. The environment is our common cause and Ruukki considers it important to make products energy efficiently. We strive to offer environmentally effective solutions and to improve the level of environmental protection and energy efficiency of our operations. We provide solutions to customers’ environmental challenges by increasing environmental awareness in product development and by developing competitive, ecoefficient products. We seek to reduce the harmful environmental impacts of our products and operations by improving in particular our energy and raw material 4/5 efficiency. The ISO 14001 environment management system is the tool to continuously improve environmental performance. Ruukki regularly reports the results of its environmental performance. Environmental risks are managed systematically by taking environmental matters into account while planning and implementing operations and products. Environmental risks are also taken into account as part of the corporate risk management process. Environmental legislation governs our work and decision-making. All employees should know the environmental risks arising in their daily work and must take the necessary actions to prevent them. 9. Implementation The Code is effective as of 1 January 2012. This Code guides us in our everyday work and all Ruukki employees must act according to this Code. Employees are encouraged to talk with their supervisors about important matters related to this Code. More detailed instructions of this Code can be given in other duly approved Ruukki Policies. The Code is made known to Ruukki employees through training and elearning tool. The original language of this Code is English, but it has been translated into the major employee languages. Reporting violations Violations against this Code must be reported immediately and all violations are monitored by Internal Audit. Each Ruukki employee must inform either their own supervisor or Internal Audit if they notice actions contrary to this Code. If an employee notices a violation on financial issues, corruption, bribery etc. he or she may report it by e-mail (compliance@ruukki.com), in person or by post to Ruukki’s Legal, Internal Audit, any business controller or to the Board of Director’s Audit Committee. Reporting can be made anonymously and reports are treated confidentially. In case of violations related to human rights, employment or other working environment matters, please contact Corporate Human Resources immediately. All allegations of violation of this Code are investigated. No retaliation directed against the informer is tolerated. Ruukki will protect informers in every possible way. Sanctions Disciplinary action will be taken against the violator and even termination of employment is possible. Criminal misconduct is reported to authorities for investigation. 5/5 Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental policy Corporate responsibility in Environmental issues are of importance to Ruukki because of the environmental impacts of production Ruukki and energy-efficient products. Management of corporate responsibility To ensure the long-term competitiveness of our business, we are committed to the principles of SEE ALSO ecologically sustainable development by: Code of Conduct providing environmentally-effective solutions for customers, Values Environmental policy continually improving our environmental performance and energy efficiency, Units by country Quality policy preventing pollution and by Strategy complying with environmental laws and regulations. Financial information Corporate Governance We act on our commitment by: Research and development Supply chain management Near-term outlook managing environmental issues through certified environmental management systems, Energy-efficient products and Stakeholders minimizing the environmental impacts of our operations, encouraging our suppliers and subcontractors to similarly manage their environmental impacts solutions Economic responsibility through contracts and auditing and by Innovative safety Environmental responsibility anticipating the opportunities and requirements arising through energy efficiency and environmental issues. Social responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING All Ruukki employees know the environmental impacts of their work and are responsible for minimizing Safety them. Code of Conduct Reporting We actively and impartially communicate the environmental performance of our operations and Environmental policy Our approach products. Quality policy Corporate Governance Environment Supply chain management Helsinki, 5 December 2008 Our people Society Sakari Tamminen President and CEO Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE QUALITY POLICY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Quality policy Corporate responsibility in Satisfied customers are the basis of our business. Ruukki Management of corporate We continuously improve our operations to ensure that the capability of our processes is able to match responsibility defined goals even in the future. SEE ALSO Code of Conduct Knowledge and co-operation are cornerstones of our success. Values Environmental policy The quality of solutions, products and processes are central success factors in our flexible and Units by country Quality policy profitable business. Strategy Financial information Corporate Governance Helsinki, 5.12.2008 Research and development Supply chain management Near-term outlook Stakeholders Sakari Tamminen Energy-efficient products and President and CEO solutions Economic responsibility Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Social responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Safety Code of Conduct Reporting Environmental policy Our approach Quality policy Corporate Governance Environment Supply chain management Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Corporate Governance Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Good governance supports business Management of corporate responsibility Rautaruukki Corporation's Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in compliance with SEE ALSO the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010 and with Chapter 2, Section 6 of the Securities Markets Code of Conduct Act. This Corporate Governance Statement also covers other core areas of governance and is issued separately from the report of the company’s Board of Directors. Values Environmental policy Units by country Quality policy Corporate Governance Statement (pdf, 2MB) Strategy Remuneration report Financial information Corporate Governance Board of Directors Research and development Supply chain management Corporate Executive Board Near-term outlook Risk management Energy-efficient products and Stakeholders solutions Economic responsibility Regulatory environment Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Rautaruukki Corporation is a Finnish limited company and the responsibilities and obligations of its Social responsibility management bodies are provided by the law of Finland, the company’s Articles of Association and the 2011 CR REPORTING principles of corporate governance determined by the company’s Board of Directors. Safety Code of Conduct Reporting Rautaruukki has published a Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with Recommendation Environmental policy 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010 and with Chapter 2, Section 6 of the Securities Our approach Quality policy Markets Act. Corporate Governance Environment Corporate governance and decision-making at Rautaruukki are in compliance with the Finnish Limited Supply chain management Our people Liability Companies Act, other similar legislation, other rules applying to listed companies, the company’s Articles of Association and rules and regulations applying to listed companies issued by Society NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. (Helsinki Exchange) and the Financial Supervisory Authority (FINFSA). In Reporting addition, Rautaruukki complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010 published by the Securities Market Association. Sustainability recognitions An unofficial English translation of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code may be viewed on the Securities Market Association website at www.cgfinland.fi. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Rautaruukki Corporation’s CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2011 Governance 1. Regulatory environment 2. Administration, governing and supervisory bodies 3. Organisational structure 4. General Meeting of Shareholders 5. Nomination Board appointed by the Annual General Meeting 6. Board of Directors 7. Board of Directors’ committees 8. President & CEO 9. Corporate Executive Board Main features of internal control and risk management systems relating to the financial reporting process 10. Risk management and internal control system 11. Internal control system 12. Compliance with laws and the Code of Conduct 13. Internal Audit 14. Audit 15. Insiders and related parties 16. Information and communication 17. Remuneration Good governance supports business This Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in compliance with the Finnish Corporate G ­ overnance Code 2010 and with Chapter 2, Section 6 of the Securities Markets Act. This Corporate Governance Statement also covers other core areas of governance and is issued separately from the report of the company’s Board of Directors.­ Rautaruukki Corporation / Corporate Governance Statement 2011 1 1. Regulatory environment 2. Administration, governing and 4. General Meeting of Shareholders a General Meeting of Shareholders. The notice of Rautaruukki Corporation is a Finnish limited comsupervisory bodies The General Meeting of Shareholders is Rautaruukthe meeting contains more detailed instructions for pany and the responsibilities and obligations of its Responsibility for the administration and operations ki’s ultimate decision-making body. Each shareholder nominee-registered shareholders wishing to attend management bodies are provided by the law of Finof the Rautaruukki group is vested in the executive is entitled to attend General Meetings. Each share and vote at a General Meeting. Neither the Finnish land, the company’s Articles of Association and the bodies of the parent company, Rautaruukki Corporaconveys one vote. The Annual General Meeting is Limited Liability Companies Act nor the company’s principles of corporate governance determined by the tion. Ultimate decision-making authority is exercised held by the end of June each year. Under the comArticles of Association contain quorum requirements company’s Board of Directors. by shareholders at the General Meeting. The Board pany’s Articles of Association, the company may hold for general meetings. of Directors and the President & CEO are responsible its Annual General Meeting either in Helsinki, the Corporate governance and decision-making at Raufor managing the company. The Board of Directors’ company’s registered office, or in Espoo. A shareholder may attend and vote at a General taruukki are in comp­liance with the Finnish Limited committees assist the Board in its duties. The Board ­Meeting of Shareholders in person or by proxy. Liability Companies Act, other similar legislation, seeks to ensure Rautaruukki complies with good The Annual General Meeting transacts the ­business Resolu­tions usually require a simple majority. other rules applying to listed companies, the compacorporate governance principles. assigned to it pursuant to the Finnish Limited Some cases such as amendments to the company’s ny’s Articles of Association and rules and regulations ­Liability Companies Act and the company’s Articles Articles of Association, a share issue disapplying applying to listed companies issued by NASDAQ OMX of Association. This business includes: the pre-emption rights of existing shareholders and Helsinki Ltd (Helsinki Exchange) and the Financial • adoption of the financial statements some decisions applying to mergers require a twoSupervisory Authority (FIN-FSA). In addition, Rau• distribution of profit thirds majority of the votes cast and represented at taruukki complies with the Finnish Corporate Gover­ the meeting. • discharge from liability for members of the Board nance Code 2010 published by the Securities Market of Directors and for the President & CEO Association. Annual General Meeting 2011 • election of the chairman, deputy chairman and The 2011 Annual General Meeting was held in Helsinki members of the Board of Directors and the deciAn unofficial English translation of the Finnish Corsion on their fees on 23 March 2011 and was attended by 872 share­ porate Governance Code is in the public domain and holders, representing 62.4 per cent of the company’s • election of the company’s auditors and decision may be viewed on the Securities Market Association votes, either in person or by proxy. on their fees website at www.cgfinland.fi. • proposals made by the Board of Directors and The resolutions of and documents relating to the share­holders to the Annual General Meeting Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors’ Audit Committee (including amendments to the Articles of Asso­Annual General Meeting can be viewed on the compaand Board of Directors have considered this Corpociation, purchase of the company’s shares, share ny’s website at www.ruukki.com > Investors > Corporate Governance Statement. The company’s auditor, issues). rate Governance > General Meeting of Shareholders. KHT audit firm KPMG Oy Ab, has checked that this statement has been issued and that the main features The Board of Directors is responsible for convening a of the internal control and risk management systems 3. Organisational structure of the business General Meeting of Shareholders. Notice of General relating to the financial reporting process in it are The President & CEO, assisted by the Corporate Meetings is published in one or more national newsconsistent with the company’s financial statements. Executive Board, is responsible for operating activipapers with wide circulation and is posted on the ties within the group and the executive vice presicompany’s website no earlier than two months and no Rautaruukki prepares consolidated financial statedents of the divisions, assisted by their respective later than three weeks before the meeting. ments and interim reports in compliance with management boards, are responsible for the operaInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) tions of the divisions By law, a shareholder is entitled to have a matter as adopted by the EU, the Finnish Securities Markets ­falling within the remit of a General Meeting of Act, as well as the Finnish Supervisory Authority’s In 2011, the business was structured into the Shareholders considered by the General Meeting prostandards and the stock exchange rules of NASDAQ ­following reporting divisions or business areas: vided that the matter is submitted in good time for OMX Helsinki Ltd (Helsinki Exchange). The Board of Ruukki Construction, Ruukki Engineering and it to be included in the notice convening the meeting. Directors’ report and the parent company’s financial Ruukki Metals. A proposal is deemed as having arrived in good time statements are prepared in compliance with the Finnif the Board of Directors has received it at least four ish Accounting Act and the opinions and guidelines The parent company, Rautaruukki Corporation, is weeks before notice of the meeting is given. of the Finnish Accounting Board. responsible for corporate administration, ­strategic planning, accounting and finance and arranges To be eligible to attend a General Meeting, share­ shared functions with the divisions. holders must be on the company’s shareholder register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record date of the meeting, which is eight (8) business days before the meeting, and have registered their intention to attend the meeting by the deadline given in the notice of the meeting. Nominee-registered shareholders may be temporarily listed in the company’s shareholder register for the purpose of attending 2 Rautaruukki Corporation / Corporate Governance Statement 2011 3 5. Nomination Board appointed by the The proposals referred to were included in the notice 6. Board of Directors review of market conditions and corporate operations Annual General Meeting of the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting elects the Chairand finances. The Board annually evaluates its own The Nomination Board appointed by the Annual man, Deputy Chairman and, under the Articles of effectiveness, working practices and performance General Meeting prepares proposals for the following­ 5.2 Nomination Board 2011 − ahead of the 2012 ­Association, between two and six other members to through self-assessment. Annual General Meeting concerning nominations for Annual General Meeting the Board of Directors. The term of office of Board appointments to the Board of Directors and the remuRautaruukki’s three largest shareholders as at 1 members begins at the meeting at which they were 6.2 Board of Directors 2011 neration of its members. Rautaruukki adopted this October­2011 appointed the following members to the elected and expires at the close of the first Annual Board of Directors until 23 March 2011 practice in 2004 at the proposal of the largest shareNomination Board: Kari Järvinen, M ­ anaging ­Director, General Meeting following election. The majority of Chairman Reino Hanhinen MSc (Eng), DSc (Tech) holder Solidium Oy (earlier the Finnish State). The Solidium Oy; Timo Ritakallio, Deputy Chief Executive Board members must be independent of the company h.c., b.1943 Board consists of representatives of the three largest Officer, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insu­rance Compaand, additionally, at least two members must be inde­ Deputy Chairman Hannu Ryöppönen BA (Business shareholders, together with the Chairman of the ny and Risto Murto, Executive Vice President, Investpendent of the company’s largest shareholders. No Admin), b. 1952 Board of Directors as an expert member. The Chairments, Varma Mutual Pension Insu­rance Company. person who has reached the age of 68 may be elected Maarit Aarni-Sirviö MSc (Tech), MBA, b. 1953 man of the Board of Directors convenes meetings of Reino Hanhinen, Chairman of Rautaruukki’s Board of to the Board. The notice of the Annual General Pertti Korhonen MSc (Electronics Eng), b. 1961 the Nomination Board, which elects a chairman from Directors, serves as the Nomination Board’s expert ­Meeting must include a proposal regarding the comLiisa Leino MSc (Nutrition), b. 1960 among its members. member. position of the Board of Directors. Matti Lievonen BSc (Eng), eMBA, b. 1958 Jaana Tuominen MSc (Chemical Eng), b. 1960 5.1 Nomination Committee 2010 − ahead of the 2011 The Nomination Board has proposed to the Annual The Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if he is Annual General Meeting General Meeting convening on 14 March 2012 that prevented, the Deputy Chairman convenes Board Board of Directors since 23 March 2011 Rautaruukki’s three largest shareholders as at 1 the number of members of the Board of Directors meetings. The Annual General Meeting of 23 March 2011 elected November 2010 appointed the following members to remains unchanged at seven. The Nomination Board a chairman, deputy chairman and five members of the the Nomination Committee: Kari Järvinen (chairman), further proposed the re-election of current members 6.1 Main tasks of the Board of Directors Board of Directors: Managing Director, Solidium Oy; Timo Ritakallio, of the Board of Directors, President & CEO Pertti The Board of Directors is responsible for the comChairman Reino Hanhinen Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Ilmarinen Mutual Korhonen, Chairman of the Board of Directors Liisa pany’s administration and proper organisation of the Deputy Chairman Hannu Ryöppönen Pension Insurance Company and Risto Murto, ExecuLeino, President & CEO Matti Lievonen, Hannu Ryöpcompany’s operations. The Board is responsible for Maarit Aarni-Sirviö tive Vice President, Investments, Varma Mutual Penpönen BA (Bus Admin) and CEO Jaana Tuominen for a ensuring the proper organisation and oversight of Pertti Korhonen sion Insurance Company. Reino Hanhinen, Chairman further term of office lasting one year from the 2012 the company’s accounting and financial management. Liisa Leino of Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors, served as the Annual General Meeting until the close of the 2013 Matti Lievonen Nomination Committee’s expert member. Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Board has The Board of Directors deals with all matters for Jaana Tuominen proposed the election of President and CEO Kim Gran which it is responsible by law, other regulations and The Nomination Committee proposed to the ­Annual and CFO Saila Miettinen-Lähde as new members of the company’s Articles of Association. It oversees the The Annual General Meeting held on 23 March 2011 reGeneral Meeting convening on 23 March 2011 that the Board of Directors. company’s operations and management and decides elected the same members of the Board of Directors the number of members of the Board of Directors on significant matters relating to the company’s for a new term of office. Detailed information about remained unchanged at seven. The Nomination Furthermore, the Nomination Board has proposed strategy, investments, organisation and finance. Board members is attached to this Statement. Committee also proposed the re-election of Maarit that Kim Gran be elected as Chairman of the Board of Aarni-Sirviö, Reino Hanhinen, Pertti Korhonen, Liisa Directors and Hannu Ryöppönen as Deputy ChairThe Board of Directors has adopted principles to The Board of Directors met 10 times during 2011. Leino, Matti Lievonen, Hannu Ryöppönen and Jaana man. Moreover, the Nomination Board proposed that ­govern its work in a charter approved by the Board. Tuominen for a further term of office from the 2011 the annual fees of the Board of Directors would be The main points of this charter are to: Attendance of Board members at meetings Annual General Meeting until the close of the 2012 €72,000 for the Chairman, €44,000 for the Deputy • ensure the group’s administration and the proper 2011 Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting. Furthermore, the NominaChairman and €34,000 for members, as well as an arrangement of its operations tion Committee proposed the re-election of Reino attendance fee of € 600 per meeting for Board of • ensure the proper arrangements for the overReino Hanhinen 10/10 6/6 Hanhinen as Chairman of the Board and Hannu RyöpDirectors’­meetings and Board of Directors’ commitsight of the company’s accounting and financial Hannu Ryöppönen 10/10 6/6 pönen as Deputy Chairman. tee meetings. The Nomination Board also proposes manage­ment that 40 per cent of the annual fee is to be paid in the • confirm long-term aims and the strategic plan Maarit Aarni-Sirviö 9/10 6/6 Moreover, the Committee proposed that the annual form of Rautaruukki Oyj shares purchased on the • determine economic objectives Pertti Korhonen 10/10 6/6 • confirm the organisational structure fees of the Board of Directors would be €72,000 for market. The shares would be purchased within two • decide the appointment and remuneration of top Liisa Leino 10/10 5/6 the Chairman, €44,000 for the Deputy Chairman and weeks of the publication of the company’s interim management €34,000 for members, as well as an attendance fee report for the first quarter of 2012. • approve the financial statements and interim Matti Lievonen1) 10/10 1/1 5/5 of €600 per meeting for Board meetings and Board reports Jaana Tuominen 10/10 6/6 of Directors’ committee meetings. The Nomination • prepare business to be transacted at the General Committee also proposed that 40 per cent of the Meetings and to ensure decisions are enforced ­annual fee would be paid in the form of Rautaruukki and to 1) Member of the Audit Committee 23 March 2010 23 Oyj shares purchased on the market. The shares • decide significant investments and acquisitions. March 2011 and member of the Remuneration Committee would be purchased within two weeks of the publi­ The company’s President & CEO and Chief Financial since 23 March 2011. The Audit Committee met once cation of the company’s interim report for the first Officer attend Board of Directors’ meetings. At its during 1 January 2011 23 March 2011 and the Remuneraquarter of 2011. meetings, the Board receives a regularly updated tion Committee met five times since 23 March 2011. 4 Rautaruukki Corporation / Corporate Governance Statement 2011 5 7. Board of Directors’ committees Audit Committee 2011 Meeting on the same date appointed Reino Hanhinen Corporate Executive Board 2011 The Board of Directors has two committees: the Members of the Audit Committee between the 2010 (Chairman), Maarit Aarni-Sirviö, Pertti Korhonen and Rautaruukki Corporation’s Corporate Executive Audit Committee and the Remuneration and HR Annual General Meeting and the Annual General Matti Lievonen as members of the Remuneration Board had seven members until 31 March 2011 and Committee. In its organisation meeting held after Meeting held on 23 March 2011 were Hannu RyöpCommittee. All members are independent of both thereafter six members until 30 September 2011. The the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors pönen (Chairman), Liisa Leino, Matti Lievonen and the company and major shareholders. The company’s members were: the company’s President & CEO, the appoints the members and chairpersons to the ComJaana Tuominen. See Rautaruukki Corporation’s President & CEO and Senior Vice President, Human Executive Vice Presidents of the divisions, the Chief mittees. The Board has approved the charters of the Annual Report 2010 for more details about the Audit Resources also attend Remuneration Committee Financial Officer and the Executive Vice President, committees. These charters contain the committees’ Committee until 23 March 2011. meetings, except when matters concerning thembusiness development. main remit and principles. The committees have no selves are considered. independent decision-making authority. At its organisation meeting held on 23 March 2011, The Corporate Executive Board was enlarged as of 1 the Board of Directors elected by the Annual General The charter of the Remuneration Committee was October 2011 to speed up and improve the effective7.1 Audit Committee Meeting on the same date appointed Hannu Ryöprevised in December 2011, when the name of the ness of management decision-making and the impleThe Board of Directors appoints the Audit Committee pönen (Chairman), Liisa Leino and Jaana Tuominen as Committee was changed to Remuneration and HR mentation of decisions to strengthen the company’s to assist it in carrying out its supervisory duties. The members of the Audit Committee. Committee. market position. The company considered that in an Audit Committee comprises a chairman and between increasingly more rapidly changing business environ­ two and four members, who must be independent Rautaruukki’s Chief Financial Officer, chief audit The Remuneration Committee met 6 times in 2011. ment, it is important to improve the company’s capaof the company. The majority of members must be executive and the company’s principal auditor also bility to react by effectively combining experience in­de­pendent of the company’s major shareholdattend Audit Committee meetings. 8. President & CEO and expertise in different parts of the business. The ers. The chairman must be independent of both the The Board of Directors appoints the company’s number of Corporate Executive Board members rose company and its major shareholders. Members of the The Audit Committee met 6 times in 2011. President & CEO, who is tasked with implementing to nine. Audit Committee must have the competence required the company’s strategy and managing the company’s for the remit of the Committee and at least one 7.2 Remuneration and HR Committee business in accordance with the Finnish Limited After the change, Rautaruukki’s Corporate Executive member must have relevant experience of financial The Board of Directors appoints a chairman and Liability Companies Act, the company’s Articles of Board had the following members: ­accounting, bookkeeping or auditing. between two and four members of the Remuneration Association and the instructions given by the Board Sakari Tamminen, President & CEO and Chairman of Committee from among independent Board members of Directors. In addition, the President & CEO is res­ the Corporate Executive Board The Board of Directors defines the remit of the Audit for a term of office lasting one year at a time. The ponsible for ensuring that the company’s accounting Markku Honkasalo, Chief Financial Officer Committee in the charter approved by the Board. Committee is tasked with safeguarding objective and financial management is in compliance with the Tommi Matomäki, Executive Vice President, Ruukki The remit of the Audit Committee is to promote decision-making, promoting achievement of the comlaw and has been reliably organised. The President & Construction oversight of reporting the company’s activities and pany’s objectives by means of remuneration schemes CEO reports to the Board of Directors and provides Marko Somerma, Executive Vice President, Ruukki financial reporting. The Audit Committee evaluates and the transparency and systemisation of remune­ the Board with information about the company’s Engineering, and Chief Strategy Officer risk management, internal control processes, finanration schemes. financial position, business environment and other Olavi Huhtala, Executive Vice President, Ruukki cial reporting and matters concerning auditing and important matters. The President & CEO prepares ­Metals internal auditing. The Board of Directors defines the The Board of Directors defines the remit of the items to be considered by the Board of Directors and Eija Hakakari, Senior Vice President, Human remit of the Audit Committee in the charter approved Remuneration Committee in the charter approved its committees and executes the Board’s decisions. ­Resources by the Board. The remit of the Audit Committee is to by the Board. The Committee prepares and evaluates Toni Hemminki, Senior Vice President, Technology, promote oversight of reporting the company’s activifor the Board the remuneration and appointment of The company’s President & CEO is Sakari Tamminen, Energy and Environment ties and financial reporting. The Audit Committee the company’s President & CEO and other members who also chairs Rautaruukki’s Corporate Executive Taina Kyllönen, Senior Vice President, Marketing and ­evaluates risk management, internal control proof the Corporate Executive Board and the remuneraBoard. Communications cesses, financial reporting and matters concerning tion schemes of the personnel. The Chairman of the Ismo Platan, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain auditing and internal auditing. Remuneration Committee convenes meetings when 9. Corporate Executive Board Management, IT and Operational Excellence required and also presents the Committee’s pro­ The main remit of the Corporate Executive Board is The Audit Committee prepares matters related to posals to the Board of Directors. to assist the company’s President & CEO in corporate The new Corporate Executive Board replaces the the election of an external auditor, the audit plan and operative management and in business planning. previous Corporate Executive Board and Extended costs and assesses audit reports, which the CommitRemuneration Committee 2011 The President & CEO chairs the Corporate Executive Executive Board. tee reports to the Board of Directors. Members of the Remuneration Committee between Board. the 2010 Annual General Meeting and the Annual The Corporate Executive Board met 30 times during The Chairman of the Audit Committee convenes General Meeting held on 23 March 2011 were Reino The Corporate Executive Board considers and the year. meetings and the Committee reports regularly on its Hanhinen (Chairman), Maarit Aarni-Sirviö and Pertti oversees corporate and divisional strategy, investwork to the company’s Board of Directors. The ComKorhonen. See Rautaruukki Corporation’s Annual ments, finances, divestments, acquisitions, corporate Details of members of the Corporate Executive Board mittee annually evaluates the effectiveness of its Report 2010 for more details about the Remuneration collaboration, organisational structure and control are attached to this Statement. activities, working practices and its performance by Committee until 23 March 2011. processes. self-assessment. At its organisation meeting held on 23 March 2011, the Board of Directors elected by the Annual General 6 Rautaruukki Corporation / Corporate Governance Statement 2011 7 Main features of internal control and risk management systems ­relating to the financial (Controller’s Manual). In external financial reporting, of monthly financial reports, a monthly review of the reporting process group companies comply with local laws and regularolling forecasts and plans, as well as reports from Internal control seeks to ensure Rautaruukki’s operations comply with valid legislation, regulations and the comtions. Corporate financial management is responsible internal audits and reports by independent auditors. pany’s internal operating principles and that the company’s financial and management reporting is reliable. for developing the financial reporting process and control processes. In their meetings, the Board of Directors regularly considers the financial and market conditions and The Corporate Finance and Control function is re­­ a monthly progress report is circulated to Board 10. Risk management and internal control defined in the risk management policy approved by the sponsible for reporting at the corporate level and members. The Board of Directors adopts the interim system company’s Board of Directors. the Controller of each division is responsible for reports and financial statements for publication. Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors approves the ­reporting at the divisional level. Financial ­reporting corporate risk management policy, which defines the Risk management at Rautaruukki is based on identi­ at the corporate and divisional level is carried out 12. Compliance with laws and the Code of aims, principles, areas of responsibility and processes fying, assessing and reporting risks consistently jointly by these functions (corporate financial manConduct of risk management. Risk management and internal across the company. agement) and underpins achievement of the targets In all its operations, Rautaruukki complies with the control is an ongoing process aimed at underpinning set. Corporate financial management reports regulaws and regulations in force, good practices and the achievement of strategies and financial targets Risk management is an integrated part of the larly each month to the company’s management and with the Code of Conduct, which was revised in 2011. and at ensuring business continuity. The internal manage­ment system and the risk aspect is incorpo­ Board of Directors. Corporate and divisional finanThe purpose of the Code of Conduct adopted by control process also seeks to ensure that business rated into the everyday activities and decisioncial performance, forecasts and the annual plan are Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors is to highlight the is conducted ethically in compliance with applicable making of all divisions or business areas and the main implemented in one consistent process. ­Reporting company’s ethical values and to create for the personlaws and regulations, and in accordance with the princorporate support processes. includes corporate and divisional key figures and a nel a consistent way to operate responsibly around ciples of Rautaruukki’s Code of Conduct and internal performance analysis. Corporate financial managethe world. Each Rautaruukki employee is required to policies. The risks in each area are identified and evaluated ment assists the divisions in the decision-making and be familiar with the legislation and policies applying in all Rautaruukki’s operations and risk manageanalyses required to achieve financial targets. to his or her own area of responsibility and, without The control of corporate-wide operations takes place ment strategies are determined accordingly. The exception, to comply with them. through the management system described above. corporate risk management function assists with Corporate policies applying to different areas of the evaluation and compiles a summary risk report. business reinforce the commitment to achieving corRautaruukki has defined values guiding its operaThe Board of Directors and its Audit Committee reguThe evaluation results and key risks are reported to porate financial and other targets and to mini­mising tions. These values for their part serve as an e­ thical larly evaluate the appropriateness and effectiveness corporate manage­ment and to the company’s Board business risks within the company. Rautaruukki’s guideline. In keeping with the values, we take of the company’s accounting, financial management, of ­Directors. internal control process is described in policies and responsibility, we succeed together and we challenge internal control and risk management. The Board of manuals. tomorrow. Directors is also responsible for ensuring the proper A more comprehensive description of Rautaruukki’s organisation and oversight of the company’s ac­ key risks and the risk management process is shown Accounting policies and manuals related to financial Each of the company’s business areas (divisions) is counting and financial management. on the company’s website at www.ruukki.com. reporting are available on the company’s intranet site responsible for ensuring compliance with the Code of and are accessible to persons involved in financial Conduct, corporate values and laws and regulations 11. Internal control system 11.2 Control functions reporting. In addition, Corporate Finance and Control in force. Business area management is responsible Internal control is not a separate process, but an Rautaruukki’s financial reporting process and asso­ regularly provides training in reporting processes for the internal control of operations to ensure that integrated part of all Rautaruukki’s operations. ciated internal control consists of different areas: and practices. The Chief Financial Officer and chief all employees in the business area are familiar and The internal control system is operative at all levels • Effective registration and processing of business audit executive regularly report the findings of their ­comply with the laws, regulations and principles corporate-wide. transactions internal control work at Audit Committee ­meetings. ­applying to them in their own work. In conjunction • Compliance with financial reporting regulations The Audit Committee’s work and proposals for deciwith internal audits, the company seeks to ensure 11.1 Risk management sions and measures are reported to the Board of that control has been properly organised and works • Financial reporting supporting business and The company has defined risk as an external or in­ decision-making. Directors after each Audit Committee meeting. effectively. Internal audits are carried out by all corternal uncertainty that could prevent the company porate functions as well as by the internal audit unit. from carrying out its strategy, achieving its targets Financial reporting at Rautaruukki complies with External disclosure of financial information complies or ­continuing its business. standard principles. Most of the companies are custo­ with stock exchange regulations. 12.1 Policies mers of corporate finance service centres, where Corporate policies applying to different areas of the Risk management seeks to underpin the company’s accounting is carried out using a unified account 11.3 Monitoring business reinforce the commitment to achieving corstrategy, achievement of targets and to ensure busischeme. Close cooperation between finance service The group employs the reporting systems needed to porate financial and other targets and to mini­mising ness continuity. Identifying and classifying risks concentres and customer units, as well as a clear division monitor business effectively. The Board of Directors business risks within the company. Some of these sistently so as to enable comparison creates effective of responsibilities, ensures quality, efficient financial has ultimate responsibility for the proper arrangepolicies are in the public domain and can be found on risk management processes and the transparency reporting. ment of accounting and the oversight of financial the company’s website. All policies are posted on the required by good corporate governance. management. The President & CEO is responsible company’s intranet, where they may be accessed by the Group reporting is based on International Financial for ensuring that accounting complies with legal personnel. In addition, training is given and the most Risk management is guided by the operating prinReporting Standards (IFRS). These support corporequirements and that financial management is re­ important policies are included in the personnel inducciples and process of corporate risk management rate financial planning and reporting instructions liably organised. Monitoring includes the follow-up tion programme. 8 Rautaruukki Corporation / Corporate Governance Statement 2011 9 Rautaruukki’s Code of Conduct and more detailed Internal audit and the external auditor regularly co­ 15. Insiders and related parties members of the parent company’s Corporate Execuguidelines relating to it can be found on the com­ ordinate their audit work. tive Board are considered as related parties. The pany’s intranet site. Additionally, the Code of ConInsiders spouses and other family members living in the same duct is available in the local language of each country 14. Audit Under the Finnish Securities Markets Act, Rautaruuk­ household as the persons referred to above are also where the company has a presence. The Code of ConUnder its Articles of Association, the company has ki’s public insiders are members of the Board of related parties. duct is also discussed during induction training for one auditor, which must be a KHT audit firm, an audit ­Directors, the President & CEO and his deputy, and new employees, continuous training and in internal firm authorised by the Central Chamber of Commerce the principal auditor. Under a decision taken by To be able to reliably monitor transactions between communication. The employment contracts of new of Finland. The audit firm appoints an auditor ­having Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors, members of the related parties, Rautaruukki’s legal department employees include a condition about compliance with the principal responsibility. The Annual General Corporate Executive Board are also considered as keeps a corporate-wide register of related parties. Inthe Code of Conduct. In addition, employees taking ­Meeting elects an auditor for a term of office which public insiders. Information about the interests formation in the register is obtained each year from part in training in different countries sign to confirm ends at the close of the Annual General Meeting folin Rautaruukki of public insiders and their related the persons included in related parties themselves. that they have studied the Code of Conduct and that lowing election. In the statutory audit, the auditor ­parties is public. The register is not public. they undertake to comply with it. audits the company’s accounting, directors’ report, financial statements and administration for the Besides a public register, Rautaruukki keeps 16. Information and communication 12.2 Reporting misconduct period. The ­auditor of the parent company also audits ­company­-specific and project-specific registers. PerRautaruukki’s share is listed on NASDAQ OMX One of the aims of internal control is to prevent the consoli­dated financial statements. manent company-specific insiders are persons who, Helsinki Ltd. In its disclosure policy, Rautaruukki misconduct. Rautaruukki has instructions about how by virtue of their position or job, regularly ­receive complies with Finnish legislation, the regulations of to report misconduct. Employees are encouraged The KHT audit firm responsible for auditing the ­insider information and whom the company has NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd and guidelines issued by to report suspected misconduct either to their own parent company coordinates the audit of the consolidefined as company-specific insiders. The companythe Financial Supervisory Authority (FIN-FSA). supervisor, their supervisor or directly to the internal dated financial statements with the local auditors of specific register is not public. audit unit or legal department. group companies. Rautaruukki’s Board of Directors approved the Rautaruukki complies with NASDAQ OMX Helsinki company’s Disclosure Policy on 2 February 2011. The Each and every Rautaruukki employee is responsible As required by law and by the Articles of Association, Ltd’s Guidelines for Insiders, which recommend that Policy describes the main principles that Rautaruukfor reporting any misconduct or procedures contrary the company’s auditor issues a report to shareholders insiders schedule trading in the company’s securities ki, as a listed company, complies with in its communi­ to the Code of Conduct. Suspected misconduct is in conjunction with the annual accounts and regularly to times when the market has as much information as cations with the media, capital markets and other investigated immediately and confidentially. Proven reports its findings to the Board of Directors’ Audit possible about any factors affecting the value of the stakeholder audiences. Rautaruukki’s Disclosure misconduct is reported to the Board of Directors’ Committee. The auditor attends Audit Committee company’s share. Rautaruukki’s permanent insiders Policy aims to ensure that all parties operating in the Audit Committee. meetings. may not trade in the company’s securities for a period market have simultaneous access to fair and ade­ of 21 days prior to disclosure of the company’s finanquate information about the company and its busiNo cases of financial misconduct were reported in Auditor 2011 cial statement bulletin or interim report. nesses to determine the value of the company’s share. 2011. The 2011 Annual General Meeting elected KHT audit Information is published promptly and equitably. firm KPMG Oy Ab as Rautaruukki Corporation’s audiRautaruukki’s insider registers are maintained by the 13. Internal audit tor, with Pekka Pajamo KHT as the principal auditor. corporate legal department in Euroclear Finland Ltd’s 17. Remuneration The company’s internal audit unit carries out NetSire system, where information about securities In addition to this Corporate Governance Statement, ­internal auditing within the group and reports to the ownership can be obtained directly from the bookRautaruukki publishes a separate remuneration President & CEO. All organisational levels and units Fees paid to the auditor (€) entry system. The interests of public insiders on the statement, which includes a description of the financorporate-wide are subject to internal audit. 2011 2010 public register are posted on the company’s website cial benefits paid to the Board of Directors and the and updated once a day. President & CEO. The remuneration statement may be Audit fees 1 219 000 1 198 000 An internal audit examines and evaluates the appro­ viewed on the company’s website at www.ruukki.com p­riateness and effectiveness of the group’s internal Other services 238 000 466 000 At 31 December 2011, there were 17 persons on Rauand in the 2011 annual report. control process, the relevance and efficiency of ope­ Total 1 457 000 1 664 000 taruukki’s public insider register and 136 persons on rations, the reliability of financial information and the company-specific register. reporting, as well as compliance with rules, operating principles and instructions. In addition, an internal Related parties audit aims at strengthening the development of risk Rautaruukki complies with the requirements of the management in different operations. The principles Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act and Inter­ of internal audit have been defined in the policy national Accounting Standards (IAS 24) concerning adopted by the Board of Directors. Internal audit the monitoring of related party transactions. The prepares an audit plan each year for approval by the group’s related parties include the parent company, Board of Directors. Rautaruukki Corporation, subsidiaries, equity-­ accounted investees, Rautaruukki’s Pension FounInternal audit reports regularly to the management, dation and significant ownership entities. Also the auditor, Board of Directors’ Audit Committee and to managing directors, directors and other named key the Board of Directors. In addition, the chief audit persons of companies belonging to the group and executive attends all Audit Committee meetings. 10 Rautaruukki Corporation / Corporate Governance Statement 2011 11 Board of Directors 31 December 2011 Chairman Deputy Chairman Reino Hanhinen Hannu Ryöppönen Maarit Aarni-Sirviö Pertti Korhonen Liisa Leino Matti Lievonen Jaana Tuominen Information about the fees and b. 1943 b. 1952 b. 1953 b. 1961 b. 1960 b. 1958 b. 1960 other benefits of the Board of Member (2006–) and Chairman Member of Rautaruukki’s Board Member of Rautaruukki’s Board Member of Rautaruukki’s Board Member of Rautaruukki’s Board Member of Rautaruukki’s Board Member of Rautaruukki’s Board Directors can be found in the (2009–) of Rautaruukki’s Board; (2009–); Chairman of the Audit (2004–); Member of the Re(2010–); Member of the Remuneration (2007–); Member of the Audit (2010–); Member of the Remu(2010–); Member of the Audit Remuneration statement on Member (2007-) and Chairman Committee (2009–) muneration Committee (2008–) Committee (2010–) Committee (2007–) neration Committee (2011–) Committee (2010–) the company’s website at (2009–) of Remuneration Independent member of the Board Independent member of the Board Independent member of the Board Independent member of the Board Independent member of the Board Independent member of the Board www.ruukki.com > Investors > Committee Corporate Governance > BA (Business Admin) MSc (Tech), MBA MSc (Electronics Engineering) MSc (Nutrition) BSc (Eng), eMBA MSc (Chemical Engineering) Remuneration statement. Independent member of the Board Senior Adviser, Eera Oy (2011–) Previous main positions: Outotec Oyj, President and CEO Leinovalu Oy, CEO (2011–) Neste Oil Corporation, President Paulig Group, Chief Executive MSc (Eng), DSc (Tech) h.c. Stora Enso Corporation, Deputy Previous main positions: Mint (2010-) and CEO (2008–) Officer (2008–) Previous main positions: Nurmi Previous main positions: YIT CEO (2008–2009); Stora Enso of Finland Ltd, President & CEO Previous main positions: Group & Perkko Oy, Managing Previous main positions: UPMPrevious main positions: GE Corporation, President & CEO, Corporation, Deputy CEO and (2008–2010); Borealis Group Outotec Oyj, Chief Operating Officer Director (2003–2004); Sitra, Kymmene, President of Fine Healthcare (former Instrumen(1987–2005) and Group CEO CFO (2007–2008) and Senior (1994–2008), several senior posi(1 October – 31 December 2009); ElekBusiness Director (2002–2003); and Speciality Papers Division tarium Corporation), General (2000–2005); Perusyhtymä Oy, Executive Vice President and tions latest as Vice President trobit Corporation, CEO (2006–2009); Gillette Central Europe, Business (2004–2008); Executive Vice manager, Monitoring Solutions Managing Director (1986–1987); CFO (2005–2007); Royal Ahold BU Phenol (2001–2008) and Vice Nokia Corporation, Chief Technology Director (1999–2002); Gillette President, Business & Technology and Managing Director, GEHC YIT Oy Yleinen Insinööritoimisto, (the Netherlands), Executive Vice President BU Olefins (1997–2001) Officer (2004–2006), Member of Nokia Braun Finland Oy, Managing Optimization (2002–2003) and Finland Oy (2002–2008); NAF Oy Managing Director (1985–1986); President and CFO (2003–2005); (Copenhagen, Denmark); Neste Group Executive Board (2002–2006); Director (1996–1999); Nestlé other senior positions at UPM and NAF AB, Managing Director Oy PPTH-Norden Ab, Managing Industri Kapital Group (London), Corporation (1977–1994), starting Nokia Mobile Software, Executive Vice Finland Ltd, various positions in (1986-2002); Member of UPM of NAF Oy and NAF Industries Oy Director (1976–1985) Finance Director (1999-2003); as plant engineer, later e.g. proPresident (2001–2003); Various manmarketing (1989–1996) Executive Team (2002-2008) and Director, Sales and MarketOther elected positions: Kone Ikea Group (Denmark), Executive duction manager and business agement positions in Nokia Mobile ing, NAF AB (1998–2002); InstruVice President (1985-1999) manager Other elected positions: Other elected positions: Corporation, Board member Phones, such as Senior Vice President, Leinovalu Oy, Chairman of the Ilmarinen Mutual Pension mentarium Oy/Datex-Ohmeda, (2005–); YIT Corporation, Board Other elected positions: Amer Other elected positions: WärtGlobal Operations, Logistics and Board (2006–); M-real CorporaInsurance Company, Supervisory Marketing Manager, Product member (2009–) Sports Corporation, Board memsilä Corporation, Board member Sourcing; Vice President, Manufaction, Board member (2009–); Board member (2008–); Chemical Manager (1993–1998); Valmet Previous elected positions: YIT ber (2009–); Neste Oil Corpora(2007–); Hallitusammattilaiset turing Europe; Project Executive; Vice Alko Inc., Board member (2009–); Industry Federation of Finland, Automation AB, Area Sales Corporation, Chairman of the tion, Board member (2009–); ry (the Finnish Association of President, R&D (1990–2001); Micronas Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Board member (2009–2010), Manager (1989–1993) Board (2006–2009) Citigroup Inc., Nordic Advisory Professional Board Members), Oy, Vice President, Product DevelopCompany, Deputy member of Deputy Chairman of the Board Other elected positions: Finnish Board, member (November Board member (2010–) ment (1990) the Board (2011–); Elomatic Ltd, (2011–); Excellence Finland, ChairFood and Beverage Industries’ Rautaruukki shares: 2010–); Tiimari Plc, Board mem1 January 2011: 11,618 Previous elected positions: Other elected positions: Ahlström Board member (2011–); man of Advisory Board (2009–); Federation, Board member ber (2011–); Korsnäs AB, Board Ponsse Corporation, Board Corporation, Vice Chairman of the Confederation of Finnish National Emergency Supply (2009–); Several Paulig Group 31 December 2011: 13,323 member (2010–); Novo Nordisk member (2007–2010); Borealis Board (2011–); Association of Finnish Industries EK, Board member Agency, Member of Advisory companies, Chairman of the AS, Board member (2009–); Value Polymers Oy, Board member Steel and Metal Producers, Member of (2011–); Finnish Business and Board (2010–) Board (2008–) Creation Investments Limited, (1997–2008); Epec Oy, Board the Council (2010–); Finnish Defence Policy Forum EVA, Supervisory Board member (2003–); Altor Previous elected positions: The Previous elected positions: member (2007–2010); Oy Nordic Forces, Member of the Advisory Board Board member (2010–); The Confederation of European Paper Paulig Group companies, Chair2003 GP Limited and Altor Fund Moneta Ab, Chairman of the (2007–) Federation of Finnish Technology II GP Limited Chairman of the Industries, Deputy Chairman man of the Board (2008–2009); Board (2008–2010); Det Norske Previous elected positions: Elisa CorIndustries, Board member (2011–) of the Board (2004–2008); Oy GE Healthcare group companies, Board (2005–); Altor Fund III GP, Myntverket AS, Chairman of the Chairman of the Board (2009–) poration, Board member (2008–2011); Previous elected positions: Keskuslaboratorio CentrallaboChairman of the Board and Board (2008–2010); Noretyl AS Veho Group Ltd, Board member (2007– Varma Mutual Pension Insurance ratorium Ab, Deputy member of Board member (2002–2008); NAF Previous elected positions: (Norway), Board member (1997– 2011); QPR Software Corporation, Company, Supervisory Board the Board (2003–2008); Finnish group companies, Chairman of Tiimari Plc, Chairman of the 2001); North Sea PetrochemiMember of the Board (2001–2003); member (2007–2010) Oil and Gas Federation, Board the Board and Board member Board (2009–2011) cals (Belgium), Board member Rosettanet, Member of the EC Board member (2009–2010) (1998–2002) (1997–2001); Vattenfall AB, Board Rautaruukki shares: Rautaruukki shares: (2000–2001); Finnish Quality Award, 1 January 2011: 1,780 Rautaruukki shares: Rautaruukki shares: 1 January 2011: 1,011 member (2003–2007) Member of the Jury (1997–1998) 31 December 2011: 2,585 1 January 2011: 780 1 January 2011: 780 31 December 2011: 2,053 Rautaruukki shares: Rautaruukki shares: 31 December 2011: 1,585 31 December 2011: 1,585 1 January 2011: 1,780 1 January 2011: 780 31 December 2011: 2,585 31 December 2011: 1,585 Corporate Executive Board 31 December 2011 Chairman Sakari Tamminen Tommi Matomäki Marko Somerma Olavi Huhtala Markku Honkasalo Eija Hakakari Toni Hemminki Taina Kyllönen Ismo Platan b. 1953 b. 1967 b. 1966 b. 1962 b. 1964 b. 1961 b. 1975 b. 1967 b. 1953 MSc (Econ) MSc (Tech) LicSc (Tech) BSc (Eng) LLM, eMBA MSc (Educ) MSc (Tech) MSc (Econ) BSc (IT) President and CEO Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Senior Vice President, HR Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, IT, Joined the company in 2003 Ruukki Construction Ruukki Engineering and Ruukki Metals Joined the company in Joined the company in Technology, Energy and Marketing and CommuniSCM and Opex Joined the company in CSO Joined the company in 2009 2008 Environment cations Joined the company in Corporate Executive Board member since 2003 2008 Joined the company in 1987 Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Joined the company in Joined the company in 2003 Previous main positions: Metso Corporation, Execu2004 2001 2004 tive VP and CFO, Deputy to the President and CEO Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Board member since 2010 Board member since 2011 Corporate Executive (1999–2003); Rauma Corporation, Executive VP and CFO, Board member since Corporate Executive Board member since Previous main positions: Previous main positions: Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Board member since 2011 Deputy to the President and CEO (1991–1999) 2008 Board member since 2003 Rautaruukki Corporation, Rautaruukki Corporation, Board member since 2011 Board member since 2011 Previous main positions: Previous main positions: 2005 Previous main posiVice President, Financing Senior Vice President, Previous main positions: Previous main positions: Rautaruukki CorporaElected positions: Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company, Board member (2008-) and Chairman (2009–); Ruukki Engineering, Previous main positions: tions: Ruukki Fabrication, (2009–2010); Myllykoski HR (2009–); Rautaruukki Rautaruukki Corporation, Rautaruukki Corporation, CIO (2003–2011); Sanoma Corporation, Board member (2003–) and President (2008–2010); Rautaruukki Corporation, President (2003–2004); Corporation, Director, Corporation, Ruukki VP, Energy and Environtion, SVP, Marketing Metso Corporation, CIO Deputy Chairman (2009–); Finnish Fair Cooperative, Technip Offshore Finland Chief Strategy Officer Rautaruukki Metform, Legal and Administration Engineering, HR Director ment (2007–2011); (2007–2011); Rautaruukki (1999–2003); Rauma CorSupervisory Board member (2004–); Eurofer, Board Oy, Managing Director (2004–2010); InstrumenMarketing and executive (2003–2009); Nordea (2008); Virvo Oy, HR AdviRautaruukki Corporation, Corporation, VP, Corpoporation, CIO (1993–1999); member (2004–); Finnish Business and Policy Forum (2003–2008); Metso tarium Ltd, Chief Process duties (2000–2003) Group, number of mansor/China (2004–2008); R&D Manager and sperate Communications and Neles-Jamesbury, IT EVA and Research Institute of the Finnish Economy Works Oy (1995–2002) & Information Technology Rautaruukki shares: agement positions within Setec, HR Director cialist duties (2001–2007) Branding (2004–2007); Director (1980–1993) ETLA, Board member (2009–); Association of Finnish Elected positions: Officer (2002–2004); 1 January 2011: 33,596 financing (1989–2003) (2000–2004); KPMG, HR Elected positions: Metso Corporation/ Rautaruukki shares: Metal and Steel Producers, Board member (2009-) and Leinovalu Oy, Board memGustav Paulig Ltd, Busi31 December 2011: 33,596 Rautaruukki shares: Director (1997–2000); Voimaosakeyhtiö SF Oy, Rauma Corporation, 1 January 2011: 13,669 Chairman (2011–); Finnish Foundation for Share Promober (2010–) ness Development Direc1 January 2011: Itella, Management posiDeputy member of the VP, Investor Relations 31 December 2011: 19,669 tion, Board member (2003–); Technology Industries of tor (1997–2002) 31 December 2011: 500 tion within HR, HRD and Board (2011–); Raja(1996–2004); Aktia Rautaruukki shares: Securities, Equity Analyst Finland Centennial Foundation, Board member (2007–); Rautaruukki shares: Sales (1987–1997) kiiri Oy, Board member 1 January 2011: 1,640 (1994–1996); Jaakko Pöyry Federation of Finnish Technology Industries, Board 31 December 2011: 1,640 1 January 2011: 19,190 Rautaruukki shares: (2008–); ElFi Oy, Deputy member (2004–); TT Foundation, Board member (2008-) 31 December 2011: 19,190 1 January 2011: 400 member of the Board Consulting Group, Market and Chairman (2011–); World Steel Association, Board 31 December 2011: 400 (2007), Board member and Financial Analyst member (2004–) (2008–) and Chairman (1989–1994) Information about the (2009–); CLEEN Oy, Rautaruukki shares: fees and other benefits of Previous elected positions: Technology Academy the company’s manageFinland, Board member (2009–2011); Lemminkäinen CorDeputy member of the 1 January 2011: 11,191 Board (2011–); Finnish 31 December 2011: 11,191 ment can be found in the poration, Board member (2003–2009); Mutual Pension Remuneration statement Insurance Company Varma, Supervisory Board member Business & Society Ry, Board member (2011–) on the company’s website (2004–2007); Confederation of Finnish Industries EK, at www.ruukki.com > Board member (2006) and Chairman (2009–2010) Rautaruukki shares: Investors > Corporate Rautaruukki shares: 1 January 2011: 328 Governance > 1 January 2011: 73,238 31 December 2011: 328 Remuneration statement. 31 December 2011: 76,938 Information about members of the Corporate Executive Board can be found on the company’s website at www.ruukki.com > About Ruukki > Management. Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Supply chain management Corporate responsibility in Supply chain management ensures the qualitative, effective delivery of our products to our customers Ruukki throughout our processing chain. In practice, the cost-effective management of material flows between Management of corporate our units and in the direction of our customers means that we are committed to minimising responsibility SEE ALSO unnecessary transport and handling and that we leverage economies of scale in our operations. Code of Conduct It’s a long way from Ruukki’s steel mill in Raahe, Finland to the construction business’s unit in Romania Values Environmental policy or the engineering unit in China. Besides the logistics challenge, there’s also the challenge of storage Units by country on the way. Optimisation of stock size and location is also part of our supply chain management. Quality policy Strategy Ruukki could never profitably make every product itself, which is why seamless cooperation with our Financial information Corporate Governance network of suppliers and subcontractors is essential for us to ensure delivery accuracy and manage Research and development our supply chain. Supply chain management Near-term outlook Stakeholders Above all it is our customers who benefit from supply chain management and optimisation in today’s Energy-efficient products and challenging business environment, but the operation has wider social implications. An efficiently solutions Economic responsibility planned, well-managed supply chain means a smaller carbon footprint and saves energy. Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Business cycles, demand for our products and constant market changes mean we cannot rest for a Social responsibility moment. We are continuously developing and rolling our new, innovative supply chain management 2011 CR REPORTING solutions. We will continue to work with our partners to give priority to supply chain transparency and Safety forecasting. Code of Conduct Reporting Environmental policy Supply chain management includes: Quality policy Our approach Corporate Governance Environment Sourcing: Working with suppliers to ensure products and services, controlling purchasing operations and safeguarding supplies of raw material Supply chain management Our people Logistics: In a global environment, the best logistics concepts ensure our products reach their destination reliably and cost-effectively Society Operational excellence: Safety comes first at all times, followed by continuous development of operational activities to improve quality and productivity Reporting Sustainability recognitions Operational Excellence Ruukki operational excellence, OPEX, is targeting sustainable major improvements in the key areas of Safety, Cost, Quality, Delivery and Flexibility with people in focus through a company-wide competency program. Since the start of the initiative in 2009 more than 7,000 employees have been trained in the OPEX tools of Lean, Six Sigma, Project management and Change management. This has resulted in the completion of 421 improvement projects, big and small. Out of these an annualised sustainable benefit of €10.3 million has been realized, with an additional potential of €31.7 million. The cornerstone in implementation of OPEX and making it the way of doing structured improvements with focus on safety and economic benefit is the OPEX Professional network with some 147 members. Sourcing Taking into account cost factors, Ruukki values delivery flexibility, reliability and delivery accuracy, as well as the quality of goods and services in sourcing. The general terms and conditions of sourcing contracts take into account the company’s Code of Conduct. Ethical values, environmental facts and energy efficiency are also taken into consideration when choosing suppliers. Reducing the number of suppliers is still one of the main aims of sourcing at Ruukki. During the past year the number of suppliers decreased from around 17,000 to around 13,000. This reduction was largely achieved by actively focusing sourcing. Ruukki’s international sourcing teams work together across country and divisional boundaries. Purchases by country, 10 largest (% in 2010) Finland 41% (43%) Sweden 21% (21%) Russia 5% (3%) Canada 4% (2%) Germany 4% (4%) USA 4% (3%) Poland 3% (2%) http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Australia 3% (2%) Netherlands 2% (2%) France 2% (1%) Switzerland 2% (1%) Suppliers are regularly evaluated An important part of the supplier management system is to regularly evaluate suppliers. Around 70 such evaluations were carried out during 2011. Ruukki’s supplier evaluations examine the following aspects: management responsibility, environmental management, risk management, quality and supplier management, sourcing processes, materials management, the production process and facilities and equipment. Problems in complying with the principles of good business practice, without exception, results in cooperation being discontinued. Raw materials are the most important purchases financially. Iron ore, limestone and iron pellets are mostly imported from Sweden, and coking coal from North America and Australia. In 2011, 41 per cent of purchases were sourced from Finland. Just over 12 per cent of purchases were sourced from lowcost countries, which is 2 percentage units higher than in 2010. Logistics Our logistics operating models are continuously being developed in our ongoing commitment to improve the overall total quality, cost-efficiency and delivery reliability of supplier management. In addition to the financial aspects, we also consider it particularly important to avoid unnecessary environmental impacts and so, among other things, we use the most appropriate modes of transport and choose companies that share our values and environmentally aware solutions as subcontractors. Read more about environmental matters and logistics Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Management-of-corpo... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Stakeholders Corporate responsibility in Working with stakeholders is an important part of corporate responsibility Ruukki We survey our stakeholders’ expectations with the help of studies and ongoing dialogue, among other SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility things. The aim is for interactive, honest and respectful stakeholder relations, which are achieved through open communication, actively processing feedback and joint meetings and events. Stakeholders Values Ruukki’s principle stakeholders: Stakeholder feedback indicates the following Units by country Means of interaction matters are especially important in corporate Strategy Supervision of interests Financial information responsibility: Our customers Research and development Customers Use of environmental management systems Near-term outlook New products and concepts Personnel Compliance with legislation and good business Energy-efficient products and Economic responsibility Investors and owners practices solutions Suppliers and subcontractors Energy efficiency and lower carbon dioxide Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Educational establishments and other emissions Social responsibility partners Safe working practices and use of chemicals Media Workplace well-being 2011 CR REPORTING Safety Society at large Materials recycling Reporting Risk management Means of interaction Business opportunities from climate change Supervision of interests Our approach Our customers Active participation in developing local Environment communities, training and society at large New products and service concepts Our people Society Ruukki is an active member of the Research work is carried out also with the Reporting following organisations: following organisations: Sustainability recognitions World Steel Association (worldsteel) Universities European Confederation of Iron and Steel In Finland FIMECC, RYM and CLEEN national Industries (Eurofer) Strategic Centres for Science, Technology and Confederation of Finnish Industries EK Innovation (CSTI) Federation of Finnish Technology Industries VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland Association of Finnish Steel and Metal Joint European ULCOS project (Ultra-Low CO2 Producer Steelmaking) Finnish Association of Construction Product Metallurgiska Forskningsstation (MEFOS) Industries (RTT) European Steel Technology Platform Suomen ElFi Oy (ElFi) IPO Steel Network Green Building Council Finland Confederation of Finnish Construction Industries (RT) Finnish Business & Society ry (FiBS) Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS MEANS OF INTERACTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Means of interaction Corporate responsibility in Our principal How we survey our How we respond to Ruukki stakeholders stakeholders’ expectations expectations Management of corporate CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction surveys Personal sales work SEE ALSO responsibility Customer feedback Customer events, training CRM system Technical product support Stakeholders Key customers and key Product launches Values customer managers Answering customer queries Units by country Means of interaction Brand surveys Product brochures Strategy Supervision of interests Customer and market Product environmental Financial information analyses declarations Our customers Research and development Stakeholder magazine Inline ruukki.com Near-term outlook New products and concepts Electronic customer letters Energy-efficient products and Economic responsibility Customer loyalty programmes solutions for distributors Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Trade fairs Social responsibility PERSONNEL Employee opinion survey Supervisory work 2011 CR REPORTING Safety Safety reporting system Development discussions Competence assessments Co-determination Means of interaction Reporting Initiatives Coaching Supervision of interests Our approach Site safety committees Info screens at works, intranet Our customers Environment In-house magazine Into New products and service concepts ruukki.com Our people Society Surveys Annual General Meeting INVESTORS AND Reporting OWNERS Active contact with analysts, Financial statement bulletin, investors and owners interim reports and annual Sustainability recognitions report Stock exchange and press releases Capital Markets Day Meetings with investors Answering investor queries Events intended for investors Stakeholder magazine Inline ruukki.com PARTNERS AND Supplier management process Contacts SUBCONTRACTORS (audits, development Purchase forecasts, volume meetings, complaints, estimates, etc. feedback on agreed indicators, Participation in activities of etc.) trade organisations Price and other negotiations Coaching, training, supplier Feedback from suppliers days Stakeholder magazine Inline ruukki.com EDUCATIONAL Employer image surveys R&D projects ESTABLISHMENTS Active contact with educational Training and thesis project establishments places Monitoring feedback Guest lectures Recruitment fairs Site visits by schoolchildren and students Training by recuitment Stakeholder magazine Inline ruukki.com SOCIETY, MEDIA AND Surveys Local collaboration with OTHER PARTNERS Media monitoring authorities and reporting Active contact with media Participation in activities of representatives interest groups Feedback from annual and Annual report environmental reports Releases Questionnaires and monitoring Interviews, answering queries use of website Media meetings, background events Environmental reports Open days Stakeholder magazine Inline ruukki.com Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/Means-o... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS SUPERVISION OF INTERESTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Supervision of interests Ruukki tracks and anticipates future legislation impacting on its operating environment and products. Corporate responsibility in Ruukki For example, increased EU environmental regulations have changed Ruukki’s operating environment and imposed new requirements on products and production processes over the past ten years. Also Management of corporate SEE ALSO national regulations impact on the company’s operations. responsibility The company maintains dialogue with society through industrial organisations and public debate. Stakeholders Values Ruukki has sought to improve the effectiveness and predictability of legislation by providing Units by country Means of interaction constructive information already when legislation is drafted. Strategy Supervision of interests Ruukki neither makes contributions to political parties nor provides any kind of support to election Financial information Our customers candidates. Ruukki is committed to compliance with its Code of Conduct in all its activities. Research and development Near-term outlook New products and concepts Energy-efficient products and Economic responsibility solutions Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Social responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING Safety Reporting Means of interaction Supervision of interests Our approach Our customers Environment New products and service concepts Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/Supervis... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS OUR CUSTOMERS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our customers Corporate responsibility in Consistently better customer service Ruukki Ruukki’s operations are customer driven. Our customer base has traditionally mostly been from the SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility Nordic countries, although the focus has now partly shifted and continues to shift to countries in Central Eastern and Eastern Europe and to the emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil. Our Stakeholders largest customers are companies and retailers. In 2011, the ten largest customers accounted for about Values 9 per cent of net sales. Consumers who use Ruukki’s building products and installation services also Units by country Means of interaction form an important customer segment. Ruukki has a total of around 12,000 active customers. In Strategy Supervision of interests addition, Ruukki also provides direct service to consumer customers in, for example, the residential Financial information Our customers roofing business. Research and development Near-term outlook New products and concepts Energy-efficient products and Customer meetings at trade fairs and other events around the world solutions Economic responsibility In 2011, Ruukki was present at a total of over 60 trade fairs around the world. Through these fairs, Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Ruukki met thousands of existing and potential customers and other stakeholder representatives Social responsibility during the year. In addition, Ruukki held hundreds of customer events, where experts in different fields, both from Ruukki and outside, shared information about products, services and about other topics of 2011 CR REPORTING Safety interest to customers. Ruukki’s presence at fairs and arrangement of events grew strongest in the Reporting emerging markets such as India, Brazil and Russia. Means of interaction Supervision of interests Our approach Our customers Environment New products and service concepts Our people Society Customer New service Training and Reporting CRM research concepts communication Sustainability recognitions Customer research Energy efficiency is a significant factor in buying decisions In 2011, the most extensive customer surveys examined customer buying behaviour and factors impacting on the decision to buy. Respondents represented investors, construction decision-makers and designers, as well as the end-users and manufacturers of transportation equipment and mobile machines. The studies show that customers rank energy efficiency as a significant factor impacting on buying decisions. In addition, equipment weight and thus higher payloads are also important. Surveys were carried out in seven countries. Better customer encounters a special focus in improving customer satisfaction One of the ways Ruukki measures customer expectations and feedback is by an annual customer satisfaction survey. In late 2010, the survey drew responses from almost 1,400 customers across 29 countries. The results show that customers were satisfied with the scope of Ruukki’s product portfolios, delivery accuracy and correctness. However, customers would like to see a slight improvement in delivery speed. Overall customer satisfaction improved for the fourth year running. Detailed development plans were prepared on the basis of the customer satisfaction survey. These plans have a direct impact on business practices at both the local and corporate level. In addition, the results were communicated both within Ruukki and outside by, for example, a letter sent to those taking part in the survey. Customer satisfaction with Ruukki 2010 2009 2008 2007 Customer satisfaction index* -0.47 -0.56 -0.59 -0.71 *The index is calculated on the basis of the results of the customer satisfaction survey (importancehow successful Ruukki is). When the index value is below -1.0, the result can be considered poor. If the index is between -1.0 and -0.5, the result is average. If the index is above -0.5, customer satisfaction can be termed good. No customer survey across Ruukki was carried out in 2011 because we wanted to focus on one point for development identified in the extensive survey for the previous year. This point was the collection of feedback to measure the satisfaction of more direct customer encounters and to process the feedback faster. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/Our-cust... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS OUR CUSTOMERS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our customers Corporate responsibility in Consistently better customer service Ruukki Ruukki’s operations are customer driven. Our customer base has traditionally mostly been from the SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility Nordic countries, although the focus has now partly shifted and continues to shift to countries in Central Eastern and Eastern Europe and to the emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil. Our Stakeholders largest customers are companies and retailers. In 2011, the ten largest customers accounted for about Values 9 per cent of net sales. Consumers who use Ruukki’s building products and installation services also Units by country Means of interaction form an important customer segment. Ruukki has a total of around 12,000 active customers. In Strategy Supervision of interests addition, Ruukki also provides direct service to consumer customers in, for example, the residential Financial information Our customers roofing business. Research and development Near-term outlook New products and concepts Energy-efficient products and Customer meetings at trade fairs and other events around the world solutions Economic responsibility In 2011, Ruukki was present at a total of over 60 trade fairs around the world. Through these fairs, Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Ruukki met thousands of existing and potential customers and other stakeholder representatives Social responsibility during the year. In addition, Ruukki held hundreds of customer events, where experts in different fields, both from Ruukki and outside, shared information about products, services and about other topics of 2011 CR REPORTING Safety interest to customers. Ruukki’s presence at fairs and arrangement of events grew strongest in the Reporting emerging markets such as India, Brazil and Russia. Means of interaction Supervision of interests Our approach Our customers Environment New products and service concepts Our people Society Customer New service Training and Reporting CRM research concepts communication Sustainability recognitions Customer relationship management Global view of customer relationships Based on the results of the customer survey, the corporate wide customer relationship management CRM) system supporting customer work has been developed to be increasingly more customer driven. The system has also been enthusiastically adopted in the emerging markets. A centralised customer relationship management system enables an extensive view of customer relationships and the sharing of customer information within Ruukki irrespective of time or place. Further improvement in customer feedback management We rolled out a new customer feedback channel in 23 countries to enable customers to assess the success of customer encounters. Based on customer feedback received, we further improved preparation for customer events, meeting content and follow-up actions. Customers answer a question about the usefulness of the visit and at the same time they have an opportunity to give written comments. The feedback process has been linked to the reporting of customer visits in the customer relationship management system. This helps to increase our understanding of customer needs and to act proactively. Competence development in construction customer relationship management We started a training programme, Forceful Sales Leadership, in the construction business. The programme has been used to create systematics for customer visits: number of meetings, methodicalness, quality and follow-up of actual visits. In addition, a specific sales process has been created for various business areas. The key personnel of business areas took part in the programme, which ended in January 2012. A similar programme, Reinforced Leadership, for sales management in the steel business ended in the early part of the year and during the year, the focus was on cascading down the decisions agreed in practice. During the year, all Metals’ sales persons took part in hands-on workshops, which focused on systematic customer encounters and the creation of new customer relationships in special steel products. The workshops were conducted in the local language at each site and the programmes were completed in all countries in the autumn. All Engineering salespeople also focused on active customer work and on the successful leadership of difficult customer negotiations in their own Sales Camp workshops. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/Our-cust... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS OUR CUSTOMERS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our customers Corporate responsibility in Consistently better customer service Ruukki Ruukki’s operations are customer driven. Our customer base has traditionally mostly been from the SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility Nordic countries, although the focus has now partly shifted and continues to shift to countries in Central Eastern and Eastern Europe and to the emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil. Our Stakeholders largest customers are companies and retailers. In 2011, the ten largest customers accounted for about Values 9 per cent of net sales. Consumers who use Ruukki’s building products and installation services also Units by country Means of interaction form an important customer segment. Ruukki has a total of around 12,000 active customers. In Strategy Supervision of interests addition, Ruukki also provides direct service to consumer customers in, for example, the residential Financial information Our customers roofing business. Research and development Near-term outlook New products and concepts Energy-efficient products and Customer meetings at trade fairs and other events around the world solutions Economic responsibility In 2011, Ruukki was present at a total of over 60 trade fairs around the world. Through these fairs, Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Ruukki met thousands of existing and potential customers and other stakeholder representatives Social responsibility during the year. In addition, Ruukki held hundreds of customer events, where experts in different fields, both from Ruukki and outside, shared information about products, services and about other topics of 2011 CR REPORTING Safety interest to customers. Ruukki’s presence at fairs and arrangement of events grew strongest in the Reporting emerging markets such as India, Brazil and Russia. Means of interaction Supervision of interests Our approach Our customers Environment New products and service concepts Our people Society Customer New service Training and Reporting CRM research concepts communication Sustainability recognitions New service concepts Ruukki Express near the customer Ruukki is developing the Ruukki Express chain of roofing product stores to give customers better service in roof construction. The stores and stocks are located near the customer base both of consumers and construction professionals. As the name suggests, Ruukki Express provides fast, convenient roofing products and services. In 2011, roofing experts served customers at 46 outlets in nine countries. There are plans to expand the network in 2012 especially in Central Eastern Europe. First Ruukki certified partners Ruukki’s Certified Partner Programme (CPP) is helping to create a network of Ruukki’s distribution partners that provide the best selection of Ruukki special steel products and services on the market, to the benefit of the end users. The first partners were chosen in early 2011 and good experiences have been obtained from pilot projects. The programme aims to raise the level of expertise of the selected distribution companies for Ruukki’s special steel products. The programme offers mutual benefits for both parties: in return for providing partners with marketing cooperation, technical support and training, Ruukki gains increasingly more knowledge about end-customer needs and wishes. In this way, end customers benefit from more suitable products and better service. At the moment, the community includes members both in Europe and emerging market countries. Ruukki has been working together with many of the partners for a few years and now the cooperation has been formalised through certification. Special Steels Day The first Ruukki Special Steels Day events were held in India, Brazil, Indonesia, Poland, Russia and the Czech Republic during 2011. Ruukki’s Special Steel customer seminars attracted hundreds of customers who were interested in learning about the latest developments in Raex weather-resistant and Optim high-strength steels. Customers were also interested to hear about the benefits of special steels compared to those of standard steels. These benefits are lighter weight end products, lower fuel consumption and increased payloads. Special Steels Day events were held either in conjunction with industrial fairs or as separate events. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/Our-cust... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS OUR CUSTOMERS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our customers Corporate responsibility in Consistently better customer service Ruukki Ruukki’s operations are customer driven. Our customer base has traditionally mostly been from the SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility Nordic countries, although the focus has now partly shifted and continues to shift to countries in Central Eastern and Eastern Europe and to the emerging markets such as China, India and Brazil. Our Stakeholders largest customers are companies and retailers. In 2011, the ten largest customers accounted for about Values 9 per cent of net sales. Consumers who use Ruukki’s building products and installation services also Units by country Means of interaction form an important customer segment. Ruukki has a total of around 12,000 active customers. In Strategy Supervision of interests addition, Ruukki also provides direct service to consumer customers in, for example, the residential Financial information Our customers roofing business. Research and development Near-term outlook New products and concepts Energy-efficient products and Customer meetings at trade fairs and other events around the world solutions Economic responsibility In 2011, Ruukki was present at a total of over 60 trade fairs around the world. Through these fairs, Innovative safety Environmental responsibility Ruukki met thousands of existing and potential customers and other stakeholder representatives Social responsibility during the year. In addition, Ruukki held hundreds of customer events, where experts in different fields, both from Ruukki and outside, shared information about products, services and about other topics of 2011 CR REPORTING Safety interest to customers. Ruukki’s presence at fairs and arrangement of events grew strongest in the Reporting emerging markets such as India, Brazil and Russia. Means of interaction Supervision of interests Our approach Our customers Environment New products and service concepts Our people Society Customer New service Training and Reporting CRM research concepts communication Sustainability recognitions Training and communication Lessons for construction and engineering Ruukki Academy offers training for professionals working in construction, product installation and engineering technology. Experts -such as designers and architects, as well as construction and engineering industry customers have used Ruukki Academy to further build on their skills. The idea is to ensure that customers have access to the latest know-how of Ruukki’s specialists. Training takes place through classroom teaching, webinars and self-study materials. In 2011, a total of 332 people participated in webinar training intended for 26 customers. Most of the webinars were in Finnish and English, but there were also some in Polish and Chinese. Ruukki’s website renewal project completed during 2011 The idea was to revamp the entire website to serve customers better. Customer feedback and a website customer survey on the new website show that customers can now find the information they require much more easily than earlier and they consider the website structure and product sections to be logical. With its new website, Ruukki.com won the B2B category in Finland’s most prestigious digital marketing competition, Grand One. Ruukki’s renewed website received special commendation for its innovative, logical way of displaying product information and business areas. The Ruukki.com website received another award in June when it was voted as Sitecore’s site of the year in the international sites category. Sitecore is the content management and publication system used by Ruukki. Ruukki.com was chosen as the best site from among over 2,000 websites built by Sitecom worldwide. Sitecore’s Site of the Year competition recognises innovative technical solutions and, among other things, to features activating the website user and overall user experience. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/Our-cust... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 STAKEHOLDERS NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICE CONCEPTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief New products and service concepts Corporate responsibility in Steel products Ruukki The focus of development in steel products was on high-strength, wear-resistant and structural steels, SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility as well as chromium-free colour-coated products. A number of new products were rolled out for the mining industry, construction and automotive industry markets. New high-strength products provide Stakeholders quality solutions for heavy industry applications worldwide and direct quenching technology enables a Values broader spectrum of steel grades and dimensional ranges of metal-coated products. Ruukki’s double Units by country Means of interaction grade high-strength structural tube was launched on the European market. It combines the strength of Strategy Supervision of interests fine-grain steel and the usability of conventional structural steel in the same steel grade. The first Financial information Our customers phase started in the transition to chromium-free colour-coated products designed for outdoor use. Research and development Near-term outlook New products and concepts Tin Smith Pro, Ruukki's new tailored steel for sheet metal workers, is ideal for applications where good Energy-efficient products and steel formability is required together with the corrosion-resistance afforded by colour-coating and solutions Economic responsibility galvanisation, for example machine-seamed steel roofs. Tin Smith Pro enables faster working, Innovative safety Environmental responsibility complex shapes and tighter seams than with traditional materials. Adequate thickness also ensures Social responsibility good resistance to the forces of nature such as snow loading. Tin Smith Pro does not age and its mechanical properties remain unchanged during storage. 2011 CR REPORTING Safety Ruukki’s Litec 1000CP steel is a newcomer to the automotive steel market. It improves collision safety Reporting Means of interaction and enables lighter body work. Ultra-high-strength, formable Litec 1000CP is three times stronger than Supervision of interests Our approach the steel traditionally used in construction. It is also twice as strong as Litec 600CP steels, which Our customers belong to the same product range. Environment New products and service concepts Our people Energy and solar panels Society Ruukki’s energy panel system can help save up to 30% in your building’s annual maintenance cost. Reporting The panel system consists of airtight Ruukki energy panels, structural details, accessories, airtightness instructions, installation and Ruukki’s airtightness promise. Sustainability recognitions Solar-power producing Liberta Solar panels are the latest newcomer to the Ruukki Design Palette family. Design Palette has been created to provide architects with a range of quality façade cladding shapes, materials and colours to provide signature design. Solar panels provide an extra dimension to the palette in the form of energy production. Energy piles Energy piles utilising ground-source energy were chosen for the foundations of the new Technopolis Innova 2 office building under construction in Jyväskylä, Finland. Ruukki and Uponor together innovated a system using the steel piles used in a building's foundations to collect energy. Heat collector pipes are installed inside the hollow steel piles, which are then concreted so that the groundsource energy can be efficiently transferred to the heat transfer fluid inside the pipes. Energy piles are particularly suitable for commercial buildings that require both heating and cooling. The results from simulations show that free energy from a ground-source heating solution integrated into energy piles can at best provide as much as 50-70% of a building's heating requirements and 50-100% of its cooling requirements. Smart roofs Snow accumulation on the roof can cause many problems. However, the risk of roof collapse can now be checked the smart way, using sensors. Sensors developed by Ruukki can be fitted to roofing sheets to measure the loading on the roof and when necessary send an alert to a mobile phone. We can really talk about smart roofs. Sensors fitted to the roof notice changes in loading. The technology developed by Ruukki can be fitted to both new and existing roofs where load-bearing sheets have been used. Sensors fitted to roofing sheets send out an alert when maximum permitted loads are approaching. Signals from the measurement sensors are transmitted via a wireless internet network router and the alert can be directed to a mobile phone or email. The technology developed by Ruukki also provides up-to-date information about roof loading and changes in loading during the required period. Read more about the examples of R&D: in the construction business in the engineering business in the steel business Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Stakeholders/New-pro... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Economic responsibility Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Greetings from the CFO Management of corporate SEE ALSO “We are building the future through increasingly more energy-efficient responsibility solutions. The economic wellbeing we create is shared is shared by Stakeholders various stakeholders in society including the personnel, our owners Values and subcontractors. Creating value for stakeholders requires us to Units by country Economic responsibility continuously develop our working practices and good business risk Strategy Financial targets management. Financial information Economic value distribution Research and development Markku Honkasalo Near-term outlook Community support Energy-efficient products and Environmental responsibility solutions Innovative safety Social responsibility We impact on the surrounding community in many different ways. Financial responsibility at Safety Rautaruukki is based on ensuring the economic sustainability of operations in fluctuating market 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting conditions, good corporate governance and on daily risk management. In 2011, Rautaruukki employed an average of 11,821 persons in about 30 countries and the personnel were paid benefits totalling Financial targets Our approach €489 million. A total of €94 million was paid in pensions and social security contributions. Rautaruukki Economic value distribution Environment Corporation’s income taxes amounted to €1 million. Community support Our people Rautaruukki’s share is listed and traded on Nasdaq OMX Helsinki and the company provides correct, Society up-to-date information as a basis to determine the value of the share. All investor information is published in Finnish and English on the company’s website and webcasts in English in conjunction with Reporting interim reports can be followed live across the world via the company’s website. This is how Sustainability recognitions Rautaruukki achieves the fairness principle for investors. The company also hosts an annual Capital Markets Day for investment analysts and institutional investors. The company has adopted corporate policies applying to different areas to achieve corporate financial and other targets and to minimise operating risks. In most places where it has production sites, Ruukki is a significant local and regional force, whose role is reflected, for example, as an employer, buyer of regional goods and services and as a benefactor of local communities. Read more detailed information about Ruukki Ethically and socially fair business Ruukki is a financially reliable and responsible partner. Our own operations enable us to create economic value for our internal and external stakeholders. We seek to achieve our targets through ethically and socially fair business. We are committed to longterm cooperation with customers and subcontractors. You can find financial targets and other financial information about Ruukki here. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY FINANCIAL TARGETS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Financial targets Rautaruukki has set following financial targets for its operations. These indicators are also used in Corporate responsibility in Ruukki monitoring the implementation of strategy. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Target 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Stakeholders Growth in comparable net sales, % Values >10% 16.4 26.4 -48.4 1.8 11.6 Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Financial targets Comparable operating profit of net sales, % >15% 2.0 1.6 -14.3 15.4 17.3 Financial information Economic value distribution Research and development Near-term outlook Community support Return on capital employed, % >20% 1.3 -0.3 -14.2 25.6 29.8 Energy-efficient products and Environmental responsibility solutions Gearing ratio, % ~60% 60.4 44.7 22.3 7.9 1.4 Innovative safety Social responsibility Safety 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting Our approach *) Figures for 2007-2008 not restated in respect of unrealised gains and losses relating to USD Financial targets derivatives. Economic value distribution Environment Community support Formulas for the calculation of target ratios can be found here. Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Economic value distribution Companies are part of society. Cash flows passing through companies benefit a broad group of actors. Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Generating economic well-being for stakeholders requires continuous development of our ways of working and the management of business risks. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Stakeholders Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Financial targets Financial information Economic value distribution Research and development Near-term outlook Community support Energy-efficient products and Environmental responsibility solutions Innovative safety Social responsibility Safety 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting Our approach Financial targets Economic value distribution Environment Community support Our people Figures calculated in accordance with the applicable parts of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). All figures are Society presented on an accrual basis. Reporting Sustainability recognitions Wages and Owners and Research and Suppliers bonuses financiers development Suppliers Reducing the number of suppliers is still one of the main aims of sourcing at Ruukki. During the past year the number of suppliers fell from around 17,000 to around 13,000 This reduction was largely achieved by actively focusing sourcing. Ruukki’s international sourcing teams work together across country and divisional boundaries. This reduction was largely achieved by actively focusing sourcing. Ruukki’s international sourcing teams work together across country and divisional boundaries. Above all it is our customers who benefit from supply chain management and optimisation in today’s challenging business environment, but the operation has wider social implications. An efficiently planned, well-managed supply chain means a smaller carbon footprint and saves energy. Read more about sourcing. Read more about sourcing Purchases by country, 10 largest (% in 2010) Finland 41% (43%) Sweden 21% (21%) Russia 5% (3%) Canada 4% (2%) Germany 4% (4%) USA 4% (3%) Poland 3% (2%) Australia 3% (2%) Netherlands 2% (2%) France 2% (1%) Switzerland 2% (1%) Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Economic value distribution Companies are part of society. Cash flows passing through companies benefit a broad group of actors. Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Generating economic well-being for stakeholders requires continuous development of our ways of working and the management of business risks. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Stakeholders Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Financial targets Financial information Economic value distribution Research and development Near-term outlook Community support Energy-efficient products and Environmental responsibility solutions Innovative safety Social responsibility Safety 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting Our approach Financial targets Economic value distribution Environment Community support Our people Figures calculated in accordance with the applicable parts of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). All figures are Society presented on an accrual basis. Reporting Sustainability recognitions Wages and Owners and Research and Suppliers bonuses financiers development Wages, salaries and bonuses Share-based incentive plan for key persons In December 2010, the company’s Board of Directors approved a share-based incentive plan for 2011-2013 for key employees. The plan consists of three one-year earning periods and one three-year earning period. Expenses of EUR 0.3 million (2010: no expenses) were booked in respect of the earning period 2011 of the valid share ownership plan. Performance targets are based on return on capital employed (ROCE), consolidated net sales growth and the achievement of strategic targets. Around 100 persons are covered by the plan. The company has operated share-based incentive plans for key persons since the year 2000. Persons who do not belong to a share-based incentive plan belong to the company’s profit sharing scheme. Personnel costs €m 2011 2010 2009 Finland 360 351 323 Norway 21 25 29 Sweden 24 24 28 Russia 27 21 22 Poland 18 16 14 Hungary 7 6 8 Germany 3 4 4 Estonia 3 4 4 Romania 4 4 4 Other countries 22 18 19 Total 489 472 456 http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Economic value distribution Companies are part of society. Cash flows passing through companies benefit a broad group of actors. Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Generating economic well-being for stakeholders requires continuous development of our ways of working and the management of business risks. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Stakeholders Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Financial targets Financial information Economic value distribution Research and development Near-term outlook Community support Energy-efficient products and Environmental responsibility solutions Innovative safety Social responsibility Safety 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting Our approach Financial targets Economic value distribution Environment Community support Our people Figures calculated in accordance with the applicable parts of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). All figures are Society presented on an accrual basis. Reporting Sustainability recognitions Wages and Owners and Research and Suppliers bonuses financiers development Owners, financiers, taxes and public funding Rautaruukki’s Finnish ownership base grew in 2011, with both domestic institutions and households increasing their ownership. Shareholder numbers also rose slightly year on year to reach 47,501 (43,575). Shares owned by international investors and nominee registered shareholders accounted for 16.6 (23.3) per cent of the outstanding shares at the end of 2011. The share closed at EUR 7.12 (17.51) on the year and the company had a market capitalisation of EUR 998 million (2,456). The Board of Directors proposes that shareholders be paid a dividend of €0.50 (0.60) per share for 2011. This amounts to a total dividend payout of €69 (83) million. Ruukki’s profitability improved year on year despite a weakening of the business environment and a weak end to the year. Gearing at year-end 2010 was 60.4 per cent (44.7) and the equity ratio was 48.5 per cent (55.3). Finance costs for 2011 totalled €37 million (66). Net interest costs were €32 million (29). Net interest-bearing liabilities at 31 December 2011 were EUR 770 million (621). In January 2011, the company signed bilateral credit limit agreements totalling €425 million. These agreements replace the €350 million overdraft facility signed in 2009. Repayments of long-term interest-bearing liabilities in 2012 total EUR 27 million. Ruukki paid taxes totalling €14 million (8) in 2011. Income taxes were €4 million positive (-4). Besides income tax, Ruukki pays other public charges such as real estate and energy taxes. The company received public funding totalling € 2.4 (2.7) million for product development projects. Tekes the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation contributed € 2.0 (2.6) million of this figure and the remaining € 0.4 (0.1) million came from the EU. See more detailed information about shares Read more financial information Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Economic value distribution Companies are part of society. Cash flows passing through companies benefit a broad group of actors. Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Generating economic well-being for stakeholders requires continuous development of our ways of working and the management of business risks. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Stakeholders Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Financial targets Financial information Economic value distribution Research and development Near-term outlook Community support Energy-efficient products and Environmental responsibility solutions Innovative safety Social responsibility Safety 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting Our approach Financial targets Economic value distribution Environment Community support Our people Figures calculated in accordance with the applicable parts of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). All figures are Society presented on an accrual basis. Reporting Sustainability recognitions Wages and Owners and Research and Suppliers bonuses financiers development Research and development A total of EUR 29 million (27) was spent on research and development in 2011. This equates to one per cent (1) of the company’s comparable net sales. R&D at Ruukki focused mainly on broadening the special steel portfolio, strengthening customer product development support and working on a number of projects aimed at benefiting from the user experience in developing products and solutions. In addition, work continued on the successful development of energy-efficient products by creating lighter structures and more energy-efficient building components. Ruukki Construction continued work on the energy-efficiency front. Ruukki energy panels were successfully launched in Finland, where sales developed well over the year. The year also saw the launch of Liberta Solar, a glazed façade featuring fully integrated photovoltaic system. A pilot project was completed for energy piles which utilise ground source straight from the foundations of a building. The roof safety of industrial halls was improved through the innovation of an intelligent roofing system, which reports the actual roof loading. Within residential roofing, a new roof profile, Adamante, was launched. A number of new products such as Ruukki Easy Bridge, rock shoes for drill piles and new median road barrier were developed within infrastructure solutions. In addition, the new lattice wind tower design received certification. In Finland, the competitiveness of single-storey construction was strengthened through a new fire protection certificate, which affords up to 90 minutes protection for steel structures when using sprinklers. Also CE labelling has been applied for the sprinkler system. Ruukki Engineering continued work on developing the Products & Technology function, where the focus was on cabins and components. Two new cabin products entered production in 2011. Work started on a number of cabin technology development projects aimed at building on competence in virtual design, noise and vibration control and in utilising operator experience. A new components development team was set up to support component business customers and to develop competence in the design and application of special steel components. The focus of development in steel products was on high-strength, wear-resistant and structural steels, as well as chromium-free colour-coated products. A number of new products were rolled out for the mining industry, construction and automotive industry markets. New high-strength products provide quality solutions for heavy industry applications worldwide and direct quenching technology enables a broader spectrum of steel grades and dimensional ranges of metal-coated products. Ruukki’s double grade high-strength structural tube was launched on the European market. It combines the strength of fine-grain steel and the usability of conventional structural steel in the same steel grade. The first phase started in the transition to chromium-free colour-coated products designed for outdoor use. The production process moved ahead by switching over to using only iron pellets in iron-making instead of a combination of iron ore concentrate and pellets when the sinter plant at the Raahe Works was closed down in December 2011. During the year, Ruukki joined the large ULCOS II EU project consortium. The project aims at building a full-scale demonstration plant capable of radically decreasing CO2 emissions in steel-making. In addition, Ruukki is participating in the CLEEN CCS project, which is studying carbon capture and storage in Finnish conditions. In the process development of hot-rolling products, opening production bottlenecks and improving surface quality were high on the agenda. Two new research programmes got under way in the Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC Ltd): Research of business development based on customer and user experience (UXUS) and the programme for the industrial service business (FutIS). In addition to these, Ruukki is involved in four FIMECC programmes that focus on product and production energy efficiency, environmental impacts and innovations. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY SUPPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report Community support 2011 Ruukki sponsors efforts that promote our corporate image, strategy, brand and values. Sponsorship From the President & CEO efforts are always in line with our Code of Conduct. Ruukki in brief SEE ALSO The focus of sponsorships in 2011 was on sport, the environment and Corporate responsibility in Ruukki international efforts Values Management of corporate Ruukki’s sponsorship of sports associations and their junior activities has already been visible for Units by country responsibility years. Pattijoen Urheilijat Finnish baseball team, which plays at Finnish championship level, Strategy Hämeenlinnan Pallokerhon edustusjääkiekko ice hockey team and the junior activities of Financial information Stakeholders Hämeenlinnan Jalkapalloseura football club were some of sports associations that Ruukki supported in Research and development Economic responsibility 2011. Near-term outlook Financial targets Energy-efficient products and The WWF Baltic Sea Campaign was the recipient of Ruukki’s most significant charitable support in solutions Economic value distribution 2011 for a cleaner environment. Instead of sending Christmas cards in 2011, we made a donation, Innovative safety which, as a result of voting by our customers and stakeholders, went to the Baltic Sea Campaign. Community support Internationally, we supported, for example, various charitable organisations, kindergartens and Environmental responsibility 2011 CR REPORTING children’s homes in Russia, Ukraine, Romania and Germany. We were also a partner in various Social responsibility international events in the construction and steel industries. Financial targets Safety Economic value distribution Reporting Funding for research and training Community support Our approach Ruukki considers it important for Finnish universities to maintain top-level research and teaching. Ruukki previously made generous donations to support university activities in 2010, when Aalto Environment University, Tampere University of Technology and Lappeenranta University of Technology were the Our people beneficiaries of donations totalling €900,000. Society Ruukki is also involved in the Technology Industries of Finland Centennial Foundation fund to promote metals-related teaching, scientific research and studies. In 2011, the fund awarded grants for 2012 and Reporting recognition awards for theses totalling around €300,000. Sustainability recognitions Ruukki sponsored the development of energy-efficient construction solutions Steel Studio Ruukki is helping to support the Steel Studio study module and student competition, which began at the same time for students in the Department of Architecture at the University of Oulu, the School of Architecture at Tampere University of Technology and Aalto University School of Arts, Design and Architecture in the autumn term of 2011 and continues into 2012. The study module and competition provide a good opportunity for students to especially develop new innovative steel structures, but also steel components suitable for industrial production. The Studio seeks to show students the potential of steel in solutions for compact urban structures, especially in construction that poses a challenge from the cityscape aspect. The theme of the study module is sustainable construction, which is also important for Ruukki’s construction business. First passive building in Romania Ruukki sponsored a project to build the first internationally certified passive building in Romania by providing consultation and delivering steel solutions for it. The products of a number of building materials and solutions suppliers were tested and those suppliers whose products best satisfied the specified quality and energy-efficiency requirements took part in the passive building project. Ruukki’s façade claddings and roofing solutions were among the solutions chosen. Romanian universities and research bodies specialising in architecture and construction took part in the project. The passive building consists of two wings of a large building on the Politehnica University campus in Bucharest. For Ruukki, it was important to participate in the project because it triggered public debate on the content of norms related to the construction of passive buildings. This in turn promotes Ruukki’s role as a supplier of energy-efficient building solutions. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Economic-responsibil... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental responsibility Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Message from our SVP, Energy, Technology and Environment Management of corporate At Ruukki, corporate responsibility in environmental dimension, is SEE ALSO responsibility reflected above all in the drive for energy efficiency in our own operations and products. Improved use of energy, or energy efficiency, Stakeholders Values and reduced environmental impacts are key themes in Ruukki’s Units by country Economic responsibility environmental policy. Our operations are driven by the innovation of Strategy Environmental responsibility new energy efficient products and active development of new solutions. Financial information Environmental management Good examples of this are Ruukki’s energy-efficient building products Research and development or high-strength steel components, which for customers translate into Near-term outlook Our operating environment Energy-efficient products and lighter structures, lower energy costs and reduced emissions.” Achievements and aims solutions Toni Hemminki Innovative safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material efficiency Environmental management Environmental data monitor Ruukki’s environmental objectives Our operating environment To provide solutions to customers’ environmental challenges Achievements and aims Social responsibility To reduce Ruukki’s environmental impacts Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts We at Ruukki consider it important to actively report environmental matters and other matters Energy and material efficiency Reporting concerning sustainable development as well as to provide information about the lifecycle Environmental data monitor Our approach environmental impacts of our products. Environment Reporting complies with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. A summary of the recommended environmental indicators can be found here: Our people Society Environmental GRI Indicators management Reporting Our operating environment Environmental risk management EN16-18, EN26 Sustainability recognitions Emissions trading EN16 Environmental legislation in construction REACH Draft legislation Joint projects Achievements and aims Environmental investments EN30 Corporate targets EN6, EN26, Raahe and Hämeenlinna targets EN23,EN28 Environmental impacts Raw materials and energy consumption EN1-8 Emissions to air and water EN8-10, EN16-21 Waste EN22-23 Transportation EN29, EN5 Environmental figures by business EN16, EN20-22 Environmental figures by production stage Energy and material Energy-efficient construction EN6, EN26 efficiency Special steel products EN6, EN26 Carbon footprint of products EN5-7, EN26 Efficient production EN1, EN5, EN16 Energy recovery EN4 Steel recycling EN2 By-products EN2, EN26 Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental management Corporate responsibility in The environmental policy defined by management governs the environmental management of all Ruukki Ruukki’s operations. Management of corporate responsibility In keeping with its environmental policy, Ruukki provides solutions to customers’ environmental SEE ALSO challenges by increasing environmental awareness in product development and by developing Stakeholders competitive, eco-efficient products. By improving the energy and material efficiency of our products, we Values Economic responsibility are reducing and preventing harmful environmental impacts. Units by country Environmental responsibility We consider it important to be aware of the environmental requirements aimed at our operations and Strategy products and to deal with the factors affecting environmental impacts. One of the requirements of a Financial information Environmental management certified ISO 14001 environmental management system is to recognise, study and assess all the nonResearch and development Our operating environment compliances that impact on the environment in our operations. Internal and external audits monitor the Near-term outlook Achievements and aims implementation of our environmental management systems. Energy-efficient products and solutions Environmental investments The ISO 14001 environmental management system is Ruukki’s tool to continuously improve Innovative safety environmental performance. Certified management systems cover 99 per cent (2010: 99) of Environmental impacts production. Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Read more about certificates Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions We drive improvement in environmental performance through environmental objectives and targets set at corporate, function and site level. Management reviews regularly track achievement of these targets. In practice, each of our sites and operations is responsible for putting environmental protection into place. Each and every person at Ruukki is responsible for environmental performance. In-house training provides employees with the means to manage the environmental impacts of their own jobs. We also encourage our subcontractors to take environmental aspects into account. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future changes in environmental legislation, which may bring about significant future changes in the business environment. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions Environmental risk management Environmental risks are managed by systematically taking environmental matters into account in planning and implementing operations and products. Environmental risks are taken into account as part of the corporate risk management process. Risk management seeks to underpin the company’s strategy, achievement of targets and to ensure business continuity. Risk management at Ruukki is an integrated part of the management system. The effects of climate change The impacts of climate change, such as extreme weather conditions or a rise in sea levels, can indirectly impact on our business as a result of, among other things, changing building requirements. Property risks and business disruption risks are assessed as part of regular risk assessment. Risks are also assessed together with the authorities as part of environmental and construction permit processes. Climate change and the ensuing additional costs impact on Ruukki’s investments and competitiveness, especially if the same rules of play do not apply equally to all players in the field. The most significant legislative risk to our business as a result of climate change is the lack of a global climate change agreement based on efficiency and the unilateral emissions trading scheme in the European Union. In addition, Ruukki actively tracks legislative changes, such as the proposed amendment to the Sulphur Directive to lower maximum sulphur content levels for shipping fuels used in the Baltic Sea. Stricter sulphur restrictions would weaken the competitiveness of companies in the northern regions both in and outside the EU. In the next emissions trading period starting in 2013, there will be fewer emissions allowances as a result of more stringent carbon dioxide reduction targets. The EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme allocates certain amount of free emissions allowances to so-called carbon leakage sectors. This is done in an attempt to prevent production from being transferred to countries outside the EU and to prevent an increase in global carbon dioxide emissions. Ruukki actively tracks changes in the European Union`s Emission Trading Scheme. Read more about risk management Read more about emissions trading Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions More stringent emission reduction targets Future carbon dioxide emission reduction targets in the European Union will be more stringent than at present. The EU’s climate and energy package aims at a cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 to 20 per cent below 1990 levels. At the same time, the EU has an energy savings target of 20 per cent and to increase the use of renewables by 20 per cent by 2020. Fewer free emissions allowances than earlier will be allocated to cover the following emissions trading period for 2013–2020. The steel industry will receive free emissions allowances on the basis of efficiency, which means companies that have invested in low emissions will benefit from their efficiency. Final information about the allocation of free emissions allowances will be available during 2012. Energy Performance of Buildings Directive One of the ways for the EU to achieve the targets of its energy-climate package is the recast Energy Performance of Buildings Directive, which entered into force in 2010. Under the Directive, all new buildings should meet nearly zero-energy construction criteria from the end of 2020 onwards. The regulations apply to public buildings already after 2018. In addition, a considerable share of the energy need of buildings must be obtained using renewable energy sources. Ruukki’s solutions already feature a choice of options that can help to meet the future minimum requirements under the EU Directive. Read more about Ruukki`s energy efficient products Proposal to amend the Sulphur Directive The International Maritime Organization, IMO, decided the sulphur content limits of fuels in 2008. In July 2011, the EU Commission drafted a proposal to amend the Sulphur Directive to reduce the maximum permitted content of sulphur in shipping fuels in the Baltic Sea to 0.1 per cent as of 1 January 2015. Their geographical location makes the Nordic countries very dependant on shipping. Stricter sulphur regulations would weaken the competitiveness of companies in the northern regions both in and outside the EU. Ruukki has been actively involved in the discussion to safeguard the business conditions for Finnish industry. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions EU emissions trading Ruukki contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by maintaining and developing the energy efficiency of its operations long-term. Ruukki actively tracks changes in the European Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme and the ensuing financial impacts. We monitor carbon dioxide emissions in our production processes and make forecasts regurlarly as part of continuous balancing of carbon dioxide emissions. The Raahe Works and steam boilers at the Hämeenlinna Works in Finland come within the scope of the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme as regards Ruukki’s operations. Ruukki’s total carbon dioxide emissions in 2011 were 4,1 million tonnes (2010: 4.1), of which 98 per cent came under emissions trading schemes. As part of managing the global carbon dioxide emissions balance, Ruukki is a participant in the World Bank’s Community Development Carbon Fund and GreenStream Network Oy’s Fine Carbon and Climate Opportunity Funds. These funds purchase certified emissions reduction units, based on the Kyoto Protocol, that can be used in the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme. Emissions trading affects the market price for electricity because the opportunity cost method factors the cost of emissions allowances into the price of all market electricity. Ruukki manages electricity price risks through electricity derivatives and long-term supply contracts. We generate about half of our electricity needs by using the process gases and heat originating as by-products in production and implement cost-effective energy-efficiency investments. In addition, Ruukki is involved in carbon-dioxide-emission-free electricity production development projects so that the company can avoid unfavourable financial impacts caused by emissions trading in sourcing electricity in the future. Emissions trading period 2008–2012 In the free initial allocation of emissions allowances for the second period 2008-2012 of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, the Raahe Works and the steam boilers at the Hämeenlinna Works received a total of 23.5 million emissions allowances. In 2011, trading in emissions allowances generated income totalling €4.4 million (2010: €9m). Emissions trading period 2013–2020 In April, the EU Parliament and Council approved the Commissions` proposal of new emission factors applicable in the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme for 2013-2020. These emissions factors apply to free allocations of emissions allowances. New allocation rules for free emissions allowances have been harmonised: country-specific quotas will disappear and free emissions allowances will be based on the same emissions factors for all taking into account carbon dioxide efficiency. The EU gradually reduce the amount of emissions allowances. Ruukki’s works in Raahe and Hämeenlinna applied for emissions allowances in 2011. The allocation of allowances is based on European benchmarks of steel industry efficiency and efficient use of energy can give entitlement to greater number of allowances. Hämeenlinna works` share of carbon dioxide emissions under Emissions Trading Scheme will increase in the next trading period, since new emission sources from combustion plants less than 20 MW will also be taking into account, in addition to the steam boilers. Final information about free emissions allowances will be known during 2012. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions Environmental legislation in construction Buildings account for about 40 per cent of energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions in EU member states. Under the recast Directive on the energy performance of buildings, all new buildings should meet nearly zero-energy construction criteria from the end of 2020 onwards. The regulations apply to public buildings already after 2018. The Directive is applied at the national level by taking into account a country’s outdoor climatic and local conditions, as well as indoor air climate requirements and cost effectiveness. In addition to these, the Directive lays down minimum requirements on the energy performance of renovation construction by member state. The zero-energy requirement The zero-energy requirement means that buildings must use a minimum amount of energy which should be covered by renewables. Ruukki’s steel construction solutions take into account stricter requirements for the energy performance of buildings. Spring 2011 saw Ruukki launch airtight energy panels, which deliver considerable savings in the heating costs of a building. In addition, Ruukki expanded its expertise in energyefficient construction by being the first company to launch a photovoltaic system integrated into a façade. Working together with Uponor, Ruukki also utilised the potential of renewable energy by piloting the integration of ground-source heat solutions into steel piles. Read more about Ruukki`s energy efficient products Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions REACH The REACH Regulation entered into force on 1 June 2007 in all European Union member states. REACH aims to improve the protection of human health and the environment against the risks of chemicals and to enhance the competitiveness of the EU chemical industry. The Regulation overhauled chemical legislation in Europe. The Regulation applies broadly to substances on the market that are either used as such, in preparations or in articles. The Regulation imposes obligations on the manufacture, import and industrial or professional use of substances. The technical, scientific and administrative aspects REACH are managed by the European Chemical Agency (ECHA), which is headquartered in Helsinki, Finland. Impacts on Ruukki’s operations Ruukki uses a number of different substances and preparations covered by REACH at its production plants. Ruukki imports some of these substances itself. In addition, iron and various substances and preparations occur as by-products in steel production and upgrading. For these, we have carried out all necessary pre-registration and registration in accordance with REACH and we also require full REACH compliance from subcontractors. In 2011, Ruukki updated the safety data sheets of its own products to bring them into line with the requirements of revised chemical legislation in Europe. Since late 2011, Ruuki has also brought into use a new chemical safety data sheet management system to support information exchange and manage information about the use of chemicals. Ruukki actively tracks the progress of REACH in many different forums including Eurofer, the European Steel Association. More information about the REACH regulation Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions Draft legislation affecting Ruukki’s operations Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements and legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future changes in environmental legislation. Legislation that Ruukki is actively tracking: EU’s carbon emissions trading and international climate negotiations Environmental restrictions relating to shipping Industrial emissions and environmental protection Resource efficiency Substance restrictions in chemical legislation Energy efficiency in production Waste legislation and taxation Fertiliser legislation Emissions ceilings for traffic Legislation concerning renewable energy resources Requirements for the energy performance of buildings Restrictions on the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment Eco-design requirements for products Environmental labelling criteria Environmental criteria for public procurements National implementation of internal market package for electricity Decrees committing to market integration at EU level Electricity market legislation Electricity and energy taxation Windfall and uranium taxation Electricity transmission legislation Rules on the origin of electricity at national and EU level Update of the Reserve Power Act to ensure electricity supply during periods of peak consumption Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Our operating environment Corporate responsibility in Ruukki operates in an international environment, which is affected by many international agreements Ruukki and especially by EU legislation. Ruukki takes thorough steps to actively track and anticipate future Management of corporate changes in environmental legislation. responsibility SEE ALSO We actively participate in joint projects and organisations to support the company’s aims of developing Stakeholders energy-efficient products and solutions for customers. Values Economic responsibility Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Ruukki has production operations in 12 countries, whose legislation is tracked locally. The most Energy-efficient products and significant operations in terms of environmental impact are located in Finland. solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Environmental impacts Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Environmental Emissions EU emissions Environmental Society In construction REACH Research risks reduction trading legislation Reporting Sustainability recognitions Joint environmental projects 2011 Ruukki is developing the environmental performance of its production processes and products by active participation in various national and international joint projects relating to the environment. CCTS The Finnish Energy and Environment Competence Cluster, Cleen Ltd’s five-year research programme to (2011–2015) develop carbon capture and storage. (CCTS = Carbon Capture, Transportation and Storage) HISTWIN II A programme funded by RFCS (Research Fund for Coal and Steel) that seeks to develop high wind turbine (2011–2013) towers based on a cylinder tower concept. The project is being coordinated by Luleå University of Technology in Sweden. NeReMa A programme to establish the sustainable recycling of new materials which aims at a comprehensive study (2010–2012) of the current state of selected waste processing chains and the future conditions and requirements affecting development of the sector. Other partners in the project are the Finnish Environment Institute, Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT), Aalto University, Lappeenranta University of Technology and companies. BIOREDUCER A research programme funded by Tekes the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation to (2010–2012) examine the possibility of using biomass as a blast furnace fuel. VILD Vanadin I LD-slagg A joint programme between Nordic industry and MISTRA (The Foundation for Strategic Environmental (2009–2012) research) to examine separating vanadium from LD slag and processing it into a product. The programme has spawned a technique to separate vanadium from steelmaking slag so that it can be used. Work on developing the technique was awarded the Swedish Recycling Industries’ Association’s Inspiration Award for 2011. Zero Waste The Centre for Process Integration in Steelmaking, PRISMA’s programme is examining material flows in (2007–2012) heavy industry in the Bothnian Arc as an extensive whole and is also studying among other things, a panNordic solution to recycle secondary materials with a zinc content. FIMECC ELEMET MEBF The Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster, FIMECC Ltd’s Material Efficient Blast Furnace (2009–2014) programme to develop the material efficiency of a blast furnace. FIMECC Light The Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster, FIMECC Ltd’s programme where companies, (2009–2014) universities and research bodies come together to develop ways to lighten the structure of machinery and equipment, improve performance and cut carbon dioxide emissions, for example. FIMECC Demapp The Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster, FIMECC Ltd’s programme, where companies, (2009–2014) universities and research bodies come together to develop novel, breakthrough competitive materials based on an understanding of demanding operating conditions and the phenomena in them. Ruukki’s role is to develop improved wear-resistant steels, reduce the wear of steel structures and thus energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions, etc. ULCOS TGR-BF II A programme funded by RFCS (Research Fund for Coal and Steel) that is piloting an oxygen blast furnace (2009–2012) process. (ULCOS = Ultra–Low Carbon dioxide (CO2 ) Steelmaking) http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS AND AIMS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Achievements and aims Corporate responsibility in We provided customers with energy-efficient solutions Ruukki Ruukki launched air-tight energy panels, was the first company to launch a photovoltaic system SEE ALSO Management of corporate integrated into a façade and piloted the integration of ground-source heat solutions into steel piles responsibility we updated environmental product declarations, for nine different product groups taking REACH into Stakeholders account Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility We reduced environmental impacts by recycling Financial information Environmental management we recycled 480,000 tonnes of steel Research and development we cut carbon dioxide emissions by 600,000 tonnes (700,000 t 2010) by recycling Near-term outlook Our operating environment Energy-efficient products and Achievements and aims solutions We invested in the management system and training Innovative safety Environmental investments ISO 14001 environmental management system covers 99 per cent of production sites Environmental impacts 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material efficiency Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Environmental Achievements Hämeenlinna Raahe Works aims in 2011 Works Society Reporting Corporate environmental aims Sustainability recognitions Objective: To provide solutions to customers’ environmental challenges Aim Action To support Ruukki’s business by increasing environmental Increased cooperation, utilisation of customer feedback and innovation awareness in product development and marketing of new solutions for customers Increased in-house environmental training Foreseeing risks and changes in environmental legislation and taking these into account in business and in process and product development Objective: To reduce Ruukki’s environmental impacts Aim Action To reduce the impacts of climate change by improving energy Implementing costand energy-efficient measures in all significant efficiency operations To increase recycling and material efficiency Promoting the use of by-products from the production process as a substitute for natural resources. Improved cost efficiency by utilising opportunities for recycling. To comply with the requirements of the environmental management Follow-up and development based on observations system and environmental permits Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS AND AIMS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Achievements and aims Corporate responsibility in We provided customers with energy-efficient solutions Ruukki Ruukki launched air-tight energy panels, was the first company to launch a photovoltaic system SEE ALSO Management of corporate integrated into a façade and piloted the integration of ground-source heat solutions into steel piles responsibility we updated environmental product declarations, for nine different product groups taking REACH into Stakeholders account Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility We reduced environmental impacts by recycling Financial information Environmental management we recycled 480,000 tonnes of steel Research and development we cut carbon dioxide emissions by 600,000 tonnes (700,000 t 2010) by recycling Near-term outlook Our operating environment Energy-efficient products and Achievements and aims solutions We invested in the management system and training Innovative safety Environmental investments ISO 14001 environmental management system covers 99 per cent of production sites Environmental impacts 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material efficiency Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Environmental Achievements Hämeenlinna Raahe Works aims in 2011 Works Society Reporting Achievements in 2011 Sustainability recognitions Aim: To support business by increasing environmental awareness in product development and marketing During 2011, we carried out in-house environmental training for sales and product development organisations and for sourcing. In addition to increasing general environmental awareness, training in 2011 focused, among other things, on the impacts of changes in environmental legislation on our business. Spring 2011 saw Ruukki launch air-tight energy panels, which deliver considerable savings in the heating costs of a building and also reduce the carbon dioxide emissions originating from a building. In addition, Ruukki expanded its expertise in energy-efficient construction by being the first company to launch a photovoltaic system integrated into a façade. Working together with Uponor, Ruukki also utilised the potential of renewable energy by piloting the integration of ground-source heat solutions into steel piles. March 2011 saw Ruukki publish its revised environmental product declarations and product data safety sheets, which contain information about the environmental impacts, lifecycle properties and safety aspects of Ruukki’s products for product users, designers and builders. Ruukki is working together with research organisations, universities and other businesses in a number of research projects that increase environmental expertise and awareness. Read more about research projects Aim: To reduce the impacts of climate change by improving energy efficiency Ruukki is committed to energy savings of 9 per cent, compared to 2005 levels, by 2016. We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production development, product and process design and in the sourcing of equipment using energy. At production sites, energy efficiency management is systematically promoted as part of the ISO 14001 environmental management system. We assess energy saving potential with the help of energy reviews and analyses. In connection with energy reviews, we chart development points to improve energy efficiency as cost effectively as possible. In 2011, for example, Ruukki Metals saved energy approximately 1090 GWh, which equates about 270,000 tonnes of avoided carbon dioxide emissions. Besides productional processes, energy efficiency is actively monitored and developed in logistics. One energy-efficiency target is for contractual transportation partners to sign up for energy efficiency agreements in the Finnish transport sector so that by the end of 2016 transport firms who have signed up for agreements are responsible for 80 per cent of the transportation. Over half of Ruukki’s products are currently transported by transportation companies that have signed up for energy-efficiency agreements. Aim: To increase recycling and material efficiency In 2011, Ruukki avoided 600,000 tonnes of global carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steel and mineral products. During 2011, around 93 per cent of Ruukki’s sites in Finland returned their scrap steel and other recyclable material to Raahe for re-use. The remainder was recycled to external actors. Extensive studies of the materials to be recycled and site-specific material processing instructions and sorting have resulted in achieving the target of almost full in-house recycling. During the year, the company pursued new applications for steel slag, one example of which was to utilise the material to retain heavy metals in water purification. A study was also made to sort and utilise the material remaining outside briquetting and process rejects. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Aim: To comply with the requirements of the environmental management system and environmental permits Of Ruukki’s 47 production sites, 25 have operations that require an environmental permit. Violations of permit limits are actively dealt with. Permit limits were exceeded at 4 (2010: 4) sites. The violations were occasional and caused no significant impacts to health or the environment and the company received no significant environmental fines. Improvement in the reporting of environmental non-compliances Ruukki wants to be aware of and responsible in our operations for the factors causing environmental damage, and be able to compensate for situations more effectively. In accordance with environmental legislation and the requirements of the certified ISO 14001 environmental management system, Ruukki takes care of any risks posed to the environment by reporting and investigating non-compliances. In 2011, Ruukki overhauled its tool to report and investigate environmental non-compliances. The aim is to strengthen the investigation of non-compliances and to make it easier to report them. In addition to environmental damage and malfunctions, pro-active maintenance and near-miss situations are also recorded in the system. Violations of permit limits in 2011 The largest production units Raahe and Hämeenlinna account for most of the environmental impacts at Ruukki. Steel production at the Raahe Works accounts for around 99 per cent of the company’s emissions and 94 per cent of energy consumption. Raahe Works The sinter plant at the Raahe Works in Finland exceeded the permit limit for particulate emissions. The sinter plant was closed down at the end of 2011, thus resulting in a significant decrease in particulate emissions. The blast furnaces and power plant also exceeded the permit limits for particulate emissions. Information flow in connection with the malfunctions has been improved to speed up maintenance measures in future. The violations at the power plant related to the use of oil as the actual fuel because of a lack of blast furnace gas. In addition, permit limits were exceeded in the amounts of oil and suspended solids discharged into the sea. Proactive maintenance was improved as a corrective measure. Hämeenlinna Works There were permit limit violations at the Hämeenlinna Works in the chromium concentration of waste water from the colour-coating process and once in chloride acid emissions at the recovery plant. In addition, the pH value for total waste water was undercut once because of a larger volume of acidic rinsing water than normal from pickling for wastewater treatment. Corrective actions were in the form of improved technique, maintenance and monitoring. Kankaanpää plant Two non-conformances occurred in the amounts of sulphates in waste water at the Kankaanpää plant. However, the annual permit limits were not exceeded. The pH permit limits were temporarily exceeded because of a malfunction in lime dosage. Corrective action was taken by changing the process to improve waste water treatment. Peräseinäjoki plant The VOC emission limit was exceeded by less than 1 per cent at the Peräseinäjoki paint shop because of the colour-coating systems needed by customers’ technical requirements. Better systems are continuously being developed in in-house projects and in cooperation with colour-coating manufacturers. The violations were temporary and had no significant impact on health or the environment and the company received no major environmental fines. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS AND AIMS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Achievements and aims Corporate responsibility in We provided customers with energy-efficient solutions Ruukki Ruukki launched air-tight energy panels, was the first company to launch a photovoltaic system SEE ALSO Management of corporate integrated into a façade and piloted the integration of ground-source heat solutions into steel piles responsibility we updated environmental product declarations, for nine different product groups taking REACH into Stakeholders account Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility We reduced environmental impacts by recycling Financial information Environmental management we recycled 480,000 tonnes of steel Research and development we cut carbon dioxide emissions by 600,000 tonnes (700,000 t 2010) by recycling Near-term outlook Our operating environment Energy-efficient products and Achievements and aims solutions We invested in the management system and training Innovative safety Environmental investments ISO 14001 environmental management system covers 99 per cent of production sites Environmental impacts 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material efficiency Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Environmental Achievements Hämeenlinna Raahe Works aims in 2011 Works Society Reporting Environmental objectives and targets at the Raahe Works Sustainability recognitions ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECT OBJECTIVE / Target Actual Target Actual Target Target MEANS 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2013 Operations in compliance with No violations 0 270 0 216 0 0 the law and permit limits monitoring and prevention of malfunctions improved processing of wastewaters internal communication closing of the sintering plant Particulates Reduction in particulate emissions, kg/t st 0,51 0,64 0,44 0,75 0,18 0,16 equipment investments filter maintenance (97% operation time ratio per month) prevention of fugitive dust in operation and capture continuous measurement Waste to landfill Reduction in waste volume, kg/t st 0,14 0,24 0,23 0,29 0,21 0,21 volume of waste to landfill (external) utilisation of dust and sludge (compared to 25 % 2009) utilisation of slag 100 % Greenhouse gases Reduction in and management of CO2 emissions specific emission coefficient 1745 1817 1760 1837 1680 1680 implementation of energy efficiency programme consumption of blast furnace reducing agents Environmental noise Reduction in noise, number of complaints 0 0 0 0 0 isolation, noise barriers and working practices 0,5 0,5 dB (at least in residential area) dB noise taken into account in new investments 1 dB http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS AND AIMS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Achievements and aims Corporate responsibility in We provided customers with energy-efficient solutions Ruukki Ruukki launched air-tight energy panels, was the first company to launch a photovoltaic system SEE ALSO Management of corporate integrated into a façade and piloted the integration of ground-source heat solutions into steel piles responsibility we updated environmental product declarations, for nine different product groups taking REACH into Stakeholders account Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility We reduced environmental impacts by recycling Financial information Environmental management we recycled 480,000 tonnes of steel Research and development we cut carbon dioxide emissions by 600,000 tonnes (700,000 t 2010) by recycling Near-term outlook Our operating environment Energy-efficient products and Achievements and aims solutions We invested in the management system and training Innovative safety Environmental investments ISO 14001 environmental management system covers 99 per cent of production sites Environmental impacts 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material efficiency Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Environmental Achievements Hämeenlinna Raahe Works aims in 2011 Works Society Reporting Environmental objectives and targets at the Hämeenlinna Works Sustainability recognitions Objectives Means Reduction in hydrochloric acid and dust Checking the operation of flue gas scrubbers and emissions improving cleaning efficiency and operating practices Operations in compliance with the law and Monitoring and prevention of malfunctions environmental permit / No violations of permit Internal communication limits Focus / Indicator Target 2011 Actual 2011 Target 2012 Regeneration plant 2 dust mg / nm³ (moist) < 35 16 < 35 hydrochloric acid mg / nm³(dry) < 35 7 < 35 no violations 0 0 0 Regeneration plant 4 dust mg / nm³ (moist) < 35 26 < 35 hydrochloric acid mg / nm³(dry) < 35 37 < 35 no violations 0 1 0 Pickling hydrochloric acid mg / nm³ < 10 8 < 10 no violations 0 0 0 By-products In 2011, a commercial recycling destination was found for iron oxide originating in the regeneration of hydrochloric acid. Customer deliveries began in May. Energy efficiency The Hämeenlinna Works have an energy savings target under the energy efficiency agreement and an action programme to achieve these savings. In 2011, energy savings were achieved by utilising waste process heat and by improving heat recovery in the regeneration plant control room. Product-driven environmental approach The aim is to highlight a product-driven environmental approach in product design and development organisations and to ensure environmental matters are taken into account in development projects in accordance with the instructions issued. Training in environmental legislation was given to persons working in product design and development organisations in 2011. In addition, persons in the product development side took part in environmental training held at the works in autumn 2011. Eco-awareness The aim is to improve the eco-awareness of the entire personnel at the site and for genuine management and employee commitment to environmental matters. Eco-awareness was built on and maintained with the help of training in basic environmental protection intended for the entire personnel and held in autumn 2011. In addition, environmental and energy matters at the works were actively communicated on info screens, the intranet and in departmental safety sessions. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental investments Corporate responsibility in By investing in environmental technology, we reduce emissions and waste and improve energy Ruukki efficiency. In 2011, Ruukki spent a total of €29 million (2010: 29) on environmental investments. Management of corporate responsibility The Raahe Works in Finland is the most significant unit in terms of environmental impacts and SEE ALSO accounts for around 98 per cent of carbon dioxide emissions arising in production at Ruukki. During the Stakeholders year, around 97 per cent of environmental investments made related to reducing the environmental Values Economic responsibility impacts of the Raahe Works. Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Environmental investments in 2011 Financial information Environmental management Research and development Our operating environment Air protection €2.9 million Near-term outlook Achievements and aims Energy-efficient products and Waterways protection €4.2 million solutions Environmental investments Innovative safety Waste management €7.5 million Environmental impacts Energy efficiency and other projects €4.1 million Energy and material 2011 CR REPORTING efficiency Environmental data monitor Environmental management Our operating environment Social responsibility Achievements and aims Safety Environmental investments Environmental impacts Reporting Energy and material efficiency Our approach Environmental data monitor Environment Our people Society Reporting Sustainability recognitions Modernisation of the blast furnaces at the Raahe Works was completed in 2011 Environmental investments of around €50 million were made in this context over the past two years. Blast furnace 2 was modernised in June 2011. At the end of the year, the Raahe Works switched over to using only iron pellets instead of a mixture of iron ore concentrate and pellets as a feedstock in the iron-making process. Environmental investments made in conjunction with blast furnace modernisation, together with the closure of the sinter plant and change in feedstock, will reduce emissions into the air and energy consumption. Particulate emissions are forecast to decrease by 1,400 tonnes a.k.a over 75 per cent and carbon dioxide emissions by 400,000 tonnes, which equates 10 per cent of total carbon dioxide emissions. Thanks to these actions, sulphur dioxide emissions will halve and the malodour caused by hydrogen sulphide will decrease in the surrounding of the Raahe plant. By investing in environmental technology, we are reducing the environmental impacts of our production and improving energy efficiency A new paint shop came on stream at the Jászberény unit in Hungary in early 2011. Serving engineering customers, the new paint shop is one of the most modern in Europe capable of processing massive items. Coating capacity at the unit has doubled as a result of the investment. Modern technology, which ensures high quality and meets the high environmental and quality requirements of customers and the authorities alike, prevents environmental loading. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Raw materials and energy consumption Sustainability recognitions In 2011, it took 2.19 tonnes (2010: 2.24) of raw materials to make one tonne of steel. Use of raw materials consists mostly of iron ore concentrates and pellets, coal used as a reducing agent and the use of scrap steel at the Raahe Works. Total energy consumption at production sites in 2011 was 13 terawatt hours* (2010: 13), which equates to about three per cent of Finland’s total energy consumption. Most of this energy is used by the Raahe Works, which accounts for 94 per cent of the company’s energy consumption. We recover process gases and heat arising in ironand steel-making at the Raahe Works and utilise them in electricity production and as district heat. The energy utilised accounts for 47 per cent of total energy consumption. Closure of the sinter plant and switching over to the use of iron pellets at the Raahe Works will reduce energy consumption at the works by around 8 per cent or 1.16 terawatt hours a year. The amount of energy saved equates to the annual energy consumption of around 60,000 single-family homes * 13 TWh is the net energy consumption (does not include energy sold). Learn more about energy recovery at steel mill. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN SULPHUR DIOXIDE AND PARTICULATE EMISSIONS IN OUR STEEL PRODUCTION PROCESS RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Significant reduction in sulphur dioxide and Corporate responsibility in Ruukki particulate emissions in our steel production Management of corporate process responsibility Ruukki actively seeks to reduce the environmental impacts originating in its steel production by Stakeholders developing processes. By focusing on energy and material efficiency and investing in environmental Economic responsibility technology, we have successfully reduced emissions significantly over the past decades. Environmental responsibility The sulphur content of the raw materials used affects the amount of sulphur dioxide emissions. In the 1980s, low-sulphur iron ore concentrate was chosen as a raw material in steel production at Raahe. Environmental management The change resulted in a reduction in annual sulphur dioxide emissions from over 50,000 tonnes to Our operating environment 10,000 tonnes. Likewise, sulphur emissions halved in the 1990s when a sulphur scrubber was installed in the coking plant at the Raahe Works in 1993. In addition, choice of fuels has also led to a fall in Achievements and aims sulphur dioxide emissions. Environmental investments At the end of 2011, the Raahe Works switched over to using only iron pellets instead of a mixture of Environmental impacts iron ore concentrate and pellets as a feedstock in the iron-making process. Environmental investments Energy and material made in conjunction with blast furnace modernisation, together with the closure of the sinter plant and efficiency change in feedstock, will reduce emissions into the air and energy consumption. Thanks to these actions, sulphur dioxide emissions will halve and the malodour caused by hydrogen sulfide will be Environmental data monitor reduced in the surroundings of Raahe plant. Social responsibility Safety Particulate emissions reduced to a quartert Reporting Particulate emissions at the Raahe Works originate from traffic, materials handling and various process operations. Emissions escape into the air at points, for example, from smoke stacks on the works site Our approach and as fugitive dust from piles of materials and roof openings. Environment A number of methods such as electrostatic precipitators, dry filters, cyclones and scrubbers are Our people used to capture emissions. To prevent dust, piles of materials are watered and screening plants and Society fences are built. Reporting Many actions have resulted in decreased particulate emissions: Sustainability recognitions in the 1980s, construction of dust extractor systems in the blast furnace casthouses and stockhouse, modernisation of the multicyclone in the sinter plant and process changes reduced emission volumes in 1991, a new dust extraction plant in the lime burning kiln further reduced particulate emissions by about 700 tonnes in 1998, a new centralised dust extractor system in the steel plant reduced emissions by about 150 tonnes a year in the first decade of the 2000s, the reduction of particulate emissions was improved by deploying an electrostatic precipitator for flue gases for sintering machines, by improving dust collection and by replacing dust extractor systems in the 2010s, environmental investments, closure of the sinter plant and ensuing change in feedstock will reduce particulate emissions by more than 75 per cent Read more about Ruukki’s actions to improve energy efficiency in production http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Emissions into the air Sustainability recognitions Ruukki continuously monitors the emissions arising from its operations both at production sites and in the vicinity to ensure compliance with emissions limits and to improve environmental work. In 2011, Ruukki’s carbon dioxide emissions were 4.1 million tonnes (2010: 4.1), which equated to around six per cent of Finland’s greenhouse gas emissions. The main source of carbon dioxide emissions is the raw materials used in the production of pig iron in the blast furnaces. Consumption of coal in our steel production process is close to the minimum possible using current technology. Ruukki’s steel production generates around 250,000 tonnes less carbon dioxide emissions each year compared to the European average, for example. The company seeks to further reduce carbon dioxide emissions, especially by improving energy and material efficiency. Particulate emissions into the air result from the combustion processes and fine material used in iron and steel production. Sulphur dioxide emissions originate from the sulphur contained in raw materials. Nitrogen oxides are mainly formed in the combustion processes in the coking and sinter plants and rolling mills at the Raahe Works. In 2011, particulate emissions were 1500 tonnes, which equates two per cent of Finland`s emissions. Emissions of nitrogen oxides were 2300 tonnes, a.k.a approximately one per cent of Finland`s emissions. Sulphur dioxide emissions (4600 t) share of Finland`s emissions was around seven percent. Particulate emissions contain small amounts of heavy metals, which originate mainly from the iron ore concentrates used as a raw material. Emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) occur in the use of coatings and protective and profiling oils in the further processing of steel. Sinter plant closure reduces emissions Ruukki has made major environmental investments to reduce emissions in recent years and has improved monitoring. Closure of the sinter plant at the Raahe Works at the end of 2011 will considerably reduce dust, sulphur dioxide and heavy metal emissions at the works. In addition, the use of iron pellets instead of sinter in production will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by around 10 percent a.k.a 400,000 tonnes a year. Particulate emissions will decrease approximately by over 75 per cent, which equates to 1400 tonnes a year. Thanks to these actions, sulphur dioxide emissions will halve and the malodour will decrease in the surroundings of Raahe plant.´ http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Heavy metal emissions into the air, kg 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Arsenic 52 10 56 7 38 Cadmium 121 76 56 10 30 Chrome 453 436 282 338 413 Copper 724 662 426 692 603 Lead 2266 3 422 1 856 892 2 464 Mercury 0 1 25 191 19 Zinc 2638 3 691 3 039 3 313 688 Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Effluents and use of water Sustainability recognitions In 2011, Ruukki consumed 158 billion cubic metres of water, most of which was consumed by the Raahe Works. Water consumed at production sites is used mostly in processing, cooling and in scrubbing flue gases at the steel works and rolling mills. Of the water used, 99 per cent (99) was for cooling. A large share of the water used in production at Ruukki is cleaned and re-used. Actions are taken to prevent the risk of contamination of local water resources. The blast furnace slag granulation plant has closed water circulation which will result in a decrease of around 30 per cent in the consumption of fresh water. In 2011, a study of the water footprint of production and the main products at the Raahe Works was as part of the Oulu Region Joint Authority for Education’s Cewic (Centre of Expertise in Water Industry Cluster) programme. Effluent discharge into waterways, t 2011 2010 2009 Suspended solids 982 1 150 1 118 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 193 208 178 Oil 15 10 18 Zinc (Zn) 1 1 2 http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Waste Sustainability recognitions We utilise waste originating in the production process primarily as a material and secondly as energy. The waste material arising in our own processes is used as feedstock in production. Analyses show sorting of scrap steel enables optimal efficient utilisation of material and saves the filler materials used in steel manufacturing. Around 70 per cent of the dust and sludge arising in steel production at the Raahe Works is returned to the production process. Some of the dust has to be stored at a landfill site on the works site until there is a technically and economically viable solution to recycle it. The amount stored as dry substances equates to around one per cent of the raw material used by the works. Recent years have seen Ruukki improve the use of material and reduce the amount of waste arising by studying waste management at the sites and updating instructions on materials processing and sorting. The sites and the commitment of their personnel to reducing waste are key to sorting. In 2011, we recycled 49 per cent (2010: 49) of municipal waste. The rolling mills and coating lines produce most of the hazardous waste, which is mainly oily waste and sludge and sediment from wastewater treatment. This waste is used mostly as material and energy by a partner. Effective utilisation of by-products improves material efficiency and decreases environmental impact and the use of natural resources. In terms of volume, the most significant by-products are mineral products, which are used as a substitute for natural stone materials in earthwork construction, limestone in agriculture and clinker in the cement industry. In 2011, Ruukki produced around 870 000 tonnes of mineral products, of which 86 per cent is recycled. Use of Ruukki`s mineral products in the cement industry and agriculture reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 130,000 tonnes (2010: 180 000). Around 260,000 tonnes (2010: 230 000) of Ruukki`s mineral products were used in earthworks and road construction. Read more about recycling of Ruukki`s mineral products Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Transportation Sustainability recognitions Transportation at Ruukki consists of transporting both products and raw materials. The iron ore, limestone and iron pellets are imported mainly from Sweden and the coking coal from North America and Australia. Products are destined for the company’s main market areas. In 2011, the Raahe Steel Works switched over to using pellets instead of iron ore as the main feedstock in steel production. Most of the transportation is operated by Ruukki Logistics unit. The unit’s environmental objectives are to: lower energy consumption in transportation minimise shipping risks and reduce damage sustained during transportation One energy-efficiency target is for contractual transportation partners to sign up for energy efficiency agreements in the Finnish transport sector so that by the end of 2016 transport firms who have signed up for agreements are responsible for 80 per cent of the transportation. Over half of Ruukki’s products is currently transported by transportation companies that have signed up for energy-efficiency agreements. Good progress has already been made with transportation damage for a number of years now. The target for 2011 was for a maximum damage rate of 1.16 per cent of materials transported. This target was nearly achieved and the transportation damage was 1.17 per cent. Ruukki aims to minimise shipping risks by chartering seaworthy vessels from reputable companies. Minimizing damages and risks reduces material loss and needs for additional transportation. Transportation in steel production by mode of transport in 2011 % of total transportation By sea By rail By road Raw materials 69% 14% 5% Products 8% 1% 4% Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Most important environmental figures by business area Sustainability recognitions Ruukki Metals Ruukki Construction Ruukki Engineering Carbon dioxide, t 4 149 000 675 * Particulates, t 1 530 * * Volatile organic compounds, t 107 113 44 Oil discharges into waterways, t 15 * * Suspended solid discharges into waterways, t 970 9 49 Hazardous waste, t 3 950 400 210 Municipal waste to landfill, t 980 3000 310 Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental impacts Steel is a lasting material that can be recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Recycling Corporate responsibility in Ruukki saves virgin raw materials and steel-based solutions have good potential for recycling and re-use. A significant share of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions of a product is typically caused Management of corporate SEE ALSO during use. We can impact on this impact on this by offering customers recyclable, high-strength, responsibility energy-efficient and lasting products. Stakeholders Values The most significant environmental impacts Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility The most significant environmental impacts at Ruukki arise in steel production and at the start of the Financial information upgrading process. The greatest environmental impacts are the use of raw materials and energy, as Research and development Environmental management well as carbon dioxide and particulate emissions. We are reducing carbon dioxide emissions by Near-term outlook Our operating environment efficient use of energy and materials and by minimising the amount of waste occurring. Use of recycled Energy-efficient products and steel reduces carbon dioxide emissions in our steel production process. solutions Achievements and aims Innovative safety Environmental investments The mineral products formed in the iron and steel production process and materials generated in the coking process are used as a raw material. A high percentage of the process dust is returned to the Environmental impacts process, thus considerably reducing amounts of waste. 2011 CR REPORTING Energy and material Read more about our recycling. efficiency Read more about our long-term work to reduce environmental impacts. Environmental management Environmental data monitor Our operating environment Achievements and aims Social responsibility Environmental investments Safety Environmental impacts Energy and material efficiency Reporting Environmental data monitor Our approach Environment Our people Raw materials Emissions into Effluents and By business By process Waste Transportation and energy the air use of water areas stage Society Reporting Most significant environmental aspects by process stage Sustainability recognitions Production process Most significant emissions and environmental aspects Blast-furnace based steel production carbon dioxide emissions particulate emissions sulphur and nitrogen oxides heavy metal emissions energy consumption Hotand cold-rolling hydrogen chloride emissions particulate emissions energy consumption raw material efficiency discharges of suspended solids and oil Galvanising and colour-coating emissions of volatile organic compounds carbon dioxide emissions energy consumption raw-material efficiency Tube production raw-material efficiency energy consumption emissions of volatile organic compounds Manufacturing of building products raw-material efficiency energy consumption emissions of volatile organic compounds Engineering works raw-material efficiency energy consumption welding fumes flame cutting fumes waste Service centres raw-material efficiency energy consumption welding fumes flame cutting fumes waste Transportation carbon dioxide emissions energy consumption nitorgen oxide emissions particulate emissions sulphur dioxide emissions product damage during transportation http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products Check out our energy sandwich panel enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people Energy-efficient construction Society Energy efficient solutions are becoming increasingly important in construction. Energy efficiency in buildings can be achieved in a number of Reporting ways such as utilising renewable energy sources, efficient recovery of ventilation heat, by developing lighting, and the thermal insulation and airtightness of a building’s wall and roof structures. Sustainability recognitions As a fully recyclable material, steel forms a good base for energy-efficient building solutions. Ruukki’s products improve the energy-efficiency of the built environment because they reduce lifespan energy consumption and environmental impacts during the construction of a building. Ruukki has ready concept solutions for low and zero energy office building structures and building technology. These solutions combine efficient industrial construction, energy efficiency and competitive lifecycle costs. Ruukki’s exterior wall solutions have been designed to be very energy efficient. They deliver optimal insulation properties and airtightness is up to four times better than norm requirements. Also prefabrication technologies improve the environmental efficiency of products because additional transportation is minimised, on-site installation is fast and there is little waste occurring on site. Ruukki is also committed to the opportunities provided by renewable energy sources in steel construction. Roofs, metal and glass façades are ideal places to site solar power and heat solutions such as solar panels. In 2011, Ruukki was the first company to launch a photovoltaic system integrated into a façade to covert the sun’s rays directly into electricity. During the year, Ruukki worked together with Uponor to innovate a system whereby the steel piles used in a building’s foundations collect ground-source heat and cooling air. Ruukki energy panels Launched in spring this year, Ruukki energy panels enable a clear improvement in the energy rating of buildings. Knowledge of clear savings in heating expenses has fuelled growing interest in Ruukki energy panels. Annual savings of up to 30% in energy costs support the choice of energy panels. In addition, decrease in carbon footprint encourages to choose Ruukki`s energy panels. Thanks to its airtightness, the energy panel system considerably reduces the need to heat and cool a building and also cuts carbon dioxide emissions. For example, with Ruukki's energy panels, a single-storey 10,000 m2 logistics centre in the south of Finland produces 2,800 tonnes less carbon dioxide emissions over a ten-year period. This equates to the same amount of emissions produced by 280 cars driving around the world, or 40,000 kilometres, a year. In spring, Ruukki developed an energy panel calculator for its website to enable interested parties to ascertain the savings in heating costs the energy panel system could help them achieve. Read more about Ruukki’s energy-efficient products Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products Check out our energy sandwich panel enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people Lower carbon dioxide emissions with special steel products Society Our recyclable, wear-resistant and high-strength special steel products improve the material efficiency of lifting, handling and transportation Reporting equipment and reduce energy consumption. Actors in the lifting, handling and transportation equipment industry are working hard with global climate and energy challenges in the wake, among other things, of higher fuel prices in recent years. In the transportation sector, it is important to Sustainability recognitions find cost-effective solutions that safeguard business conditions Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products improve the: useful life energy and material efficiency and payload of customers’ end products Our energy efficiency calculator enables you to calculate how the use of special steel can increase the payload of a vehicle and deliver cost, carbon dioxide and fuel savings. Lightness of Ruukki’s steel products cuts fuel consumption and emissions At its production facilities in Brazil, Librelato makes tipper bodies for agricultural and road transport vehicles from Ruukki’s special steel. The use of Ruukki’s special steels high-strength Optim and wear-resistant Raex has enabled Librelato to reduce the deadweight of the products it produces. Ruukki’s special steels are ideal for demanding cargo processing equipment and transportation vehicles since they withstand wear and tear and pressure well. In addition to high-strength and durability, the structures are lightweight, which in turn lowers the customer’s fuel costs. With special steels, the weight of a Librelato tipper body could be reduced by 20 per cent, when its lifecycle fuel costs and carbon dioxide emissions decreased 20 per cent. Compared to rival products, Ruukki’s steels have an important edge: fewer emissions arise in the manufacture of products since less material than earlier is needed for the end products. Read more about Ruukki`s special steel products Energy production from the heights Ruukki has developed an entirely new type of wind tower solution, which can reach higher to better wind conditions and thus increase energy yield. The unique tower structure is based on a lattice structure and use of a new type of steel profile. Ruukki’s new wind turbine tower solution can increase hub height to up to 160 metres. Compared to traditional wind turbine towers, a higher tower can reach better wind conditions and thus increase energy yield. The see-through structure of a lattice tower blends well into the landscape. It requires less raw materials than traditional wind towers and is fully recyclable. Thanks to its light structure, fuel savings and lower emissions are achieved when transporting the structures. The German WindEnergy Association (BWE) accepted Ruukki as a member at the Hannover Industrial Fair 2011. BWE is the world’s largest renewable energy association and its members include turbine manufacturers, operators and their shareholders, design offices, financiers, scientists and engineers. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US Energy efficiency calculator This application requires at least Adobe Flash Player version 10.3 to work. If you cannot see the application, please update your Flash Player. Information about calculation references Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Energy-efficiency-calculator Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products Check out our energy sandwich panel enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people Carbon footprint of Ruukki's products Society At Ruukki, responsibility for the environment is based on managing the environmental impacts of products throughout their lifecycle. We have Reporting been carrying out lifecycle assessments since the mid-1990s. Sustainability recognitions In March 2011, Ruukki published revised environmental product declarations and product data safety sheets, which contain information about the environmental impacts, lifecycle properties and safety aspects of Ruukki’s products for product users, designers and builders Carbon footprint describes the lifecycle carbon dioxide emissions of a product. The information contains lifecycle carbon dioxide emissions from the sourcing of raw materials to the factory gate (cradle-to-gate) so that the recycling rate after use is 90 per cent. Products CO2 (g/kg) Hot-rolled steel plates and coils 710 Cold-rolled steel plates and coils 850 Colour-coated steel sheets and coils 1 036 Metal-coated steel sheets and coils 900 Tubular beams, steel pipe piles and steel profiles 1 070 Sandwich panels 890 Exterior wall element system 750 Hot-dip galvanised roofs, façade claddings, purlins, frames and composite beam systems 1 010 Colour-coated roofs and façade claddings 1 150 Frames and bridge structures 1 050 Lifecycle inventories with worldsteel Ruukki does lifecycle inventories as part of the World Steel Association’s inventory work. worldsteel’s lifecycle inventories (LCI) are carried out in compliance with the requirements of the ISO 14040 series and in accordance to standard, a critical assessment has been made for them. worldsteel’s lifecycle inventory defines fourteen steel products from different aspects: use of natural resources energy consumption environmental emissions from cradle to gate In worldsteel’s LCI model, by-products are treated so that the decrease in energy and emissions achieved by recycling by-products is credited against similar figures in the production process. worldsteel’s lifecycle inventory datasheets are available through worldsteel’s LCA/LCI contact form on www.worldsteel.org Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor Check out our energy sandwich panel environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people Energy and material efficient production Society Steel production at Ruukki ranks among the world's most carbon dioxide efficient, with coal and energy consumption approaching the minimum Reporting possible using current technology. In iron making, coal is used primarily as a reducing agent. Most of the energy used in ore-based production goes into coal used as a reducing agent. In the use of coal, Ruukki’s blast furnaces rank amongst the most efficient in European comparative Sustainability recognitions studies. Compared to the European average, Ruukki’s steel production generates around 250,000 tonnes less carbon dioxide emissions a year. There are no short-term technical and economic solutions available to considerably decrease the consumption of reducing agents. Energy efficiency is further improved Ruukki is signatory to energy agreements for 2008-2016 by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, Confederation of Finnish Industries EK and organisations in the sector. Energy efficiency management is systematically promoted at all Ruukki’s production sites as part of ISO 14001 environmental management systems. Energy reviews and analyses are the tools used to assess the potential for energy savings and improved use of energy. In connection with energy reviews, cost-efficient, energy efficiency points for development are identified with the aim of achieving energy savings of 9%, compared to 2005 levels, by 2016. Read more about energy efficiency at Ruukki`s production Research to reduce carbon dioxide emissions Ruukki is actively involved in developing new ways to reduce emissions in steel production. Any significant emissions reductions in iron and steel production require the development of production technology and the development of carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies to a technically and economically viable level. Ruukki has also been a partner in the joint European ULCOS (Ultra Low CO2 Steelmaking) project, which has the long-term aim of halving carbon dioxide specific emissions. Read more about our joint projects Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products Check out our energy sandwich panel enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people Energy recovery at steel mill Society Most of the energy used at the Raahe Works comes from the coal used as a reducing agent in the steel production process. Just 4 per Reporting cent of the total energy consumed at the works is derived from external fuel. Sustainability recognitions The coke oven gas produced in the coking process is used as a fuel in different processes at the works. In blast furnace based steel production, the iron contained in the ore is reduced in the blast furnace by means of coke which is made from coal and oil. The gases arising from the blast furnaces are utilized as a fuel for preheating the air in blast furnaces as well as to generating electricity at the mills` own power plant and for district heating purposes. In 2011, use of blast furnace and coke oven gases delivered energy savings of 5.1 TWh, which equates to the annual amount of energy used by around 250,000 single family homes. Third process gas is converter gas, which is produced when the carbon in hot metal is burnt with oxygen in converters. The energy contained in the converter gas generated in the steel plant is partly recovered for use as district heat. The high-pressure steam from the dry quenching of coke is utilized in electricity production. The heat and steam originating in processes at the Raahe Works are recovered for electricity generation on the works site and as district heat in the neighbouring environment. In 2011, 180 GWh (2010: 180 GWh) of district heat was produced, almost for the needs of whole Raahe area. The power plant at the Raahe Works generates around half of the electricity used at the site, which equates to 94 per cent of the total energy used by the company and three per cent of Finland’s energy consumption. Efficient and appropriate use of energy obtained from reducing agents and purchased fuels is under constant development. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor Check out our energy sandwich panel environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people Steel lifecycle Society Steel is made from iron ore. The manufacture of steel products gives rise to waste material such as the pieces at the start and end of a steel coil, Reporting the edge pieces cut away from steel sheets and steel products that are rejected for quality reasons. Sustainability recognitions According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Production at Ruukki makes use of the by-products from the company’s own production processes and material sourced on the scrap steel market. The bulk of the waste material is returned to the company’s own steel mill as a raw material. In upgrading, 1-15 per cent of the amount of steel can end up as waste. Development work is being done continually to improve the yield. Recycling reduces carbon dioxide emissions significantly Recycling significantly reduces carbon dioxide emissions in the steel production process because the use of scrap steel replaces raw materials in iron-making. In 2011, use of scrap steel reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 480,000 tonnes (2010: 520,000 tonnes), equivalent to around 12 per cent of Ruukki’s total carbon emissions. Ruukki aims to reduce the environmental loading of each steel product at each stage of production from production to recycling and at the same time ensure a sustainable supply chain. Most of the lifecycle energy consumption and emissions usually arise during the use of a steel product. We can impact on this by offering customers high-strength, energy-efficient and long-lasting products. Steel products can also be reused and after having been taken out of use, the steel in them is fully recyclable. * The emissions avoided have been calculated on the basis of recycling volumes in 2011. Examples are based on the Carbon Neutral Company’s carbon footprint calculators. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENERGY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Energy and material efficiency Corporate responsibility in One of the most effective ways to curb carbon dioxide emissions is to enhance the energy efficiency of Ruukki buildings and traffic. Ruukki sees energy efficiency and sustainability as a business opportunity: Management of corporate Ruukki is responding to the growing interest of its customers on this front by innovating and producing responsibility ENERGY EFFICIENCY energy-efficient technology, especially in the construction and mobile machines. CALCULATOR Stakeholders We take energy efficiency into account in decisions concerning investments and production Economic responsibility development and in product and process design. We use energy-efficient technology and use the process gases and waste material originating in our own production to replace the consumption of fuel You can reach higher Environmental responsibility and raw materials purchased. pay load and lower fuel consumption Environmental management with Raex and Optim Our operating environment Lower carbon dioxide emissions by recycling steels. Achievements and aims According to a study by the World Steel Association, steel is the world’s most recycled material. Steel Energy efficiency calculator can be fully recycled indefinitely without weakening its properties. Depending on the grade of steel Environmental investments being made, Ruukki uses 20-30 per cent of scrap steel as a raw material in steelmaking. Environmental impacts ENERGY SANDWICH PANEL During 2011, Ruukki reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 600,000 tonnes by recycling Energy and material steel and mineral products. CALCULATOR efficiency Lifecycle inventories show that the recycling of a product plays an important role on the entire lifecycle Environmental data monitor Check out our energy sandwich panel environmental impacts of the product. Ruukki’s high-strength and wear-resistant special steel products enhance the material efficiency of end products. savings calculator and see how much Social responsibility you can save. Safety Reporting Our approach In special steel Carbon Energy at By-product In construction In production Steel lifecycle products footprint steel mill recycling Environment Our people By-product recycling Society Effective utilisation of by-products improves material efficiency and decreases environmental impact and the use of natural resources. Reporting In terms of volume, the most significant by-products are mineral products, which are used as a substitute for: Sustainability recognitions natural stone material in earthwork construction limestone in agriculture and clinker in the cement industry. Use of Ruukki’s mineral products in the cement industry and agriculture reduced global carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 130,000 tonnes (2010: 180,000). Around 260,000 tonnes (2010: 230,000) of Ruukki’s mineral products were used in earthworks and road construction. Use in this way saves double a similar amount of stone material because the properties of mineral products allow foundations to be made thinner. In 2011, Ruukki produced around 870 000 tonnes of mineral products, of which 86 per cent is recycled. Product development work continued with regard to earthworks and road construction. The tar, benzene and sulphur generated as by-products in the coking process at the Raahe Works are used as feedstock in the chemical industry. The zinc slag from galvanising at the Hämeenlinna Works in Finland and at the Virsbo plant in Sweden is recycled to make, for example, zinc oxide. During 2011, around 93 per cent of Ruukki’s sites in Finland returned their scrap steel and other recyclable material to Raahe for re-use. The remainder was recycled to external actors. Internal recycling has been increased with extensive studies of the materials to be recycled and sitespecific material processing instructions and sorting. New applications for by-products New applications for steel slag were pursued, one example of which was to utilise the material in water purification to retain heavy metals. A study was also made to sort and utilise the material remaining outside briquetting and process rejects. Preparations for closure of the sinter plant were made by studying the materials which the company will no longer be able to use in its own production. A start was made on marketing these materials to outside users. Likewise, a start was made on marketing iron oxide at the Hämeenlinna Works to outside customers. Read more about Ruukki`s by-products Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL DATA MONITOR RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Environmental data monitor Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Raw materials and Energy Emissions Water usage Waste Management of corporate products responsibility Stakeholders Select all 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Economic responsibility Raw materials, t Environmental responsibility Iron ore, t 1,520,000 1,610,000 1,470,000 1,970,000 1,950,000 2,180,000 2,118,000 Environmental management Pellets, t 951,000 996,000 645,000 1,069,000 1,058,000 1,053,000 1,000,300 Our operating environment Alloying, filler and slag forming materials, t 298,000 448,000 279,000 543,000 507,000 610,000 591,700 Achievements and aims Recycled steel, t 480,000 511,000 451,000 557,000 552,000 672,000 1,431,000 Environmental investments Zinc, t 63,000 59,000 41,000 45,000 54,000 42,000 37,000 Environmental impacts Other metals, t 10,500 9,700 12,400 5,200 7,800 8,500 6,900 Energy and material efficiency Plastics and paints, t 10,600 9,200 7,200 10,600 11,000 21,000 18,300 Environmental data monitor Other materials, t 33,300 27,700 16,500 25,000 26,000 42,000 29,000 Social responsibility Products and by-products Safety Steel, t 2,215,000 2,229,000 1,892,000 2,585,000 2,546,000 2,853,000 3,434,000 Reporting 1 Mineral products , t 595,000 513,000 540,000 870,000 890,000 805,000 808,000 Our approach Tar, MWh 381,000 361,000 216,000 319,000 314,000 363,000 383,000 Environment Other materials recycled outside the group, t 65,000 55,000 44,000 49,000 55,000 54,000 70,000 Our people Society Table configuration: Reporting Change, % Change, unit No change Sustainability recognitions Excel download: Download as Excel Download selected as Excel Chart configuration: Scale: Absolute Chart: Column Update 1 Utilised and stored for utilising. Mineral products are used as a substitute for natural and raw materials in earthworks and road construction, soil improvement and industry. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Environmental-respon... Raw materials and Energy Emissions Water usage Waste products Select all 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 200 Energy consumption Natural gas, MWh 430,000 450,000 625,000 483,000 440,000 448,000 465,00 Liquefied petroleum gas, MWh 336,000 345,000 369,000 323,000 364,000 412,000 431,00 Heavy fuel oil, MWh 172,000 207,000 212,000 90,000 88,000 57,000 46,00 Light fuel oil, MWh 23,000 36,000 57,000 91,000 69,000 58,000 619,00 Electricity, MWh 776,000 766,000 693,000 742,000 788,000 494,000 905,00 District heat, MWh 60,000 47,000 34,000 42,000 43,000 32,000 26,00 Coal1, MWh 9,830,000 9,676,000 8,652,000 9,997,000 10,043,000 10,092,000 10,388,00 Coke1, MWh -22,577 143,000 163,000 597,000 635,000 855,000 751,00 Coke breeze1, MWh 404,000 363,000 292,000 337,000 388,000 480,000 525,00 Coke and coke breeze, MWh 380,000 506,000 455,000 934,000 1,023,000 1,335,000 1,276,00 Special heavy fuel oil1, MWh 2,160,000 2,065,000 1,475,000 2,912,000 2,713,000 3,350,000 3,093,00 Energy sold District heat2, MWh 190,000 185,000 153,000 154,000 168,000 173,000 168,00 3 Electricity , MWh 226,000 247,000 216,000 262,000 282,000 272,000 259,00 Table configuration: Change, % Change, unit No change Excel download: Download as Excel Download selected as Excel Chart configuration: Scale: Absolute Chart: Column Update ¹ Reducing agent in iron production. ² The Raahe Works in Finland produces district heat for the city of Raahe. ³ In 2010 around 99 per cent of electricity sold has been generated in the power unit at the Raahe Works and sold to companies operating on the works site. http://qfx.quartalflife.com/Clients/(S(hwan3fzhxvuq1145udx0o2ek))/fi/ruukki/sf_frc/energy.aspx?culture=en... Raw materials and Energy Emissions Water usage Waste products Select all 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Emissions to air Carbon dioxide, Mt 4.1 4.1 3.5 4.6 4.7 5.0 5.0 Nitrogen oxides, t 2,300 2,500 2,200 2,600 2,300 2,600 2,800 Sulphur dioxides, t 4,600 3,900 4,400 5,000 4,100 4,500 4,900 Volatile organic compounds, t 260 190 190 410 490 690 580 Particulates, t 1,500 1,400 1,300 1,800 2,200 1,800 2,000 Emissions to water Suspended solids, t 982 1,150 1,118 861 781 1,100 1,800 Chemical oxygen demand, t 193 208 178 181 204 178 177 Oil, t 15 10 18 14 20 19 54 Zinc, t 1.4 1.0 2.0 1.0 1.2 1.5 1.6 Nitrogen, t 38 35 44 64 52 33 91 Iron, t 62 79 70 36 31 67 98 Table configuration: Change, % Change, unit No change Excel download: Download as Excel Download selected as Excel Chart configuration: Scale: Absolute Chart: Column Update http://qfx.quartalflife.com/Clients/(S(hwan3fzhxvuq1145udx0o2ek))/fi/ruukki/sf_frc/emissions.aspx?culture... Raw materials and Energy Emissions Water usage Waste products Select all 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Water intake Municipal water, m3 788,000 934,000 798,000 786,000 791,000 729,000 Process and cooling water, m3 158,050,000 155,200,000 148,800,000 171,500,000 200,193,000 198,570,000 Waste water To municipal water system, m3 272,000 252,000 261,000 266,000 272,000 182,000 To water courses, m3 155,078,000 150,430,000 148,380,000 168,980,000 198,945,000 195,596,000 Table configuration: Change, % Change, unit No change Excel download: Download as Excel Download selected as Excel Chart configuration: Scale: Absolute Chart: Column Update http://qfx.quartalflife.com/Clients/(S(hwan3fzhxvuq1145udx0o2ek))/fi/ruukki/sf_frc/water.aspx?culture=en-... Raw materials and Energy Emissions Water usage Waste products Select all 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Municipal waste to landfill, t 4,300 3,500 3,500 5,200 5,800 2,700 2,800 Municipal waste to recycling, t 4,100 3,400 3,200 4,700 4,100 3,700 4,600 Industrial waste (as dry substances), t 73,000 48,000 64,000 76,200 72,500 65,300 59,100 Hazardous waste, t 4,500 4,400 4,200 4,700 4,900 4,200 4,500 Table configuration: Change, % Change, unit No change Excel download: Download as Excel Download selected as Excel Chart configuration: Scale: Absolute Chart: Column Update The data on waste for 2007-2009 has been corrected due to an error in data collection. http://qfx.quartalflife.com/Clients/(S(hwan3fzhxvuq1145udx0o2ek))/fi/ruukki/sf_frc/waste.aspx?culture=en-... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Social responsibility Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Greetings from the SVP, Human resources Management of corporate Human resources work at Ruukki is tasked with promoting strategy SEE ALSO responsibility implementation. This means the intense development of supervisory work in line with business objectives and building a common Stakeholders Values operational culture through a network of human resources Units by country Economic responsibility professionals. Strategy Environmental responsibility The effectiveness of the network has been utilised, for example, in Financial information Social responsibility resourcing, where the focus has been on identifying existing resources Research and development and creating development opportunities. The requirements for Near-term outlook Managing social Energy-efficient products and harmonised human resources practices were built in different countries responsibility solutions and one of our focuses during 2012 will be on actively monitoring the Key figures strict compliance of human resources practices with human rights. Innovative safety Intellectual capital and Eija Hakakari development potential 2011 CR REPORTING Considered recruitment Managing social responsibility Interaction with the personnel Key figures Goals GRI Actions in 2011 Intellectual capital and development Promotion of work ability indicator potential Remuneration Considered recruitment Improved safety LA7 Safety culture study and actions for improvement defined Interaction with the personnel Safety based on the results. Raising safety levels by more effective pro-active Promotion of work ability Reporting measures. Remuneration Improving the safety culture based on personal Our approach commitment by revising induction practices and through Environment participatory safety rounds. Our people Strengthening top LA10 Adoption and utilisation of new learning possibilities in an e Society quality expertise -learning environment. The personnel took part in an average of 1.76 (1.87) Reporting training days a year. Skills mapping of young experts in production and Sustainability recognitions manufacturing in all countries where Ruukki has operations. Development of LA12 Implementation of development discussions in an leadership culture increasingly larger part of the organisation. Systematic study of management resources and implementation of succession planning. 1500 leadership training events held at all supervisory levels. Development of leadership training emphasising values. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Managing social responsibility Ruukki’s values we take responsibility, we succeed together and we challenge tomorrow Corporate responsibility in Ruukki reflect Ruukki’s approach and form the foundation for our social responsibility. Management of corporate Our Code of Conduct plays a key role in managing social responsibility. Under its Code of Conduct, SEE ALSO responsibility Ruukki is committed to compliance with universally accepted human, children’s and labour rights and to promoting equality. To show its commitment to this, in 2011 Ruukki signed the United Nations Stakeholders Values Global Compact principles. Units by country Economic responsibility Read the Code of Conduct in full (pdf, 47KB) Strategy Environmental responsibility Financial information Safety, good leadership, top quality and a relentless drive to succeed are important social responsibility Research and development Social responsibility objectives for Ruukki as an employer that respects human rights. Ruukki’s results are based on the Near-term outlook Managing social strong competence of Ruukki’s people and are reflected in customers’ success. Energy-efficient products and responsibility solutions Ruukki wants to purposefully focus on the personnel. We strive to ensure that Ruukki’s people are Key figures competent, happy in their work and motivated to participate in developing our business. Innovative safety Intellectual capital and development potential Ruukki has addressed strengthening corporate culture in line with its values 2011 CR REPORTING Considered recruitment Our values were shaped through joint debate, with around 2,000 Ruukki people taking part. The values were adopted in all Ruukki countries during 2011. They were also strongly present in top Managing social responsibility Interaction with the personnel management’s strategy roadshow, which took in 67 sites in 22 countries and feature as an integral Key figures part of leadership training. The values can also be seen in the form of distinct visual elements at all Intellectual capital and development Promotion of work ability potential Ruukki sites. Remuneration Considered recruitment Interaction with the personnel Safety Own people and future employees at the heart of social responsibility at Ruukki Promotion of work ability Reporting In addition, we aim to ensure that Ruukki is the best possible customer and actor in all our market Remuneration areas. Ensuring safety, responsibility and uncompromising ethical operations are at the top of our Our approach social responsibility agenda. Environment Our people Read more about our supply chain management in the management of responsibility section. Society Stakeholder relationships are detailed in a separate section. Reporting Sustainability recognitions Strategy drove organisational changes at Ruukki The company has made a number of organisational changes to support strategy implementation. These changes were based on the personnel’s strong commitment to take operations forward. The construction sales was reorganised on a product segment basis. In special steels, the steel business strengthened product development and portfolio management by centring these on one product organisation. A new special steels sales organisation was formed to support and increase customer relationships in new markets. The company opened a sales office in Beijing, China in the autumn and its first sales office in India in Mumbai. No significant change in personnel numbers At year-end 2011, Ruukki had a total of 11,382 (11,286) employees. Temporary employees accounted for around 6.4 per cent (7.0) of the company’s personnel. A total of 967 (563) people started new permanent jobs. Women accounted for 17 per cent (18) of Ruukki’s personnel and for 15 per cent (15) of supervisors. The percentage of women on the Corporate Executive Board increased significantly in October ,when the composition of the Board was changed. Two of the Board’s nine members are women. Read more: Ruukki to enlarge its Corporate Executive Board The company regrettably had to shed a total of 424 jobs (796) for financial or production reasons during 2011. The persons affected were offered support in the form of redeployment and retraining in accordance with local practices. Supervisors dealing with redundancies have been trained to deal with such situations tactfully and showing due respect to the persons affected. Personnel by region 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Finland 6 369 6 150 Other Nordic countries 622 659 Central Eastern Europe 2 130 2 020 Russia and Ukraine 1 845 2 062 Rest of Europe 70 69 Other countries 346 326 Total 11 382 11 286 http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY KEY FIGURES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Key figures Corporate responsibility in Ruukki 2011 2010 2009 Management of corporate Personnel at year-end 11 382 11 286 11 648 SEE ALSO responsibility Stakeholders Personnel, average 11 821 11 693 2 664 Values Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility permanent, % 94 93 94 Financial information Social responsibility Research and development Near-term outlook temporary, % 6 7 6 Managing social Energy-efficient products and responsibility solutions Key figures Average age of employees, years 42 41 42 Innovative safety Intellectual capital and development potential Average duration of employment, years 13.2 12.6 12.4 2011 CR REPORTING Considered recruitment Employee churn, % 6.1 5.2 5.3 Managing social responsibility Interaction with the personnel Key figures Intellectual capital and development Promotion of work ability Job satisfaction index * 59,0 potential Remuneration Considered recruitment Commitment index * 67.2 Interaction with the personnel Safety Promotion of work ability Reporting Remuneration Leadership index * 65.2 Our approach Environment % of female personnel 17 18 18 Our people Society workers, % 6 6 7 Reporting Sustainability recognitions salaried employees, % 35 36 36 supervisors, % 15 15 15 extended management board, % 22 21 21 Net sales per employee, €1000 237 207 154 Lost workday injury frequency, number of injuries resulting in 8 7 8 absence of more than one day per million hours worked Total number of accidents 162 142 165 Safety action frequency, safety actions per million working hours 3 871 2 788 2 153 Sickness absenteeism, % ** 4.00 4.46 4.11 Training days, average per person 1.76 1.87 1.91 * ) Studied every other year, following survey in 2012 ** ) Not available before 2009. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/... Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Intellectual capital and development potential Corporate responsibility in Ruukki Targets form core of development discussions Management of corporate responsibility Biannual development discussions form the backbone of performance and competence management SEE ALSO at Ruukki. The development discussion practice applies to the entire personnel. In respect of workers, Stakeholders some of the development discussions are held as group development discussions. Values Economic responsibility The development discussion held during the first quarter of the year focuses on setting the targets for Units by country Environmental responsibility the forthcoming period and evaluating performance for the previous period. Strategy Personal targets are based on Ruukki’s strategy and targets in line with the action plans of the various units. Target setting forms part of the grounds for performance bonus. Financial information Social responsibility The development discussion held during the third quarter evaluates how a person’s competence is Research and development Managing social aligned with that required by the job. Near-term outlook responsibility A personal competence development plan is made based on competence evaluation. The Energy-efficient products and competence to be evaluated is revised each year to correspond to the main spheres of competence solutions Key figures necessary to achieve the company’s strategy. Innovative safety Intellectual capital and In 2011, 92% (80) of salaried personnel had development discussions with their supervisor. Among development potential other things, the discussions aim to ensure that all Ruukki’s people know the targets in their job and Considered recruitment the company’s values. In 2011, working practices in line with values featured strongly in development 2011 CR REPORTING discussions with each employee. Interaction with the personnel Managing social responsibility Key figures Promotion of work ability Competence throughout work career Intellectual capital and development Remuneration Ruukki wants to increase the motivation of its people to build on their competence throughout their potential work career. This is why the company provides its personnel with a wide range of topical training. Considered recruitment Safety Interaction with the personnel For example, with mentoring, management training based on different evaluations of working practice Promotion of work ability Reporting and training for leaders of international teams delivered good results during 2011. Remuneration Our approach Environment Competence strength through training Our people Ruukki spent a total of €4.4 million (3.2) on training, excluding pay during training time, in 2011. Each Ruukki employee participated in an average of 1.76 (1.87) training days. Society Reporting Ruukki’s training programmes in 2011 focused on Sustainability recognitions special steels expertise the operational excellence programme (OPEX) supervisory skills sales management. Local implementation through trainer training Processing competence in special steels was high on the agenda in a number of Ruukki countries in summer 2011. At the start of the project, technical experts working in different units across Ruukki were given material and trainer training in Finland for a week. During the autumn, they applied the training in special steels at their own sites in Hungary, Russia and Poland. Use of this model enabled competence in the welding, bending and cutting of special steels to be efficiently shared among production workers who speak different languages. In the same context, those participating in trainer training formed a close network of experts within the company. Special steels expertise also increased by honing product training A bridge was built between the present status and objectives in product training by considering new business models and tools. As part of this work and to form a basis for further development a new type of product seminar intended for the induction of our own people was piloted, product and special steels awareness was disseminated across organisational boundaries with the help of product training recordings and a new type of e-training material was produced to reinforce the awareness of sales and customers of applications and product properties. Coaching approach helps in training of immediate supervisors A revised range of leadership training, focusing on a coaching approach, was rolled out in 2011. Immediate supervisors and foremen, young managers migrating to more demanding management positions and managers of production and processing units in particular took part in these training programmes. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/I... Spotlight on in-house experts In 2011, Ruukki focused strongly on analysing the expertise of its own people, with a study of management resources across the entire company. The abilities of young specialists and supervisors were evaluated in the production and manufacturing organisation, the functions supporting them and in the company’s Russian organisation. This resulted in more precise skills development, more effective in-house recruiting and the preparation of succession plans for critical roles. New experts through on-the-job learning Ruukki launched four training by recruitment programmes in 2011. Young steel experts training by recruitment programme: in spring 2012 the Raahe and Hämeenlinna Works will take almost 40 maintenance and metal processing experts who have completed a vocational qualification and an extensive on-the-job-learning period. ProjectPro programme: 11 building project management professionals completed the programme in 2011. SitePro programme: 11 installation managers will complete the programme in spring 2012. In future, they will work in building projects in Finalnd, Sweden and Norway. Young Professionals programme: 25 young graduates joined the programme in May 2011 and were placed in specialist positions in different Ruukki units in Finland. Means of development diversified The tools for personnel learning were renewed in 2011, when a new competence development system was rolled out across the company. The system includes both an e-learning platform and tools for managing learning. The system enables employees to check their own training history, complete elearning modules and learn about Ruukki’s training offering. The system is available to all employees and creates a platform also to manage the competences needed in the production environment. Incentive for self-study In addition to training organised by the company, Ruukki also supports self-motivated study by country. For example, opportunities to take training leave of various lengths covered 80% (83) of the personnel. The company also awards grants to Ruukki people who excel in their studies. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/I... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONSIDERED RECRUITMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Considered recruitment Corporate responsibility in Recruitment at Ruukki is based on long-term human resources planning Ruukki based on a considered need and job-specific requirements. The company is committed to fairness in recruitment and practices applying to employment Management of corporate SEE ALSO contracts, with the most suitable and developable applicant being chosen for responsibility each job. Job applicants are assessed on the basis of their know-how and Stakeholders competence. Values Units by country Economic responsibility Internal mobility the focus of resourcing Strategy Environmental responsibility Financial information Ruukki encourages internal, international job rotation of its people to promote the development of our Social responsibility business and units. Job vacancies are always first published internally. In addition, we also recruit Research and development talent from outside the company to ensure business growth and to gain fresh perspectives. Recruiting Near-term outlook Managing social Energy-efficient products and responsibility takes into account local recruiting channels and we also work closely with local employment offices and educational institutes in places where we have production facilities. solutions Key figures Innovative safety Intellectual capital and Finnish and international collaboration development potential Ruukki actively collaborates with other actors in the industry to increase the appeal of the metal sector. SEE ALSO Considered recruitment Ruukki has collaborated with metal companies and organisations such as Eurofer and worldsteel on the international stage and the Federation of Finnish Technology Industries in Finland. Ruukki as an employer Interaction with the personnel Open application Students Promotion of work ability Your future colleagues Remuneration Safety 2011 CR REPORTING Reporting Managing social responsibility Our approach Key figures Environment Intellectual capital and development potential Our people Considered recruitment Society Interaction with the personnel Promotion of work ability Reporting Remuneration Sustainability recognitions Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTERACTION WITH THE PERSONNEL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Interaction with the personnel Ruukki engages in continuous dialogue with its personnel in many ways. Cooperating with the Corporate responsibility in Ruukki personnel promotes Ruukki’s objective of being a responsible employer, whose culture encourages succeeding together. Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Freedom of association Stakeholders Values Ruukki respects its employees’ freedom of association and the company’s employees can join trade Units by country Economic responsibility unions in compliance with the legislation in each country. In countries where local legislation does not Strategy Environmental responsibility recognise these rights, Ruukki provides other channels for employees to engage in the company’s Financial information activities and express their opinions. The local management in each country is responsible for creating Research and development Social responsibility opportunities for employee engagement. Near-term outlook Managing social Energy-efficient products and responsibility solutions Internal dialogue Key figures Innovative safety There is active dialogue between the personnel, supervisory staff and management. Cooperation with Intellectual capital and employees takes place at a local level through business-specific joint working groups and at the development potential corporate level in the international Ruukki Forum, a European works council based on EU acts. Ruukki 2011 CR REPORTING Considered recruitment Forum meets once a year and in 2011 convened in May in Bolintin, Romania. The themes of the meeting were Ruukki’s values and safety, the practical implementation of which could be seen on a Managing social responsibility Interaction with the personnel plant visit. Key figures Intellectual capital and development Promotion of work ability In the new administration representation group, the personnel is represented by five persons and potential Ruukki by the President & CEO and SVP, Human Resources. In addition, an invitation to attend the Remuneration Considered recruitment meeting is sent to the chairman of the Board of Directors and, if required, to other management Interaction with the personnel Safety representatives. The group meets at least four times a year and considers questions concerning the Promotion of work ability company’s business, finances and personnel. Reporting Remuneration At the local level, employee participation takes place in, for example Russia, by personnel meetings Our approach held at roughly monthly intervals. At the company’s unit in China, participation is through the local HR Environment Forum. All sites in Finland have an advisory committee or similar, which meets once a month. Our people Around 83 per cent (79) of Ruukki people were covered by local employee participation procedures. Society At a joint corporate meeting held on 1 December 2011, the company’s management and employee representatives agreed that the working committee of the corporate meeting will negotiate an Reporting agreement on implementing corporate cooperation in the new company structure. Sustainability recognitions Information flow In addition to everyday interaction, Ruukki’s intranet and the monthly supervisor letters, which include all the latest information affecting Ruukki’s people, play a key role in communication. The supervisor letters considered in team meetings serve to ensure the conveyance of information and as a basis for continuous dialogue between supervisors and their teams. Production sites also have info screens and local newsletters. Ruukki’s internal employer image is regularly measured Summer 2011 saw the launch of a survey covering all Ruukki’s summer workers, almost 1,000, in Finland to find out their experiences of Ruukki as an employer. The survey will be expanded in 2012 to cover summer workers in every Ruukki unit. The results of the survey show that Ruukki is remembered as a summer workplace where there are friendly colleagues and varied jobs. Around 60% of summer workers had earlier worked or trained at Ruukki. No less than 99% of the respondents said that they would consider applying to Ruukki for a summer job again or for a permanent job. The results of the survey clearly indicate Ruukki’s positive image as an employer. Our future workers In Finland, we use surveys to track the development of employer image. For example, in a student survey conducted by Universum, Ruukki tops the list of ideal employers for material technology students and also ranks among the ten top ideal employers among mechanical engineering students. Ruukki focuses on personal meetings in improving employer image Recruitment fairs, guest lectures, works visits and research and cooperation in subject organisation are effective ways raise a company’s profile. In 2011, Ruukki participated in 26 recruitment events, most of which were local. Ruukki also increased its visibility in the social media and, for example, started to post job vacancies on Facebook and Twitter. The company’s research and product development organisations work closely with universities in arranging research, thesis work and practical training periods. In Poland, for example, Ruukki has already been recruiting newly-graduated production and quality engineers for years from Wrocław University of Technology. Close cooperation with the university’s career services and an ability to offer training places to dozens of students are also important ways to increase recognition amongst students. Also in Norway and Sweden, recruitment fairs and articles in trade magazines have helped to reach out to technology students in different fields. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/I... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROMOTION OF WORK ABILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Promotion of work ability Job motivation and success depend on personal experience of workplace wellbeing. This is why as an Corporate responsibility in Ruukki employer, Ruukki wants to put the promotion and maintenance of work ability, occupational health care and the functioning of workplace communities high on the agenda. The company has defined the Management of corporate SEE ALSO concept of work ability as consisting of competence management, occupational health and retirement responsibility management. Stakeholders Values The entire personnel are covered by healthcare arrangements and have access to healthcare facilities Units by country Economic responsibility in accordance with national legislation and local practices in each country. The main focus in promoting Strategy the functioning of workplace communities was on implementing the points for development identified in Environmental responsibility Financial information the employee opinion survey in 2010. Social responsibility Research and development Ruukki offers various possibilities for sabbaticals to balance between work and private life. In 2011, 89 Near-term outlook Managing social per cent (82) of the personnel worked in countries where paid parental leave was possible. In addition, Energy-efficient products and responsibility solutions Ruukki offers sabbaticals and dependent care possibilities based on legislation or local practice. In Key figures 2011, these practices covered 67 per cent (73) of Ruukki’s employees. Innovative safety Intellectual capital and The sickness absenteeism rate in 2011 was 4.00 per cent (4.46). development potential 2011 CR REPORTING Considered recruitment Ruukki employees in Finland heading towards better work ability Managing social responsibility Interaction with the personnel At our large sites in Finland, employee ageing and work ability were recognised many years ago Key figures as a significant human resources challenge both from the point of view of individual works and Intellectual capital and development Promotion of work ability potential that of the entire organisation. Ruukki has worked together long-term with the various parties to Remuneration identify problem points and especially to roll out solutions to create improved work ability. Human Considered recruitment resources management, occupational healthcare, the occupational health organisation and Interaction with the personnel Safety outside partners have been involved in promoting projects. Promotion of work ability Reporting Remuneration Occupational healthcare model honed Our approach We overhauled our occupational healthcare model and a systematically created early support Environment model to prevent sickness absenteeism was in use in 2011. In addition, the monitoring of Our people sickness absenteeism was improved and various occupational healthcare actions were directed towards identifying risk groups and supporting the persons belonging to them. Society Reporting Opportunity to join a fitness class or work ability assessment Sustainability recognitions In 2011, Ruukki renewed its fitness and recreational services, which were available to the company’s entire personnel in Finland. Each Ruukki employee in Finland is offered a chance every fifth year to take part on full pay in guided training of different lengths. Training is directed by professional trainers and in 2011, 498 Ruukki people took part. In Raahe, Ruukki’s largest production site, the personnel were offered an opportunity to take part in a personal assessment of work ability, the results of which pay attention to the critical points in a person’s work ability. Supervisor training highlighted the importance of work ability management as part of a supervisor’s everyday work. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REMUNERATION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Remuneration Remuneration at Ruukki means fair, objective and competitive remuneration that motives excellent Corporate responsibility in Ruukki performance. Remuneration is based on job demands, performance and competence. At Ruukki, remuneration is based not just on material pay, but the traditional elements of intangible remuneration Management of corporate SEE ALSO also play an important role. These elements include development and career opportunities, the working responsibility environment, good supervisory work, the balance between work and leisure and an interesting job. Stakeholders Values Principle of fairness Units by country Economic responsibility Strategy Environmental responsibility Ruukki complies with the principle of fairness in remuneration, recruitment and employment contracts. Financial information No one is discriminated against on the grounds of gender, religion/beliefs, ethnical background, sexual Research and development Social responsibility orientation or any other personal factor not relating to work. The bases for remuneration are fair taking Near-term outlook Managing social into account the job, performance and competence. Ruukki employs a job evaluation approach to Energy-efficient products and responsibility calibrate the basis for remuneration. solutions Key figures Ruukki complies with valid minimum wage regulations and minimum pay agreements provided by Innovative safety Intellectual capital and collective agreements in all the countries it operates in. In 2011, 68 per cent (69) of Ruukki employees development potential were covered by collective agreements. Ruukki also requires subcontractors to comply with the same regulations and agreements. 2011 CR REPORTING Considered recruitment Managing social responsibility Interaction with the personnel We pay bonuses for results Key figures Intellectual capital and development Promotion of work ability Employees can also earn bonuses when they achieve or exceed their personal targets. Performance potential bonuses are an important part of Ruukki’s strategic targets at the individual and team level. The same Remuneration Considered recruitment bonus principles apply to all Ruukki’s salaried and senior salaried employees. Performance bonuses Interaction with the personnel Safety depend on the targets set in conjunction with development discussions. The majority of workers are Promotion of work ability covered by locally defined bonus schemes. Reporting Remuneration Our approach Ruukki aims to offer competitive pay Environment Competitiveness means actively tracking the external pay market and taking it into account as one of Our people the criteria for remuneration. By offering competitive pay, Ruukki seeks to ensure it is an attractive employer and ensure the motivation of its employees. Ruukki also seeks to be competitive as regards Society immaterial remuneration and strongly focuses on this by, among other things, supervisor training. Reporting Sustainability recognitions Remuneration of key persons The same definitions apply to the remuneration of management as to others. Ruukki uses a sharebased incentive plan valid for 2011-2013 in management remuneration. The plan consists of three one -year earning periods and one three-year earning period. Performance targets are based on return on capital employed (ROCE), consolidated net sales growth and the achievement of strategic targets. Around 100 persons are covered by the plan. Key persons who do not belong to the share-based incentive plan belong to the company’s profit sharing scheme. Personnel costs €m 2011 2010 2009 Finland 360 351 323 Norway 21 25 29 Sweden 24 24 28 Russia 27 21 22 Poland 18 16 14 Hungary 7 6 8 Germany 3 4 4 Estonia 3 4 4 Romania 4 4 4 Other countries 22 18 19 Total 489 472 456 http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Social-responsibility/... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SAFETY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Safety Ensuring the safety of our workers is an inherent part of everyday life and management across the Corporate responsibility in Ruukki company. Ruukki’s management and all employees are committed to complying with, maintaining and developing common safety principles and rules of play. A good safety record is a competitive asset and Management of corporate SEE ALSO also a sign of quality, efficient operations. responsibility Competent, experienced people, safe equipment, processes and working practices, together with highStakeholders Values profile safety management, are key to our safety work. In 2011, we focused especially on proactive Units by country Economic responsibility safety work to improve the level of safety. Strategy Environmental responsibility Financial information Safety management principles at Ruukki Research and development Social responsibility All accidents and near-misses are reported and investigated. Near-term outlook Safety Corrective and preventative actions are planned, implemented and their effectiveness is monitored. Energy-efficient products and Progress with safety during Working conditions, job dangers and risks are constantly monitored, assessed and managed. solutions 2011 Health and safety matters are openly communicated. Innovative safety Workplaces are kept in proper order and ways of working have been standardised. Product responsibility Reporting INNOVATIVE SAFETY Safety is part of line organisation work Our approach Safety at Ruukki is part of strategic planning and targets are set for each strategy period at a time. This Find out more about Environment work is the responsibility of the corporate Safety Management Team, which is chaired by the executive our safe products vice president of Ruukki Construction. Practical implementation is the responsibility of the Safety and practices Our people Steering Group, which, together with the line organisation and safety specialists, is tasked with Society preparing and implementing the assignments given by the Safety Management Team. Reporting The line organisation is responsible for safety management and the prevention of accidents in its own Sustainability recognitions areas of responsibility and works with divisional and unit safety specialists in safety matters. All Ruukki 2011 CR REPORTING employees are responsible their own safety and wellbeing and that of their colleagues at their own workplaces. Progress with safety during 2011 Product responsibility Safety progress monitored by corporate-wide indicators and a safety tool All accidents and near-misses are reported, investigated and lessons learnt. Safety information is managed through a corporate-wide reporting system, which is available in 16 different languages. The safety level is monitored using two indicators accident and safety action frequency at all organisational levels and reported monthly to top management. The general operating principles and working practices are described in corporate safety instructions. Our work on the safety front has delivered results, with a decrease in accident frequency from a level of 32 in 2004 to a current level of 8. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Safety Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SAFETY PROGRESS WITH SAFETY DURING 2011 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Progress with safety during 2011 Lost time accident frequency across Ruukki remained at the same level as in 2010. Positive progress Corporate responsibility in Ruukki was made in the construction business, which achieved an lost time accident frequency rate of 3.6. The total number of absences lasting more than one day as the result of an accident was 162 (142) at Management of corporate SEE ALSO Ruukki. More than half of the accidents involved feet, hands and eyes. responsibility In 2012, a new safety indicator, total recordable injury frequency, will be adopted and this will change Stakeholders Values common accident statistics corporate-wide. It means that statistics will also take into account accidents Units by country Economic responsibility that do not result in absence (zero day accidents). This move is being made to increasingly Strategy mainstream actions towards a proactive direction. Accidents to subcontractors will also be monitored Environmental responsibility Financial information more closely. Social responsibility Research and development Near-term outlook Safety Gargzdai in Lithuania marked 1,000 zero accident days with the future in mind Energy-efficient products and Progress with safety during solutions 2011 Read more about Gargzdai Innovative safety Product responsibility Reporting INNOVATIVE SAFETY Our approach Further growth in number of proactive safety actions Find out more about Environment The positive progress that started during the previous year continued during 2011 and a total of 6.5 our safe products (4.5) proactive safety actions were made per employee. and practices Our people In 2011, 67,000 safety actions were taken, of which Society 40% were safety moments held by teams Reporting 38% were workplace safety rounds headed by supervisors Sustainability recognitions 22% were safety observations (near-misses) reported by workers. 2011 CR REPORTING There was a particularly great change in the number of safety moments, which increased by almost 40%. In future, the focus will be on quality rather than quantity by developing monitoring of the Progress with safety during 2011 implementation and efficiency of the actions. Product responsibility New safety training sessions Ruukki’s safety training sessions were overhauled during spring 2011. Training focuses on interaction and an approach based on involvement. The aim is to provide adequate know-how to act in accordance with Ruukki’s safety principles and to manage safety proactively. The key to training is active safety work and the sharing of best practices within the company. The concept includes training sessions that can be implemented flexibly taking into account the needs of different units. Introduction of basic safety training in an eLearning environment The idea is to tell about the cornerstones of safety work at Ruukki in an illustrative way. The broad target group is approached using different language versions and the material can be used both for self-study and as training material. Safety training has been fully overhauled and applies to both foremen and supervision alike. Together towards a change in safety culture Improving safety is based on safety surveys covering all business areas. These surveys were carried out in the steel business in 2010 and in the construction and engineering business areas in 2011. The aim is to find ways to achieve the following level on the road to an accident-free Ruukki. Representatives of various employer groups went through the results of the surveys in workshops held at the sites. Local organisations are responsible for implementing safety actions. Existing ways of working were found to be correct and it is also important to comply with them in the future. In pursuit of a zero-accident culture, it was noted that the reporting and investigation of incidents in particular worked well. However, there was still room for improvement in inclusion of the entire personnel in, for example, reporting safety observations. Each workplace made its own plan of action to improve the safety failings that had been brought up. Actions implemented in 2011 included unitspecific steering and development teams and a revision of safety round practices. Read more about new safety round practices New safety targets by business team were set up for the next few years based on the results of the analyses and work in workshops. It was agreed that one common objective would be to rank among the top international benchmark companies as regards safety. This will be achieved once each Ruukki employee and each team chooses to act in compliance with the safety principles. Progress with the change in safety culture can be tracked by repeating the same survey in a few years time. Local forces help list points for improvement in safety workshops Ruukki’s construction and engineering businesses carried out a safety survey in spring 2011 to establish the safety situation and personnels opinion about safety. During the autumn, the results were studied in workshops held at sites where Construction and Engineering have operations. Site management and workers at different levels in the unit took part in the workshops. A safety specialist in the business area helped to break down the results. However, the idea was for unit representatives themselves to analyse the results and to spell out the positive points and the points for development. Production manager Yuriy Nikitin who took part in the workshop at Obninsk in Russia thinks that it was important to discuss about the results of the safety survey and make a list of points for improvement. “We chose the five most important actions to improve safety,” Nikitin says. “These include for example more pro-active measures and setting clear roles and responsibilities in safety.” Group work was used to find suggestions as to how the points for development could be implemented. These suggestions were then presented to the management of Ruukki Russia. Also production worker Marko Hietala from Vimpeli in Finland tells that the workshop generated new ideas to promote safety and a start will be made on putting these ideas into practice. After the workshops, each Construction and Engineering site has a list and plan of the actions to be taken to improve safety in coming years. Once the priority points for development chosen by each unit are at a good level, other matters needing development that were identified by the workshops can be considered and practical ways found to improve them. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Safety/Progress-with-... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SAFETY PROGRESS WITH SAFETY DURING 2011 CORPORATE GARGZDAI IN LITHUANIA MARKED 1,000 ZERO-ACCIDENT DAYS WITH THE FUTURE IN MIND RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Gargzdai in Lithuania marked 1,000 zero-accident Corporate responsibility in Ruukki days with the future in mind Management of corporate On 25 September, Gargzdai reached the milestone of one thousand zero-accident days. Despite this responsibility fine achievement, the eyes are on the future: with safety, the next moment is always in mind. SEE ALSO Stakeholders “The number of zero-accident days has never been a target. Whether the figure is 1,000 or 2,000 days is just history. This is why it’s always the next minute or even second that’s important for us,” explains Values Economic responsibility EHSQ manager Darius Kazakevicius. Units by country Environmental responsibility Strategy Over the coffee and cakes served to mark the event, there was a good opportunity to exchange Financial information Social responsibility thoughts about the changes and improvements in safety that had been made during the past three Research and development Safety years. “The team spirit strengthened over coffee. It was great to see how colleagues congratulated and Near-term outlook thanked each other,” Darius says. Energy-efficient products and Progress with safety during 2011 solutions The most important thing in safety is the responsibility Innovative safety Product responsibility Reporting Production at Gargzdai has grown briskly and this has also challenged safety. Ruukki’s people in Gargzdai think that there has not only been a change for the better in attitude, but also in other safety INNOVATIVE SAFETY Our approach improvements at the site: there are regular safety rounds and safety moments at the plant and nearEnvironment misses are reported. The S+5S programme is being systematically implemented and information about Find out more about health and safety is openly shared. Workwear and personal safety equipment have also improved. our safe products Our people and practices According to Darius, the most important thing in safety is the responsibility that each and every worker Society has to their colleagues and families. “The main thing about safety is responsibility and alertness. Each Reporting team member should behave like a driver and take responsibility for his fellow passengers,” he sums up. Sustainability recognitions 2011 CR REPORTING Progress with safety during 2011 Product responsibility Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Safety/Progress-with-... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 SAFETY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Product responsibility Our product safety is based on compliance at all the company’s units with the applicable legislation Corporate responsibility in Ruukki and generally accepted policies applying to quality control and safety. Management of corporate Ruukki conforms to at least the minimum product safety requirements provided by local legislation in SEE ALSO responsibility each country in respect of those products sold to customers in the countries concerned. In addition, customers often require products to meet stricter criteria than those provided by law. Compliance with Stakeholders Values existing quality management systems ensures these criteria are met. Units by country Economic responsibility The company is responsible for the quality assurance of the raw materials and components used in its Strategy Environmental responsibility own production and makes and tests finished products in accordance with quality requirements, Financial information Social responsibility specifications and standards agreed separately with the customer. Working practices harmonised in Research and development accordance with ISO standards help to ensure the consistent quality of products irrespective of where Near-term outlook Safety they are made. Energy-efficient products and Progress with safety during solutions 2011 Read more about our ISO standards Innovative safety Product responsibility Product safety taken into account from the outset Reporting INNOVATIVE SAFETY Ruukki takes safety into account in the products it designs as required by the product development Our approach process (SPM) already at the design stage of a product concept. We systematically map and analyse Find out more about Environment the safety risks relating to products throughout the product development process. A detailed risk our safe products analysis describing project risks, their significance and likelihood is performed in conjunction with the and practices Our people project plan. Society We prepare environmental product and safety declarations for our main steel and construction product Reporting components. These declarations provide, among other things, information about the composition of products and their safe use. Where required, we contact our customers and suppliers to collect and Sustainability recognitions pass on the information needed. 2011 CR REPORTING More information about the REACH regulation Progress with safety during 2011 Product responsibility Safe construction sites We actively promote safety on those sites where we act as subcontractors and in projects where Ruukki’s products are used. Among other things, we have developed tools for the safe installation of our products. Various technical solutions and user-friendly auxiliary devices improve the safety of lifting on construction sites. We have innovated and patented a safety anchor to improve the safety of persons installing roofs. End-user safety has also been taken into account by selling roof safety products alongside Ruukki’s roofing products. Check out Ruukki’s safe installation method Construction products, such as wall, façade and roof elements, made by Ruukki can be easily installed. This reduces the safety risks associated with the wrong installation of products. Ruukki provides product and installation instructions, as well as technical product support to ensure installation people have adequate information about the right way to use and install our products. During 2011, Ruukki received no significant sanctions for contravening regulations or standards relating to the marking, marketing, use or safety of products. Privacy protection Ruukki complies with the provisions of the valid Personal Data Act and Ruukki’s own data protection policy when processing personal data in Finland. Read more information about privacy protection at Ruukki at: http://www.ruukki.com/Privacy Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Safety/Product-respon... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 REPORTING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Reporting Corporate responsibility in Regular reporting is part of corporate responsibility Ruukki We actively and openly release information on environmental issues and other matters concerning SEE ALSO Management of corporate responsibility sustainable development as well as on the environmental impacts of our products over their life cycles. Stakeholders We have published Corporate Responsibility Report for 2011 as a part of our ruukki.com website. Values Units by country Economic responsibility Content and scope Strategy Environmental responsibility Financial information In the corporate responsibility section we describe the company's main issues regarding economic, Research and development Social responsibility social and environmental issues. The section includes key figures as an indicator of our performance Near-term outlook Safety and also descriptions of operations in these different areas, the practices and management of these Energy-efficient products and issues. solutions Reporting Innovative safety Sustainable recognitions Data collection methods GRI-index No significant changes took place in data collection methods during the year, nor have any material 2011 CR REPORTING Contacts errors been found in previous reports. Our approach The financial information contained in this report is based on Rautaruukki’s consolidated financial Sustainable recognitions statements have been prepared in compliance with IFRS. GRI-index Environment Information about the personnel has been collected from the company’s corporate-wide personnel Contacts information system. Our people The environmental data have been collected, from all production sites that were part of the Group at Society year-end 2011, with a few exceptions, using an online data collection tool. The scope of the data collected depends on the significance of environmental impacts at each site when examined from the Reporting environmental perspectives of the entire Group. Sustainability recognitions Report verification This report has not been verified by an external party. The financial data are subject to auditing. Most of the environmental data is from sites with a certified ISO 14001 environmental management system. The data have been checked by comparing them with the data for previous years at both the site and Group level. Any divergences have been analysed. This report is based on international and Finnish reporting recommendations. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 REPORTING SUSTAINABLE RECOGNITIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Sustainable recognitions Corporate responsibility in Ruukki assessed to Gold Class in SAM Sustainability Yearbook (January Ruukki 2012) Management of corporate SEE ALSO responsibility Ruukki has received Gold Class and Sector Leader distinctions for its position as the leading steel company committed to sustainable development. Assessment was made by SAM, Sustainability Asset Stakeholders Values Management. Since 1999, SAM has assessed the corporate sustainability of over 2,000 companies each year. The results have been published in the Sustainability Yearbook 2012 made in cooperation Units by country Economic responsibility between SAM and KPMG. Read article. Strategy Environmental responsibility Financial information Social responsibility Research and development Near-term outlook Safety Energy-efficient products and Reporting solutions Innovative safety Sustainable recognitions GRI-index 2011 CR REPORTING Contacts Our approach Worldsteel: Ruukki awarded for Climate Action (October 2011) Sustainable recognitions GRI-index Environment World Steel Association (worldsteel) has awarded Ruukki with Climate Action membership certificate Contacts Our people for 2010 2011 (first certificate 2009 2010). The recognition was granted for active participation in the Climate Action recognition programme. This scheme recognises that a steel producer has fulfilled its Society commitment to take part in the worldsteel CO2 data collection programme, which is at the core of the Reporting steel industry's global steel sectoral approach to climate change. Sustainability recognitions Based on a common methodology, definitions and agreed boundaries, the data collection programme enables companies to compare themselves against both average and best performance and identify its scope for improvement. Ruukki achieves industry leader position in Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (Sept 2011) Ruukki has achieved the position of industry leader in two Dow Jones Sustainability indexes: DJSI World and DJSI Europe. The indexes include the top companies that are committed to sustainable development. Ruukki is included in the DJSI World Index for the fourth year running and in the European index for the fifth year. The results show that Ruukki heads the world's eight best steel companies. There are 342 components from 30 different countries included in the DJSI World Index and 172 components from 15 European countries in the DJSI Europe Index. Six other Finnish companies are in the Sustainability Indexes.. In November 2010, Dow Jones launched also a new index, the Dow Jones Sustainability Nordic Index (DJSI Nordic). Ruukki is listed in this new index, which tracks the top companies with regard to sustainability in the Nordic region,The DJSI Nordic includes 29 sustainability leaders from Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden. Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes have been measuring efforts within the corporate sector to improve sustainability since 1999. Corporate sustainability performance is analysed thoroughly each year by an independent assessment party, SAM Research AG. Analysis evaluates corporate financial, social and environmental responsibility. Index companies are also subject to continuous tracking. Ruukki joins the NASDAQ OMX new sustainability index (March 2011) OMX GES Finland Sustainability Index is a new benchmark index which comprises the 40 leading NASDAQ OMX Helsinki listed companies in terms of sustainability. The index criteria are based upon international guidelines for environmental, social and governance issues and supports investor considerations to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment. The assessment is conducted by GES Investment Services, Northern Europe's leading research and service provider for Responsible Investment. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting/Sustainable... The OMX GES Finland Sustainability Index is designed to provide investors with a liquid, objective and reliable benchmark for responsible investment. The review is conducted once a year in December. Ruukki included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register (Feb 2011) Ruukki has been selected for inclusion in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register since 02/02/2011. Forum ETHIBEL reviews companies worldwide on their economic, social and environmental performance. Forum draws on the research of the rating agency Vigeo that investigates hundreds of stock quoted companies every year. This Investment Register forms the basis for the European Collective Quality label ‘ETHIBEL EXCELLENCE’, which is awarded to investment funds and financial products. Vigeo: Ruukki included in Aspi Eurozone® index for the first time (Sept 2010) Vigeo is the leading European expert in responsible performance. Vigeo measures the performances and risks of companies with regard to environment, human rights, human resources, community involvement, business behaviour and corporate governance. Ruukki is listed in Vigeo’s Aspi Eurozone® index (Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices) to which the 120 most responsible companies of Europe are chosen every year. Ruukki best in its field in oekom's sustainability ratings (Oct 2010) One of the world's leading rating agencies in sustainable investments, oekom research AG, has given Ruukki a good evaluation for sustainability. Ruukki was awarded Prime and was the best steel company in oekom's detailed rating. Each year, the German company oekom research AG analyses companies on the basis of social and ecological responsibility. This year, oekom analysed 130 companies in the metals and mining industry and awarded 31 Prime rating. In addition, Ruukki took part in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) ranking, where it received 61/100 points (2009: 69). CDP assesses large corporations on the basis of the risks and opportunities they recognise from climate change. In addition, CDP assesses a company's performance on the basis of greenhouse gas emissions and their reduction. Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting/Sustainable... Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 REPORTING GRI-INDEX CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief GRI-index Ruukki’s corporate responsibility report is based on Global Reporting Initative (GRI) reporting Corporate responsibility in Ruukki guidelines. GRI is a multinational organisation that develops guidelines for sustainability reporting. GRI’s guidelines are intended to serve as a framework that organisations can Management of corporate use to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance. responsibility Stakeholders Ruukki’s corporate responsibility report and GRI G3 reporting guidelines are compared in the table below. Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility Printed Annual Social responsibility Topic On web site Comments report pages Safety Reporting Desricpiton of the Sustainable recognitions organisation GRI-index 1. Strategy and analysis strategy 9-12, 23Contacts responsibility in 24, 34-37 Our approach Ruukki risk management Environment Our people 2. Organisational profile corporate structure Society 3, 16-19 Reporting 3. Report parameters reporting 4-24 Sustainability recognitions 4. Governance and corporate governance commitments 25-37 5. Disclosure on code of conduct 25-37 management approach environmental policy (economic, environmental, social responsibility social) Core indicators: Economic EC1: Economic value economic value generated and distributed distribution EC2: Financial implications environmental targets of climate change EU emissions trading 34-37 EC3: Defined benefit remuneration Reported partially pension plan obligations statement remuneration EC4: Financial assessment public sector from governance EC6: Locally-based suppliers sourcing Reported partially EC7: Local hiring competence Reported partially management EC8: Infrastructure Not reported investments and services Core indicators: Environment EN1: Used materials material data monitor raw materials EN2: Materials that are material data monitor recycled steel lifecycle by products EN3: Direct energy energy consumption consumption EN4: Indirect energy energy recovery at consumption steel mill EN8: Water withdrawal water use http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting/GRI-index EN11: Land owned in Not reported protected and high diversity value areas EN12: Impacts in protected Not reported and high diversity value areas EN16: Direct and indirect emissions to air greenhouse gas emissions emissions trading EN17: Other relevant indirect Not reported greenhouse gas emissions EN19: Emissions of ozoneNot reported depleting substances EN20: Nox, SO2 and other emissions to air significant air emissions EN21: Water discharge effluents and water use EN22: Waste wastes EN23: Significant spills exceedings of permit limits EN26: Initiatives to mitigate energy efficient 21-22 environmental effects of products products and services curbing emmissions environmental risk management EN27: Reclaimed products material data monitor Reported partially and their packaging by products materials steel lifecycle EN28: Fines and nonexceedings of permit monetary sanctions limits Core indicators: Social LA1: Workforce breakdown our people hr key figures LA 2: Employee turnover hr key figures Reported partially LA 4: Collective bargaining code of conduct agreements LA 5: Notice periods Ruukki complies with legislation in regarding operational each country changes LA7: Injuries, occupational progress with safety diseases and work related fatalities LA8: Education and training Reported partially related to serious diseases LA10: Average training hours average training hours Reported partially LA13: Composition of board of directors 30-33 governance bodies and committees breakdown of employees hr key figures LA14: Salary ratios Not reported HR1: Investment Not reported agreements including human rights clauses HR2: Suppliers and Not reported contractors undergone screening of human rights HR4: Incidents of Not reported discrimination HR5: Freedom of association social responsibility Ruukki's principles of social and collective bargaining responsibility undertake to respect freedom of of association and the freedom to belong to trade unions HR6: Risks related to child social responsibility Reported partially. Ruukki's labor principles of social responsibility prohibit the use of child labour HR7: Risks related to forced social responsibility Reported partially. Ruukki's and compulsory labor principles of social responsibility prohibit the use of forced labour http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting/GRI-index SO1: Impacts of operations community support Reported partially to communities SO2: Risks related to Not reported corruption SO3: Training of anticompetence Reported partially corruption policies management SO4: Actions in response to Not reported incidents of corruption SO5: Participation in public supervision of interests Reported partially policy and lobbying SO8: Fines and nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws ands regulations PR1: Improving health and products and services Reported partially safety across life cycle of products and services PR3: Information and environmental product Reported partially. Environmental labelling of products and declarations product declarations and services instructions for safe use are available for Ruukki's products PR6: Adherence to laws, code of conduct Reported partially. Ruukki standards and voluntary complies with legislation in each codes related to marketing country PR9: Fines and nonReported partially monetary sanctions related to products and services Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting/GRI-index Investors Corporate responsibility Careers Extranet Change language Search PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS TRAINING REFERENCES NEWS AND EVENTS ABOUT RUUKKI CONTACT US HOME CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 REPORTING CONTACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility report 2011 From the President & CEO Ruukki in brief Contacts firstname.lastname@ruukki.com Corporate responsibility in Ruukki TECHNOLOGY, ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT Management of corporate responsibility SVP,Technology, Energy and Environment Stakeholders Toni Hemminki tel. +358 20 59 29217 Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility HUMAN RESOURCES Social responsibility SVP, Human resources Safety Eija Hakakari tel. + 358 20 59 29267 Reporting Sustainable recognitions FINANCE GRI-index CFO Contacts Markku Honkasalo tel. +358 20 59 28840 Our approach VP, Investor relations Environment Timo Pirskanen Our people tel. +358 20 59 39009 Society COMMUNICATIONS Reporting SVP, Marketing and communications Sustainability recognitions Taina Kyllönen tel. +358 20 59 29040 Sitemap Privacy Legal notice Trademarks Accessibility Print Bookmark Email Share this page Copyright © 2011 Rautaruukki Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Ruukki supplies metal-based products and solutions for steel construction and engineering. http://www.ruukki.com/Corporate-responsibility/Corporate-responsibility-report-2011/Reporting/Contacts
