Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 partnering with SUPPLY-CHAIN Together COMMUNITIES , We Can ... Engage Value Respect Empower INNOVATE LEARN LISTEN BUILD SUPPORT BREW GROW FOSTER aving strong Tupply chains is crucial to our success, issues such as food security, water, financial literacy, and we expect and depend on our suppliers to prohealth, and education that affect supply-chain comPARTNER vide quality products. In turn, we believe that as we ACT REFLECT munities as well as our business. SHARE thrive, suppliers and their local communities should too. Our approach is to support nonprofit organizaFor fiscal year 2012, we plan to widen our supplytions that work to help suppliers receive a fair price chain community outreach focus areas into nonfor their products, make business decisions that supcoffee supply chains, raise general awareness of port their families, and build healthy, environmentally challenges that affect our supply-chain communisound communities through monetary grants. ties, and share best practices with our program partners. We also seek to align our community outreach PROTECT CREATE As our supply chains increase in size, complexity, SUCCEED DEVELOP and supply-chain transparency initiatives [insert link and geographic reach, our aim is to be consistent in to Working Together for Change]. By sharing inforaddressing complex social and environmental issues mation and resources more effectively across these while recognizing and responding to local conditions. efforts, we can better identify opportunities to make a We also target our contributions to address shared greater impact. needs, risks, and opportunities. In this section, we highlight examples from fiscal year 2011 across GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 1 Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 Together, We Can ... TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 Our Commitment and Vision 3 Our Journey 4 About Our Company 5 Our Facilities 7 A History of Corporate Responsibility 8 Our Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 Summary of Progress 12 Public Recognition List 12 About This Report 13 Partnering with Supply-Chain Communities 24 Supporting Local Communities 34 Protecting the Environment 49 Building Demand for Sustainable Products 58 Working Together for Change 66 FOSTERING Workplace EXCELLENCE 74 2011 HIGHLIGHTS GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 1 Our Commitment and Vision Larry Blanford, President and CEO Friends, business goals. In countries such as Nicaragua where povThe performance of our business was outstanding in fiscal erty is high, many growers and their families are vulnerable to 2011. We increased our market leadership in coffee makers food insecurity. As a result, growers can’t invest in their busiand specialty coffee, offered consumers and customers ness, children have difficultly learning in school, and the wellgreater choice with innovative product offerings, and drove being of entire communities declines. Since learning about significant growth by delivering exceptional products food insecurity, we have been supporting nonprofit organithrough our portfolio of top brands. We also strengthened zations that focus on this issue, sharing what we’ve learned our presence in Canada, made investments across our enterwith others, and raising awareness in our industry and beyond. prise for long-term competitive advantage, and continued to We work with other organizations to find ways to reduce foster the well-being and success of our people. Our success the environmental footprint of our operations and improve is testament to the momentum behind our business strategy the performance of our products. Every potential solution and the tremendous capabilities of our organization. comes with difficult choices and trade-offs, and we conAs our business grows, our opportunities to make a diftinue to make investments to protect and preserve the enviference are growing. In 2011, we have again dedicated 5% ronment while delivering the performance and quality our of our pretax earnings to advance social and environmental shareholders and customers expect. initiatives. In fiscal 2011, that amounted to approximately Rapid growth brings complex challenges, and we under$15.2 million — more than double the previous year. We stand there’s more we can do to enhance our work in susalso have more diverse relationships, greater influence in tainability and amplify the difference we make. For instance, our industry and in the marketplace, and deeper expertise to we are taking steps to better support our growing number contribute to solving social and environmental challenges. In of suppliers in adopting sustainable business practices. this, our sixth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report, We intend for this report to be more than an accountwe share and assess our social and environmental perforing of our sustainability activities. As you read it, we hope mance for fiscal 2011, and describe the opportunities we it prompts a better understanding of the values that shape see ahead. virtually everything we do. We also encourage you to share We believe companies like Green Mountain Coffee your ideas and comments with us. Your feedback is crucial Roasters, Inc. (GMCR) can be a catalyst for positive to our continued efforts. Please contact us by emailing change. It’s why we were the first coffee company to sign csr@gmcr.com. the United Nations Global Compact in 2004, and why we Looking forward, I ask you to consider what more you can continue to support its universal principles addressing do to make a meaningful and lasting difference in the lives human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. you touch. It’s a question we constantly ask ourselves. We Our longstanding commitment to improving lives and are proud of our legacy of collaboration to help others, and protecting the environment, is not only central to what we recognize that our greatest opportunities remain ahead of us. stand for and how we work, it is also vital to our success. We focus on issues that strengthen our business by creating Sincerely, efficiencies, reducing risk, sparking innovation, and more deeply engaging our employees and many stakeholders. Battling the chronic challenge of hunger in coffee-growing communities is a prime example of how we’re tackling a Larry Blanford pervasive social problem to both help others and meet our President and CEO GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 2 OUR JOURNEY Michael Dupee, Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility Friends, Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report programs add dimension, depth, and strength to the this year focuses on what we can achieve by working relationships between consumers and our brands, together. This relationship ethic is at the heart of our helping us enhance our market leadership. This Company Purpose, particularly in our ultimate goal to extends to our employees and operations. Many transform how the world understands business. By people want to be deeply invested in their work and collaborating with diverse organizations, our growing proud of the organization for which they work. number of suppliers and their communities, and our Our programs also help us lighten our environmany customers and consumers in North America, mental footprint while strengthening our business. we can make more meaningful and lasting contributions Environmental innovation — both for our products to solving social and environmental challenges. and in our operations — can lower costs as well as Our measure of success is based on delivering lifecycle impacts by reducing energy consumption, successful and sustainable growth to all our stakewaste, and carbon emissions. holders. For us, that means strong financial results, Financial growth and our CSR efforts complement valuable development opportunities for our people, each other, but they can also challenge each other, and positive social and environmental impact. And and prompt us to fundamentally rethink how we operwe can only be successful in all of these areas when ate, work with partners, and set priorities. we work effectively together with those we impact — For instance, aligning financial growth with CSR and those who impact us — toward shared goals. demands a more holistic analysis of systems and Fiscal 2011 was another year of exceptional processes across our business. It also challenges us growth for Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. to be more sophisticated in how we design and man(GMCR). Often today, the goals of financial success age our CSR initiatives. and behaving in a socially and environmentally responOver the course of fiscal 2011, the dynamic sible manner are understood to be in conflict or even between our financial growth and our commitment mutually exclusive. Rather, we believe financial to CSR was a powerful catalyst for progress. In the growth and corporate responsibility support each other, wake of far-reaching change, one constant was our both complementing and challenging each other. conviction that strong, mutually beneficial relationFor example, by building close relationships with ships are the foundation for success. With that in our suppliers and ensuring those relationships are mind, we continue to focus on building and deepenmore than purely transactional, we are able to maning relationships with our stakeholders to make even age supply chain risk more effectively. We can greater impact in fiscal 2012 and beyond. develop and leverage greater insight into the challenges our vendors are facing and potentially help Sincerely, them to address and mitigate those challenges. Similarly, more and more consumers care about the integrity of the company with which they do business, and not just about the product or service they Mike Dupee are purchasing. Strong social and environmental Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 3 ABOUT OUR COMPANY ABOUT OUR COMPANY In fiscal 2011, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of Today, GMCR is recognized as a Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. (GMCR). While leader in specialty coffee and cofour business has changed and grown dramatically fee makers, and acknowledged for over the years, our drive to create and share the ultiits award-winning coffees, innovamate coffee experience has remained constant. It goes tive Keurig® brewing technology, and beyond assuring quality in every cup. Delivering the environmentally and socially responultimate coffee experience — and now, much more sible business practices. Through a comthan coffee — includes our commitment to social and bination of strategic partner relationships, its environmental responsibility. We believe that by workprior acquisitions, and internal beverage development ing together with consumers, customers, employees, efforts, GMCR is cultivating a portfolio of brands represuppliers, and the people in the communities where sentative of the geographic taste preferences of beverwe live and work, we can meet our business goals and age consumers across the United States and Canada. make a lasting and positive difference. NON-OWNED BRANDS Owned brands (Licensing/Manufacturing Agreements) ® ® OFFEE GOURMET C GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 4 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Sumner, WA montreal, CAnada vermont * Toronto, CAnada Reading, MA our facilities Castroville, CA Knoxville, TN GMCR operates from three business units: the Specialty Coffee Canadian Business Unit Business Unit, which includes our portfolio of coffee and beverage brands including Green Mountain Coffee®, Barista Prima®, Tully’s Keurig Business Unit Coffee®, Timothy’s World Coffee®, and Coffee People® coffee brands; Specialty Coffee Business Unit the Keurig Business Unit, where the Keurig® single cup brewing sys* Waterbury, Essex Junction, and Williston, VT tem was created; and the Canadian Business Unit, which is responsible for all GMCR sales in Canada and includes the Van Houtte® business and Timothy’s® brand. For more information about our business and family of brands, please refer to our fiscal 2011 annual report and most current quarterly financial statements, which are available at http://investor.gmcr.com/financials.cfm. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 5 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Our Purpose and Principles We create the ultimate coffee experience in every life 2. Convenience: The Keurig® system prepares bevwe touch from tree to cup — transforming the way erages generally in less than a minute, at the the world understands business. To learn more about touch of the button, with no mess. the principles that guide how we work together — encompassing everything from communications and 3. Choice: We offer more than 200 varieties of leadership to shared ownership and sustainability — K-Cup® packs to encourage consumers to explore please visit www.gmcr.com/purpose-and-principles.html. different brands and products. In addition to the variety of brands of coffee and tea, we also proOur Strategy duce and sell hot apple cider fruit brew, iced teas Our business model centers on increasing single cup and coffees, hot cocoa, and other dairy-based brewing in North American households and offices. beverages in K-Cup® packs. We do this by driving awareness and adoption of our Keurig® single cup brewing systems, which in turn Our Performance creates ongoing demand for K-Cup® packs. Fiscal 2011 was a year of strong growth for GMCR. Our revenue increased 95%, and we were recognized We believe that the value proposition we can offer by Fortune magazine, which named GMCR #2 on its our customers is based on three key competitive list of “100 Fastest-Growing Companies” for the secadvantages: ond consecutive year. For more information, see the Enterprise Metrics section of our fiscal 2011 annual 1. Quality: To meet rising consumer expectations, the report, 30 Years of Brewing a Better World Together, Keurig® system delivers high-quality and consisavailable at http://investor.gmcr.com/financials.cfm. tently produced beverages every time. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 6 ABOUT OUR COMPANY A History of corporate Responsibility 1983 1984 1986 1989 Began composting Informal group of employees took on enviConducted a retail market Developed Earth Friendly Coffee Filters that coffee grounds in ronmental projects and started a recycling test with our first organic are oxygen-whitened and dioxin-free. our retail shops. program. coffee, Organic Peruvian Select for the GMCR brand. 1990 1992 1996 Introduced GMCR Rain Forest Nut coffee, made Created the Stewardship® Program, our first Developed the industry’s first biodegradable with Brazil nuts from the Amazon rainforest. quantifiable effort to promote coffee quality, a bag for bulk coffee purchases. Ten percent of profits went to Conservation healthy environment and respectful treatment International and the Rainforest Alliance. of our coffee supply-chain workers. 1998 2000 2001 2002 Expanded our GMCR certified Signed an agreement with Fair Trade USA (formerly Expanded GMCR Began sourcing and organic line to five coffees. Transfair USA) to certify GMCR organic coffees as certified organic line roasting Fair Trade Fair Trade Certified™. to 27 coffees. Certified® organic coffee for Newman’s Own® Organics. 2003 2004 2004 2006 Began offsetting our Offset 100% of our Launched Anti-Idling Initiative to save fuel and Introduced the ecotainer® by International Paper, greenhouse gas emisestimated greenhouse reduce the amount of time our trucks spend idling. the first hot to-go paper cup and cold beverage sions by purchasing gas footprint. cups and lids made with poly-lactic acid (PLA), renewable energy a renewable biopolymer. credits. 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 Sent burlap bags Converted all Waterbury, Converted Newman’s Own® Organics and GMCR Converted all Green Established and coffee “chaff” Vermont-based route Single Origin 10-oz. bags to 19.4% polylactic Mountain Coffee 10Corporate Social to Intervale compost trucks and facilities acid (PLA), a polymer derived from corn starches. and 12-oz. bags to Responsibility facility. vehicles to biodiesel. 19.4% PLA. Committee on the Board of Directors. 2009 2009 2010 Installed a 100kW photovoltaic array, which Launched Changing Climate Change program, an Partnered with International Paper to launch an sends solar energy collected from the roof of enterprise-wide effort focused on reducing and mitiecotainer hot cup lid made from PLA, a renewGMCR’s Waterbury distribution center to help gating GMCR’s carbon footprint through operational able biopolymer. power its facility. incentives, grantmaking programs, carbon offsets, and employee benefits. 2010 2010 2011 Became a charter supporter of the Greensburg Recognized by Fair Trade USA as largest purchaser Funded or expanded Wind Farm, a wind energy project in Greensburg, of Fair Trade Certified™ coffee in the world in calendar funding for 20 food Kansas, developed with NativeEnergy, Inc. 2010 and 2011, based on purchases of Fair Trade security projects that Certified™ coffee. reached 19,000 families in our supply chain. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 7 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Our Approach To Corporate Social Responsibility We believe business can be a powerful force for change by driving economic growth, creating jobs, and enhancing lives. By taking more balanced approaches to how they do what they do — produce goods and services, innovate and design, build brands, manage opportunities and risks, and cultivate talent — companies can also help address many of the world’s shared social and environmental challenges. This belief is foundational to our approach to CSR. While delivering the highest-quality coffee and beverage products, we strive to have a lasting, positive impact on the world. The power of working together — across our company, throughout our portfolio of brands, and with our suppliers, partners, customers, and consumers — is vital to making a meaningful difference. On issues where we share a vested interest with others, such as promoting food security in coffee-growing communities and providing access to clean water, we continue to look for ways to collaborate and amplify impact. Through the integration of sustainable initiatives throughout our business, we improve core business processes and practices in ways that support our Our Guiding Principles for CSR commitment to social and environmental responsiWe rely on four principles to help guide our activities: bility. We are aligning efforts internally, such as with supply-chain management and marketing commu• We believe in synergy: We understand that our nications, to promote consistency and increase the most successful initiatives deliver on specific efficiency of our efforts. social or environmental goals and support our employees and contribute to the financial health of For example, enabling supply-chain communities to our overall business at the same time. meet their basic needs throughout the year — and plan for sustaining a higher standard of living in the • We align our actions with facts: We follow a factfuture — helps us strengthen relationships with curbased approach in designing and/or choosing inirent and potential suppliers as well as manage risk in tiatives we want to support. our supply chain, which is critical to our success. In our own operations, reducing energy use and divert• We focus on areas of unique contribution: Given ing waste from landfills not only helps shrink our our limited reach and resources, we want to conenvironmental footprint, but also contributes to higher duct our work in areas where we can make a genefficiency and greater profitability. Our commitment uine difference. to social and environmental responsibility meets rising consumer expectations, helping differentiate our • We take a whole-systems approach to problem company and brands. And supporting our employees’ solving: We strive to ensure our efforts to solve desire to make a difference in local communities helps social and environmental challenges do not lead to build skills and contributes to our values-driven culture. new and more daunting challenges. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 8 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Philanthropic Giving Fiscal 2011 Approximate Allocation ~ 50% Supply Chain Outreach ~ 30% Domestic Community Outreach $15.2 ~ 10% Million Signature Cause ~ 10% Other (environmental / innovation projects, relationships, etc.) Philanthropic Initiatives In fiscal 2011, we contributed 5% of our pre-tax earnWorkplace volunteerism programs include: ings to support socially and environmentally responsible initiatives. We allocated approximately $15.2 • The opportunity for 52 hours of paid volunmillion in resources to our sustainability programs in teerism during customary work hours (Domestic fiscal 2011 — more than double what we provided in Community Outreach) fiscal 2010. • A mini grants program that recognizes and supports Philanthropic initiatives generally fall into three types significant employee volunteer commitments during of programs: cash giving, workplace volunteerism, non-work hours (Domestic Community Outreach) and product donations. These programs are managed by area. Areas include Supply Chain Outreach, Our product donations program supports numerous Domestic Outreach, and Signature Cause. nonprofits across the United States and Canada by www.gmcr.com/csr providing: Our cash-giving efforts involve: • Raffle or auction items • Grants to support our supply-chain communities • Giveaway items, including coffee samples around the world (Supply Chain Outreach) • Coffee and other beverages to be served at an • Grants to support the local communities where our event; or employees live (Domestic Community Outreach) • Coffee and related products to nonprofit food • Grants that address specific social and environbanks and to organizations that support U.S. milimental opportunities while strengthening our core tary troops brands (Signature Cause) Product donations are generally managed within our • Employee-related programs such as corporate Domestic Community Outreach area. matching donations (Domestic Community Outreach) GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 9 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Summary of Progress key Achieved Partially Achieved and/or In Progress Missed Stated Goal Fiscal 2011 Results Fiscal 2011 Assessment Partnering With Supply-Chain Communities Partnering with Supply-Chain Communities Supporting Local Communities We funded three new water projects in Nicaragua (2) and We intend to fund at least two water projects in Protecting the Environment Tanzania (1) while continuing to support multi-year water projects fiscal 2011. Building Demand for Sustainable Products in Peru, Nicaragua, and Guatemala. Working Together for Change We will deepen our focus on food insecurity in coffeeCreating A Great Place to Work We supported the production and distribution of After the growing communities, seeking to pilot innovative new Harvest: Fighting Hunger in the Coffeelands, a documentary ways to raise awareness, bring additional resources to that explores the challenge of food insecurity in coffee-growing bear including the provision of food security support to communities. an additional 10,000 families, and share best practices We started or expanded 20 food-security projects that reached for addressing this challenge. approximately 19,000 families in our supply chain. We intend to finalize and distribute the GMCR We finalized our Monitoring and Evaluation Guide for Monitoring and Evaluation Guide for Funded Projects, a Funded Projects. common reporting protocol and template. supporting local communities We continued to grow our employee community grantmaking We will continue implementation and refinement of our programs via the establishment of locally focused teams at new employee community grantmaking framework and Castroville and Toronto sites. brand-inspired grantmaking program. We evolved our brand-inspired grantmaking program into our Signature Cause program. We intend to grow volunteerism by 61%, achieving Partnering with Supply-Chain Through our employee volunteerism programs, we contributed Communities 25,000 hours of contributed employee time. more than 29,000 hours of volunteer time. Supporting Local Communities protecting the environment Protecting the Environment Building Demand for Sustainable Products Energy Reduction Goals: Working Together for Change Energy Reduction Results: Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Operations: -10% Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Operations: +2% Knoxville, Tennessee, Operations: -10% Knoxville, Tennessee, Operations: 16% Creating A Great Place to Work Sumner, Washington, Operations: -10% Sumner, Washington, Operations: -26% Vermont Operations: Maintain Vermont Operations: +3% Waste Reduction Goals: Waste Reduction Results: Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Operations: -50% Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Operations: +2% Knoxville, Tennessee, Operations: -15% Knoxville, Tennessee, Operations: -49% Sumner, Washington, Operations: -30% Sumner, Washington, Operations: -37% Vermont Operations: -10% Vermont Operations: +1% Continued > GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 10 ABOUT OUR COMPANY Summary of Progress key Achieved Partially Achieved and/or In Progress Missed Partnering with Supply-Chain Stated Goal Fiscal 2011 Communities Results Fiscal 2011 Assessment Supporting Local Communities protecting the environment Protecting the Environment Building Demand for Sustainable Products We plan to expand our K-Cup® pack recovery pilot to a Working Together for Change We expanded our K-Cup® pack recovery pilot in the U.S. to 22 states. broader geographic reach. Creating A Great Place to Work We plan to divert 1,700 tons of waste out of the landfill We processed and recycled all returned Keurig® brewers in the through expansion of our Returns Management Initiative. U.S. resulting in 1,106 tons of material diverted from landfills. building demand for sustainable products Further progress has been made in our efforts to deepen our commitment to certified coffees by increasing our overall percentage of certified coffees shipped from 25% to 28%, at the We intend to broaden and deepen our commitment to same time overall coffee sales increased by 52% to approxisourcing and selling certified coffees. mately 136 million pounds. Fair Trade Certified™ coffee shipments increased from approximately 17 million pounds to over 26 million pounds in fiscal 2011. Rainforest Alliance Certified™ coffee sales increased from 345,000 pounds to over 9 million pounds. working together for change We intend to benchmark best practices in supply-chain We completed a benchmarking study of supply-chain transparency transparency and develop a recommendation for expandbest practices. ing and improving our Supplier Guidelines. Partnering with Supply-Chain Communities We intend to develop a policy and implement programs Supporting Local Communities related to the United Nations expansion of the Universal Protecting the Environment We formally committed to uphold the United Nations’ Human Right to Declaration of Human Rights to include the Human Right Building Demand for Sustainable Water through the development and communication of a GMCR policy. to Water. Products Working Together for Change FOSTERING workplace EXCELLENCE Creating A Great Place to Work We will deliver the remaining two modules of the “Our We completed two modules of the “Our Winning Combination.” Winning Combination” business literacy program. We intend to deliver at least 30 hours of educational We accomplished more than 152,000 hours of continuous learntraining for each employee in fiscal ‘11. ing, an average of 44 hours for each full-time employee. We intend to fill 20% of our new positions internally. We filled 21.2% of our new positions internally. We sent 46 employees on “origin trips” to 5 countries We intend to pilot a new Colombia “origin trip.” including Colombia. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 11 ABOUT OUR COMPANY CSR Governance About This Report Our Corporate Social Responsibility This report covers fiscal 2011, from September 26, 2010 to September 24, Committee, established in 2008, 2011. The data cited refer to fiscal 2011 or the last day of fiscal 2011, unless oversees our social and environotherwise indicated. Data from previous years, when included for historical mental responsibility initiatives at context, address our operational activities in the United States and Canada the board level. Michael Dupee, as well as our supply-chain activities globally. The Van Houtte® business is Vice President for Corporate Social reflected as the Canadian Business Unit (CBU) in the data and coverage for Responsibility, and Paul Comey, this report for the last three quarters of fiscal 2011 reflecting the period of Vice President for Environmental time for which they were owned by GMCR. Our most recent previous report Affairs, lead daily execution of was released in June 2012. social and environmental initiatives. Both Mr. Dupee and Mr. For all references to an average or a percentage of employees participating Comey report directly to Lawrence in certain activities, we use an average number of full-time employees within Blanford, President and Chief the fiscal year as the denominator in the calculation. We calculate the average Executive Officer of GMCR. number of full-time employees by dividing the sum of the full-time employees Additional information regarding at the beginning of the fiscal year and at the end of the fiscal year by two. This GMCR’s overall corporate goverdiffers from the approach taken in our Annual Reports, which utilize total yearnance structure is available at end numbers of employees. http://investor.gmcr.com/governance.cfm. We used the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to frame this report. A registered Organizational Stakeholder of the GRI since July Public Recognition 2005, we support the GRI’s mission to develop globally accepted sustainWe were pleased to be recognized ability reporting guidelines through a worldwide, multi-stakeholder process. in fiscal 2011 for our ongoing We believe everyone benefits from generally accepted principles of measureefforts to create both profit and ment and comparison, and the GRI Guidelines serve this purpose. We have positive change. validated the contents of this report through: • Readers’ Choice Award New • Independent audits of our philathropic fund, including all dispositions Products of the Year (Best Cold Beverage), Automatic • Verification of our Fair Trade Certified™, organic, and Rainforest Alliance Merchandiser Magazine, for Certified™ coffee purchases, provided by appropriate accreditation bodies Green Mountain Coffee® Brew Over Ice K-Cup® pack • Verification of our organic coffee purchases and our production plants’ organic status, provided by Quality Assurance International and Organic • “100 Fastest-Growing Companies Crop Improvement Association (OCIA) International List,” Fortune magazine (Ranked #2 ) • Verification of our production plants’ kosher status, provided by Orthodox • Humanitarian of the Year Award, Union, Jewish Community Council of Montreal, and Kosher Supervision Medicines for Humanity of America • Largest Purchaser of Fair Trade This report also serves as GMCR’s annual United Nations Global Compact Certified™ Coffee in the World, (UNGC) “Communication on Progress.” It provides an overview of our imple2010 mentation of the ten principles of the UNGC and our support for broad UN development goals. Please see the UNGC Index at www.gmcr.com/ungcindex • Leader of Change Award, for information on where the UNGC principles are covered in this report. Foundation for Social Change and United Nations (UN) Office for Partnerships • Business of the Year Award, Northeastern Economic Developers Association GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 12 partnering with SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES aving strong supply chains is cruneeds, risks, and opportunities. In this section, we H cial to our success, and we expect highlight examples from fiscal 2011 across issues and depend on our suppliers to such as food security, water, financial literacy, health, provide quality products. In turn, and education that affect supply-chain communities we believe that as we thrive, supas well as our business. pliers and their local communities should too. Our approach is to support nonprofit For fiscal 2012, we plan to widen our supply-chain organizations that work to help suppliers receive a community outreach focus areas into non-coffee supfair price for their products, make business decisions ply chains, raise general awareness of challenges that that support their families, and build healthy, environaffect our supply-chain communities, and share best mentally sound communities through monetary grants. practices with our program partners. We also seek to align our community outreach and supply-chain As our supply chains increase in size, complexity, transparency initiatives. By sharing information and and geographic reach, our aim is to be consistent in resources more effectively across these efforts, we can addressing complex social and environmental issues better identify opportunities to make a greater impact. while recognizing and responding to local conditions. We also target our contributions to address shared GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 13 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Where We’ve Been 2011 Working To in Fiscal Creating A We started or expanded 20 food-secuWe funded three new water projects in rity projects that reached approximately Nicaragua (2) and Tanzania (1) while con19,000 families in our supply chain. tinuing to support multi-year water projects in Peru, Nicaragua, and Guatemala. We supported the production and distribution of After the Harvest: Fighting HunWe finalized our Monitoring and Evaluger in the Coffeelands, a documentary that ation Guide for Funded Projects, a comexplores the challenge of food insecurity mon reporting protocol and template for in coffee-growing communities. our supply-chain grantees. Where We’Re going in Fiscal 2012 We expect to bring food-security support We plan to maintain our support of to at least an additional 20,000 families in water projects and advance our underour supply chain by expanding or initiating standing of their impact, with the intent food-security projects during fiscal 2012. of evolving our strategy by the end of fiscal 2012. We will work to find innovative ways to raise awareness and rally the coffee We expect to release our Monitoring industry around food-security issues, and Evaluation Guide for Funded Projects and continue to promote and screen to our supply-chain grantees, translate After the Harvest. the guide into Spanish, and further support our grantees through workshops on implementing the guide. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 14 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Fiscal 2011 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Building De Products Purchasing Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Working To Fair Trade Certified™ non-organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) 5,105 6,897 19,207 Creating A Fair Trade Certified™ organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) 11,037 16,603 26,749 All Fair Trade Certified™ organic and non-organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) 16,142 23,501 45,956 Rainforest Alliance Certified™ non-organic lbs. purchased (in thousands) 0 2,690 17,853 All organic lbs. (no other certification) purchased (in thousands) 0 83 199 Farm Identified lbs. purchased (in thousands) 3 4,520 5,468 2 19,285 Conventionally sourced lbs. purchased (in thousands) 28,462 52,807 115,855 Total coffee lbs. purchased (in thousands) 49,123 84,548 199,149 Fair Trade Certified™ non-organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 10.4% 8.2% 9.6% Fair Trade Certified organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased ™ 22.5% 19.6% 13.4% All Fair Trade Certified™ organic and non-organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. 32.9% 27.8% 23.1%4 purchased Rainforest Alliance Certified™ non-organic lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 0.0% 3.2% 9.0% All organic lbs. (no other certification) purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% Farm Identified lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased3 9.2% 6.5% 9.7% Conventionally sourced lbs. purchased as a percentage of total lbs. purchased 57.9% 62.5% 58.2% Pricing Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Fair Trade Certified lbs. (non-organic) average price per lb. ™ $1.94 $2.21 $2.95 Fair Trade Certified™ organic lbs. purchased average price per lb. $1.96 $2.22 $3.29 All Fair Trade Certified™ lbs. (organic and non-organic) purchased average price per lb. $1.96 $2.21 $3.15 Rainforest Alliance Certified™ non-organic lbs. purchased average price per lb. $1.80 $3.06 All organic lbs. (no other certification) purchased average price per lb. $2.23 $2.93 Farm Identified only average price per lb. 3 $1.75 $2.26 $3.01 Conventionally sourced average price per lb. $1.74 $1.80 $2.88 Total coffee purchases average price per lb. $1.81 $1.94 $2.97 Grantmaking Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs (dollars in thousands) $3,666 $6,931 $15,155 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs as a percentage of income before taxes 5.2% 5 5.2% 5.0% Total cash contributions (dollars in thousands) $2,686 $5,946 $12,133 Total grant / matching donation dollars to supply-chain communities (in thousands) $1,712 $3,214 $8,152 1) These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 2) For the purposes of this report, Farm Identified coffee is categorized as coffee purchased from an identified farm that does not carry certifications such as Fair Trade or organic. Certified coffees do also come from identified sources and thus, if considering all coffees purchased from identified sources, the total percentage would be significantly higher as more fully set forth in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 14, 2011. 3) Timothy’s World Coffee® was acquired part way through fiscal 2010 and did not, upon acquisition, use Farm Identified as a category of coffee purchasing although they did buy from identified farms that will be tracked and reported. 4) This number has been revised to reflect acquisitions and new information available. 5) One-time litigation settlement payment of $17MM not included to the calculation of resource allocation to social and environmental programs for fiscal 2009. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 15 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Creating A Raising Awareness About Hunger in Coffee-Growing Communities The threat posed to coffee-growing communities from annual food shortages is serious, but the problem is not widely known. Not only does the lack of food and proper nutrition affect the health of communities, but it also affects the productivity of farmers and their families and contributes to the growing urban migration. The struggle to meet daily needs makes it more difficult for farmers to manage and build their business, for children to learn in school, and for families to develop solutions that address the root causes of hunger. To raise awareness about and galvanize the industry around this issue, we funded production of a 21-minute documentary, which made its world premiere in April 2011 at the Specialty Coffee Association of America Annual Conference. Shot in Mexico and Central America and narrated by Susan Sarandon, the film Our Approach documents the day-to-day challenges coffee farmers In fiscal 2011, we continued to support initiatives that and their families face during “the thin months”. It directly benefit supply-chain communities. Our aim is also shares the successes of creative projects aimed to fund organizations and their work through monetary at eliminating seasonal hunger. grants that promote food security, clean water for consumption and irrigation, economic development, We screened the film in the United States, Canada, health, education, and environmental stewardship. In and Nicaragua in 2011, and it was highlighted in 30 fiscal 2011, we supported projects with 41 grantees publications. We also shared the film widely with associated with 74 projects in 15 countries. dozens of industry professionals and NGOs, and Increasing Food Security to Improve made it available to view on the film’s unbranded the Well-Being of Suppliers web site, www.AfterTheHarvest.org. In 2012, we During the rainy season, many coffee-growing comhope to participate in additional screenings and munities struggle with los meses flacos — the “thin film festivals. To reach a broader audience, we are months” between harvests when money and food are making the film and related food-security resources scarce. Families often cope with hunger by eating less, available in Spanish on the film’s web site. buying cheaper and less healthy foods, or borrowing against future earnings to make ends meet. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 16 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Food-Security Support within Supply-Chain Communities Working To Impact Impact Creating A Resources Families Individuals Total Committed in Fiscal 2008 $435,397 876 5,256 Total Committed in Fiscal 2009 $1,314,866 2,889 16,681 Total Committed in Fiscal 2010 $3,936,432 17,035 88,161 Total Committed in Fiscal 2011 $8,624,970 19,062 96,371 Total $14,311,665 39,862 206,469 When we learned about the thin months, while exama new livestock project that ining the social challenges in our supply chain in fiscal builds on a USAID program to 2007, we began to re-evaluate our criteria for makintroduce goat milk as a muching grants in coffee-growing communities. Today, this needed source of animal proissue fuels our deep and vested interest in reducing tein for children. This project hunger in coffee-growing regions worldwide. will improve goat breeding and increase milk production, offerFor several years, we have worked with our partners to ing more children nutritious address seasonal hunger by supporting “food-secufood while enabling the surrity” projects at the household level — that is, projplus to be sold to a new goat ects that help farmers grow or have the means to buy processing center for income. sufficient, nutritious food on a day-to-day basis. In fisThis three-year project will help cal 2011, we scaled our support toward many larger, about 2,200 families. multi-national programs managed by nongovernmenwww.SaveTheChildren.org tal organizations (NGOs). We provided grants for 20 programs in 11 countries, which, in this year alone We continued to fund Catholic helped approximately 96,371 people gain more reliRelief Services, the official able access to healthy food. From fiscal 2008 to fiscal international humanitarian agency of the Catholic com2011, we funded 36 food-security programs, increasmunity in the United States to assist the poor and vuling the number of families involved in the programs nerable populations overseas. We funded an extension from 876 to more than 19,000, helping approximately of our project in East Africa that focuses on improving 206,000 people to date. Below are highlights of our food security and agricultural production, along with contributions in fiscal 2011 aimed at improving the income diversification and financial education. In total, well-being of suppliers. this project will aid about 7,916 households in Kenya, Rwanda, and Ethiopia. In addition, we initiated a threeWe continued our support for food security programs year project with parallel goals in Central America that run by Save the Children, an organization focused on will serve approximately 3,200 families in Nicaragua, improving the health, education, and economic opporGuatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. www.CRS.org tunities of children and families around the world. In addition to supporting existing multi-year projWe also supported four projects run by Heifer ects in Bolivia, Sumatra, Honduras, and Nicaragua, International, an organization that works to end hunwe also initiated two new projects in Nicaragua and ger and poverty in communities through sustainable Guatemala. In Nicaragua, we broadened the scope of agriculture initiatives and education. Our funding in our project to include 1,150 participating families in an fiscal 2011 helped approximately 4,140 families via initiative that promotes healthy eating, more diverse programs aimed at improving food security and liveliand space-efficient household gardens, and better hoods in communities in Peru, Guatemala, Honduras, food storage techniques. In Guatemala, we funded and Mexico. www.Heifer.org GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 17 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Focus on Guatemala Building De Products Guatemala is among the top coffee-growing nations security is promoting education and economic develWorking To in the world, but more than half the country’s people opment in coffee-growing communities. As a result, live below the national poverty line1 and almost one in we expanded our partnership in fiscal 2011 with The Creating A two people suffers from persistent malnourishment.2 Coffee Trust to support a five-year project run by During Guatemala’s civil war (1960–1996), many Fundacion Ixil and other local NGOs that is aimed at rural communities, including those in coffee-growing improving the lives of farmers and their families. This regions, were ravaged and thousands of civilians were project will focus on strengthening local community killed. Though the population has rebounded, opporresources and diversifying local economies by providtunities for education or employment are still scarce. ing access to microcredit, financial literacy, community As a result of the country’s economic conditions, development, health care through traditional medimany of its people face serious food and clean water cine and medicinal herbs, food security resources, and challenges. educational opportunities for middle school through university students. www.CoffeeTrust.org and Solving these complex issues in Guatemala will www.FundacionIxil.org not be a quick fix, but there is reason for optimism. Guatemala’s climate is suitable for many types of agriIn addition, we also backed a Guatemalan coffee culture and in many areas is ideal for growing coffee, cooperative-led project that will build an organic biowhich gives residents the opportunity to grow their fertilizer plant. Our grant will not only support conown food and generate income from agriculture. struction of the facility, but also provide startup funding for the necessary staffing and training for the farmers. Because Guatemala is one of our top coffee suppliers This project is designed to improve coffee yield and and has one of the highest levels of food insecurity in economic development in the community, while prothe Western Hemisphere, Guatemalan-based projects viding resources that promote organic agriculture. were one of our top recipients of grant funding in fiscal 2011. The challenges in Guatemala are diverse and far-reaching, so we support a range of complementary programs offered by organizations working to make a difference in local communities throughout the country. Our continued support of Heifer International and its new project in Huehuetenango, Guatemala, is a prime example of our work in the region. Heifer International’s projects help families improve their nutrition and generate income in sustainable ways. The organization’s unique model includes “Passing on the Gift,” which motivates families who receive livestock and training to become donors as they pass on these gifts to other families in need. The animals serve as “living loans” because in exchange for their livestock and training, families agree to give one of its animal’s offspring to another family in need. The Guatemalan project will address a variety of issues including generating income from livestock, establishing family gardens, nutrition education, and watershed management. In total, it will reach 1,050 families over the next five years. Working with our supply-chain partners has taught us that an important component in improving food 1) U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, 2012. www.cia.gov 2) USAID. 2012. www.usaid.gov GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 18 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Supply-Chain Projects Supply-Chain Projects funded in Fiscal 2011 Building De Products by Outreach Area in Fiscal 2011 Working To El Salvador Environmental Colombia Creating A 3% Stewardship USA Education Tanzania 10% Economic Sumatra Development Rwanda 11% Peru 4% Water Nicaragua 61% 1% Other Mexico Food Security Kenya 11% Health Honduras Guatemala Ethiopia Brazil Bolivia $.5m $1m $1.5m $2m where we buy coffee Guatemala El Salvador Honduras Nicaragua Vietnam Mexico Costa Rica Hawaii Panama Colombia Uganda Ethiopia Papua New Guinea Ecuador Rwanda Kenya Tanzania Sumatra Peru Brazil Burundi Java Malawi Bolivia GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 19 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De In fiscal 2011, we also continued our support of Products Pueblo a Pueblo, a nonprofit whose mission is to Working To empower indigenous Guatemalans to improve their quality of life through literacy, health, and nutrition Creating A education. Our funding supported a project that teaches children about organic gardening and nutrition. The food they grow will be used to supplement school lunches, and our funding will also support the current school lunch programs in three schools. www.PuebloAPueblo.org We believe investing in opportunities for younger generations is vital to addressing the root causes of social and economic challenges. In fiscal 2011 we continued our support of a three-year mentorship program offered by Starfish One by One, an organization focused on opening up educational opportunities for rural, Mayan adolescent girls in Guatemala. www.StarfishOneByOne.org be able to develop a project to bring potable water Spotlight On Water and drip irrigation to the initiatives that improve food Water is essential to the health and prosperity of comsecurity in the homes, schools, and communities of munities. Our work on water issues has risen from small farmers in Nicaragua. www.ciiasdenic.net two particular needs in coffee-growing communities: access to clean drinking water, which supports good Sustainable Harvest Coffee Importers uses the “relahealth and nutrition; and consistent availability of water tionship coffee model” to bring partners together for for irrigation, which supports local food and coffee mutual benefit by integrating coffee sourcing and production. importing with farmer training and community development. We funded a water management and foodIn fiscal 2010, we set a goal to fund at least two water security program in Tanzania with this company in projects in fiscal 2011. We met that goal by backing fiscal 2011. The program is working with 500 famithree new water projects in Nicaragua (2) and Tanzania lies to help test and improve drip irrigation technolo(1), while continuing to support multi-year projects gies, while looking at new ways to improve community addressing clean water access in Peru, Nicaragua, water-resource management and support dry-season and Guatemala. vegetable production in coffee-growing communities. The knowledge gained from this process will be used A global nonprofit, Water For People brings together to design an irrigation model, so local farmers can scale local entrepreneurs, civil society, governments, and water use to fit the season. www.SustainableHarvest.com communities to create solutions that allow people to build and maintain their own reliable improved water Over the past two years, our support of various foodsystems. We backed a Water For People project in security and water projects has helped us learn about Nicaragua that will provide potable water and hygiene solutions for clean water and water filtration in our supresources to six communities in Wiwili, Nicaragua. ply-chain communities. We will continue to refine our Water For People places a strong emphasis on susapproach with the aim of better identifying local water tainable systems by building capacity of local water needs and reaching more families in fiscal 2012. committees and monitoring their projects for 10 years after they are complete. www.WaterForPeople.org Our efforts will reflect our company’s commitment to the GMCR policy on the Human Right to Water, Also in Nicaragua, we funded a project with CIIincluding every person’s right to safe, accessible, and ASDENIC, a Nicaraguan NGO focused on addressaffordable water. In fiscal 2011, we implemented this ing economic, environmental, social, and educational corporate policy, which is discussed in the challenges of communities. With our support, they will Working Together for Change section. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 20 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Creating A Health, Education, and screened, more than 400 received same-day treatment Economic Development for pre-cancerous lesions. www.groundsforhealth.org Health, education, and economic development are essential elements of self-sufficient, productive comWhile Rwanda’s child mortality rate has improved munities. In fiscal 2011, we provided support to orgain the past few years, approximately one in ten nizations working in coffee-growing communities Rwandan children still does not reach their fifth birthfocused on each of these vital issues. The following day. We funded a new project that continues our supsections offer some examples of this work. port of a Medicines for Humanity initiative aimed at saving the lives of Rwandan children. The organizaHealth tion’s four-year Child Survival Project will help train A healthy community is the foundation for a thriving community health workers. It will also work to identify community, and we fund projects that provide famiand aid malnourished children and pregnant mothlies in supply-chain communities improved access to ers by supplying them with food, water purification health care services and education. products, and health education. In fiscal 2011, GMCR received the Medicines for Humanity Humanitarian of In Mexico, we supported a Partners In Health prothe Year award, recognizing that “GMCR has estabgram designed to revitalize rural health care clinics in lished a global footprint of caring and demonstrated the southern mountains of Chiapas. The program will proactive concern for the well-being of the world’s help provide remote communities with a full range of neediest children.3” www.MedicinesForHumanity.org quality primary health care services that are both permanent and reliable. It will also serve to train commuOur grant funding also assisted HELPS International, nity health workers and promote preventative methods an organization focused on improving health care, for common diseases. www.pih.org education, community and economic development, and agricultural innovations in order to better the qualWe also funded the efforts of Grounds for Health, a ity of life of indigenous people in Latin America. In fisnonprofit organization that works with coffee coopcal 2011, we funded the provision of HELPS’ ONIL eratives to improve cervical cancer prevention and stoves and water filtration equipment for 170 families treatment services in coffee-growing communities in Guatemala and Nicaragua. These enhanced housein Mexico, Nicaragua, and Tanzania. Our support in hold products are designed to improve air quality and 2010 and 2011 helped more than 4,000 women get cooking safety, as well as reduce firewood consumpscreened for cervical cancer at three program sites tion by up to 70%. www.HelpsIntl.org by training local providers in the low-cost, effective screen-and-treat methodology. Of the women 3) http://investor.gmcr.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=606697. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 21 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Creating A Economic Development Small business owners everywhere need to underDuring fiscal 2011 we also began a project with Mercy stand how to raise capital and run a business, and Corps, which is dedicated to alleviating suffering, povcoffee farmers are no different. The success of smallerty, and oppression by helping people build secure, holder farms and entrepreneurial ventures in coffeeproductive, and just communities. We are supportgrowing communities depends on sound financial ing the organization’s work to improve financial literacy planning and access to financial services. and promote better health in Indonesian coffee-growing communities. Through Mercy Corps’ integrated That is why we support organizations like Root approach, households learn how to increase their savCapital, a nonprofit social investment organization that ings, access credit, and better manage their finances, provides education and financial services for grassas well as practice behaviors that promote better roots businesses in developing countries. In 2006, health and well-being like exclusive breastfeeding. This with support from GMCR, Root Capital launched project is expected to benefit 3,000 families, repreFinancial Advisory Services (FAS) to deliver finansenting approximately 18,000 people, over three years. cial training to rural enterprises. Since then, FAS has www.MercyCorps.org successfully strengthened the financial management capacity of nearly 190 producer organizations. These In addition to our efforts focused on diversifying liveliengagements have confirmed that rural business leadhoods and stimulating income generation, we support ers, when equipped with sound financial manageinitiatives with coffee cooperatives that seek to maximent practices and processes, are better positioned to mize earnings from coffee. For the farmers in our supaccess credit, compete in the marketplace, grow their ply chain, coffee is often their only source of income enterprises, and support improved livelihoods for farm and we seek to improve their financial success by households. supporting agronomy extension services and training programs. During fiscal 2011, we continued our support of Root Capital to provide financial training to 30 coffee coopFor example, we initiated a project focused on agriculeratives in Central America and Peru. Included in this ture with a Colombian cooperative in fiscal 2011. This was a newly funded Root Capital program, called Root project will help farmers maximize yields and income Link, which will bolster internal credit programs for 12 through workshops about organic agriculture and coffee cooperative partners in Central America. These food production, agronomy training for farmers, and internal credit programs provide loans to farmers and the development of a technical assistance manual for their families to help them purchase food and farming members of the cooperative. equipment and to fund income diversification efforts. About 8,000 to 9,000 smallholder farmers will directly benefit from this program. www.RootCapital.org GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 22 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Creating A Education We support programs promoting education and youth leadership in coffee-growing communities. Helping young people get an education can lead to economic COFFEE KIDS opportunities, create jobs, and fuel entrepreneurship Our support will provide more that improves the prosperity of local communities. than 1,100 scholarships over four For example, we funded a program offered by Coffee years to students in northern Kids, an organization working to improve the lives and livelihoods of coffee-growing families through educaNicaragua. tion, health care, economic diversification, food security, and capacity building. Our support will provide more than 1,100 scholarships over four years to students in northern Nicaragua. In fiscal 2010, the program’s first year, 170 scholarships were funded; in fiscal 2011 we funded 436; in year three we will fund building, the development of fruit tree nurseries, and 238; and in year four 258. www.CoffeeKids.org community food festivals and campaigns promoting nutrition and sustainable agriculture. In addition, CAN We also backed efforts by Community Agroecology promotes local and sustainable practices at the farm Network (CAN) to support youth leadership initialevel by supporting on-the-farm technical assistance, tives focused on increasing sustainable food producfarmer exchanges, and the planting of fruit trees, while tion in and around Huatusco, Mexico, and San Ramon, building an international network of community youth Nicaragua. This project will work to foster communityleaders working on these efforts. www.CanUnite.org based sustainable food production and healthy consumption cultures by creating school, community, and family gardens. It will also help support youth capacity GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 23 SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES omestic Grantmaking, D Volunteering, and Donations As our business grows, we are refining how we support local communities to make a greater impact on urgent social and environmental issues. During fiscal 2011 we continued to build on a redesigned strategic focus for all programs that began in fiscal 2010. Our approach allows us to engage employees more effectively and position ourselves for making meaningful contributions to our employees, our brands, and the communities where we live and work. We began expanding these program initiatives to all employee sites in the United States and Canada in fiscal 2011 and will continue these efforts in fiscal 2012. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 24 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Where We’ve Been 2011 Creating A in Fiscal The total value of grants and donated We evolved our brand-inspired grantproducts we made in the United States making program into our Signature Cause and Toronto, Canada, exceeded $2.96 milprogram, with specific emphasis on suplion in fiscal 2011. porting the Green Mountain Coffee® and Tully’s Coffee® brands in fiscal 2011. We continued to grow our employee community grantmaking programs via Through our employee volunteerism locally focused teams that promote strong programs, we contributed more than local systems, environmental stewardship, 29,000 hours of volunteer time, an increase and economic prosperity. of nearly 100% from fiscal 2010. Where We’Re going in Fiscal 2012 We will fully implement our Employee We will begin to implement a more tarCommunity grant program at all U.S. geted approach to product donations that sites, and introduce the program to our develop and support specific long-term new Windsor, Virginia, site. We will also partnerships. work with our Canadian Business Unit (CBU) to begin implementing the proOur Tully’s® and Green Mountain Cofgram at sites in Canada. fee® brands will continue to expand their Signature Cause initiatives, and we will We plan to increase employee participabegin developing signature causes for our tion in our Community Action For EmKeurig® and Van Houtte® brands. ployees (CAFE) programs at all sites and launch the CAFE and Dollars-for-Doers programs at sites across the CBU. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 25 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Fiscal 2011 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Working To Grantmaking Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Creating A Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs (dollars in thousands) $3,666 $6,931 $15,155 Total resources allocated to social and environmental programs as a percentage of pre-tax income 5.2%2 5.2% 5.0% Total cash contributions (dollars in thousands) $2,686 $5,946 $12,133 Total grant / matching donation dollars to local communities (in thousands) $973 $1,703 $1,248 Employee Volunteerism Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 # of Employees volunteering through CAFE Time 770 1,126 2,015 # of Employees volunteering through Dollars-For-Doers Program 26 26 29 Total employees volunteering time through workplace volunteerism programs 796 1,152 2,0183 Hours volunteered through CAFE Time 9,331 14,878 29,861 Hours volunteered through Dollars-For-Doers Program 650 650 725 Total hours volunteered through workplace volunteerism programs 9,981 15,528 30,586 Average Number Full-Time Employees4 1343 2,103 3,443 Employees volunteering through workplace volunteerism programs as a percentage of average 59.3% 54.8% 59.4% full-time employees Average hours volunteered per full-time employee4 7.4 7.4 8.9 Dollars allocated to CAFE Time volunteer program $218,909 $354,554 $655,336 Dollars allocated to Dollars-For-Doers volunteer program $6,500 $6,500 $7,250 Total dollars allocated to workplace volunteerism programs $225,409 $361,054 $663,000 In-Kind Donations Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Donations of products, equipment, and administrative supplies (allocated dollars at cost) $346,267 $630,000 $1,459,000 1) These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 2) One-time litigation settlement payment of $17MM not included to the calculation of resource allocation to social and environmental programs for fiscal 2009. 3) Total is not additive due to employees participating in both CAFE and Dollars-For-Doers Programs. 4) For all references to an average or percentage of employees participating in certain activities, we use an average number of full-time employees within the fiscal year as the denominator in the calculation. We calculate the average number of full-time employees by dividing the sum of the full-time employees at the beginning of the fiscal year and at the end of the fiscal year by two. This differs from the approach taken in our Annual Reports, which utilize total year-end numbers of employees. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 26 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Creating A American Red Cross: Local Disaster Shelter Initiative Tropical Storm Irene caught many rural communities in Vermont and New Hampshire unprepared. The night before the storm, the American Red Cross opened 13 regional shelters, but then received requests from 30 communities for additional, smaller shelters. Due to storm conditions and volRecovering From unteer limitations, the American Red Cross was not Tropical Storm Irene able to assist every community, leaving hundreds of Tropical Storm Irene left a path of destruction across people without adequate housing for the night. the East Coast and New England in August 2011. The storm hit Vermont especially hard. Like many of our The lessons learned from these events prompted neighbors to the south, residents and businesses in Waterbury, Vermont, suffered significant flood damage. our company to support the American Red Cross’ Local Disaster Shelter Initiative. This program will To help local communities respond to the disaster, we help provide communities in Vermont and New contacted a number of emergency service providers Hampshire’s Upper Valley with the resources to in Vermont and Massachusetts to determine where open their own disaster shelters. Our funding will our financial contribution would have the greatest help to buy cots, blankets, lighting, water, and other impact. As a result, we pledged $300,000 to support supplies to establish a self-sufficient shelter for the following relief and recovery efforts: 72 hours. Our support will also go toward training volunteers to help operate the shelters during an American Red Cross of Vermont emergency. and the New Hampshire Valley We donated $200,000 to the American Red Cross This initiative will reach an estimated 132 towns. to support direct emergency relief efforts in Vermont and a project that will assist Vermont communities in All towns in the region are welcome to participate, developing and operating local shelters during future but the Red Cross anticipates about half will do so. disasters. This initiative is important to our company, because we want to ensure the communities where our American Red Cross of Central Massachusetts employees live and work are prepared should disasand American Red Cross of Eastern ter strike again. Massachusetts In Massachusetts, we gave the American Red Cross $50,000 to support emergency relief efforts after Tropical Storm Irene. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 27 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Waterbury Good Neighbor Fund Tribe One/ Working To and Revitalizing Waterbury Knoxville, Tennessee Creating A Our hometown in Vermont experienced signifiWe granted $25,000 to Tribe cant damage from Tropical Storm Irene. We donated One, which partners with the $50,000 directed toward Waterbury recovery efforts. Children’s Defense Fund and Two local organizations, the Waterbury Good local organizations to provide Neighbor Fund and Revitalizing Waterbury, received life-enriching programs for chilthese funds to directly support community members dren in disadvantaged commuand businesses that were affected by flooding. nities. This grant is being used for a reading program and an In the days and weeks following the storm, many of urban garden program, where our employees in Vermont volunteered for relief projeach child will learn how to ects. Employees were involved in cleanup efforts in grow and cook fresh produce. Waterbury and surrounding areas, helping to remove www.TribeOne.com mud, salvage belongings, and rebuild homes and businesses that were inundated by flood waters. In The Food Project/Reading, addition to volunteer efforts, the company provided Massachusetts financial assistance, insurance counseling, and essenThe Food Project’s mission is tial supplies to employees who were directly affected helping youth and adults from by the storm, and worked with local organizations to diverse backgrounds learn ensure that employees had access to housing. how to work together to create sustainable food systems. We held a concert in Burlington to benefit flood vicWe pledged $15,000 to suptims and highlight organizations that were involved port an urban agriculture prowith relief efforts. Proceeds from the event benefited gram, which provides a platform the Vermont Foodbank. for local educational and youth development programs. Employee Community Grants wwwTheFoodProject.org Because our employees understand their communities and their needs firsthand, we empower them to Facing the Future/ make a difference through our Employee Community Sumner, Washington Grants. To guide grantmaking decisions, employees The primary goal of Facing the at each of our major locations in the United States Future is to engage students and Canada work with leaders in their local commuin learning by making academnities to identify and bring resources to their most ics relevant to their lives. We pressing social and environmental issues. Total conpledged $20,000 to provide tributions through our Employee Community Grants teacher training and curriculum were $1,179,953 for fiscal 2011. resources to educators as they help more than 50,000 students The following are representative Employee Community to succeed in school, underGrants from each of our sites in fiscal 2011. stand complex sustainability issues, and engage in positive Rancho Cielo Youth Campus/ action to build healthy, sustainCastroville, California able communities. The Rancho Cielo Youth Campus’ mission is to www.FacingTheFuture.org deliver programs and services that inspire at-risk youth to learn new skills and build self-confidence. Our grant of $25,000 is assisting their Drummond Culinary Academy program, which is aimed at helping youth transform their lives through learning new skills, on-the-job training, and professional mentorship. www.RanchoCieloYC.org GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 28 Partnering Communiti Partnering SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Communiti Protecting Supportingt Building Det Protecting Products Evergreen/Toronto, Canada Building To Working De Products Evergreen’s mission is to bring Creating A Working To communities and nature together for the benefit of both. Creating A We provided $25,000 to support watershed restoration and stewardship projects at Evergreen Brick Works and Downsview Park. www.Evergreen.ca Friends of the Winooski River/Vermont We donated $22,000 to Friends of the Winooski River to support the enhancement of streamside vegetation, which reduces erosion, improves bank stability, and intercepts pollutants; and road-crossing improvements that will improve fish habitat. We also made a parallel grant of $20,000 for this project to the Intervale Center in support of their conservation Save Our Shores Beach Cleanup/ nursery, which provides plants and planting crews for Castroville, California restoration projects in Vermont. Our Castroville facility adopted a beach through Save www.WinooskiRiver.org and www.Intervale.org Our Shores, an organization leading efforts to protect and preserve the Monterey Bay Marine Sanctuary. In fiscal 2011, employees completed cleanups on Volunteerism Sunset Beach as part of the Adopt-a-Beach program. We foster a spirit of volunteerism because it benewww.SaveOurShores.org fits both our business and our employees. For our employees, volunteering offers an opportunity to Ijams Nature Center’s River Rescue/ develop skills, deepen connections with their comKnoxville, Tennessee munities, and feel even better about themselves and Our employees in Knoxville partnered with Ijams their work. As a company, we benefit from happier, Nature Center’s River Rescue to clean up 50 miles more motivated, and more skilled employees with a of shoreline along the Tennessee River. In total, 95 stronger connection to our greater community. employees committed 497 volunteer hours and helped remove 4,600 pounds of trash from two sites Through our CAFE program, employees can spend on the river, including 256 tires and a 400-pound oil up to 52 hours per year volunteering in their commutank. www.Ijams.org nities during customary working hours. Additionally, through our Dollars-For-Doers program, we recogWinooski River Cleanup/Vermont nize employees who volunteer at least 25 hours at Approximately 170 employees participated in the one organization outside of their normal work hours 7th Annual Winooski River Cleanup, which colwith a $250 contribution to that organization on their lected nearly three tons of refuse, 800 tires, and behalf. In fiscal 2011, employees volunteered more almost four tons of metal from a three-mile stretch than 29,000 hours of time in their local communities, of the Winooski River. In fiscal 2011, employees at valued at more than $655,000. our Waterbury site gave almost 740 hours of volunteer time to the event and removed record amounts The following are examples highlighting our employees’ of debris. Our cleanup is one of many that happen service efforts in fiscal 2011. They include events that across the United States as part of the American align with our Employee Community Grant program’s Rivers National River Cleanup® program. We partfocus areas. nered with American Rivers to help our employees learn more about why clean rivers are important. www.AmericanRivers.org/cleanup GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 29 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Other employee volunteer efforts in fiscal 2011 include: Creating A American Red Cross/Knoxville, Tennessee Forty-five employees from our Knoxville site participated in an American Red Cross initiative called Holiday Mail for Heroes. Our employees volunteered their time to make holiday cards for U.S. military service members, their families, and veterans all over the world. In total, the group made 58 cards during the program. www.RedCross.org/support/get-involved/ holiday-mail-for-heroes Food Project/Reading, Massachusetts In the greater Boston area, 50 employees volunteered at four different sites to help the Food Project, an organization we also supported through grant funding in fiscal 2011. This organization’s mission is to help diverse communities work together to build and maintain sustainable food systems. For this project, employees spent two-and-a-half days preparing gardens for planting. www.TheFoodProject.org Northwest Harvest/Sumner, Washington During November and December of fiscal 2011, our employees in western Washington volunteered to support Northwest Harvest, a food bank serving the state of Washington and a recipient of our grant funding in fiscal 2011. The employees helped sort and bag food items during the holiday season, and the Sumner facility donated coffee and volunteers to support the food bank’s efforts during Thanksgiving. Throughout the year, a regular group of employees also volunteered to help organize and distribute food at Northwest Harvest. www.NorthWestHarvest.org Evergreen/Toronto, Canada Employees from the Toronto roasting plant spent eight hours planting and mulching trees in Toronto’s Downsview Park to help Evergreen, a nonprofit organization that also received grant funding from our Grounds for Health/Vermont company in fiscal 2011. The employees’ efforts Employees at our Vermont site donated their time to helped support Evergreen’s mission of connectthe 5th Annual Grounds for Health Car Wash. Their ing urban communities to the natural environment, efforts washing cars, directing traffic, and scoopthrough community stewardship and restoration projing free Ben & Jerry’s ice cream helped bring in more ects, and education. www.Evergreen.ca than $3,000 in donations over four hours. The money raised helped to support Grounds for Health’s mission of improving cervical cancer prevention in coffeegrowing communities. www.GroundsForHealth.org GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 30 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Friends of the Winooski River Creating A  Clean Water & Healthy Rivers, Lakes and Shorelines $22,000 Grant Evergreen Northwest Harvest  Clean Water & Healthy Rivers, Grounds for Health  Sustainable Food Systems Lakes and Shorelines  Youth & Community Support Services $25,000 Grant Sumner, WA vermont Toronto, CAnada Reading, MA 2011 GMCR Grants and Volunteerism Highlights Castroville, CA Knoxville, TN Save Our Shores Beach Cleanup Ijams Nature Center’s River Rescue The Food Project  Clean Water & Healthy Rivers, Lakes  Clean Water & Healthy Rivers,  Sustainable Food Systems and Shorelines Lakes and Shorelines $15,000 Grant Rancho Cielo Youth Campus American Red Cross  Youth & Community Support Services  Youth & Community Support $25,000 Grant Services key Grants Tribe One  Access to Quality Education Volunteerism $25,000 Grant GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 31 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To Creating A Signature Cause Green Mountain Coffee Our growth has made more resources available to Signature Cause expand existing grant programs and strengthen our GMCR is a pioneer in supporting brands’ ties to local communities. In fiscal 2011, we Fair Trade and was the largest purtook a strategic step forward and established the chaser of Fair Trade Certified™ coffee in Signature Cause grant program, which will designate the world in 2010 and 2011.4 Because of the compaa specific cause for select brands in the GMCR famny’s strong, historic connection with this issue, we have ily. This initiative will help focus our continued comchosen Fair Trade to be the Green Mountain Coffee® mitment to social and environmental responsibility, brand’s signature cause. while helping us build brand awareness and equity, strengthen consumer loyalty, and increase sales in To back the brand’s long-term efforts toward its sigkey regions. nature cause, we have partnered with Fair Trade USA to support its Fair Trade Towns and Fair Trade The following are highlights from the Signature Cause Colleges & Universities programs. These programs grant programs we established in fiscal 2011. We organize volunteers in local communities and colwill continue to develop the program and extend it to leges to encourage Fair Trade purchases, and additional brands in the upcoming year. increase consumer understanding of the role Fair Trade products play in fighting poverty and protecting the environment. 4) September 2011 Press Release by Fair Trade USA: http://fairtradeusa.org/press-room GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 32 Partnering Communiti SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Supporting Protecting t Building De Products Working To In fiscal 2011, we pledged $300,000 to support the The GMCR grant helped build four community programs’ efforts, which included the creation of gathering spaces in the greater Seattle–Tacoma, Creating A online outreach tools and digital materials that Fair Washington, metro area. Upon completion, we supTrade organizers can use to increase awareness and ported a series of onsite events to showcase the sales of Fair Trade products. We also supported the projects. In addition, Tully’s Coffee® held a Facebook implementation of Fair Trade procurement policies on campaign to find a community for a Pomegranate college campuses and an evaluation of the impact Center project in 2012. of Fair Trade USA’s outreach efforts. These initiawww.PomegranateCenter.org tives were complemented by a marketing campaign on the Green Mountain Coffee® Facebook page that increased awareness of the brand and Fair Trade, Product Donations and included celebrity messaging, coffee sampling, Product donations are an important part of our comand Fair Trade educational components. pany’s commitment to support local communities. Our product donations program offers coffee and In addition to our program support, we also helped other giveaway packages for community events, raffund Fair Trade USA’s Fair Trade Towns and Fair fles, and auctions. Because of increasing demand for Trade Colleges & Universities National Conference in product donations, we developed an online process Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. To broaden the audience for requesting donations in fiscal 2010 to broaden for the event, we awarded a $5,000 grant to provide the reach of our program and more effectively serve scholarships to students who might otherwise not be organizations. In fiscal 2011 we continued to improve able to attend the conference. www.FairTradeUSA.org and enhance our online donation process to broaden its reach. Looking to fiscal 2012, we plan to impleTully’s Coffee Signature Cause ment a more targeted donation strategy that will help Tully’s Coffee® is developing a signature us develop and support long-term partnerships. cause around community building. In fiscal 2011, Tully’s Coffee® partnered with the nonprofit Pomegranate Center to create a new program that uses the power of community to create positive change. Through an innovative engagement process, the Pomegranate Center inspires and trains community leaders and volEmployee Giving unteers to work together in new ways to design and build dynamic gathering places. These places are We match individual employee envisioned and designed to be a path toward stronger donations 100% up to $1,000 communities. per fiscal year. Overall, GMCR We donated $350,390 to the Pomegranate Center matched $130,134 in employee to help it launch the Taste of Community program. This program is designed to promote contributions in fiscal 2011. Pomegranate Center’s community space development and revitalization efforts through project grants $130,134 for community improvement, social media $90,000 campaigns, a howto toolkit for building $56,900 community spaces, and coffee events. 2009 2010 2011 GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 33 pROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT he rapid growth of our business As we manage the challenges that come with growth, T presents tough challenges as we our environmental priorities remain clear. We continue work to better understand and to focus on decreasing waste sent to landfill, using reduce our impact on the envienergy more responsibly in our coffee production and ronment. Acquisitions and expandistribution facilities, and improving our environmension, new products, and different tal management systems to meet the demands of our processes all affect how we measure, manage, growing business. and report our performance. For example, in fiscal 2011, we formed the Canadian Business Unit Our progress on these priorities is as important to (CBU) following our acquisition of LJVH Holdings strengthening our business as it is to protecting the and its Canadian brands. The CBU includes all Green environment. By developing our environmental manMountain Coffee Roasters, Inc. (GMCR) facilities in agement systems, we are better prepared to meet Canada except for our Toronto plant, which was a regulatory requirements, cut energy use and waste, part of our Specialty Coffee Business Unit (SCBU) for create operational efficiencies, save money, and meet fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2012 will bring a consolidation of our stakeholders’ rising expectations. Our efforts also all Canadian-based operations into a single, unified help promote a healthy planet, which is essential for business unit. the sustainability of our business. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 34 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G Where We’ve Been in Fiscal 2011 We expanded our program for recovWe reduced our energy use metric by ering brewed K-Cup® packs from office 16% at our Knoxville, Tennessee, and by environments in the U.S. to 22 states and 26% at our Sumner, Washington, facilities, redirected the waste from landfill into surpassing each site’s goal of 10%. composting and energy-from-waste uses. We exceeded our targets for waste We processed and recycled 1,106 tons of reduction at two of our SCBU facilities. material from returned Keurig® brewers in Knoxville cut its waste metric by 49% the U.S. that would have otherwise ended (versus its goal of 15%) and Sumner reup in landfills through our pilot Returns duced its waste metric by 37% (versus its Management Initiative. goal of 30%). Where We’Re going in Fiscal 2012 We’ve set goals to reduce our energy We will continue to advance our Enviuse metric at our Castroville, California, ronmental Management Systems for our and Knoxville, Tennessee, facilities by 5% Waterbury production and distribution and 3%, respectively. operations with the ultimate goal of ISO 14001 certification. We plan to reduce our waste sent to landfill metric at our Castroville, KnoxWe anticipate processing 2,000 tons of ville, Sumner, and Vermont facilities by Keurig® brewers for reuse and recycling 2% to 15%, depending on location. through our Returns Management Initiative in the U.S. We are addressing prioritized environmental aspects of our Waterbury operations that we identified in fiscal 2011. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 35 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Fiscal 2011 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Creating A G Waste Fiscal 2009 1, 2 Fiscal 2010 1, 2 Fiscal 2011 1 Solid waste to landfill as a percentage of revenue (tons / $1,000,000) 1.6 1.6 1.2 Energy Fiscal 2009 1, 2 Fiscal 2010 1, 2 Fiscal 2011 1 Direct energy use as a percentage of revenue (therms / $1,000) 3.7 3.2 3.6 Emissions3 Fiscal 2009 1, 2 Fiscal 2010 1, 2 Fiscal 2011 1 Scope 1 direct emissions Enterprise Total (short tons in thousands) 8 14 36 Scope 2 purchased electricity Enterprise Total (short tons in thousands)4 3 Scope 3 indirect emissions Enterprise Total (short tons in thousands) 5 29 52 72 Tons of greenhouse gases emitted and offset (direct and indirect from operations, estimated, 41 66 108 in thousands) 1) Fiscal ‘09 included facilities in TN, VT, and WA. Fiscal ‘10 and ‘11 included faclities in CA, MA, TN, VT, WA, and facilities in Toronto, Ontario. As we have been working across GMCR facilities in the U.S. and Canada, we have encouraged measurement and tracking such that we are able to retroactively include more sites in the reported measurements for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 CSR reporting than we covered in our Annual Report for the same fiscal years. 2) These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 3) GMCR numbers are reflective of our purchases of “forward stream” offsets from NativeEnergy, and we currently track and report carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions only. 4) We offset 100% of estimated emissions from our measured carbon footprint through the voluntary purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates. Consistent with EPA guidance, we began recording zero scope 2 emissions based on purchased offsets in fiscal 2010. 5) Scope 3 emissions include transportation of raw material and finished goods by third-party logistics partners to and from GMCR owned or leased facilities, employee commuting, and corporate travel, which includes reimbursed miles, rental car emissions, and air travel. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 36 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Calculating Energy Use Creating A G We calculate energy use by dividing our total consumption by our nonconsolidated net sales for the fiscal year. This metric helps us compare year-over-year performance as our business evolves and grows. While we report our total energy use for all of GMCR, we also track performance by our business units. They have different operational footprints and associated energy requirements, and our efforts to reduce consumption are managed separately by each business unit. In past reports, we disclosed energy use for our SCBU and KBU. Beginning in fiscal 2011, we are also providing data for our Canadian Business Unit (CBU). See the table below for details. Energy (therms) Specialty Coffee Business Unit Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct energy 1,085,975 1,748,615 3,511,661 Scope 2 purchased electricity 493,429 802,987 1,511,923 Scope 3 indirect energy 884,966 1,432,201 2,135,813 Total therms 2 2,464,370 3,983,804 7,159,397 Normalized energy metric (therms / $1,000 sales)2 5.2 4.3 4.7 Keurig Business Unit3 Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct energy 48,622 43,388 55,625 Scope 2 purchased electricity 29,914 36,191 47,928 Scope 3 indirect energy 238,911 296,943 323,579 Total therms 2 317,447 376,521 427,131 Normalized energy metric (therms / $1,000 sales)2 0.7 0.4 0.3 Canadian Business Unit Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct energy NA NA 1,376,018 Scope 2 purchased electricity NA NA 350,336 Scope 3 indirect energy NA NA 307,606 Total therms2 NA NA 2,033,960 Normalized energy metric (therms / $1,000 sales)2 NA NA 5.3 GMCR (Total of all business units) Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct energy 1,134,597 1,792,003 4,943,304 Scope 2 purchased electricity 523,343 839,178 1,910,187 Scope 3 indirect energy 1,123,877 1,729,144 2,766,998 Total therms 2 2,781,817 4,360,325 9,620,488 Normalized energy metric (therms / consolidated net $1,000 sales)2 3.7 3.2 3.6 1) These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 2) Columns may not total due to rounding. 3) The KBU uses energy to power and heat office space and to fuel corporate travel and employee commuting. The metric does not include the energy used to manufacture our Keurig® single cup brewing systems, which is outsourced. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 37 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog SCBU Energy Use Creating A G Our SCBU accounts for the majority of our energy use. SCBU Energy Use by Facility, In fiscal 2011, total energy consumption by the SCBU Relative to Allocated Sales increased by 4% over 2010, to 4.66 therms per $1,000 of net sales. We attribute this increase to operational Fiscal 2011 Target Fiscal 2011 Actual growth and acquisitions. All Vermont Facilities 0% 3% Knoxville, TN -10% -16% In our 2010 report, we announced we were establishSumner, WA -10% -26% ing an energy consumption baseline for each of our SCBU facilities that we would use to set site-specific Toronto, Canada -10% 2% energy reduction goals for fiscal 2011. The goals are linked to the annual sales allocated to each site. Calculating each site’s operational electricity and fuel use relative to its sales enables us to better track performance and identify and respond to opportunities for improvement. It also allows us to more fully underWhat Is a Therm? stand the impact of outsourcing, pricing, and other A therm is a unit of heat energy equal to 100,000 variables that affect our energy use. British thermal unit (BTU). It is approximately the energy equivalent of burning 100 cubic feet of natWe surpassed our energy reduction goals for our Knoxville and Sumner facilities, but saw energy use ural gas. The average U.S. household uses about rise slightly at our Vermont and Toronto locations rel49,000 therms of natural gas each year.1 ative to allocated sales. Although we partnered with 1) Source: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Efficiency Vermont on energy reduction programs, the addition of new equipment to our Vermont facility increased overall consumption. We attribute the increase in Toronto to higher consumption of natural gas used to roast a greater volume of coffee beans. KBU Energy Use The KBU uses energy to power and heat office space and to fuel corporate travel and employee commuting. Our metric does not include the energy used to manufacture our Keurig® single cup brewing systems, which we outsource. In fiscal 2011, KBU energy use was 0.30 therms per $1,000 of sales, down from 0.40 therms the prior year. CBU Energy Use CBU energy consumption is associated with customer service, coffee roasting, manufacturing, and distribution activities, as well as occupancy of office space. In fiscal 2011, the CBU consumed 5.27 therms per $1,000 of sales. In fiscal 2011, we conducted the first partial energy inventory of our CBU operations. We are building on that work in fiscal 2012 by gathering baseline data that will help set future energy use reduction goals. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 38 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Greenhouse Gas Emissions5 (short tons) 1 Creating A G Specialty Coffee Business Unit Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct emissions (in thousands) 8 14 22 Scope 2 purchased electricity (in thousands) 2 3 Scope 3 indirect emissions (in thousands) 3 21 38 52 Total estimated emissions (in thousands) 4 31 51 73 Keurig Business Unit Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct emissions (in thousands) 0 0 0 Scope 2 purchased electricity (in thousands) 2 1 Scope 3 indirect emissions (in thousands) 3 8 14 18 Total estimated emissions (in thousands) 4 9 15 18 Canadian Business Unit Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct emissions (in thousands) NA NA 14 Scope 2 purchased electricity (in thousands) 2 NA NA Scope 3 indirect emissions (in thousands) 3 NA NA 2 Total estimated emissions (in thousands) 4 NA NA 16 GMCR (Total of all business units) Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Scope 1 direct emissions (in thousands) 8 14 36 Scope 2 purchased electricity (in thousands) 2 3 Scope 3 indirect emissions (in thousands) 3 29 52 72 Total estimated emissions (in thousands) 4 41 66 108 Total offset commitment (as % of emissions) 2 100% 100% 100% 1) GMCR numbers are reflective of our purchases of “forward stream” offsets from NativeEnergy. 2) We offset 100% of estimated emissions from our measured carbon footprint through the voluntary purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates. Consistent with EPA guidance, we began recording zero scope 2 emissions based on purchased offsets in fiscal 2010. 3) Scope 3 emissions include transportation of raw material and finished goods by third-party logistics partners to and from GMCR owned or leased facilities, employee commuting, and corporate travel, which includes reimbursed miles, rental car emissions, and air travel. 4) Columns may not total due to rounding. 5) We currently track and report carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions only. Greenhouse Gas (Ghg) Emissions Because our carbon footprint is linked to our energy to the timing of its acquisition. As defined by the EPA, use, cutting consumption helps reduce GHG emisscope 3 emissions include those from sources not, sions that contribute to climate change. Beyond “owned or directly controlled by the entity but related improving efficiency, we are also pursuing other soluto the entity’s activities.” The emissions captured in tions — such as purchasing carbon offsets and using GMCR’s scope 3 emissions are the transportation of renewable sources of energy — to reduce the GHG raw material and finished goods by third party logistics emissions associated with our operations. partners to and from GMCR owned or leased facilities, employee commuting, and corporate travel, which In fiscal 2011, our total GHG emissions were an estiincludes reimbursed miles, rental car emissions, and mated 108,000 tons.5 This number includes our CBU, air travel. which was not represented in our 2010 emissions due 5) We currently track and report carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions only. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 39 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G Most of our GHG emissions are attributed to the SCBU. In fiscal 2011, its carbon footprint was an estimated 73,000 tons, up from 51,000 tons in fiscal 2010. The jump reflects the dramatic growth of our business and changes in how we manage our operations. Emissions associated with our KBU were 18,000 tons in fiscal 2011. Air travel, employee commuting, and shipping of Keurig® brewers accounted for most of its GHG emissions, representing about 98% of the business unit’s total measured footprint. In fiscal 2011, the CBU conducted its first partial direct GHG emissions inventory of its operations. It calculated an estimated 16,000 tons of emissions for the year. Our goal is to fully quantify the CBU’s environmental impact in fiscal 2012 so it can be more fully represented in GMCR’s environmental performance reporting. All emissions will be accounted for by the purchase of carbon offsets. Renewable Energy And Carbon Offsets We support renewable energy primarily through our GHG emissions offset program, which we launched in fiscal 2003. The program covers the estimated emissions from our production and distribution operations, our offices, delivery fleet, business travel, and comRenewable Energy Certificates muting, as well as direct emissions from the inbound In October 2010, the EPA Green Power and outbound carriers and freight services for which we are charged. Partnership released a draft white paper called the “Environmental Value of Purchasing Renewable We purchase “forward stream” offsets from Energy Certificates Voluntarily.”6 The EPA advised, NativeEnergy (www.NativeEnergy.com) or offsets “An organization buying RECs can claim to be buythat are produced over time (up to 20 years in some ing zero-emission, renewable electricity, which cases). We support wind, biogas, and hydro energy reduces or avoids its indirect emissions from pursources, and specifically buy these forward stream offchased electricity.” The EPA also encourages orgasets because our purchases supply vital upfront fundnizations that purchase RECs voluntarily to express ing. This ensures that our purchases make a difference the RECs’ environmental benefit as a reduction in by enabling new project construction. While these the organization’s carbon footprint. projects reduce emissions as they operate over time, greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are a long-term problem, and helping to build clean infrastructure is an essential part of the solution. 6) See: http://www.epa.gov/greenpower/documents/gpp_basics-recs_voluntary.pdf GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 40 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G For example, we are a charter supporter of a 12.5-megawatt wind farm in Greensburg, Kansas. The town of Greensburg was destroyed by a massive tornado in 2007. We and others have helped make the Onsite Generation of Greensburg wind farm possible by pledging upfront Renewable Energy revenue to help the project meet key financial mileWe invest to produce clean energy onsite. Solar stones. In fiscal 2010, we expanded our role by companels at our Waterbury, Vermont, distribution cenmitting to purchase 240,000 tons of CO2 offsets ter generated more than 87,000 kilowatt-hours (kwh) through fiscal 2012. GMCR purchases more than 50% of energy in fiscal 2011, representing about 8.4% of of the total offsets available through the Greensburg wind farm installation. the facility’s total energy use. Fiscal 2010 was the first full year of operation for the installation, which feaBased on guidance from the United States tures 572 panels. At peak generation on a sunny day, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), fiscal 2010 the solar panels can meet approximately half of the marked the first year we recognized our purchase of facility’s instantaneous demand for power. In addiRenewable Energy Certificates (RECs) as a zero-emistion to generating clean electricity for use in our sion electricity source. In fiscal 2011, we continue to facility, the array also demonstrates the feasibility state our Scope 2 emissions — the emissions generof solar panels for producing power in Vermont. ated in producing the electricity we use — as zero. Waste And Recycling Reducing the waste we produce and send to landfill is a top priority, particularly as our business grows. To make a greater and more immediate impact, we are focusing on site-specific programs. In past reports, we disclosed waste volume data for our SCBU and KBU. Beginning in fiscal 2011, we are also providing data for our CBU, which we acquired in 2010. See our Waste Stream table for details. Our SCBU and CBU generate the bulk of our waste stream. The KBU generates small amounts of waste from office activities. The amount is largely immaterial relative to the volume generated by our manufacturing facilities. In fiscal 2011, we began tracking waste diversion, which is the percentage of total waste kept out of landfill through recycling, composting, and wasteto-energy programs. This metric provides a more complete accounting of our efforts to reduce our environmental impact. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 41 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Waste Stream Creating A G Specialty Coffee Business Unit Fiscal 2009 1,2 Fiscal 2010 1,2 Fiscal 20111 Solid waste composted (tons) 426 651 1,203 Solid waste composted (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 0.90 0.71 0.78 Solid waste recycled (tons) 786 2,396 4,052 Solid waste recycled (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1.66 1.77 2.64 Solid waste to landfill (tons) 749 1,506 2,440 Solid waste to landfill (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1.58 1.64 1.59 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) 1,961 4,553 7,695 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) / 4.13 4.97 5.01 $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales Canadian Business Unit Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 20111 Solid waste composted (tons) NA NA 3 Solid waste composted (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales NA NA 0.01 Solid waste recycled (tons) NA NA 565 Solid waste recycled (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales NA NA 1.46 Solid waste to landfill (tons) NA NA 783 Solid waste to landfill (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales NA NA 2.03 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) NA NA 1,351 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) / NA NA 3.50 $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales GMCR Total Waste Stream Fiscal 2009 1,2 Fiscal 2010 1,2 Fiscal 20111 Solid waste composted (tons) 426 651 1,206 Solid waste composted (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 0.90 0.71 0.45 Solid waste recycled (tons) 786 2,396 4,617 Solid waste recycled (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1.66 1.77 1.74 Solid waste to landfill (tons) 749 1,506 3,223 Solid waste to landfill (tons) / $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1.58 1.64 1.22 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) 1,961 4,553 9,046 Total solid waste (tons composted, recycled, and landfilled) / 4.13 4.97 3.41 $1,000,000 SCBU unconsolidated net sales 1) Fiscal ‘09 included facilities in TN, VT, and WA. Fiscal ‘10 and ‘11 included facilities in CA, MA, TN, VT, WA, and a facility in Toronto, Ontario. As we have been working across GMCR facilities in the U.S. and Canada, we have encouraged measurement and tracking such that we are able to retroactively include more sites in the reported measurements for fiscal years 2010 and 2011 CSR reporting than we covered in our Annual Report for the same fiscal years. 2) These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 42 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G SCBU Waste and Recycling SCBU Waste by Facility, The SCBU sent 2,440 tons of waste to landfill in fiscal Relative to Allocated Sales 2011. Though absolute volume grew as our business expanded, we reduced the waste sent to landfill relaFiscal 2011 Fiscal 2011 Target Actual tive to revenue. The SCBU sent 1.59 tons of waste per All Vermont Facilities -10% 1% $1 million of net sales to landfill, down from 1.64 tons in fiscal 2010. Knoxville, TN -15% -49% Sumner, WA -30% -37% We improved our performance by increasing the volToronto, Canada -50% 2% ume of waste that was recycled and composted. The SCBU recycled 2.64 tons and composted 0.78 tons of waste per $1 million of net sales in fiscal 2011, up from CBU Waste and Recycling 1.77 and 0.71, respectively. In fiscal 2011, the CBU generated 3 tons of waste per $1 million in net sales. This total includes waste As with energy, in fiscal 2011 we began tracking progsent to landfill, as well as waste that was recycled and ress against site-specific waste reduction goals for the composted. SCBU. These goals are based on data we collected in fiscal 2010 and are linked to the allocated sales for each In 2011, the CBU launched a recycling action plan site. We exceeded our waste reduction goals at two at its coffee roasting plant in Montreal to divert more SCBU locations — Knoxville, Tennessee, and Sumner, waste from landfill. The plant now recycles cardboard Washington — but saw slight increases in waste at our boxes and film cores, filter paper scraps, plastic bags three facilities in Vermont and at our Toronto, Canada, and packaging, hard plastic barrels, and metal. The location. See our SCBU Waste table. CBU also launched an upcycling program for burlap bags. For fiscal 2011, the CBU recycled 1.46 tons of waste per $1 million in net sales. Composting was minimal, but the CBU is currently evaluating options for composting coffee bean chaff, the outer layer collected during the roasting process. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 43 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G Energy From Waste Focus On Management Systems Rather than send waste to landfill — where it decomWe took numerous steps in fiscal 2011 to strengthen poses and can be a source of methane, a greenhouse our systems and processes to better manage our envigas — we’re exploring alternatives, such as using ronmental performance. waste to generate energy. Corporate Environmental Policy Update In fiscal 2011, the SCBU plant in Waterbury, Vermont, We revised our corporate environmental policy in fiscal continued a pilot program with Covanta Energy 2011. It was formally adopted by the leadership of the (www.CovantaEnergy.com). The facility diverted 25 SCBU and Vermont operations, and is available on our tons of non-recyclable waste in August and September web site www.gmcr.com/enviropolicy. 2011 to an energy-from-waste (EfW) facility. According to the U.S. EPA, EfW achieves, on average, a net reducOur multi-site Environmental Affairs team led education of 1 ton of GHG emissions as CO2 equivalents, tional initiatives to raise employee awareness of our per ton of municipal solid waste managed.7 In addition, updated corporate environmental policy and our envieach ton of waste processed generates approximately ronmental management systems. It delivered a series 550 kwh of electricity. When evaluated on a lifecycle of presentations underscoring the importance of conbasis, this electrical generation has lower emissions forming to our policy to all employees at our Vermont than coal or oil for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and facilities, and updated and expanded the environmental particulate, and is comparable to natural gas.8 component of our new employee orientation process. 7) U.S. EPA, Air Emissions from MSW Combustion Facilities webpage, accessed June 6, 2012 http://www.epa.gov/osw/nonhaz/municipal/wte/airem.htm 8) Kaplan, P.O, J. DeCarolis, and S. Thorneloe, 2009, Is it better to burn or bury waste for clean electricity generation? Environ. Sci. Technology 43 (6) pp1711-1717. Available at: http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/es802395e GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 44 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Review of Environmental Aspects Addressing The Environmental Creating A G We conducted an in-depth review of the environmenImpact Of Our Keurig® tal aspects of our Waterbury operations in fiscal 2011. Brewing System Our multi-site Environmental Affairs team and memWidespread adoption of the Keurig® single cup brewing bers of the Waterbury production, distribution, and system raises some important — and complex — envifacilities groups categorized and inventoried the activronmental challenges. To better understand the impact ities, products, and services within the control of the of our products and guide our efforts to address those Waterbury facility that have the potential to impact the challenges, we conducted a life cycle analysis comparenvironment or are subject to an environmental coming single cup brewing systems to drip-brewing syspliance requirement. The exercise identified 160 envitems. We learned that the cultivation of coffee beans, ronmental aspects, which we prioritized for action in operation of brewing systems, and use of materials in fiscal 2012 based on frequency and severity of impact, product packaging all represent significant impacts on degree of our control, risk of noncompliance, and the environment. The study revealed that packaging stakeholder concern. disposal represents a fraction of a product’s environmental impact across its entire life cycle. ISO Certification Initiative Late in fiscal 2010, we began a pilot initiative to We take all impacts seriously and are continuously achieve International Organization for Standardization working to reduce our environmental footprint. For (ISO) 14001 certification of the environmental manexample, we recognize that brewed K-Cup® packs agement system in our Waterbury, Vermont, operaadd to the waste stream, and that brewers returned tions site. ISO 14001 certification is a voluntary effort by consumers to retailers must be disposed of to develop a framework for improving environmental responsibly. performance. The standard assists in developing this framework, meeting objectives and goals, and subse9) http://www.epa.gov/region4/ems/glossary.htm quently monitoring and measuring performance. In fiscal 2011, we assembled a steering team representing our Waterbury site and members of the multisite Environmental Affairs team to advance the ISO certification project. The team formally determined the project scope, defined roles and responsibilities, and What is an environmental aspect? identified needed resources. As a result, we plan to An environmental aspect is an element of an orgastaff an Environmental Management System Coordinator nization’s activities, products, or services that can position at our Vermont operations in fiscal 2012 to work interact with the environment.9 There are two types closely with the multi-site Environmental Affairs team and of environmental aspects. A direct environmental help manage the project. aspect includes any activity over which a company can be expected to have an influence and control, for example, emissions from processes. An indirect environmental aspect includes any actual or potential activity over which the organization can be expected to have an influence, but no control. An example of an indirect environmental aspect would be those controlled by the supply chain, or customers. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 45 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G Developing commercially viable solutions that deliver on both our customers’ high expectations for quality and the need to reduce and reclaim waste presents some significant technical and operational challenges. We widened our efforts on both fronts in fiscal 2011 and will continue to invest in research and development and expand our programs in fiscal 2012. Grounds to Grow On™ Program We continue to look for solutions to dispose of brewed Grounds to Grow on™ K-Cup® packs in ways that mitigate the overall enviProgram Availability ronmental impact of the Keurig® single cup brewing system. The materials we currently use to ensure consistency and quality of our K-Cup® packs are not recyclable. While we continue to research and develop earth-friendly packaging solutions that meet our performance requirements, we’re providing alternatives to help customers dispose of their K-Cup® packs responsibly. BC AB The Grounds to Grow On™ program, which we WA SK MB QC NB launched as a pilot in fiscal 2010, allows away-fromMT ND ON ME VT home customers in the U.S. to order recovery bins to MN OR NH WI NY ID SD MA collect K-Cups® packs after use. We currently focus on RI CT WY MI IA PA the office environment because people tend to brew NE NJ NV OH MD IL IN DE UT more K-Cup® packs there than at home. CO WV CA KS VA MO KY NC TN AZ OK AR When bins are full, customers ship them to our disNM SC GA MS AL posal partner, who separates the pack into two parts: TX LA the coffee or tea grounds and everything else. The AK FL grounds — which represent about 75% of the pack HI by weight — are converted into compost. The remaining 25% is sent to a Covanta energy-from-waste facility, where it is turned into renewable energy. (See the Energy from Waste section above.) Customers in 22 states (see map) can purchase recovery bins for their office environment at www.GroundsToGrowOn.com. The bins are made of 75% post-industrial recycled plastic, and have been designed to be used at least 15 times. Customers can return the bins for processing using the pre-affixed label via UPS, which purchases offsets to reduce the CO2 footprint associated with shipping. The Grounds to Grow On™ program processed nearly 1.5 million K-Cup® packs in fiscal 2011 — up from approximately 1.2 million in fiscal 2010 — which yielded more than 31,440 pounds of compost and generated more than 51 total kilowatt-hours. We anticipate expanding the program nationally to all awayfrom-home customers. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 46 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G Returns Management Initiative In fiscal 2011, the Returns Management Initiative proIn fiscal 2011, the KBU launched a Return Management cessed 947 tons of Keurig® brewers that were disInitiative in the U.S. to track and responsibly dispose sembled and separated into materials to be recycled of materials recaptured from returned Keurig® brewers. or ground up for use in manufacturing other products. Based on a pilot described in our fiscal 2010 report, The program also received 159 tons of brewers that were the program enables retail partners to send brewstill functioning but would have otherwise ended up in a ers returned by consumers to qualified facilities for landfill. They were cleaned and reused for displays and responsible disposal of materials. The KBU identified demonstrations to support our marketing efforts. two important reasons for moving from a “destroy in field” policy to a return process: In all, the program diverted 1,106 tons of returned Keurig® brewers from landfills in fiscal 2011, short of 1. Quality evaluation and diagnostic: By processing our goal of 1,700 tons. We attribute the shortfall in part and evaluating returned brewers, we gain a more to longer than expected lead times for adding particrobust analysis and clearer understanding of the ipating retailers to the program. It may also indicate issues that caused the return. that fewer brewers were returned by consumers to retailers for performance issues in fiscal 2011. Return 2. Responsible disposal: Returning brewers to a rates from our retail partners vary widely, both across processing partner ensures proper disposal of and within distribution channels. components. For fiscal 2012, we anticipate reusing and recycling 2,000 tons of brewers through the Returns Management Initiative. All recovered materials are sold for reuse in manufacturing other products. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 47 Supporting PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting t Building De Products Working Tog Creating A G Other Measures To Reduce Impact In addition to our Returns Management Initiative, we are reducing environmental impact of Keurig® single K-Cup® pack Storage Dispenser cup brewing systems in other innovative ways. We strive to increase our use of recycled materials, including use of these materials in brewer accessories. Wise material choice can result in both reduced lifecycle impact as well as cost savings. The Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive is a set of European regulations designed to reduce the potentially harmful or toxic effects of electronic equipment on the waste stream. Although the RoHS directive is not yet mandated in the United States, GMCR has implemented it in all our Keurig® single cup brewing systems. We also have designed our brewers without BPA (Bisphenol A) in the components that come in contact with the water used to brew the beverage. In addition, our K-Cup® packs are BPA-free. Exposure to BPA has A K-Cup® pack Storage Dispenser is available been linked in some studies to negative health effects, that uses 50% recycled materials made from particularly in the development of fetuses, infants, and reground plastics … and yields a 25% cost young children.10 savings per unit, with no visual difference in the product. In addition, to save energy, all of our brewers designed for home use have an auto shut-off feature when not in use. 10) U.S. Food and Drug Administration, www.fda.gov/newsevents/publichealthfocus/ucm064437.htm. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 48 BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS aking sustainable products sucbenefits of products such as Fair Trade Certified™, M cessful depends on their ability to Rainforest Alliance Certified™, and organic coffees, we perform as well as conventional are helping build demand for sustainable products and products, at a competitive price. broaden adoption of sustainable business practices. In a global marketplace that rarely recognizes the full social and enviWe work to increase public awareness of responsironmental costs of products, meeting this mark is an bly grown coffee through certification programs, such ongoing challenge. Yet consumers consistently say as Fair Trade (administered in our markets by Fair they prefer products that are produced in a socially Trade USA and Fairtrade Canada, respectively)11 and and environmentally responsible manner. Rainforest Alliance. Fair Trade is a global movement to alleviate poverty. It provides a fair price to coffee farmIn fact, increasing numbers of consumers are recers for their beans, resulting in high-quality coffee and ognizing the importance — and value — of sustaina higher quality of life in coffee-farming communities. able products. While competitive pricing is important, By choosing Fair Trade products, consumers help to research shows many are willing to pay slightly more protect the environment and improve the lives of farmfor the assurance of a high-quality product that beners around the world. Rainforest Alliance certification efits a larger community and broader economy. (See ensures that farmers grow crops sustainably. sidebar on page 53.) As a result, retail and channel customers buy certified sustainable products We also drive demand for sustainable products because their customers demand it. We believe this through community outreach, consumer education, shift in behavior is being driven, in part, by coordiproduct donations, and other promotional efforts. nated efforts to educate customers and consumers These ongoing programs are integrated throughout about sustainable products. our business, helping us reach more customers while supporting our efforts to deliver high-quality products The convergence of these trends represents a growand build strong relationships in our supply chain. ing opportunity, both for our business and the world. By continuing to increase awareness of the value and 11) Throughout this report, the reference to Fair Trade includes both U.S. and Canadian Fair Trade certifications. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 49 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A Where We’ve Been in Fiscal 2011 Further progress has been made in our With the expansion of our Rainforest efforts to deepen our commitment to shipAlliance Certified™ coffee sales we have ment of certified coffees by increasing broadened our commitment to certified cofour overall percentage of certified coffees fees by an incremental 9,337,000 pounds. shipped from 25% to 28%. At the same time, overall coffee sales increased by 52% to apOur Canadian and Keurig Business proximately 136 million pounds. Fair Trade Units made significant strides in packagCertified™ coffee shipments increased ing reductions through material substitufrom approximately 17 million pounds to tion, reduction of polypropylene use, and over 26 million pounds in fiscal 2011. package redesign. Where We’Re going in Fiscal 2012 To reflect our growing family of brands, Our Timothy’s World Coffee® brand will we expect to set new goals for the volume explore opportunities to work with the of sustainable coffee we sell. Rainforest Alliance to promote the benefits of Rainforest Alliance certification. Our Green Mountain Coffee® and Newman’s Own® Organics brands will work to expand pounds of Fair Trade coffee sold and build awareness of the benefits of the Fair Trade model. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 50 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A Fiscal 2011 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 20111 All Fair Trade Certified™ organic and non-organic lbs. shipped (in thousands) 11,966 17,318 26,4522 Fair Trade Certified non-organic lbs. shipped (in thousands) ™ 3,674 5,433 11,313 Fair Trade Certified organic lbs. shipped (in thousands) ™ 8,292 11,884 15,138 All Rainforest Alliance Certified™ lbs. shipped (in thousands) 345 9,682 Organic (no other certifications) coffee lbs. shipped (in thousands) 50 100 Non-certified coffee lbs. shipped (in thousands) 27,577 52,287 94,597 Enterprise total coffee lbs. shipped (in thousands) 39,543 70,000 130,831 All Fair Trade Certified™ lbs. (organic and non-organic) shipped as a percentage of total lbs. shipped 30.3% 24.7% 20.2% Fair Trade Certified™ lbs. (non-organic) shipped as a percentage of total lbs. shipped 9.3% 7.8% 8.6% Fair Trade Certified organic lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs shipped ™ 21.0% 17.0% 11.6% All Rainforest Alliance Certified™ lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. shipped 0.0% 0.5% 7.4% Organic (no other certifications) coffee lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. shipped 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% Non-certified coffee lbs. shipped as a percentage of total lbs. shipped 69.7% 74.7% 72.3% Enterprise total coffee lbs. sold (in thousands) 39,543 70,000 135,594 1) Starting in fiscal 2011, “shipped” is defined as finished goods that have left possession of GMCR and entered into possession of a customer. Not all shipments result in a “sale” in the same fiscal year. Shipped coffee may also be used for samples, donations, and other non-sale applications. We will be migrating to reporting on a sold-only basis starting in fiscal 2012. 2) This number has been revised to reflect returns, short ships, and other actions that impact actual year-end totals for shipped coffee. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 51 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A Consumer Demand For Sustainable Products Consumers are searching for ways to align their values with their purchases. While energy, food prices, and an uncertain economy are at the top of everyone’s list of concerns, consumers still have high expectations of companies: • 62%: U.S. consumers who say they’ve bought a product or service in the past year because it was associated with a cause or issue • 1/3: U.S. consumers who strongly agree that companies are essential to major social and environmental change • 50%+: U.S. consumers who are willing to pay more for a product certified by an independent 3rd party, such as Fair Trade Promoting Certified Coffees We offer Fair Trade Certified™, Rainforest Alliance • Nearly ½: U.S. consumers who believe companies Certified™, and organic coffees, each of which helps should prioritize issues affecting the quality of life support socially and environmentally responsible farmin local communities12 ing and business practices. • 68%: Canadian consumers who are aware of Fair Trade is an innovative, market-based approach organically grown coffee to sustainability that restores the balance of power between coffee growers and buyers while promot• 54% and 35%: Canadian consumers who are ing social benefits in local communities and protecting aware of and purchased Fair Trade coffee13 the environment. To qualify for Fair Trade certification, farmers must adhere to strict environmental and social standards designed to strengthen communities and • 51% and 34%: U.S. consumers who are aware of protect fragile ecosystems. and purchased Fair Trade coffee14 In support of these efforts, farmers receive a fair price for their beans. As of April 2011, the minimum price paid for Fair Trade Certified™ coffee is $1.40 per pound, with a $0.20 premium per pound earmarked for community development. If the coffee is organic, farmers earn an additional $0.30 per pound.15 The additional income provided by Fair Trade also supports quality improvement 12) 2011 Cone/Echo Global CR Opportunity Study 13) 2011 Coffee Drinking Trends in Canada, Coffee Association of Canada initiatives, enabling farm14) 2010 National Coffee Association’s National Coffee Drinking Trends ers to earn even higher 15) “Fairtrade International Announces Changes to Fair Trade Coffee Minimum Price, prices for their beans. Premiums and Standards,” March 15, 2011. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 52 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A These prices cover the cost of sustainable producRainforest Alliance Certified™ coffees are grown using tion, while increasing local resources for health care methods that help promote and preserve biodiversity, and education, and helping farmers feed their famiconserve scarce natural resources, and help farmlies. Because they get a fair price, small family farmers ers build sustainable lives. The certification standards can grow coffee with respect for their community and guide farmers toward sustainable farm managethe land, avoiding cost-cutting practices that sacrifice ment and provide independent auditors a measure quality and degrade the environment. for evaluating social and environmental improvements. Farms that meet the standards are awarded According to Fair Trade USA, (www.FairTradeUSA.org), the Rainforest Alliance Certified™ seal of approval, 2011 was a record-breaking year for coffee. The which is recognized by consumers globally as a symUnited States imported more than 138 million pounds bol of sustainability. of Fair Trade Certified™ coffee, a 32% increase over 2010. The rise in imports enabled Fair Trade coffee Certified organic coffees are grown and prepared cooperatives to earn $17 million in community develusing methods and materials that have a low impact opment premiums, a jump of 61% from 2010.16 on the environment. Requirements vary from country to country, but in general organic farmers use ecologCanada imported more than 25 million pounds of ically based pest control methods and take steps to Fairtrade Certified coffee in 2011, a 25% increase over minimize soil erosion and promote plant diversity and 2010, according to Fairtrade Canada (www.Fairtrade.ca). wildlife habitats. Organic is often coupled with other As a result, Fair Trade coffee cooperatives earned $4.4 certifications, such as Fair Trade. million in community development premiums, more than 50% higher than in 2010. In fiscal 2011, we shipped 26,452,000 pounds of Fair Trade Certified™ cofThe Rainforest Alliance (www.Rainforest-Alliance.org) fee, up from 17,318,000 pounds is a nonprofit organization working to conserve bioin fiscal 2010 and 9,682,000 diversity and ensure sustainable livelihoods by transpounds of Rainforest Alliance forming land-use practices, business practices, and Certified™ coffees, up from consumer behavior. It links the protection of forests 345,000 pounds in fiscal 2010. to the economic prosperity of local farmers, commuWe also shipped 100,000 nities, and businesses; and ensures workers receive pounds of certified organic proper training and enjoy safe conditions, proper sancoffee, doubling the amount itation, health care, and housing. Farms that meet a shipped from fiscal 2010. comprehensive set of environmental, social and economic standards achieve Rainforest Alliance certi16) “Fair Trade USA and Partners Drive Record Growth fication and gain access to the global markets for in Coffee Imports, Returning $17 Million in Premiums to Farming Communities,” April 13, 2012. sustainably produced goods. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 53 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A How do GMCR certified coffees help to protect the environment? The certification programs that GMCR supports include environmental standards that promote: • Conservation of natural resources • Biodiversity • Responsible land management • Improved soil fertility • Responsible use and handling of agrochemicals • Proper disposal of organic and hazardous waste • Avoidance of genetically Farm Identified Coffee modified organisms We launched our Farm Identified program in 1992 based on a simple idea: When we know who produces our coffee, we are closer to knowing how they produce it. That insight enables us to make more informed purchase decisions as we strive to meet our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. us to ensure high-quality coffee for our customers The Farm Identified program is a cornerstone of our and consumers. It also allows us to weather shifts in sourcing strategy — an alternative to conventional the marketplace without having to compromise our sourcing through the anonymous commodity marhigh standards. And since we are willing to pay more ket. It represents our overall commitment to working for quality, the farms benefit as well. together with our supply-chain partners, and not simply buying from them. In fiscal 2011, 34% of the coffee At the core of our Farm Identified program is the belief we purchased was Farm Identified. A portion of this that greater engagement with our farm partners has a is also certified coffee; other Farm Identified suppliers positive impact on the social and environmental comare at the beginning of their journey to sustainable cofmunities for farm workers, their families, and our comfee production. pany. When we work with our Farm Identified suppliers, we have the opportunity to connect them with the marFarm Identified suppliers are estates and cooperaketplace and assist them as they work toward sustives that produce coffee of the highest quality. When tainability. In this way, our Farm Identified program can the marketplace price for coffee declines, the quality of serve as an incubator, providing coffee-producing orgaconventionally sourced coffee often declines as well. nizations with the support and stability they need to Maintaining relationships with individual farms enables transition to organic production, or to meet the requirements for Fair Trade certification. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 54 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A Conventionally Sourced Coffee Purchasing coffee through the commodity marketplace — otherwise known as conventional sourcing Fair Trade coffee is a leading choice for many con— provides short-term benefits for much of the cofsumers in the United States and Canada. Among fee industry, including us, but the long-term costs can coffee sustainability certifications, Fair Trade is secbe high. With conventional sourcing, we often have litond only to organically grown in terms of overall tle or no knowledge of who produced the coffee, how awareness among coffee drinkers in Canada.17 they produced it, or how much of our purchase price actually reached the producer. Although we are committed to increasing our purchases of sustainably produced coffee, we compete with many companies that are not. We must con17) 2011 Coffee Drinking Trends in Canada, Coffee Association of Canada. tinue to source coffee in a way that keeps us competitive economically, while advocating for changes in the global system that the entire coffee industry supports. By working with others who share our commitment to In fiscal 2011, about 58.2% of our coffee was sourced sustainability, we can address social and environmenconventionally, down from 62.5% in the previous year. tal issues fairly and effectively, helping to break the This drop reflects our ongoing efforts to expand our cycle of poverty, injustice, and environmental degradaFair Trade Certified™, Fair Trade Certified™ organic, and tion in our industry. Rainforest Alliance Certified™ lines, as well as reduce the share of conventional sourcing in our total coffee purchases. Our Specialty Coffee Business Unit is aiming to source 50% of coffee from Farm Identified and/or GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 55 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A certified sources by 2015. Promoting Sustainability Through Public Awareness And Education We look for opportunities to share what we know and what we do to promote social and environmental sustainability with a wider public audience. We provide educational opportunities for our employees and the members of our supply chain, and work to increase awareness and adoption of sustainable products among consumers and customers. We also educate consumers by increasing awareness of how Fair Trade products can help advance social justice and protect the environment. For example, in fiscal 2011 we made a grant of $300,000 to Fair Trade USA (FTUSA). The funds supported the first national Fair Trade Towns & Universities conference, as well as a range of programs that support Fair Trade campaigns in local communities and on campuses. The grant also helped FTUSA develop online tools and digital media to expand consumer outreach efforts, which we augmented through a joint GMCR/FTUSA online marketing campaign. In Canada, our Van Houtte® brand participated in Fair Trade Fortnight, a national two-week celebration in May organized by Fairtrade Canada, a nonprofit certification organization. We promoted the event through print and online advertising, supported a fundraiser for a Mexican Fair Trade co-operative in participating retail stores in Western Canada, and donated Fairtrade GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 56 Protecting t BUILDING DEMAND FOR SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Building De Products Working To Creating A certified coffee to the cause. Developing Sustainable Cups And Product Packaging Improving the environmental performance of our packOur Keurig Business Unit also made progress in fisaging supports our commitment to sustainability and cal 2011 by cutting packaging both for brewers and enables our customers to reduce their environmenK-Cup® packs: tal impact. One of our early milestones in the U.S. was the ecotainer® product, the coffee industry’s first to-go, • We began using pulp mold trays made of 100% hot beverage cup made with paper and biopolymers in recycled materials in place of Styrofoam for our place of petroleum-based products. We collaborated K-Cup™ pack storage dispenser and Keurig® B31 with International Paper to develop and bring the ecobrewer. tainer® product to market in 2007. • We reduced the size for the 18-count K-Cup® pack Finding more environmentally friendly approaches to box by 30% and redesigned packaging to fit more our cup and product packaging remains a priority. brewers in the same amount of space. We also continue to look beyond our own organization for answers. We are a member of the Sustainable • We added cutouts to Styrofoam packaging for Packaging Coalition® (SPC), an industry working group products bound for club stores, which allows more striving to create a true closed-loop system for all materials to be packed in fewer boxes. packaging. • We conserved paper by reducing instruction bookOur Canadian Business Unit made headway in reduclets packaged with our brewers by five pages. ing packaging during fiscal 2011. The Van Houtte® brand transitioned to film material for pouches offered by our coffee services and café-bistros that uses 24% and 36% less polymer-based materials than previous packaging. Van Houtte® also improved packaging for coffee sold in bulk in Canada. By removing one layer of oriented polypropylene from our bulk bag, we reduced the use of polypropylene by 55%. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 57 WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE any of our efforts to promote and M advance sustainability demonstrate our belief that individuals, companies, communities, and organizations can achieve more working together than apart. Sharing ideas and perspectives, developing joint guidelines, and collaborating on solutions create opportunities for everyone involved to benefit. With this in mind, we build strong ongoing relationships with farmers, suppliers, and manufacturers throughout our global supply chain. We seek out the opinions of our employees, and provide benefits and programs that attract and retain the best people. We reach out to local organizations through our grantmaking, volunteer, and product-donation programs. These efforts not only help keep us connected to communities where we live and work in meaningful ways, but they also fuel the success of our company. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 58 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A Where We’ve Been in Fiscal 2011 We completed a benchmarking study of supply-chain transparency best practices. We formally committed to uphold the United Nations’ Human Right to Water through the development and communication of a GMCR policy addressing safety, sufficiency, acceptability, transparency, and physical accessibility. Where We’Re going in Fiscal 2012 We will strengthen and expand our current supply-chain transparency program to be more comprehensive and help suppliers develop capabilities to actively participate in the program. We will identify partners to help us develop effective programs that support our policy on the Human Right to Water. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 59 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A Transparency In Our Manufacturing Supply Chain 3. Gather more data from suppliers to better assess In fiscal 2011, we completed a benchmarking study to progress and refine our approach. identify best practices in supply-chain transparency. Drawing on research as well as interviews, the study We have begun implementing these recommendaprovided insights into how to better communicate tions in fiscal 2012, and expect our efforts to continue our social and environmental expectations to suppliinto fiscal 2013. Our aim is to create a comprehensive ers. It affirmed that we must continue to keep supplisupply-chain transparency program that aligns with ers informed about relevant trends and public policy the size, culture, and complexity of our company and changes so they can take proactive measures. enhances our community outreach efforts. The study underscored the importance of sharing We are building out this program using tools and proknowledge we gain through supplier assessments cesses that deepen engagement with current suppliers to drive wider improvements in our supply chain and and orient new suppliers. These tools and processes align with our own community outreach initiatives. It include: also revealed the benefits of recognizing suppliers’ use of best practices and efforts to be more transparent. • Supplier Guidelines that outline our commitment Ensuring ongoing sharing of information helps create to high standards on human rights, labor, and the collaborative and trusted relationships with our supplienvironment, as well as supplier expectations for ers, enabling continuous improvement. meeting those standards; The study yielded three key recommendations: • Self-assessment questionnaires, which we have requested our suppliers complete since fiscal 2008; 1. Strategically embed supply-chain management expertise across the enterprise. • On-site assessments conducted by our staff, in cooperation with supplier management; 2. Evaluate, expand, and share clear expectations with suppliers and develop training and tools cus• Assessments of supplier facilities performed by an tomized to supplier needs. independent third party. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 60 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A In simplest terms, our Supplier Guidelines advance the following principles: • Businesses should work to understand and follow the laws that govern their operations. • No person should be forced to perform work against his or her will. • Children should be protected from harmful labor and be given the opportunity for healthy development. • Employees should be paid a fair wage that meets their basic needs. GMCR works with an extensive supplier network — • Hours of work should be limited to provide workers and the number of our suppliers continues to increase with an adequate opportunity for rest and leisure. as our business grows. In response, we are implementing improved supply-chain management prac• Workers and management should work together in tices across our enterprise. Our approach is to build open communication and cooperation to improve collaborative relationships that inspire both our supworking conditions. pliers and GMCR to improve social and environmental performance and address industry and regional • All employees should be treated with dignity, challenges. equality, and respect. • Operations should be conducted in a manner that For the KBU, we regularly interact with our key supplirespects the health and safety of employees and ers and contract manufacturers of Keurig® brewers to communities. discuss and evaluate a wide range of social and environmental topics. With each key supplier, we prioritize • Businesses should incorporate environmental topics for immediate focus and additional evaluation to sustainability into their operations. assist them in improving their practices. Our approach to the SCBU and CBU supply chains is similar to that of the KBU, but encompasses agriculWe are committed to: tural suppliers who provide products such as coffee, • Explaining the expectations embodied in these tea, and fruit. We are working with each business unit guidelines. to better understand their respective value chains and find ways to improve practices. We also rely on certi• Making appropriate efforts to evaluate supplier fications in our coffee supply chain to provide greater performance in light of these guidelines, through transparency. communication with our suppliers, on-site visits by our staff, and/or independent third-party We use a self-assessment questionnaire to begin a assessments. dialogue with our suppliers, learn more about their operations, and identify their successes and chal• Engaging suppliers to discover causes and implelenges as corporate citizens. The questionnaire is ment solutions when we discover actual perforbased on our Supplier Guidelines, and asks supplimance falling short of these guidelines. ers to describe their practices regarding employment • Communicating our progress with openness and contracts, legal minimum wage and age requiretransparency, and evolving these guidelines as ments in locations where they operate, benefits, hours we learn. of work, worker policies around freedom of association, discrimination and abuse, health and safety, and • Showing leadership in our own accountability to environment. these guidelines. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 61 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A In fiscal 2011, SCBU suppliers completed 25 selfIn our KBU supply chain, we completed three comassessments, for a total of 53 since fiscal 2008. KBU prehensive, third-party assessments with contracted suppliers completed 10 self-assessments in fiscal brewer manufacturers, which represent a significant 2011, bringing the total to 12 since fiscal 2008. We portion of the business unit’s total spend. This includes have used the information collected from suppliers all manufacturers currently producing Keurig® brewto understand trends related to sustainable business ers as well as potential suppliers. We have completed practices in a particular region. With a baseline underfive comprehensive, third-party assessments since fisstanding of trends, we are using this data to tailor procal 2008. In fiscal 2011, we completed 12 on-site supcedures and identify training needs and outreach plier assessments. opportunities. Priorities for 2012 A self-assessment is a vital first step. GMCR staff Our focus in fiscal 2012 is to continue to strengthen also conducts on-site assessments to gain a deeper and expand our supply-chain transparency program. understanding of supplier social and environmenOur goals are twofold. First, we must build our own tal practices. On-site assessments allow us to engage capacity. And second, we need to help our suppliers with management, tour facilities, review key policies strengthen their capabilities to actively participate. and records, and, when applicable, visit areas where workers live, dine, and gather during their days off. To meet those goals, we will begin development of a Suppliers have been receptive to our visits and open responsible sourcing training curriculum in fiscal 2012 to working with us to build a strong foundation for for GMCR employees directly responsible for supplycollaboration. chain management (to be implemented in fiscal 2013). We plan to increase the number of supplier assessTo generate even greater insight, we also arrange for ments, identify additional partners to perform comcomprehensive, third-party assessments of suppliers, prehensive assessments, and support community when appropriate. Armed with this level of detail, we outreach programs where possible. can work closely with individual suppliers to develop and implement an action plan to address gaps or We are also looking to expand the scope of our supplier areas of risk. assessments, further examine industry and regional issues to better understand our suppliers’ challenges, In our SCBU and CBU supply chains, we completed one and align our transparency goals between business comprehensive, third-party assessment in fiscal 2011 units and across the enterprise. In addition, we plan to and three on-site supplier assessments. We have conperform closer analysis of solutions for product traceducted a total of four comprehensive, third-party assessability, which provides information on the source, locaments and six on-site assessments since fiscal 2008. tion, movement, and storage conditions of products. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 62 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A United Nations Global Compact Human Right To Water In March 2004, GMCR became the first coffee comWater is a critical natural resource that is strategically pany to sign the United Nations Global Compact important to our business, our stakeholders, and the (UNGC). The Global Compact is a strategic policy inicommunities in which we operate. It is also a basic tiative for businesses that are committed to alignhuman right. In 2010, the United Nations expanded ing their operations and strategies with 10 universally the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to include accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the Human Right to Water, which ensures safe, suffienvironment, and anti-corruption. cient, acceptable, physically accessible, and affordable water for personal and domestic use. In signing the Global Compact, we agreed to: We recognize the Human Right to Water and in 2011 • Support the Global Compact and its principles. developed a policy for guiding our responsible use and preservation of this vital resource. We are taking the • Revise our business operations so that the Global following steps to ensure our business engagements Compact and its principles become part of our across the globe respect the right to: strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. • Safety: Commit to preserve the quality of the water • Publicly advocate the Global Compact and its prinresources we use in the communities where we ciples via communication vehicles such as press operate. releases, speeches, etc. • Sufficiency: Strive to operate in a manner that min• Publish in our annual report or similar corporate imizes impact from our operations on the availabilreport (e.g., our sustainability report) a descripity and cost of community water resources. tion of the ways in which we support the Global Compact and its principles. • Acceptability: Include access to clean water in our ongoing engagement efforts in our domestic and From the beginning, we recognized that many of our supply-chain business relationships. environmental and corporate sustainability efforts support the Global Compact’s guiding principles. The • Transparency: Openly communicate and engage Global Compact provides an effective tool for tracking with the communities in which we operate regardour success and planning future initiatives. ing our water usage and conservation initiatives in an ongoing manner. We meet the commitments of the Global Compact in a variety of ways, from the expectations we set for • Physical accessibility: Work to ensure our operaour suppliers and the code of ethics we follow, to our tions will not adversely impact physical accessibilinvestment in Fair Trade products. Each effort falls ity of community members to water resources and under one of the broader categories of human rights, will address community concerns in a cooperative labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. manner. For more information about how we are upholding our commitment to the Global Compact, please see our UNGC Index. www.gmcr.com/ungcindex GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 63 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A The Power Of Collaboration Our business thrives through collaboration. Whether it’s working with growers and suppliers to promote sustainable practices, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) on fighting hunger, or even other brands to provide broad consumer choices in the Keurig® brewing system, we seek out opportunities that benefit everyone involved. Our relationship ethic shapes how we engage with others, and is rooted in the belief that we can be more successful when we collaborate. This is particularly true when it comes to tackling complex social and environmental issues. For example, in fiscal 2011, we were one of seven companies that joined with Oxfam America, an international relief and development organization that creates lasting solutions to poverty, hunger, and injustice, on its Partnership for Resilience and Environmental Preparedness (PREP) program. The PREP program, which is being expanded in its second year, was developed to promote: • Practices and economic growth that help both vulnerable communities and business adapt to the impacts of climate change; and • Public policies that facilitate adaptation efforts to prepare for and respond to the consequences of a GMCR also sits on the advisory board of Sustainable changing climate. Brands, which brings together sustainability, brand, and innovation professionals to share ideas and make We got involved with the PREP program because we connections. The goal is to amplify best practices, wanted to help create a forum to share what we’ve educate business leaders, and grow the market for learned about how coffee growers are responding to business solutions that can help companies reduce climate change. As our lineup of beverage products environmental and social impact and play a more posexpands, we are also looking for insights from fellow itive role in the lives of their stakeholders. Through the food and beverage companies into how other supply Sustainable Brands community, we collaborate with chains — such as apple or cocoa growers — are tackother companies, organizations, and communities to ling this rising challenge. Armed with this information, address complex and far-reaching issues, such as we can better set our grantmaking strategy to help sustainable packaging and supply chain management individuals and communities in our supply chain prethat require collaboration between competitors and pare for and mitigate the effects of climate change. across industries. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 64 Building De Products WORKING TOGETHER FOR CHANGE Working Tog Creating A In addition, we are working closely with NGOs to proWe also took the approach of bringing organizations mote sharing of best practices. In fiscal 2010, we together in fiscal 2011 to collaborate on best practices convened a dozen representatives of grantee orgafor fighting hunger and food insecurity in Nicaragua. nizations to create a comprehensive monitoring and Working with Community Agroecology Network (CAN), evaluation (M&E) guide for our supply-chain outreach we gathered NGOs to which we awarded grants, funded projects. This project was conceived in partincluding Catholic Relief Services, Heifer International, nership with researchers in the Agroecology and Rural and Save the Children, as well as potential partLivelihoods Group lab at the University of Vermont. ner organizations to develop and exchange ideas for The project’s dual aim was to provide a standardaddressing the root causes of hunger in coffee-growized way to measure the impact of funding we provide ing communities. Participants in the three-day event to assist coffee-growing communities while helping met with rural families and farmer associagrantees evaluate processes and collect data that can tions in Nicaragua to discuss first-hand be valuable to their organizations as well as GMCR. the challenges of food security. By facilitating shared insights and Based on the work session with the NGOs, the strategies that reflect on-theUniversity of Vermont drafted an M&E guide, which ground conditions, we believe was field tested in the first half of 2011. We brought we can help NGOs make a the collaborative group back together in June 2011 to greater difference in helping gather feedback and refine the guide, which we are makcommunities in need. ing more broadly available to our NGO partners in fiscal 2012. With the help of the guide, we can gather information from NGOs to better track and communicate the impact of our supply chain outreach projects, set priorities and make more informed grantmaking decisions, and generate collective learning and shared insights. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 65 FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE ur commitment to promoting susThe results of this sustainable approach are posiO tainability, healthier lives, and prostive. For example, when our work environment supperous communities begins with ports learning and development, we are better able to advancing these values in our own attract and retain outstanding people. And when we workplace. Fostering workplace cultivate leaders from within the company, we provide excellence is a shared responsibility growth opportunities for employees while strengthbetween our company and our employees, and is vital ening our organization. Employees who are engaged to the success of both parties. We create opportunities and motivated are happier and enjoy more career for our people to learn, develop, and advance in their successes, and also make deeper contributions to careers and lives. In turn, our employees recognize the company. their responsibility to take advantage of these opportunities to benefit themselves as well as the company. Some of the opportunities our employees enjoy help instill a personal commitment to sustainability. When employees feel personally connected to our core values, they are better able to develop solutions that help us achieve company goals and maintain our culture. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 66 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A Where We’ve Been in Fiscal 2011 We completed two modules of the “Our equals an average of 44 hours of training Winning Combination” business literacy for each full-time employee. program, an organization-wide continuous learning initiative focused on finanWe filled 21.2% of our new positions cial strength, strong brands, and corpointernally. rate social responsibility. We sent 46 employees on “source trips” We accomplished more than 152,000 to learn about coffee-growing communihours of continuous learning, which ties firsthand. Where We’Re going in Fiscal 2012 We will deliver another module of the We will again work with the Great Place “Our Winning Combination” business to Work® Institute to measure progress in literacy program. fostering workplace excellence. We expect to fill at least 20% of our new We will continue to invite employees positions internally. across levels and business units in source trips to coffee-growing communities. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 67 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A Fiscal 2011 NUMBERS AT A GLANCE Compensation and Benefits Fiscal 2009 1 Fiscal 2010 1 Fiscal 2011 Company payment of insurance premiums (percentage, on average) 90% 90% 90% Dollars spent on medical benefits as a percentage of payroll2 13.4% 12.8% 12.8% Hiring and Development Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Internal hiring2 19% 23% 21% Average training hours per full-time employee3 461 45 44 Percentage of full-time employees who reached or exceeded our goal of 30 hours of training each year NM 58% 62% Safety Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Injury severity (DART rate) 4.232 3.212 2.882 Workers’ compensation claims 97 145 135 Injury frequency (total recordable incidence rate) 5.12 4.02 4.82 Occupational fatalities 0 0 0 Interstate experience modification factor 1.92 1.02 0.92 Retention and Satisfaction Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Employee retention2 92% 91% 94% Percentage employees agreeing that GMCR is an “Overall Great Place To Work” 93% 75% NM4 Percentage employees agreeing that “We have special and unique benefits here” 91% 88% NM4 1) These numbers have been revised to reflect Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, Inc.’s restatement of its financial statements for its 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009 fiscal years, and each of the quarters in its 2009 fiscal year and the first three fiscal quarters of its 2010 fiscal year, all as more fully set forth in its Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 25, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 9, 2010. 2) US sites only. 3) For all references to an average or percentage of employees participating in certain activities, we use an average number of full-time employees within the fiscal year as the denominator in the calculation. We calculate the average number of full-time employees by dividing the sum of the full-time employees at the beginning of the fiscal year and at the end of the fiscal year by two. This differs from the approach taken in our Annual Reports, which utilize total year-end numbers of employees. 4) The next “Overall Great Place to Work” survey will be administered in fiscal 2012. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 68 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A Code of Ethics In our operations we maintain a Code of Ethics. Every employee is required to read, understand, and acknowledge compliance with our Code, which advocates respect for individual rights and property, and provides mechanisms such as anonymous hotlines for employees to report unethical behavior. Supporting Success Today — And Tomorrow Our Code of Ethics speaks to a variety of circumTo deliver on our commitment to foster workplace stances in which corruption could occur. For all excellence, it’s essential that we understand the needs, employees, our code requires: expectations, and perspectives of our employees. We regularly gather their feedback through surveys and • Accurate reporting, other diagnostic tools, and use the information to set goals and priorities, measure progress, identify opportu• Compliance with all laws, rules, and regulatory nities for improvement, and enhance programs. requirements, We believe that our culture is a key component of our success. We focus on hiring and developing talented • Good faith during all interactions with local, employees who share our company’s core values. state, and federal organizations, Because values drive behavior, fostering this mutual commitment to our culture is vital to supporting our • Communication that is direct, honest, and in growing company and meeting our business goals. accordance with all rights and responsibilities relevant to our company and its operations when comOur focus in fiscal 2011 was creating infrastructure municating with any government officials and in as well as hiring and developing employees to enable connection with any lobbying activities, the success of GMCR today — and in the future. We continue to review our practices closely, identifying • Avoidance of potential and actual conflicts of those we want to keep and those we need to improve. interest, Our goal is to support and encourage employees to develop and apply knowledge, skills, and behaviors that contribute to a vibrant values-based culture and • Responsible stewardship of corporate assets and exceptional company performance. opportunities, 30th Anniversary Celebration • Fair dealing, specifically with respect to anti-trust Fiscal 2011 marked GMCR’s 30th anniversary. To laws and fair competitive practices. commemorate the milestone, we hosted a series of events at our employee sites to celebrate and engage employees in the future of GMCR. As part of the 30th anniversary celebration, we set aside a day for all employees to attend an educational session about our brands and the company’s commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR). Employees also participated in a visioning exercise, projecting our business goals and CSR impact five years in the future. The session gave our employees an opportunity to provide input and offer ideas and insights to help guide the continued success of our company. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 69 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A GMCR Employee Benefits19 Combined Paid Time Off Allocations Include:  Vacation time  Holidays  Sick leave Health Care Coverage Covers employee, spouse/domestic partner, and family Includes options for dental and vision coverage Holistic Approach To Includes Flexible Spending Accounts for health care and child care Employee Benefits 90% employer paid on average Our goal is to provide employees with the opportunity for sustainable employment. While their job or responBasic Insurance sibilities may change over time, we want them to be Includes Life, AD&D, Short-Term Disability, and Long-Term Disability able to learn and grow with the company. 100% employer paid A total compensation package, that goes beyond Employee Assistance Program just a livable wage, offers programs that enhance the Adoption Assistance lives of employees beyond what just a paycheck can  Up to $4,500 deliver, including:  Maximum two adoptions • Flexible Work Arrangements: determined by job Parental Leave and location, ranging from compressed work  Paid maternity leave weeks to paid time off  Unpaid maternity and paternity leave • New Ways of Looking at Cash Compensation: Bereavement Leave programs to reduce out-of-pocket employee Education Assistance costs, such as our wellness program, sliding-scale insurance contributions, profit sharing, and stan Extensive onsite learning opportunities dards-based pay rates  Employees eligible for up to $3,000 in tuition assistance annually  Dependent children eligible for $2,000 scholarships • Beyond Cash Compensation: company-assisted (24 offered annually) health, dental, and vision insurance; company-paid Relocation Assistance life and disability insurance plans; an employee hardship fund; flexible benefit and health savings Wellness Reimbursement plans; dependent-care assistance plan; tuition  Up to $500 per year reimbursement; adoption assistance; scholarship  Activities of family members eligible as well program for dependent children of eligible employFinancial Benefits ees; referrals for services such as an Employee Assistance Plan; 401(k) plans or RRSP (Registered  Employee stock purchase program Retirement Savings Plan)18; and 52 hours of paid  Profit-sharing bonus program volunteer time  401(k) program, with employer matching up to 6% Energy Efficiency Assistance 18) Canadian employees can choose to participate in the Registered Retirement Savings Plan. As we further integrate our Canadian-based acquisitions, our re Reimbursement up to $1000 per year for eligible energy porting will include a more complete coverage of Canadian employee benefits efficiency improvements in employees’ homes as well as describe the extension of GMCR employee programs to Canadian sites where appropriate. 19) Subject to the terms and conditions of the respective plan or program. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 70 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A Compensation We apply regional and state economic data to create Each year, we host educational wellness fairs at our a compensation model that more accurately accounts major locations to encourage healthy behaviors. We for the full range of benefits — financial and nonfinanreward employees who engage in preventive actions cial — that we offer our employees. related to their health. We also support healthy lifestyle choices to support our employees’ health and wellAs we do each year, in fiscal 2011 we analyzed fullness both in the workplace and at home. time pay rates by region under this model to understand and implement needed adjustments. Learning And Development Continuous learning and development opportuniHealth and Wellness ties enable our employees’ personal growth and the Because wellness is the cornerstone of a healthy company’s organizational development. Training and workplace, we offer employees a variety of proeducation prepare our employees to thrive in a comgrams promoting good health. For example, at some petitive, constantly changing economy by keepof our sites, we host a program incorporating breathing them flexible, adaptable, and prepared for jobs ing, meditation, and stretching into employees’ daily of the future. To support ongoing learning, we offer a schedules. At other sites, we offer on-site and comwide array of educational opportunities, including propany-paid screenings for blood pressure, cholesgrams in leadership, supervisory, professional and terol, and biometrics; annual flu shots; and a wellness personal development, writing skills, and safety trainreimbursement of up to $500 to support health-club ing. Employees can attend standalone workshops and memberships, massage, weight-loss programs, and workshop series, or take self-study courses offered smoking cessation. online and via CDs. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 71 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A In fiscal 2011, our employees completed two modules Since 1992, employees have been afforded the opporof our interactive training program called “Our Winning tunity to travel to coffee-growing communities and Combination.” We developed this program in fiscal learn firsthand how coffee is grown and harvested. 2010 to engage employees on the topics of financial These “source trips” are a way for us to acknowledge management, brand management, and corporate tenure or outstanding performance, build teamwork, social responsibility. In fiscal 2012 we plan to deliver and allow employees to directly experience coffee from another module. tree to cup. In total, we’ve sent 322 employees on source trips since the initiative began. In fiscal 2011, Our goal was to deliver 30 hours of education or training 46 of our current full-time employees participated to every full-time employee in fiscal 2011, and 62% of our in a source trip to Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, employees met or surpassed this mark. In total, our orgaNicaragua, or Colombia. We plan to continue offering nization logged 152,356 hours of training for the year — an these trips in 2012. average of 41 training hours per full-time employee. Continuous Learning Employees are eligible for up to $3,000 per year for tuition, books, equipment, or fees to enroll in workFiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal related classes. In fiscal 2011, 65 employees received 2008 1 2009 2 2010 2 2011 2 tuition assistance, for a total benefit of $152,118, as Total recorded hours 48,422 69,912 97,131 152,356 compared with 57 employees and a total benefit of $100,518 in fiscal 2010. Average training hours 49 46 45 44 per full-time employee Also in fiscal 2011, twenty $2,000 scholarships were Percentage of fullawarded for post-secondary education in college and time employees who vocational programs for the children of our full-time reached or exceeded NM NM 58% 62% our goal of 30 hours of employees who had at least one year of service with training each year our company. These scholarships were selected by an external third party, Scholarship Management Services. 1) Specialty Coffee Business Unit Only 2) Specialty Coffee and Keurig Business Units Only GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 72 Working To FOSTERING WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Creating A Shared Financial Success Employee Safety All regular employees who work 20 or more hours per A top priority is to ensure the safety of all employweek are eligible to participate in GMCR’s Employee ees. Each year, our goal is to reduce accidents and Stock Purchase Plan. The plan uses employees payother safety-related incidents by 10%. In fiscal 2011, roll deductions over six months to purchase company we reduced our injury severity rate (days away, restricstock at a 15% discount off the market price on the tions, and transfers (DART) rate) by 10%. We met this first or last day of the period, whichever is lower. The goal through extensive training and education. We program has two open enrollment entry dates per year. expect all employees to understand and comply with In fiscal 2011, 70% of our eligible employees particiour stringent safety policies. Our formal policies cover pated in this program. safety procedures for all facilities, employees, and visitors in the workplace. They define safety expectations Our 401(k) plan / RRSP (Registered Retirement for each job and pre-employment physicals are used Savings Plan) provides an opportunity for full-time, to ensure jobs can be completed safely. North American employees to defer up to 100% of their compensation before taxes, subject to federal During orientation all new employees tour a manulimits, in annual contributions. The company matches facturing plant and receive training on safety basics. 50% (for up to a 6% deferral) and offers more than 40 We also hold two additional in-depth orientations on mutual fund options for employee investment, includsafety for employees who work in manufacturing or ing socially responsible mutual funds. supply-chain jobs. Family If an accident does occur in the workplace, we adhere We reimburse eligible adoption expenses incurred to our incident reporting procedures. We have workby full-time employees from all business units, up ers’ compensation insurance for job-related incidents to $4,500 for each adoption per family for up to two as well as disability insurance for incidents outside the adoptions. Eligible expenses include adoption agency workplace that disrupt an employee’s ability to work. All fees, placement fees, lawyers’ fees, and other required GMCR buildings are equipped with an automated exterlegal fees. Previously, there have been recipients of nal defibrillator (AED), and we have trained employees this benefit however, in fiscal 2011, no employees to administer the AED in the event of an emergency. applied for assistance. Diversity In fiscal 2011, women made up 32.3% of management and 33.9% of our total workforce. Employees selfidentifying themselves as non-white made up 6.7% of our management and 17.7% of our total workforce. We define management as employees in the official Equal Employment Opportunity categories of executive/senior-level officials/managers and first/mid-level officials and managers. Two women served on our eight-member board of directors at the end of fiscal 2011. Two of our six executive officers are women, as are three of eight direct reports to the chief executive officer. Partners of our full-time employees qualify equally for a selection of our benefits, whether they are spouses, domestic partners, or partners through a civil union. This policy, established in 1999, embodies the kind of respect for human dignity we expect in our workplace, and we believe it will help us attract a more diverse workforce. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 73 Partnering PARTNERING WITH SUPPLY-CHAIN COMMUNITIES Communiti Supporting Protecting t 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Building De Products Working To Creating A GMCR delivered significant growth Supporting Local Working Together in fiscal 2011 spurred by an expanCommunities For Change sion of our brand family and operaOur grants funded organizations and We collaborated with individuals, tions that strengthened our market programs that improved the wellcompanies, communities, and orgaleadership. We also made meanbeing of communities and the envinizations to build strong relationingful contributions to improving ronment where we live and work. ships and support the business lives, supporting communities, and We launched a brand-inspired practices of our company and our protecting the environment. In our grantmaking program called suppliers. In fiscal 2011, we comefforts to make a significant impact, Signature Cause and increased the pleted a benchmarking study of we worked collaboratively with our amount of volunteer time we conbest practices in supply-chain transemployees, partner organizations, tributed from fiscal 2010. parency. Those insights are helpand community leaders worldwide. ing us improve how we share our Protecting The expectations with suppliers, so they Partnering With Environment can advance their social and enviSupplyChain As we grow, we continue to look for ronmental practices. Communities opportunities to reduce the environWe expanded our support of foodmental footprint and improve the Fostering Workplace security programs in coffee-growperformance of our operations and Excellence ing regions and initiated a new focus products. We made strong progress In fiscal 2011, we offered strong on programs that support clean in using less energy and producing wellness programs, ensured the drinking water and drip irrigation. less waste, and expanded reuse and safety of our employees, and proWe also funded and promoted After recycling programs for our Keurig® vided new and ongoing training the Harvest, a documentary to raise brewers and K-Cup® packs. opportunities to help our employawareness of food insecurity in cofees learn and grow. As part of the fee-growing communities. Building Demand For 30th anniversary celebration, we Sustainable Products offered a business literacy sesOur focus in fiscal 2011 remained sion to engage all employees in centered on building demand for our brands, our focus on corporate sustainable products and responsocial responsibility, and the future sibly grown coffees. We increased of our business. our sales of Fair Trade Certified™, Rainforest Alliance Certified™, and organic coffees, and continued our support of programs to raise awareness of sustainable products. GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 74 Credits Writing Alling Henning Associates Inc. www.Aha-Writers.com Photography Many of the photos in this report were taken by employees volunteering through our CAFE Time program or while visiting coffee-growing communities around the world. We thank them for sharing their experiences with us. Page 14 Lower photo, David Estrada Page 16 David Estrada Page 17 Upper photo by Brian Kimmel Page 24 Both photos, Tim Matsui Page 25 Upper photo, Tim Matsui Page 33 Tim Matsui Design Free Range Studios www.FreeRange.com GREEN MOUNTAIN COFFEE ROASTERS, INC. | Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal 2011 75
