UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Providing quality education for disadvantaged communities remains the centrepeice of Pakistan Petroleum Limited’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development Benefits Performance The company provides its staff with competitive remuneration Organizational Surveys packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working Performance environment with ample capacity PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational development and career surveys, enabling the company management to review and progression opportunities. adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This  In line with the Companies Profits proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of (Worker’s Participation) Act 1968, systems and procedures. PPL contributes 5 percent of its  PPL participates in various countrywide Human Resource (HR) net profit to the Workers benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and emergent Participation Fund. trends. The findings enable the company to align its HR system  PPL follows the Employees Old with leading companies and consolidate best practices already Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, Pakistan Petroleum Limited followed by the company. contributing 5 percent of  After conducting the Employee Satisfaction Survey in 2010, PPL minimum basic salary to EOB is participating in an external survey as a follow-up to identify institutions with employees and prioritize areas of improvement through benchmarking participation of 1 percent. against other organizations.  The company pays Statutory  As a contender for the 2008 award, PPL participated in Bonus under Section 10-C of the Management Association of Pakistan’s (MAP) assessment West Pakistan Industrial and process to evaluate and confirm its adherence to best practices. Commercial Employment PPL won the prestigious MAP Award for four consecutive years (Standing Order) Ordinance 1968 from 2006 to 2009. as well as Annual Settlement  The company sends its head office staff on regular field visits to Bonus to non-management staff. seek their opinion and suggestions for work-related  Annual Leave Fare Assistance is improvements. Besides, posting of staff between fields and head given to non-management staff in office on a rolling-basis has been further streamlined during addition to monthly remuneration.  PPL also extends loans to staff 2011. To this end, a number of staff were moved from head office to fields and vice versa to enrich their experiences. for house construction/  PPL was adjudged the winner of excellence award for ‘Best renovation and purchase of Management and Decent Work Practices’ by the Employers’ vehicle.  The company offers 13 Federation of Pakistan in January 2012. scholarships to children of permanent workers, with four 2 scholarships for postIndustrial Relations intermediate and professional and 9 for post-matriculation and Employees education on an annual basis.  Free bachelor accommodation ACTIONS along with necessary utilities is given to field-stationed staff. Fair Investigation Procedures  Gratis Haj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. Performance  PPL provides pick-and-drop PPL protects employee rights, ensuring equitable treatment transport facility to women staff. and opportunity for all to voice their views.  For senior executives and women 4  The company has an effective policy for redressal of staff employees, the company grievances, if any. provides a nutritious and  Based on laws relevant to its various locations, PPL follows the balanced lunch facility at the Standing (Orders) Ordinance 1968 for official reprimand of staff. head office. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Recognition  Company management and staff celebrate religious and cultural Performance festivals as well as national days. PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to recognize and reward high standards of performance and enhance staff motivation. Preventing Forcible  Performance Excellence Awards are given on an annual basis Displacement to employees in recognition of their outstanding achievements in both tangible and intangible categories. The company of Individuals recognizes and rewards individual efforts for extraordinary performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity Performance gains and complexity reduction. The scheme also sets out to establish role models within the organization that other Due to its strict adherence to employees can emulate. prescribed laws, PPL has never  PPL considers human capital its premium asset and had a case of forcible displacement of employees. acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, through annual long service awards.  The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation Employment Policy of their services. for Handicapped and Pakistan Petroleum Limited Disabled People  PPL follows the Disabled Healthy Entertainment Persons (Employment and for Employees Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 and ensures employment of handicapped personnel. Performance  In line with the Workmen PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities Compensation Act in matters and entertainment for staff. related to disability, alternate job  PPL encourages sports among head office and field employees assignments are given to such as the Annual Interlocation Cricket Tournaments. Besides disabled staff. the company has teams for various sports that participate in contests/ matches with other organizations.  PPL organizes annual golf tournament for employees and other 3 enthusiasts. The 7th tournament in this series was held in February 2012. Employee Safety  PPL has a dedicated Exploration Library that subscribes to and Security leading industry journals to enhance staff knowledge.  Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends ACTIONS Safe Working and information.  The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 56th year of publication regularly reports on company activities and industry-related news. Since January 2011, the Urdu version of Conditions Progress has been initiated to increase reach and update staff and stakeholders who were otherwise not able to get first-hand Performance information due to language barrier. Employee safety and security is  PPL maintains a fully-equipped health and fitness facility to one of PPL’s top priorities. The keep its employees mentally and physically fit. Head Office company has dedicated Security Sports Club remains available for staff recreation during lunch and Health, Safety and break or after working hours. The club at Sui Gas Field also has Environment (HSE) departments a jogging track, badminton, tennis and squash courts and a to ensure hazard-free working swimming pool for staff use. Besides, the company has proper conditions and has taken the following initiatives to help 5 indoor games/ recreation facilities at all field locations. The company also organizes indoor games competition among the protect its employees from risky head office employees. situations and conditions:  PPL organizes musical and other cultural programmes for its  Safety alerts and travel advisories employees. are sent regularly to employees. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress  Employees are provided personal protective equipment (PPE) and clothing according to the nature of their job.  Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per HSE requirements at head office and all field locations.  HSE awareness and training sessions are held regularly in English and Urdu on fire fighting, incident investigation and 4 ACTIONS Health reporting and permit-to-work system.  Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the Healthy Environment head office and field locations.  HSE procedure on ‘Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment for Employees and Management’ is developed and distributed to all concerned. Field HSE representatives provide training to Performance relevant staff for conducting risk assessment of routine and PPL’s goal is to support a safe and project activities at PPL locations. healthy workplace by enhancing  Head Count System in the form of T-Card is being staff health and well-being. implemented at all PPL fields. As a quick and accurate  Periodic check-ups are carried out estimation of personnel’s location at various field sites, the Tto check fire extinguishers, fire Card boards are already in use at Kandhkot, Mazarani, Adhi, alarms and sprinklers at all field Chachar and Hala fields. locations. Pakistan Petroleum Limited  Assessment of Occupational Health, Safety and Environment Employee Travel Safety (OHSE) performance against identified Key Performance Indicators, including Loss Time Performance Injury Illness target rate for the year, PPL regularly arranges training programmes on defensive PPE compliance by management, and evasive driving. Awareness programme on road sense non-management and contract staff and safety has been initiated for company staff. in routine and project activities and  Any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or implementation of annual work plans, is undertaken through employee complaints regarding transport are reported to the regular monitoring and conducting Administration Department for necessary countermeasures.  Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers awareness sessions.  As a result of rigorous planning and and employees using company vehicles.  All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, implementation of HSE procedures at all company locations, PPL was domestically or internationally. able to surpass its 2011 target Loss  Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company Time Illnesses and Injuries rate of vehicles. 0.38 percent, which was actually  First aid boxes and fire extinguishers are placed in all 0.02 percent. company vehicles. Basic Health Facilities Performance PPL extends a comprehensive health plan and medical policy to employees and their families. The company has qualified doctors for providing medical consultation and treatment in the head office and field locations.  The company provides medical 6 assistance to all employees, including their immediate family, and pensioners as per medical policy. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress  PPL maintains a city clinic in Karachi to ensure easy access for students, in three batches, have its employees and their families. Besides, PPL has a full-fledged completed three-month basic hospital located within the premises of the Sui Gas Field. At computer course. Since January other company fields and locations, Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, 2011, CTCL has offered a sixChachar and Adhi fields, proper arrangements for emergency month Advanced Course in medical care are in place. Information Technology (ACIT).  PPL follows the Factories Act – 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and 120 students, 60 in each batch, Oil and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations – have completed ACIT during 1974, which include employee personal hygiene, environment, 2011, bringing the total number emergency medical assistance and periodic medical checkups. of computer literates to over 300,  Health awareness sessions are regularly conducted by trained through CTCL. Besides, CTCL also houses a reading company doctors and guest consultants for informing and area where books and selected updating staff on preventive measures and treatment of magazines are provided. Over common diseases, including high blood pressure and obesity, 450 residents have been and outbreaks such as dengue.  Exgratia payments are made to staff in case of prolonged registered as regular visitors to the library.  The company provides free-ofsickness.  Clean drinking water is provided to staff at all locations. cost transport facility to students of Taaleem Foundation Grammar Pakistan Petroleum Limited School (TFGS) and Federal Government (FG)Public School, 5 Sui. Corporate Social  In order to encourage competent Responsibility and professional teachers from other areas to teach at TFGS, PPL stands committed to community development in PPL is constructing a staff hostel within the TFGS premises. The education, health, infrastructure development, livelihood hostel is built with an investment generation and post-disaster rehabilitation and has allocated of Rs. 14 million. Moreover, PPL minimum 1.5 percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities. is also constructing additional The company spent around Rs. 844 million for CSR classrooms at TFGS to address initiatives during July 2010 to June 2011 and Rs. 746 million the issue of large classes due to during July 2011 to March 2012, which is over and above high enrolment rate. its minimum benchmark.  The company constructed academic blocks at Government Girls High School, Dhong and Government Boys High School, ACTIONS Naban Janjua. Besides, sanitary Education facilities were built at Government Boys High School Naban Juba and Miana Mora near Adhi Field. Performance These facilities were constructed PPL assigns top priority to promoting education in some of with an investment of Rs. 0.764 the country’s most remote areas. million. Besides, the company  The company has been providing quality education to children also constructed school building for Government Girls Primary of company employees and local communities at Sui Model School, Sunjer Khan Junejo with School (SMS) since 1957. SMS was upgraded to girls’ college an investment of Rs. 0.188 million in 2009. Currently, the college offers education to about 35 girls and a stadium at Government and the school caters to 2800 students both boys and girls. Boys High School Naban Janjua  To promote a reading culture at the local level, PPL has near Adhi Field at a cost of Rs. constructed public libraries at various towns, especially those 2.309 million.  PPL regularly provides where the company initiated exploration efforts. During 20102011, PPL constructed a library and an auditorium at Dadhar scholarships for students Town, Balochistan, which was furnished during 2011-2012. 7  The company earlier constructed and operationalized the first residing around its operational fields, especially in District Dera ever Computer Training Centre and Library (CTCL) at Sui in Bugti, to enable them to acquire 2010 for general public. PPL engaged Kalsoft, an Information quality education at renowned Technology company, to operate the centre. So far, 200 local institutions. To this end, a UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress scholarship programme was initiated in 2005 to support both years from 2007 to 2011. FM is a boys and girls pursuing higher professional education in state-of-the-art hearing renowned universities/ colleges across the country. Later in instrument that directly transmits 2009, the scholarship programme was expanded for students the teacher’s voice to students, living around other producing assets. To date, the higher regardless of distance, and professional scholarship has benefited more than 80 students reduces grey noise to make in District Dera Bugti and about 15 students in districts audibility clear. During 2011, PPL Kashmore, Sanghar and Kamber-Shahdadkot. completed the delivery through  A four-year scholarship programme for students of District the last tranche of 20 to ISC. Dera Bugti and adjoining districts has recently been initiated.  PPL has constructed three Under this programme, 10 scholarships from grade IX to XII primary schools in Kandhkot, will be provided to students already enrolled at any renowned near its operational field. These and well-reputed educational institution across the country. The schools are run by The Citizen’s scholarships awards will commence from 2012. Foundation (TCF). As part of  The company is supporting Balochistan Public School (BPS) the MOU signed between the since the mid-2000. BPS provides quality secondary education two organizations, TCF will to local boys from grade VII to XII through a residential facility, ensure provision of quality latest teaching and learning resources and qualified teachers. education to children from the Initially, PPL provided about Rs. 6 million for renovation of the local communities while PPL school building and provision of books and uniforms for will provide the cost for Pakistan Petroleum Limited students. Later, Rs.14.108 million was provided for operation, construction and construction of hostel and messing facility. In 2009, PPL Board other expenses besides of Directors approved 12 annual scholarships for 6 years for monitoring and feedback on deserving students from District Dera Bugti to study at BPS. progress made by TCF. The During 2011, the third tranche of scholarships was provided to company has created an BPS students bringing the total number of beneficiaries to 36. endowment fund worth Rs. 78  PPL regularly provides furniture, stationary and other relevant million for construction and items/ equipment to schools near its operational areas to operationalization of these support their curricular and co-curricular activities. To this end, schools over a period of 10 the company provided furniture to Inter College Dera Bugti years. These schools have and Mai Maryam Girls High School, District Sanghar worth started operations during 2011 Rs. 1.416 million with an encouraging enrolment  The company regularly supports its adopted government of over 400 students. schools in Ghabi Dero and Ghazi Khan Chandio, near  To promote education, especially Mazarani Gas Field. in remote areas, PPL has given  PPL provided 100 Frequency Modular (FM) Systems to the generous donations to the Institute for Special Children (ISC), Quetta over a period of five following institutions, including: Institutions/ Initiatives Spending in 2011-2012 (March) (Rs. in millions) NED University of Engineering & Technology, Karachi for establishing 0.142 Petroleum Faculty The Garage School, offering educational opportunities to children of disadvantaged 0.8 communities in Karachi Uniforms and shoes for students of Ghaibi Dero School 0.783 Construction of a PPL-block at Chemical Engineering Department, University Karachi 2.75 Books for Sardar Ali Sabri Memorial Society, Karachi 0.16 Fees for girl students moved from FG Public School to TFGS 0.564 Construction of two classrooms at Government Boys High School, 0.358 Kani Tehsil and District Attock Balochistan Institute of Technical Education for Endowment Fund 25 Construction of Lieutenant Saifullah (Shaheed) FC Public School & College, Nushki 1.50 Operational cost for 30 literacy centres to National Commission for 0.375 8 Human Development, Dera Bugti Books for Sardar Ali Sabri Memorial Society, Karachi 0.160 Bahria University, Karachi 0.02 Establishment of computer lab and library at Jamia Masjid, Quetta 0.50 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Social Welfare Healthcare Initiatives Performance Performance PPL draws strength and direction from the government’s PPL cares for local communities policy of encouraging the corporate sector to extend a wherever it operates. The helping hand to people living in remote areas of the country. company has provided extensive The company has formulated a diverse, need-based social medical facilities in some of the welfare policy. Though concentrated around its locations, most remote regions of Pakistan PPL’s CSR initiatives are spread across the country. To through building hospitals, rural ensure optimum on-ground implementation and impact, PPL health and mother and childcare works through government, local civil society institutions centres, mobile dispensaries and and communities. medical camps.  The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy  PPL runs a fully equipped Sui Awards instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy Field Hospital (SFH) at Sui Gas (PCP) for seven consecutive years from 2004 to 2010. Field since the early 1960s.The  To support organizations delivering social, healthcare and hospital provides free-of-cost medical facilities to a large other services to the needy, PPL has given generous number of local patients, in donations to the following: addition to PPL field staff. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Institutions/ Initiatives Spending in 2011-2012  A fully equipped mobile medical (March) dispensary (MMD) takes a weekly (Rs. in millions) round of more than 12 villages PCP, Islamabad 3.4 around Sui Gas Field to provide Old Association of Kinnaird Society 0.2 healthcare facility, including Providence Home for Golden Jubilee celebrations 0.01 treatment of common diseases, X-Rays and minor procedures, to St. Patrick’s Cathedral for Fundraising Cricket Tournament 0.015 locals residing in the area. The Society of Petroleum Engineers Pakistan Association of 1.2 dispensary refers cases for Petroleum Geoscientists Annual Technical Conference 2012 further investigation and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Pakistan for 0.2 treatment to SFH. Despite these Earth Hour 2011 and 2012 efforts, a large number of patients Conference by Management Association of Pakistan 0.25 in Sui could not be reached. For Special Olympics C/o RMC Resource Marketing for 0.2 this, PPL in partnership with Musical Night Government of Balochistan (GoB) SADA Welfare Foundation for distribution of ration 0.05 is constructing a 50-bed PPL Pakistan Hockey Federation 0.10 Public Welfare Hospital in Sui Town. The land is provided by National Forum for Environment and Health 0.2 GoB while PPL is committed to invest Rs. 243 million for construction and furnishing the hospital together with providing basic equipment, medicines and hiring of 10 consultants. The hospital will be run by GoB and have the necessary facilities such as gynaecology and obstetrics, emergency and operation theatres. The hospital will be completed by end-2012. Additionally, PPL provides free medicines to Rural Health Centre (RHC), Sui on a monthly basis. Recently, PPL carried out renovation of RHC at a cost of Rs. 0.036 million. 9  The company operates MMDs for local communities living around Mazarani and Kandhkot Gas fields. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress  PPL holds bi-annual free-of-cost eye camps for treatment of ophthalmic diseases around its operational areas in Sui, Adhi, Enhancing Livelihood Kandhkot, Mazarani, Chachar and Hala fields. Cataract surgeries are also performed at the eye camps. Besides, the Opportunities company also holds free-of-cost medical camps for critical epidemic/ contagious diseases such as scabies around its Performance producing assets. These camps draw a large number of people PPL realizes that changing the who benefit from the facilities. fate of marginalized communities  PPL has adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple is better addressed through Merger programme at Turbat and Panjgur, Balochistan and creating livelihood options on a Kandhkot, Sindh for over four years. These centres extend sustainable basis. The company free-of-cost diagnosis and treatment for leprosy, blindness and has invested substantially in tuberculosis to local communities. engaging people, both men and  During 2011, the company supported a major initiative by women, in earning livelihoods Murshid Hospital and Healthcare Centre for training traditional through sustained sources of birth attendants (TBAs) in safe delivery practices, especially income. around company’s production assets with a dedicated budget of The company has been supporting Rs 1 million. To this end, initially a capacity building programme operational costs of Women was conducted for local midwives to work as master trainers by Handicraft and Welfare Centre certified practising midwives trained by the practitioners at Royal (WHWC) at Sui since 2006. The Pakistan Petroleum Limited College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, United Kingdom. centre, currently run by Pakistan These master trainers in turn held training sessions for TBAs Army in the FG Public School’s residing in remote areas, including PPL’s operational fields in premises, provides skill learning Adhi, Kandhkot and Mazarani during April and May 2011. TBAs opportunities for young local were selected through training needs assessment by PPL staff. women who could not complete A refresher course was also organized for trained TBAs in Adhi their formal education and are and Kandhkot fields during October 2011 to assess interested in enhancing their implementation, address issues/ lessons learned and fill-in gaps. income potential. A purpose-built  To support viable community health projects and services, PPL facility is nearing completion has given generous donations to various institutions, including within the TFGS premises, run by the following: a renowned civil society organization Taaleem Foundation Institutions/ Initiatives Spending in 2011-2012 (TF) working in Balochistan. On (March) (Rs. in millions) completion, TF will take over the operations of WHWC. PPL will National Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Karachi 5 also furnish the facility and Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation, Karachi 5 provide relevant equipment and Dialysis of 20 patients at Zubeida Medical Centre 2.10 material. The centre will host a The Kidney Centre 3.05 day-care facility for participant Pakistan Association of Mental Health 0.085 mothers to look after their children Karwan-e-Hayat, Karachi (on an annual basis since 2002) 3.90 while they attend classes. Patient Welfare Society, Aga Khan University 0.060 PPL is extending infrastructure Pink Ribbon, Pakistan 0.75 and maintenance support for Video laparoscope for Nighaban Welfare Association and 3 Technical Training Centres Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangio Pancreatography (TTCs) in Sui and Daultala, near machine for Civil Hospital, Karachi Adhi Field, since the 1990s. The Koohi Goth Hospital 0.05 courses offered at these centres Pakistan Association of Blind 0.096 include automobile, electronics, Make A Wish Foundation for purchase of vehicle 0.80 carpentry, welding and plumbing. Besides, PPL is supporting 15 Sindh Welfare Association of the Deaf 0.02 top graduating students of TTCJinnah Postgraduate Medical College for construction of 5 Sui to pursue diploma level tuberculosis ward studies in recognized Dar-ul-Sukoon for fund raising gala 0.15 polytechnics across the country Pakistan Psychological Association 0.1 through provision of scholarships 10 Poor Patients Aid Society, Civil Hospital 0.20 on an annual basis. To date 35 students have benefitted from the scholarship programme since 2009. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress  PPL initiated a 12week training scheme for Heavy Transport Vehicle drivers at National Logistics Cell Driving School Dina, Infrastructure Jhelum. Under this programme 100 participants, living around PPL’s operational areas, will receive an internationally recognized Development HTV driving certificate on completion of the course. So far, 67 drivers have received HTV training through three batches. Performance  After receiving an overwhelming response from WHWC Sui PPL recognizes that provision of and results of the need analysis survey carried out by PPL meaningful, durable staff in Adhi, a Women Vocational Training Centre (WVTC) was infrastructure is a key to established by PPL in Mastala near Adhi Field to facilitate development and sustained women who want to increase their income potential through economic growth, especially in learning new skills. Inaugurated in 2011, the centre is run by the far-flung areas of the country. Help in Need, a non-governmental organization, who is The company’s business takes it working as an implementing partner. PPL constructed, to the remotest and usually the furnished and provided resource material together with disadvantaged areas of the operational cost for WVTC with an investment of 4.6 million country, where it has focussed on rupees. The centre focuses on training women in tailoring, developing infrastructure and embroidery and cooking. Besides, WVTC also runs a basic civic amenities, including roads, literacy programme for participants. A play area with a trained bridges, culverts, water supplies baby sitter is also available within WVTC’s premises to provide and construction of basic Pakistan Petroleum Limited childcare support to participating mothers. Currently, about 80 facilities, not only for its own use women from surrounding communities are enrolled at WVTC. but also for local communities. PPL provides free-of-cost gas and water supplies to Sui Town and villages around Sui Gas Field. More than 2 million gallons of drinking water is supplied daily to about 40000 residents in Sui Town, through Kashmore Pumping Station situated 55 kilometers away from the town, at an annual cost of Rs. 100 million. Due to line losses and pilferages on the supply line, the residents’ needs were not fully meet. To address this issue, PPL in partnership with GoB is developing a new water supply system for Sui Town. With a contribution of Rs. 85 million, the company will fund the construction of trunk lines, overhead tanks, pump houses, pumping machinery, repair of existing tanks and providing independent electrification system for operating the pumping station. To provide free-of-cost potable water to Ghabi Dero (GD) and its surrounding villages near Mazarani Gas Field, PPL has initiated a water supply scheme using a bowzer facility. The water is provided through a safe source 11 as there is a high incidence of water reservoir turning polluted/ unfit for drinking. The water is stored in two tanks built in GD UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress village. The company provides about Rs. 1.5 million annually for maintenance, supply and salaries. Post-disaster Relief Haibat Bridge near Kandhkot Gas Field was renovated by PPL in 2005. Due to the bridge’s deteriorating state, it was decided Performance to construct a new and wider bridge over the BS Feeder canal In times of national emergencies, adjacent to the old Haibat Bridge. For this, a 100-meter long PPL has always come forward to new bridge was designed and constructed by PPL, which was give generous donations in cash completed in December 2011 with an investment of Rs. 69 and kind to victims of disaster-hit million. The new bridge provides the shortest route for locals areas. Following the 2005 residing near the right bank of the Indus River to the Indus earthquake, the company moved Highway and main Kandhkot city, a commercial hub and district a step forward by assisting headquarter, encouraging socio-economic growth. rehabilitation efforts so that In 2005, PPL constructed a 17-kilometer long road from affectees can once again become Mazarani Gas Field to Ali Hyder Mirjat Mile village, passing productive members of society. through GD, to facilitate company staff and local communities Likewise, for the devastating in District Kamber-Shahdadkot. PPL maintains the road. As floods in 2010 and 2011, PPL not part of the calamity hit area during 2010 Floods, the road was only provided generous damaged and became inaccessible. The company repaired donations for victims but it is and re-opened the road in a record time of one week. also working on a strategy for Given the tribal disputes and lack of infrastructure facilities in their long-term rehabilitation in Pakistan Petroleum Limited partnership with local civil Kandhkot, the law and order situation remained poor. On the society organization. request of District Police Department, PPL constructed a Police Complaint and Quick Response Centre in Kandhkot with PPL established and an investment of Rs. 0.161 million. operationalized a Rehabilitation Centre in Bagh in 2006 for the Institutions/ Initiatives Spending in 2011-2012 October 8, 2005 earthquake (March) victims, needing prostheses and (Rs. in millions) orthoses treatment. The centre is Community Water supply scheme at Shoran, 17.467 managed by Chal Foundation Dhadar, Balochistan and extends physiotherapy and Construction of Access Road to Mastala near Adhi 0.499 counselling services for physical Construction of Shiree Jinnah Terminal, Karachi 3 and psychological management of the disability besides provision of limbs to affectees. Since 2010, PPL has created an endowment fund worth Rs. 24 million to support the centre’s operational cost for another three years. PPL extended generous support for flood affectees of July 2010. The company donated Rs. 20 million in cash to the Prime Minister’s Flood Relief Fund 2010 (PMFRF). PPL staff and workers also contributed one day’s salary amounting to Rs. 6.3 million to PMFRF. Besides, PPL also distributed relief goods, including dry food packages, tents and other basic necessities amounting to Rs. 30 million, to affected areas. To provide healthcare facility to flood affectees around its operational 12 fields, PPL set up medical camps in collaboration with local rural healthcare centre. The camps facilitated over 6000 patients through on-spot diagnostics, oral UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress and clinical administration of medicines and provision of free medical supplies worth Rs 2.7 million. PPL has also earmarked Rs. 50 million for rehabilitation work near Kandhkot Gas Field in partnership with a civil society organization. PPL Board approved Rs. 35 million for flood affectees in 2011. Of this, Rs. 20 million was provided to PMFRF and the remaining amount was used for distributing relief goods among flood victims. Two consignments containing 8500 food boxes and 1100 tents were sent to flood affectees near PPL’s Hala Field as well in districts Badin, Thatta, Dadu and Tando Mohammad Khan. Besides, 300 food packets and 50 tents were provided for affectees in District Nasirabad, Balochistan. Moreover, 11 free medical camps were organized in District Sanghar, near PPL’s Hala Field benefitting about 6000 flood victims. The assistance provided to flood victims was through a need assessment process in consultation with relevant local authorities and area notables. Institutions/ Initiatives Spending in 2011-2012 Pakistan Petroleum Limited (March) (Rs. in millions) Flood Relief Fund through Overseas Investors Chamber 0.2 of Commerce and Industry Flood Relief Fund, Karachi 0.130 13 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 14 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1  In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives ETHICS to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, the company took the following ACTIONS measures: • Circulated brochures on salient Adherence to Highest Corporate Values features of the Act, including instructions on compliance, to Performance all employees. PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the • Company’s harassment policy importance the company places on corporate ethics. As was prominently placed on the such, the company expects its employees to adhere to the PPL website and portal. following core values: • A three-member committee,  Recognizing that leadership, empowerment and accountability including a female staff, was constituted to address staff are essential for corporate success  Pursuing the highest standards of ethical behaviour and grievances. • Awareness sessions for staff integrity were organized on PAHWW  Considering people as the most important resource Pakistan Petroleum Limited Act 2010 and PPL’s  Valuing creativity and innovation harassment policy at head  Committing to excellence in all spheres of performance office and Sui Gas Field.  Advocating team spirit and work  Any suspected violations or  Respecting environmental imperatives and striving for its actions that create hostile or offensive work environment such conservation as sexual harassment or insensitive comments concerning gender, religion, race, disability or age are promptly reported to management that ensures Code of Business Ethics appropriate actions in line with Standard Operating Procedures. Performance  Violations of the Code of Ethical commitments and values remain the centrepiece of Business Ethics are viewed PPL’s code of conduct, compliance to which is mandatory for seriously and have often resulted all employees. in disciplinary action and, in  All employees sign and submit annual compliance certificates some cases, led to termination of service. to ensure clear understanding and acceptance and uphold PPL’s Code of Business Ethics.  PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities. 15 Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between 16 management and workers. Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1  The office bearers of the trade Industrial Relations union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. ACTIONS  All terms and conditions of employment of workers are Freedom Of Association reviewed bi-annually and discussed in a friendly environment with CBA. After Performance bilateral negotiations, a The company believes in the freedom of opinion and handsome increase in wages expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and other allowances are paid to congenial and equitable working environment as per law: them through settlement.  The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act,  Policies on salaries and wherein employees are free to join any trade union of their allowances as well as other choice. benefits such as medical, leave  PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers and travel are duly discussed and finalized with the CBA every Union, of which most workers are members. two years.  The Collective Bargaining Pakistan Petroleum Limited agreement is concluded through Collective Bargaining bilateral negotiations.  The company has not witnessed Performance any strike, legal or illegal, or lockout during the last five years.  No cases of unfair labour The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment practices have been filed by the for workers at all field locations. union.  The CBA together with stewards and union members,  The company provides special coordinates with management to improve working conditions leave to CBA union/employees and redress job-related issues. for appearance in court cases, if  Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled it is party to disputes. amicably with CBA representatives.  Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation. 17 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 18 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees  Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, professional and technical staff is 90 days.  Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective ACTIONS measures, if necessary. Procedure for Preventing Record of Checking Under-age Employment Minimum Wage Rate Performance Against Regulated The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers. Amount  All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years Performance and above) category, in accordance with the law. The company keeps its wage  To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are policy in line with governmental confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, directives to ensure fair educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National corporate governance. Pakistan Petroleum Limited  All workers in the company (both Database and Registration Authority. permanent and contract) are employed above the minimum Procedure for Preventing wage rate as specified by the government and paid Forced Labour competitively in accordance with market norms. Performance The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced labour.  Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work.  Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws.  Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period. 19 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth opportunities without any discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 20 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTION Recruitment 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working conditions for Performance diversified workforce PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for employment and discourages all forms of employee Performance discrimination. As a leading employer and  PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal responsible corporate citizen, opportunity to women employees. PPL provides an enabling  Women employees are placed at various levels in the environment for professional organization, ranging from non-management to senior growth, with equity, security and management positions. human dignity, irrespective of Pakistan Petroleum Limited  The company employs men and women employees under gender or religion. standard screening processes based on merit and job  PPL has a diversified workforce suitability. and does not discriminate on the  There are equitable career paths and opportunities for women basis of race, colour, gender, employees. religion, disability or family status  To further emphasize the equitable role of working women and in the recruitment, training or advancement of its employees.  Minorities are given special address their issues at work place, the company marks the International Women’s Day and International Working Women’s Day. Dedicated sessions are organized for women employees holidays in accordance with their to increase awareness about their role and responsibilities and religious festivals to ensure an address their issues. open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance  Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. The company has also put in place a uniform recruitment and promotion policy issued by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources in 2011. 21 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). 22 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Environment Management adequately address the environmental issues of these areas, while meeting legal requirements, company’s HSE standards and stakeholders’ expectations.  Monthly environmental Health, Safety and Environment monitoring is carried out through an external laboratory for Performance compliance with local regulatory requirements. Environmental PPL’s HSE Policy recognizes its management’s commitment reports are communicated to to the health and safety of its employees, contractors and concerned EPAs through the Self visitors and ensuring environmental conservation during the Monitoring and Reporting Tool company’s operations. The policy is displayed at prominent (SMART) programme. locations at the head, regional and field offices and can be accessed through the company’s website: http://www.ppl.com.pk/ The company has a well-defined HSE Management System Environmental Aspect Impact Pakistan Petroleum Limited developed in line with internationally recognized ISO 14001 Environment Management System (EMS) and Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001. The Analysis system provides a continuous assessment and monitoring process against standard parameters to ensure the highest Performance level of safety and minimal damage to the surrounding  The company has devised natural environment. Environmental Aspect Impact The HSE Executive Committees at field level monitor HSE Analysis (EAIA) procedure for activities at regular intervals and hold quarterly meetings to small to medium operations at its review results of internal and external audits, carry out key fields/ exploration blocks in line investigation and review progress and performance against with the international EMS and set objectives. Moreover, a Central HSE Executive OHSAS standards. EAIA helps in Committee at the head office chaired by the Managing proactively identifying, evaluating Director meets every quarter to discuss company-wide HSE potential environmental hazards issues and takes decisions vis-à-vis organizational policy. and taking appropriate The committee also monitors the progress on precautionary control measures implementation of decisions. to mitigate impacts. Environmental Studies Precautionary Performance  Initial Environment Examination (IEE) and Environment Measures Impact Assessment (EIA) studies are consistently undertaken for all development initiatives, including drilling Performance and seismic operations and projects, in compliance with the  Noise monitoring and abatement Pakistan Environmental Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA aim is ensured for safe working to identify potential environmental impacts at development environment in high noise areas. sites and advise mitigation measures accordingly. For this, enclosures and sound These studies are submitted to relevant provincial barriers are provided, as Environmental Protection Agencies (EPA) for approvals. appropriate.  To control accidental leakage, Once approved, IEE/ EIA provide a benchmark for regular internal and external monitoring against suggested adequate control arrangements mitigation measures. 23 such as barriers and spill control  Independent monitoring is organized for seismic and drilling kits are available at all operations in environmentally sensitive areas through operational areas. Besides, specialized consultants to ensure that the methodologies designated teams are trained to used in carrying out the survey and mitigation measures handle incidental spills. Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to raising environmental awareness within the company, suppliers and dealers through encouragement of eco-friendly practices. 24 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Awareness Raising 2 Environmental Responsibility ACTION ACTIONS Enhancing Environmental Awareness Performance Setting up Awareness raising sessions and trainings with special focus on Environment-friendly environment and sustainable development are regularly held to apprise staff on key environmental issues, their causes and Models solutions at various levels, including individual, organizational and national. In addition, HSE safety talks and bulletin boards Performance are effectively utilized to promote awareness on environmental PPL ensures proactive conservation. acceptance of responsibility and PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking Zones’ accountability for environmental and separate smoking areas are designated for smokers. The imperatives. The company Pakistan Petroleum Limited non-smoking policy is displayed in all departments and recognizes conservation as a key locations. component of operational PPL is an active corporate member of the Pakistan chapter of excellence and actively incorporates industry best World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The practices in its overall company works with other corporate partners to bring together operations. The company’s latest organizations in Pakistan to adopt business practices based on plants and facilities are designed sustainable development principles. according to the best PPL is a corporate member of leading environmental environmental standards. organizations, including WWF, and participates in various Besides, the existing facilities are events and campaigns organized by them. PPL was a sponsor being upgraded to conserve the for the Earth Hour (EH) 2011 and 2012 organized by WWF. All environment.  The company-operated latest company locations observed EH with unnecessary lights switched off during the given hour. producing asset, Hala Early Production Facility, inaugurated in February 2010, is designed in line with environmental imperatives. Some of the key features include: • Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) free natural gas refrigeration system in compliance with the Montreal Protocol to address ozone depletion and global warming. Propane is used instead of CFC. • Containment of water (produced during operations) in properly lined evaporation ponds, ensuring zero land discharge and preventing soil and ground water contamination. • Procurement of material 25 according to the NEQS such as generator sets and asbestosfree material, including fire suits and storage sheds. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress • Minimal flaring and venting of sales gas during commissioning phase. Evaluation of HSE • NEQS compliant equipments are also procured at Kandhkot Field Gas Compressor Station commissioned in 2010. Performance  ‘PPL House’ construction project was designed according to Performance leading green built-design practices. For this, extensive consultations were held with renowned green building  The HSE Executive Committees, consultants to incorporate Leadership in Energy and comprising field management at Environmental Design (LEED) protocol. field-level and senior  Energy conservation programme was initiated during 2011 at management from head office as part of the Central Executive PPL-operated fields to record and develop inventories for Committee, regularly evaluates electricity, gas, other fuels and water use for collecting baseline activities at various company information. The baseline enabled the HSE Department and locations, provides feedback and relevant field staff to develop energy conservation plan for each monitors compliance. field. The plan will be used to monitor and implement energy conservation programme during 2012.  Internal audits of departments/ fields are carried out in line with the annual HSE audit plan to assess implementation of HSE Eco-friendly Practices Management System and Pakistan Petroleum Limited performance. In addition, external audits are also carried Performance out to verify compliance to ISO PPL is gradually moving towards eco-friendly practices to 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001 minimize damage to natural resources through its regular certifications. HSE inspections, operations to support company’s commitment towards spot checks and suggestion sustainability: forms are utilized with  Tree cutting/ logging is avoided during seismic operations while participation of all staff in accordance with the guidelines site restoration is simultaneously carried out, even for a small provided in the HSE vegetation patch.  Tree plantation campaigns are undertaken at all PPL-operated Management System for eliminating hazards.  As a result, 13 company fields production and exploration assets to off-set emissions and improve ambience.  For drilling operations, water-based mud, which is known for and facilities are certified for ISO 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001. compatibility with natural soil, is preferred over oil-based mud, These include Kandhkot, Adhi, which requires special treatment for disposal. Mazarani and Chachar fields, Sui  Use of biodegradable explosives in exploration activities. Field Gas Compressor Station,  Promoting electronic communication for official purpose Sui Production and Sui Field together with duplex printing to reduce paper usage. Engineering, Sui Stores and Sui  Conventional lighting fixtures have been replaced with energy Hospital together with Drilling Operations, Design and efficient structure at head office to further energy conservation. Construction, HSE and Projects departments. Certification for remaining facilities is underway for ensuring continual improvement. 26 Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environment-friendly technology to reduce its carbon footprint. 27 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies  PPL encourages use of environmental-friendly equipment, especially for its new facilities. Emissions from company equipment, at fields, is also ACTION monitored and controlled through in-house maintenance Waste Management and programme and end of pipeline solutions. A defined system for Emission Control monitoring, root cause analysis of excursions in emission test Performance results and subsequent remedial actions is in place for NEQS The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental compliance.  Optimum measures are impact of its operations through the use of innovative technology. undertaken to process waste  The company has a well-defined waste disposal and water to avoid further pollution. management process in place that follows the corporate HSE Usually, effluent water is Standard Operating Procedures, including waste segregation contained in ponds lined with pit at source, waste minimization strategy, preference to recycling line for evaporation. Alternatively, Pakistan Petroleum Limited and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste as waste water evaporator is per good practices such as landfill, composting and installed to reduce contamination incineration. of underground water through  All company-operated fields are registered with the Federal EPA seepage of effluents carrying salt under SMART programme for monthly testing through external and oil droplets in the shape of laboratory and reporting of emission against NEQS parameters. emulsion. 28 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 29 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 ACTION External Interface Credible Disclosure Code of Ethics of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders  All employees are required to sign the Code of Business Performance Ethics at the time of joining and submit compliance every year.  PPL ensures transparency in  All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or business transactions and rejects other payments intended to influence business decision or any business practice which may compromise fair judgment. be deemed improper.  No employee can give money to obtain business for the  All financial reports are properly company or receive money for giving company business to an audited by external auditors. Pakistan Petroleum Limited external agency.  PPL’s Annual Report 2010 was  All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, chosen as the best report among contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have the five selected companies from a business relationship with the company. the Fuel and Energy sector. The  Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. annual report also received the  All employees are required to declare their assets on a Best Presented Accounts Award by the South Asian Federation of yearly basis. Accountants in 2011.  Quarterly briefing on financial statements is given to Corporate Governance management.  Meeting of PPL’s Board of Performance Directors is held on a quarterly  PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance basis. with regulatory and legal requirements.  Media/press briefings and  The company uses internationally acceptable accounting interviews are given on demand. standards to maintain transparency.  Consultative meetings with CSR  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly partners are held for social development initiatives.  The company ensures timely recorded in the books of the company.  The company complies with regulations of the Securities and payment of taxes.  Checks such as annual declaration Exchange Commission of Pakistan.  Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s of assets, notifying the company in annual reports. case of receipt of gifts above a  No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. certain value, hospitality and  All business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption. potential conflicts of interest are in Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out built into the system to preempt corruption.  Similar checks and balances are for all departments to ensure compliance with company procedures and ensure course correction, if required.  In recognition of its management practices and extensive built into organizational processes, governing procurement, materials social contributions, PPL was adjudged the winner of the 25th, and personnel in accordance with 26th, 27th and 28th Corporate Excellence Awards in the Fuel and the Manual on Delegation of Energy Sector. This award was conferred by MAP. 30 Authority and Public Procurement PPL’s exemplary performance was accredited by MAP, Regulatory Authority, a public following a detailed review not only of the company’s sector entity to monitor management systems and policies and procedures but the procurement in a transparent efficacy of their implementation. manner. 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
