Sustainable Development Report 2011 ABOUT THE REPORT This is Sinochem Group’s second “Sustainable Development Report”. The first report was issued in June 2011. Sinochem Group also published a Corporate Social Responsibility Report in April 2007, June 2008, June 2009, and June 2010. REPORT TIME FRAME This report covers Sinochem’s activities between January 1 st and December 31 st 2011. In some instances content may reflect activities and data from previous years. REPORT PUBLICATION CYCLE This report is an annual report. REPORT SCOPE This report includes Sinochem Group and its subsidiaries. REPORT REFERENCE The report follows the guidance of the Guidelines for Key State-owned Enterprises to Fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility , the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact , the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1) , the ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility issued by the International Organization for Standardization, and the CSR Reporting Guidelines for Chinese Companies (CASS-CSR 2.0) issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). REPORT IMPROVEMENTS We have made improvements to this year ’s edition. Our report: Offers comprehensively collected information on Sinochem’s approach to CSR management and presents the systematic progress and results of our CSR management activities in 2011 to stakeholders; Integrates stakeholder comments on our approach to CSR in an attempt to further increase the transparency and creditability of our report; Includes more information than previous years as we have now increased the breadth of our disclosure and the depth of our core CSR indicators to ensure that the report highlights new breakthroughs and developments on CSR at Sinochem while maintaining its traditional features. DATA SOURCES T h e d a t a u s e d i n t h e r e p o r t a r e f r o m t h e c o m p a n y ’s o ff i c i a l d o c u m e n t s a n d s t a t i s t i c a l reports. The report makes some corrections to the past data. In case of any discrepancy, this report shall prevail. NOTE ON NAMES USED For the convenience of expression and reading, “Sinochem Group” in this report is also referred to as “Sinochem”, “the company” and “we”. LANGUAGUE OF THE REPORT The report is published in both English and Chinese. If any inconsistency or ambiguity exists between the two versions, the Chinese report shall prevail. OBTAINING COPIES OF THE REPORT To read or download the report, please visit www.sinochem.com. 1 16 SERVING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY AND PEOPLE’S LIVELIHOODS FOR MUTUAL PROSPERITY 17 Safegaurding National Energy Security 2 20 Protecting National Agricultural Security 24 Serving to Improve Chinese People's Livelihoods and Happiness 28 PROVIDING SATISFACTORY SERVICES 26 Creating the Highest Value for Shareholders TO DEVELOP WITH CLIENTS 29 Expanding Our Oil Business Service Portfolio 30 Improving the Service System for “Agriculture, the Countryside and Farmers” 32 Providing Comprehensive Chemical Business Services 34 Providing Considerate Property Services 04 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE 35 Developing Reliable and Efficient Financial and Bidding 06 ABOUT US Services 08 CORPORATE STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 12 CSR MANAGEMENT 3 36 PRACTICING HSE MANAGEMENT 54 CSR FEATURE REPORT TO ACHIEVE SAFE, GREEN AND HARMONIOUS DEVELOPMENT 57 FUTURE OUTLOOK CONTENTS 37 Improving Our HSE Management Mechanism 58 EXPERT’S COMMENTS 39 Occupational Health and Production Safety 60 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UN 40 Ecological Environmental Protection GLOBAL COMPACT 61 GLOBAL REPORTING INIATIATIVE (GRI) INDEX INSIDE BACK COVER FEEDBACK FORM 5 4 48 PARTICIPATING IN SOCIALLY BENEFICIAL 42 VALUING EMPLOYEES' TALENT TO ACTIVITIES TO FACILITATE SOCIAL DEVELOP TOGETHER PROGRESS 43 Protecting Employees' Rights 49 Poverty Alleviation 45 Realizing Employees’ Value 51 Donations for Medical Care and Educational Development 46 Increasing the Employees’ Sense of Belonging 52 Win-win Cooperation 53 Contributing to Community Development PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE A s C h i n a ’s e c o n o m y a n d s o c i a l d e v e l o p m e n t p r o g r e s s e s , c o r p o r a t e s o c i a l r e s p o n s i b i l i t y ( C S R ) i s r e c e i v i n g g r e a t e r a t t e n t i o n and being given a more important role by all social circles in China. Shouldering and fulfilling CSR obligations and effectively managing the impacts of the enterprise on society and the environment are at the heart of China’s corporate efforts to achieve sustainable development. The concept of CSR is also in line with the Scientific Development Concept and the Chinese government’s call to build a harmonious society. As a highly market-oriented multinational conglomerate, Sinochem Group provides quality products and professional services to support social production and serve people’s livelihoods. We believe that it is our mission to promote a sustainable society and economy. We shoulder and fulfill CSR and try to integrate it into every aspect of our corporate operations. We ensure that our development pattern follows trends in social progress, and we strive to maximize the value that we create for the economy, society and the natural environment. In 2011 China’s “12th Five-year Plan” began. 2011 also marked the beginning of a critical transitional stage in Sinochem’s “Third Long March” period. Bearing in mind the requirements and goals set by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) to “becoming stronger and better, cultivating a world-class enterprise with international competitiveness”, we will continue to seize opportunities, prevent risks, promote development, and steadily implement our strategies to help our business performance and overall strength. We have strategically extended our industrial chain to foster synergies among all aspects of our business and are intensifying our capacity to serve the needs of the country, the people and our clients. We have transformed our development pattern, and enhanced our green competitiveness through technological innovation. We emphasize the importance of safe production by connecting it with the harmony and stability of the nation and society and have taken efforts to build a longterm and effective mechanism for safe production management. We adhere to the “People First” principle, and are committed to increasing employees’ value to help the employees realize their individual development. We abide by the philosophy of “adhering to laws, valuing ethics and working for the greater good” and are actively participating in social welfare activities, helping vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, and contributing to the construction of a harmonious society. Looking to the future, we will continue to be guided by the scientific development concept and grab development opportunities that equip us for future challenges. We will focus on our core businesses, accelerate our strategic transformation, enhance our lean management, and achieve steady, healthy and sustainable development. In this process, we will meet our obligations and commitments as a central State-owned Enterprise (SOE), devote ourselves to creating greater value for the economy, society and the environment, and make even more contributions to the economic development and social progress of China. Liu Deshu President & CEO Sinochem Group Sustainable Development Report 2011 ABOUT US Industrial position Business overview Energy Sinochem Group is the fourth largest national petroleum Sinochem Group’s energy business consists of several segments including oil and gas business company in China with over 60 years of oil business exploration, petroleum refining, crude oil and product oil trading, warehousing and logistics, Sinochem Group was founded in 1950. Its predecessor was China National Chemicals operations. Sinochem has become a large energy company which are respectively involved in oil and gas exploration and production, development and Import and Export Corporation, which was China’s largest trading firm. Sinochem Group that has strong international operation, complete industrial operation of refining projects, international fuel oil and light oil trading, transportation and is the key state-owned enterprise under the supervision of State-owned Assets Supervision chain, and outstanding marketing service capacity, which domestic sales and distribution, and the construction and operation of warehousing and make us an important emerging power in the energy market logistic facilities. and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). Sinochem’s headquarter is of China and worldwide. located in Beijing. Agricultural Sinonchem Group is the only central-government-owned Fertilizer business covers a complete industrial chain including upstream resource, R&D, Sinochem’s core businesses span over energy, agriculture, chemical, real estate and financial business company that operates the three major agro-inputs, including production, distribution and agronomic services. Sinochem Group has a strong foothold in service. It is one of China’s four largest state oil companies, China’s biggest agricultural fertilizer, seed and pesticide. China and obtains high-quality fertilizer resources from the global market, serving domestic input company (fertilizer, seed and pesticide), China’s leading chemical service company. Sinofert Holdings Limited (Sinofert for short), the fertilizer agricultural production and contributing to grain security. flagship of Sinochem, is the largest fertilizer supplier and SINOSEEDS keeps intensifying the core competitiveness throughout the industrial chain by It also exerts strong influence in real estate and non-banking financial service sector. As distributor in China. Sinofert plays an important role in implementing a development strategy integrating R&D, production, and sales. As a result, stabilizing the domestic fertilizer supply and facilitating a global conglomerate with market orientation, Sinochem’s quality product and service is China’s agricultural development. SINOSEEDS integrates R&D, production, refining, sales and technology service and has relevant to many aspects of mass economy and people’s well being. Its brand enjoys high China National Seeds Group Corporation (SINOSEEDS become a large seed group with a complete industrial chain and various corps operations. for short) owned by Sinochem is a national class seed Its business covers the breeding production and refining of seeds of major corps including reputation and acknowledgement around the world. company in China. With its overall strength taking the rice, corn, wheat, vegetables and oil plants. lead in China, it is devoted to becoming a company that The crop protection business scope covers R&D, Active Ingredient production, pesticide integrates seed breeding, production and popularization, Sinochem currently owns more than 200 subsidiaries inside and outside China. It controls formulating and repackaging, product registration, and brand marketing, among which we with number one position in China and top ranking are taking the lead in the proprietary pesticide development in China. We own two national several listed companies including Sinochem International (SH, 600500), Sinofert (HK, worldwide, promoting the seed industrial upgrading of China. crop protection R&D platforms, namely the Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical 00297), Franshion Properties (HK, 00817) and Far Eastern Horizon (HK, 03360). In June Pesticide business integrates R&D, production and sale, Industry (SYRICI for short) and Zhengjiang Research Institute of Chemical Industry (ZCIRI 2009, Sinochem Group established Sinochem Corporation as the vehicle for potential group with its overall competitiveness ranking among the top for short). Our crop-protection product lines include pesticides, fungicides, herbicides, players in China. It is the important force that drives and plant growth regulators, covering over 40 active ingredients. We have many products IPO. China’s pesticide industrial upgrading. registered overseas, enjoying good market in South America, North America, EU and the Asia-Pacific region. Sinochem Group is China’s earliest entrant in Fortune Global 500 and has entered the list for 21 times, ranking 168th in 2011. Through years of strategic transformation and management Chemical Sinochem Group’s chemical business is developed on the basis In the fluorine chemical business, Sinochem has formed a complete industrial chain overhaul, Sinochem has maintained a sustainable, healthy and rapid development. Sinochem business of the international trade and circulation service for chemical comprising of resources exploitation (fluorine spa and AHF), R&D, production, sales and has been rated by SASAC as “top A corporate performance” for 7 years in a row. products, and has built relative strong competitiveness marketing. Our complete product line in this field includes ODS substitutes, fluorine on fluorine chemical, natural rubber, chemical logistics, polymers and fluorine fine products. We have also enjoyed the leading market share for petrochemical feedstock and pharmaceutical business. We more than 10 products including HFC-134a. Sinchem’s vision is to become a respectable company with global influence, making fortune have become the leading comprehensive service provider for Sinochem enjoys 60 years of history engaging in natural rubber business, involved in to all the stake holders and the society. Our 40,000 employees will follow the doctrine of chemical products in China, and is playing a constructive role plantation, processing, distribution and other value-added services in a global consolidated in promoting the technological upgrading and the safe, green, basis. The natural rubber processing capacity enjoys the largest market share in China and “Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence”, shoulder social responsibility as a corporate citizen, harmonious development of chemical industry. the second largest share around the world. and adopt scientific development approach to realize sustainable business potency. Sinochem International keeps its position as China’s leading petrochemical logistic service provider. Our business covers such areas as shipping, tank container multimodal transport, freight forwarding and warehousing, terminal and depot service etc. We also own the largest hazardous chemical fleet and ISO tank lorries in China with the strictest safety standard, providing multiform, highly efficient and low-cost aggregate logistics services for our clients. In the meantime, our environment, health and safety (EHS) standard, becomes one of the world leading companies with respect to EHS management. Sinochem is specialized in petrochemical feedstocks trading. We take the lead in commodity chemical trade, and provide an all-round professional marketing service for our clients through international trade, professional marketing and lean management. Sinochem has maintained its leading position for China’s export of pharmaceutical intermediate and API. Meanwhile, Sinochem has continued its effort on strengthening its capability on the sector’s R&D, production and circulation. Sinochem Basics Real estate Sinochem Group is one of the central government-owned Our Hongkong-listed subsidiary Franshion Properties sticks to its business strategy of business enterprises that have been ratified by SASAC to take hotels delivering upscale products , and focuses on the first-tier cities, the central second-tier and real estate development as their main business. It is the cities and well-known tourist resorts. Its core business includes the development and Company Name Sinochem Group leading developer and operator of high-end commercial real operation of urban complex, first-rate office space, and upscale hotels. It is The scale of the estates in China. upscale office buildings and hotels it holds and its operation efficiency all rank among the Registered Capital 10.17 billion Chinese Yuan (RMB) top players in China. Time of Establishment March, 1950 Financial Sinochem Group is a leading non-bank financial services Sinochem’s financial service business spans across financial leasing, trust, securities Asset Scale RMB 258.19 billion business provider in China. investment fund, life insurance, corporate finance, futures etc. We have basically formed a business magnitude with almost all the financial business licenses except banking. Sinochem Headquarters Central Tower, Chemsunny World Trade Center, 28 Fuxingmennei enjoys a good reputation with highly recognized brands such as Far Eastern Horizon, FOTIC, Lion Fund, Manulife-Sinochem etc. We have been keeping on improving our profitability and Street, Beijing risk management. 6 7 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Corporate Strategy and Governance Our Vision Corporate Governance Structure Our Industrial Service Strategy To become a great company with world-wide status and respect We regularly upgrade our operational mechanisms, rules, and We refer to our Industrial Service Strategy as the “One-TwoOne Ability regulations according to modern requirements to improve our T h r e e F o u rF i v e S t r a t e g y, ” . T h i s i s a n e x t e n d e d a n d d e e p e r corporate governance and facilitate the company’s sound and version of our previous “One-Two-Three Strategy.” Our Mission steady development. To become a role model of technological advancement, resource We a d h e r e t o t h e p r i n c i p l e s o f c o l l e c t i v e d e c i s i o n m a k i n g Two Fundamentals conservation and environment protection and democratic centralism to improve our decision-making “One Ability”—the ability to develop in a sustainable way To become a strong force propping up the national energy security, mechanisms and to promote scientific and democratic decisionagriculture security and chemical industry’s upgrading making within the organization. Our top executives at the group “Two Fundamentals”—internal management,external expansion Three Links level are responsible for different segments of our business and To become a responsible corporate citizen with world-wide status and “Three Links”—resources, technology and market different functional departments. We leverage and continuously respect improve the Party Committee Meeting system and President’s “Four Pathways”—innovation, integration, M&A,collaboration Four Pathways Meeting system. The Party Committee Meeting is responsible “Five Key Areas”—energy, agriculture, chemical, real estate, financial service for deciding major company issues concerning political Corporate Philosophy requirements and key changes to our business scope and key Five Key Areas m a n a g e m e n t . T h e P r e s i d e n t ’s M e e t i n g d e c i d e a n d s u p e r v i s e Creating value, pursing excellence the implementation of the company’s strategy and management of our operations. We also have specialized committees that are responsible for specific work and make proposals and suggestions for big events or projects. Promoting Comprehensive Risk Management Facing severe market competition and pressure from the We will follow the principles of exceptional management, implement implementation of our market transformation strategy, we views a regular monitoring mechanism for major risks, release timely risk risk management as extremely important and are building a warnings, develop classified management and dynamic risk monitoring, and improve security by using our information security tools. comprehensive risk management system to improve our risk We will implement a tighter risk management strategy, strengthen the management organizational systems, reporting, and information supervision and management of key units and major risks, and inspect systems. We are also cultivating a culture of risk awareness. and supervise the implementation of our major risk management solution. We h a v e e m b e d d e d o u r r i s k m a n a g e m e n t p h i l o s o p h y i n t o We will promote the integration of our internal control system with our our accident prevention, accident control, and post-accident comprehensive risk management system, and strive to establish a riskevaluations and processes. oriented internal control system. By means of information, we have developed and improved a risk In 2011, when faced with a more severe and riskier environment management information system, further expanding its coverage of risk than the 2008 financial crisis, we remained committed to our monitoring and improving the accuracy of data acquisition, strengthening “third entrepreneurship” business goal, and continued to be the timeliness of our report, establishing a smooth information collection guided by the Guidance on Overall Risk Management of Central process between headquarters and other business units, and improving our risk monitoring and the speed of our risk-related solutions. Enterprises issued by SASAC of the State Council. We did this We are focused on cultivating a risk management culture, establishing to fully carry out our group-wide risk identification. In the and improving our internal risk evaluation mechanism, and effectively process we categorized nine types of risks including policy connecting our comprehensive risk management system with our risks, investment decision-making risks and market risks, and punishment and prevention system. defined those responsible for risk management. We will continue to improve our organizational risk management structures by examining other established systems and procedures and regularly supervising and inspecting our own processes, as well as actively promoting the establishment of a risk management system that strengthens risk management in a systematic, targeted and effective way in order to improve our management competence and ensure our business quality and the safety of our capital. 8 9 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Enhance Anti-Corruption Education and Tighten Anti-corruption Measures We combine our prevention and punishment system with our internal control system and will continue to strengthen the construction of our discipline inspection network. We will also finalize discipline inspection departments and team building activities in our second-tier subsidiaries. We are enhancing our anti-corruption education and supervision system, and are committed to leveraging onsite inspections to improve all aspects of our anti-corruption. Sinochem Group complies with the CPC Anti-corruption Responsibility Regulations, and works hard building an accountability system across all levels of the company. We classify accountability at different levels and for different people, and evaluate specific responsibilities at all levels. By doing so, we have established a uniform anti-corruption system that operates smoothly and ensures all business areas are covered and improved. We focus our attention on onsite inspections and the supervise compliance issues and chief leaders in key units. The company is working hard to improve its discipline inspector supervision system. In our Quanzhou Petrochemical Refining Project, we have stationed an inspector and have dispatched a circuit inspection team from headquarters. The system aims at tightening our inspection and supervision process, eliminates loopholes, and regulates unit leads’ power by enhancing their awareness of anti-corruption issues. We have established anti-corruption monitoring at all levels of management. Each unit or subsidiary has its own education and publicity system. In addition to organizing education activities for key projects and core managers, the Discipline Inspection Department of the Headquarters instructs units on anti-corruption in order to reach all employees and increase their anti-corruption awareness on day-to-day work matters. We continue to uphold our approach to comprehensive management, combat corruption at the source, improve long-term and effective mechanisms that ensure that we can effectively recognize and prevent corruption in its early stages. We have established prevention and punishment systems by decomposing, implementing, inspecting, communicating, improving and intensifying the implementation of target tasks as well as the construction of our operational mechanism. Sinochem group’s major anti-corruption measures and results in 2011 Developed efficacy supervision programs 131 activities Group-level executives signed 2011 CPC Anti-corruption Letter of Responsibilities 13 signatures General managers of Sinochem subsidiaries signed 2011 CPC Anti-Corruption Letter of 44 signatures Responsibilities Key managers signed 2011 CPC Anti-Corruption anvd Self-Discipline Commitment Letter 237 copies Discipline Inspection Department of Sinochem Group gave opinions on the appointment 66 times and removal of key managers Conducted anti-corruption training for new employees 9,162 employees trained Conducted anti-corruption and self-discipline training and education across the Group 144 times 10 11 Sustainable Development Report 2011 CSR Management CSR STRATEGY CSR MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Key CSR Items Related to Our Stakeholders We believe that CSR is in our genes. Our managers understand Sinochem Group values CSR and has established a CSR Sinochem Group is incrementally improving its communication mechanisms with its stakeholders, establishing new methods of that CSR is an important competitive advantage and must management system in its headquarters and subsidiaries in order communication, identifying key CSR topics, and actively responding to the expectations and demands of all stakeholders. b e i n t e g r a t e d i n t o t h e c o m p a n y ’s m i s s i o n , c u l t u r e , a n d to embed CSR management into our day-to-day operation. values. Corporate citizenship is embedded in the operations and management of our various business segments, and we We h a v e e s t a b l i s h e d a C S R C o m m i t t e e t o a d m i n i s t e r t h e CSR work of the entire Group. The Committee is responsible Key CSR Items Related to Our Stakeholders practice CSR when communicating and cooperating with all s t a k e h o l d e r s . We a l s o f a c i l i t a t e d a n o rg a n i c c o m b i n a t i o n o f for reviewing CSR plans and management mechanisms and CSR that is in line with the operations and management of the discussing major CSR items. It consists of senior executives and heads of functional departments. Under the Committee, a CSR goals Stakeholders Expectations and demands Communication and action company. CSR Office is in charge of management systems, CSR planning, o rg a n i z i n g C S R a c t i v i t i e s a n d o u r e x t e r n a l C S R e x c h a n g e s To provide good returns and generate Government Comply with all laws; Tax compliance; and communication, as well as compiling and publishing the capital for its shareholders and the State Sinochem Sustainable Development Report. Serve the development of China’s Report our work regularly; economy and people’s livelihoods. Participate in policy research and government planning. We c o n t i n u e t o s t r e n g t h e n o u r c o m m u n i c a t i o n w i t h o u r stakeholders. We have established a CSR column on our website Shareholders Increase profitability; Hold general meetings a n d r e l e a s e a n a n n u a l s u s t a i n a b l e d e v e l o p m e n t r e p o r t . We with shareholders; Optimize our corporate governance have enhanced our disclosure of CSR work, and are committed structure; Report our work regularly; to building a positive and interactive relationship with our Fulfill information Publish annual reports. stakeholders. By analyzing those concerns that are of value to disclosure obligations; our company and our stakeholders, we can better identify future Ensure value preservation and increase state-owned assets. key issues and more effectively meet stakeholder expectations. Sinochem’s CSR Genes Three Thorough Integrations We ar e als o activ ely pr o moting ou r s u bs id iaries ’ C S R w o rk . To win the trust of clients by conducting Clients Abide by business ethics; Collect clients’ advice and suggestions; Integration with our values, mission, and vision mutually-beneficial cooperation Sinochem International and Sinofert have published CSR Improve service quality; Address clients’ complaints; Integration with our various segments of business operations reports for many years, and will continue to do so in the future. Provide marketing support services; Conduct client satisfaction Integration with our cooperation between Sinochem and its stakeholders surveys. Five CSR Goals Other subsidiaries are also preparing to compile CSR reports. Meet diverse demands. To provide good returns and generate capital for its shareholders and the State To win the trust of clients by conducting mutually-beneficial cooperation Partners/ suppliers/ industry Promote fair competitions; Enhance R&D capacity; To become a company that people love to work for by caring its employees Promote upgrades to industry Conduct supply chain and growing with them technology; management and To achieve sustainable development by protecting environment and conserving collaboration activities; Improve industry management levels; energy Participate in industrial To command respect from society by adhering to laws, valuing ethics and Extend the industrial chain and development forums. explore new service areas. working for the greater good To become a company that people love Employees Offer fair remuneration and Hold Staff Congress meetings; to work for by caring its employees and employee benefits; Organize employee training growing with them Highlight career development and and collect feedback; training; Collect and study employees’ Create a good working environment. advice and suggestions. To achieve sustainable development Environment Make the best use of resources; Keep in touch with by protecting environment and environmental protection Conserve energy and reduce emissions; authorities and NGOs; conserving energy Develop a low-carbon economy; Study and exchange good practices inside and outside Optimize HSE management. China; Improve production process. To command respect from society by Public/Community Participate in socially-beneficially Keep in touch with related adhering to laws, valuing ethics and activities; government departments and important NGOs. working for the greater good Serve community development. 12 13 Sustainable Development Report 2011 CSR Honors Sinochem’s CSR Matrix As one of the four model SOEs, Sinochem gave a speech at the 2011 CSR Sinochem was named a Leading Enterprise in the “2010 GoldenBee CSR work meeting convened by SASAC. The report submitted by Sinochem, China Honor Roll”. Responsibility Serve the national economy Provide Satisfactory Conduct HSE Valuing employees’ Participate in socially Characteristics themed, “building an integrated agro-inputs service system, protecting The 2010 Sinochem Sustainable Development Report was granted the and people’s livelihoods for services to develop management to reach talent to develop beneficial activities to Field mutual prosperity with clients harmony with nature together facilitate social progress the national agricultural security” received the “2011 Excellent Practice Excellent Central SOEs in CSR Delivery as well as the “GoldenBee Award of Central Government-Owned Enterprises”. 2011 Excellent CSR Report—Leading Enterprise” award. The Bearing in mind the goal of Expand our service Improve HSE management; Protect employees’ rights; Organize poverty Group “becoming a satisfactory content; Build a long-term Encourage employees’ alleviation activities; company to the country”, Improve our service mechanism for safe participation in the Make donations to Sinochem is protecting system; production; democratic management; improve medical care and the national energy and Enhance our ability to Conduct green Enhance employees’ sense education systems; agricultural security, serve customers. competitiveness strategy. of belonging. Pursue cooperation and promoting technological win-win results; progress, and improving Be active in social welfare people’s livelihoods. activities. Energy Shoulder our responsibility Enhance oil trade service Conduct life cycle HSE Organize parentFacilitate the local to build the national at home and abroad; management to exploration child activities. economy; strategic oil reserve; Improve petrochemical projects; Support local community Supply oil and gas resources Storage & Logistic service; Integrate clean production development at the to support national Complete sales service philosophy into the entire project location of our oil fields; economic and social network for end customers. management process, and Provide training for development; provide clean energy; managing teams of Construct energy industrial chain; Enhance our HSE management Arabian oil fields. Provide stable diesel capacity of our gas station and gasoline. contractors. Agriculture Guarantee the fertilizer Optimize the service system Provide soil testing Implement workers' congress Carry out caring student market supply; for agriculture, rural areas technology to reduce system; welfare activities; Enhance R&D in the and farmers: fertilizer pollution; Provide integrated training; Improve medical care seeds sector; Establish scientific Develop green fertilizers; Hold speech contests. conditions in rural areas; Develop and promote fertilization service system; Create green pesticides; Donate to build health green pesticides. Provide satisfactory seed Fertilizer producers care stations in villages. sales services; conduct energy saving and Extend pesticide service emission reduction. system. Chemical Provide fuel commodities Enrich fluorine chemical Establish system for Organize an employee Promote the development and clothing raw materials product varieties; security fee extracting; representative congress. of the fluorine chemical for textile and garment Provide overall rubber Adopt advanced industry; manufacturing industry; services; enzymatic method Support chemical products Food additives production; Provide liquid chemical technology; to go global. Provide energy-efficient logistics with supreme Promote high efficiency building materials; safety standard; exploration and utilization Provide raw materials Provide plastic service of mineral resources; including rubber and plastics adhere to customer’s Conduct R&D for ODS for auto industry; needs. substitute: HFC-134a; Establish a global antiHFC-245fa foaming agent infective drugs joint venture. production. Real Forge high quality real Provide considerate Advocate green building Organize training. Make donations to estate estates. property services. concept; schools. Promote energy efficiency in buildings; Conduct energy performance contracting; Carry out carbon neutralization project. Finance Provide financial leasing Provide financial leasing Provide financial leasing Optimize our Set up the Far Eastern for medical equipments; services for industrial services for hydropower remuneration scheme; Horizon Medical Care Provide financial development; projects, wastewater Launch the “nursing bottle Management Institute; leasing for educational Provide trust services treatment enterprises and scheme”. Initiate “Far East Horizon equipments. with strict adherence to water supply enterprises. Charity Fund”; trustee’s intention; Donate for school Provide overall highestablished for blind quality tendering service. children; Organize the “CSR Promise Day” activity. 14 15 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Safegaurding National Energy Security As China’s fourth largest national oil company, Sinochem Group contributes meaningfully to the creation a diversified national oil supply system. The company leverages its resource advantages and its specialized operational experience to supply oil and gas products that are needed in China’s economic and social progress, playing an increasingly important role in both the domestic and overseas markets. Exploration & Production Oil Trading Oil Refining Storage & Logistics Distribution & Retails Serving the National Economy and People’s Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity As a central SOE, Sinochem Group is dedicated to creating value for the country and society. We focus on the energy, agriculture, chemical, real estate, and financial sectors as these are closely related to the prosperity of the national economy and people’s livelihoods. Through our approaches to the internal management works including lean management, technological innovation, and IT development, we ensure that we grow better and stronger, protect national energy and agricultural security, promote the chemical industry, and improve people’s livelihood. Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Energy Business Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Crude oil trading volume (million MT) 36.84 37.46 48.02 52.53 55.61 Equity oil and gas production (million barrels of 7.27 9.77 13.74 17.74 22.01 oil equivalent) Light oil sales (million MT) 3.82 3.08 4.61 4.12 4.28 Oil storage capacity(million cubic meters) 1.93 2.50 2.91 4.34 6.35 _ _ _ Oil refining capacity (million MT) 5.00 8.34 16 17 Sustainable Development Report 2011 By focusing on both domestic and overseas markets, and In Syria 26 Block, a major exploration breakthrough increased Sinochem’s In terms of the oil refining sector, we are focused on developing protecting national energy security while enhancing the recoverable crude oil reserves by 7.9 million barrels and its national gas our own refining capacity. Our Quanzhou Petrochemical project c o m p a n y ’s a p p r o a c h t o s u s t a i n a b i l i t y, w e a r e r a p i d l y reserves by 31 billion cubic feet; has 12 million MT capacity per annum and is located in Fujian transforming our industrial layout, pushing forward with key A material discovery was made in the southern part of the Peregrino province. The project has been included as a key national offshore oil field in Brazil, which is estimated to increase Sinochem’s refining project and will be finished and put into production projects, continuing our specialized operations, promoting equity in recoverable oil reserves by 60 to 120 million barrels. during the “12th Five-Year Plan”. We plan to build the project t h e c o o r d i n a t e d d ev e lo p me n t o f a ll as p e c ts o f o u r o i l s e ct o r i n t o a “ w o r l d c l a s s ” r e f i n e r y. I n 2 0 11 , t h e p r o j e c t a c h i e v e d o p e r a t i o n s a n d e n h a n c i n g t h e i r s c a l e a n d c a p a c i t y, a n d a major breakthrough when the Ministry of Environment contributing to people’s livelihoods. P r o t e c t i o n o ff i c i a l l y a p p r o v e d t h e E n v i r o n m e n t A s s e s s m e n t Sinochem continues to optimize its crude oil trade structure Report. In 2011, we extended our upstream and downstream operations and is enhancing its core competitiveness. As a result, the i n t h e o i l s e c t o r, f u r t h e r d e v e l o p e d k e y a s p e c t s o f o u r o i l company’s total volume of crude oil and refined oil products We have built several bases for crude oil and refined oil storage industrial chain (from exploration, production, storage and has reached 60 million MT, and has a 1:1.2 ration of import and and transit along coastal and riverside areas. Our storage refining, to oil and gas distribution and retail), enhancing our entrepot trade. capacity, including operational and under construction bases as strength and ability to safeguard national energy security. well as those under our management, is now 25 million cubic Sinochem used its integrated operation inside and outside of China to meters, while our petrochemical storage and logistics network In oil and gas E&P, Sinochem is following the nation’s “Going play a constructive role in importing diesel to ease the 2011 diesel supply c o v e r s t h e Ya n g t z e R i v e r D e l t a , t h e P e a r l R i v e r D e l t a , a n d contraction in China; Bohai Bay area. In 2011, the Phase Ⅱ project of Tianjin Port Global” strategy, enhancing support ability of scarce resources Sinochem enhanced the conditions for transporting crude oil by acquiring Storage Base went into production, while construction the Phase and is actively exploring project opportunities in addition to Tepma B.V. in Holland, a fully-owned subsidiary of TOTAL, and obtained Ⅱ of the Sinochem Nantong, Phase Ⅳ of the Sinochem Orient intensifying its management capacity. We are accelerating the Petrochemical Terminal, and Phase Ⅲ of the Sinochem Zhuhai its equity in the Cusiana field in Colombia and its interests in the OAM pace of our oil and gas exploration, increasing our reserves and ODC pipelines. a l l c o n t r i b u t e d t o t h e s t r a t e g i c l a n d s c a p e o f S i n o c h e m ’s o i l and production, and enhancing our oil and gas asset base and storage business. sustainability. A feasibility report for the expansion of the Zhoushan National Oil Reserve Sinochem delivered the Peregrino Project in Brazil, ensuring that daily Base was approved by National Development and Reform Commission peak production surpasses 77,000 barrels; (NDRC) and is expected to support the national commercial oil reserves Sinochem acquired 10% equity interest in five deep-water blocks in the and to enhance the role Sinochem plays in protecting national energy Espirito Santo Basin, offshore of Brazil; security. In the Ombu Block of the Colombia project, Sinochem discovered bedrock oil-bearing layers, and is now further identifying the reserves; In terms of oil and gas distribution and retail, we are developing distribution depots for refined oil and our gas station network to provide hardware facilities and acquire operational licenses for our distribution business. We are also exploring markets in Shandong, Shanxi, Anhui, and Jiangxi provinces, and have already created a network that covers the north, east, and south of China. Colombia Syria Brazil China UAE Ecuador Peru Indonesia Yemen Tunisia Location of Sinochem’s Oil Storage Bases 18 19 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Protecting National Stabilizing the Supply of Fertilizer Products Agricultural Security Sinochem is the largest fertilizer supplier and distributor in mainland China. While we are based in China we acquire quality fertilizer Agricultural inputs are the material base for agricultural production resources globally to provide services for our domestic agricultural Case: Maintaining a Relatively Low Price for Potash Import Case: Ensuring Efficient Fertilizer Transportation and Delivery and are key factors for ensuring growth in agricultural production. As production. We implement a business model that stresses the Sinochem Group is actively developing and consolidating its strategic Sinofert has been working on increasing its fertilizer transportation the only central government-owned SOE engaged in input fertilizer, “integration of mineral fertilizer, the integration of fertilizer and alliance with international suppliers. In order to protect the interests efficiency to guarantee its market supply: seed, and pesticide, Sinochem Group has responsibility to facilitate chemicals, the integration of production and distribution, and the of Chinese farmers, we have, together with other state-owned fertilizer In terms of imported fertilizers, Sinofert uses trucks and ships to transport China’s agricultural development and safeguard national grain integration of product and service”. Our business stretches the entire companies, set up a potash import negotiation mechanism that is products directly from the ports, increasing the efficiency of its port operations guided by the government and coordinated by industrial associations”. security. We are therefore committed to becoming the largest company industrial chain from resource development, R&D, production, import and the turnover ratio of railway transport, and ensuring that imported We have taken a leading position in this mechanism. Our efforts have in China in this field, and a leading service provider for global and export, and distribution and retail, to agronomic services. fertilizers are smoothly transported. maintained a relatively low price for potash CIF compared with other agricultural inputs. We will achieve this so that we can meaningfully As for the cross-region transportation of nitrogen and phosphate, Sinofert countries or regions of the world despite the fact that global potash contribute to the agricultural development and grain security of China is enhancing its resources acquisition, storing product reserves during slack price has been surging since 2006. This has helped reduce the cost of and the planet. season in order to release its supply during the peak season, and making full fertilizer for companies and lessened the burden on Chinese farmers. use of railway transportation capacity in order to guarantee the timely delivery of its supply. In the area of potash outflow from Qinghai and Xinjiang, Sinofert avoids using the railway during peak hours to ensure that smooth transportation is maintained. CIF of the potash imported from some countries or regions to China Price (USD/TM) 1000 1000 1000 Fertilizer industrial chain Specific steps 1000 Drafted the R&D Development Plan for Sinofert during “12th Five-year Plan” period, completing our R&D management system; R&D Launched 9 R&D projects with earmarked capital of RMB 7.82 million. 800 We control or participate in 13 fertilizer companies, and our total production capacity exceeds 10 million MT per annum; India Brazil Southeast Asia Production We reserve urea, DAP, potash, and composite fertilizer in slack seasons for the country. 600 600 560 500 510 We have strengthened our capacity to acquire potash, phosphate, and composite fertilizer resources to guarantee the supply of fertilizers that are in shortage in China; 450 We have 17 subsidiaries, 2,100 distribution outlets, and more than 140 joint-venture stores, which contribute to a distribution network 400 380 Distribution that covers 95% of the arable land in China; 350 350 325 China (Second half year) India Brazil Southeast Asia China We have established a safe, convenient and cost-effective agricultural material circulation system; 275 China (First half year) We are building an agronomic service system that includes an agrochemical knowledge dissemination system, an onsite fertilization 243 Southeast Asia instruction system, and a soil testing and formula fertilization system in order to offer a wide-spectrum of services for farmers. Brazil 200 China India China Annual Major Indicators for Sinochem’s Fertilizer Business Operation 2007 2008 2010 2011 Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Note: In 2009, Sinochem did not sign import contracts with suppliers due to price inconsistences. Total capacity (million MT) 7.85 10.16 10.34 10.34 10.34 Total sales volume (million MT) 15.16 16.22 15.23 15.51 16.46 Total distribution outlets 1,672 2,010 2,036 2,106 2,110 According to tests in China, the fertilizer contribution ratio for grain production is 1:7.5 (that is every kilogram of pure fertilizer can increase grain production by 7.5 kilograms). Based on our 2011 sales volume of 16 million MT (including pure fertilizer about 0.74 million MT), we calculate that we have increased national grain production by more than 110 billion kilograms. 20 21 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Protecting National Seed Security Developing and Popularizing Environmentally— Case: Strategic Alliance for Crop Seed Technology Innovation of China Friendly Pesticides The seed industry is an important, foundational and strategically SINOSEEDS has partnered with 51 first-rate research institutes, vital industry for China. Its security is related to national agricultural universities, central companies, and industrial associations As a leading domestic and international pesticide company grain and agricultural security and it is connected to the vital to establish the Strategic Alliance for Crop Seed Technology that integrates R&D and production and distribution, Sinochem Innovation of China. The Alliance cooperates with stakeholders and interests of the Chinese people, especially Chinese farmers. Group is intensifying its strength in trade and enhancing the makes the best of its strengths in the industrial chain. It also conducts S i n o c h e m G r o u p is th e o n l y ce n tr al g o v er n me n to w n ed S O E d e v e l o p m e n t o f i t s i n d u s t r i a l c h a i n . We h a v e e s t a b l i s h e d a n projects on a range of new breeding and bio-tech research, and that focuses on crop seed operations as part of its core business. industrial chain that includes “new product development—AI participates in major government R&D projects. It is intensifying its SINOSEEDS,the seed flagship of Sinochem, is striving to build capacity in the commercialization of research results. It strengthens production—preparation processing—distribution network and a national-grade seed company to enhance its seed breeding technological communication and industrial cooperation with domestic channel construction—technology promotion and service”. This R&D and promote the interaction between companies, research seed companies, promotes the upgrading of China’s seed industry, and provides safe, highly efficient, green pesticides and thoughtful institutes and universities, and it is actively participating in is providing product quality guarantees and technological support for service, and will facilitate China’s agricultural development. M & A . We a r e a l s o e n h a n c i n g t h e c o n s t r u c t i o n o f o u r s e e d the sustainable development of the Chinese seed sector. In 2011, Sinochem International formed a strategic cooperation production bases, increasing our competitive advantages a g r e e m e n t w i t h t h e J i a n g s u Ya n g n o n g C h e m i c a l G r o u p t o throughout our industrial chain, offering advice and suggestions enhance its overall competitiveness of the pesticide business. to enhance industrial development, and promoting the stable development of China’s agricultural sector while safeguarding national grain security. Pesticide industrial chain Specific steps Case: SINOSEEDS Rated as AAAc Grade Company by Dagong Global Credit Rating Company R&D Sinochem has two national-grade pesticide SINOSEEDS took the initiative to accept the evaluation and monitoring Seed industrial chain Specific steps development platforms, namely SYRICI and ZCIRI of creditable third-party rating agencies, aiming at increasing its and is taking the lead in pesticide development; capacity for seed supply and risk resistance. In 2011, it received Sinochem has the only R&D system in China that R&D The construction of the China Seed Life Science the first AAAc grade rating in seed industry, fully demonstrating its has design and synthesis of new compounds, and Technology Center is progressing well and the capacity and strength for promoting seed industry upgrading, and biological activity screening, safety assessments, center continues to conduct R&D; preparation processing, and production processing becoming a role model for the healthy and organic development of SINOSEEDS has acquired certification for 28 development; Chinese seed industry. proprietarily developed corn lines and 31 rice lines, We have developed flumorph, SYP-1620, enestroburin, and a PVP for 12 varieties. It has also filed PVP As stated in the Rating Report of China National Seed Group Pyridine bacteria oxazole, pyraclostrobin, applications for nine hybrids and parent lines, and Corporation , SINOSEEDS is the champion enterprise in China’s pyrametostrobin, and pyriminostrobin, all of which has built eight breeding stations and 87 selection industrialization process of the agricultural sector. SINOSEEDS has set have proprietary IP and are green pesticides; and testing networks; up relatively complete and strong R&D system. The company adopts Our bisamide pesticide development has made SINOSEEDS has worked with specialized universities a seed production model of “company-base-farmer household”. It has Major progress over the years. to create the first rice genome array chip in the world; large breeding bases, automatic seed processing facilities, and extensive SINOSEEDS took the lead setting up the Strategic distribution and service network. Alliance for Seed Technology Innovation of China, Production Sinochem has three pesticide production bases and launched a technological supporting scheme in Shenyang, Nantong, and Lianyungang, with for the national “12th Five-Year Plan”. production capacity exceeding 100,000 tons; Our plant protections include insecticide, fungicide, herbicide, and a plant growth regulator, containing Production SINOSEEDS has established five production base around 40 active ingredients; belts, covering an area of 40,000 hectares; Parts of our variety scale and technique are worldSINOSEEDS has also set up 12 modern seed processing class. and storage centers, with a production and processing capacity of 190 million kilograms per annum. Distribution Sinochem has consolidated its distribution channels in China to build a complete organizational Distribution SINOSEEDS has deepened a strategic cooperation distribution structure; agreement with Monsanto by establishing a strategic Sinochem has a series of pesticide products in its partnership with Saminus, a subsidiary under Monsanto “Sinochem Agrochemicals”, “Sinochem Crops”, and the world’s largest vegetable seed company; ‘Jiangshan”, “Shuanggong ”, “Frog ”, “Hetian” SINOSEEDS has set up 22 provincial-level distribution brands; branches across China, covering all major agricultural Sinochem has finalized a bar code system for 3,928 counties in key grain and oil production provinces; standardized outlets and logistical chains, and SINOSEEDS rolled out schemes like the “One Technology standardized its distributors’ service. Lead on One Village” and the “Coupon for Quality Seeds” in more than 1,000 villages in major agricultural counties, meeting farmers’ demand for agronomic service in the process. 22 23 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Serving to Improve Chinese People's Livelihoods and Happiness Our core businesses are closely related to people’s livelihoods. We draw on our business segments and make a sincere effort to provide quality products and thoughtful services that enrich and improve every aspect of people’s livelihoods and happiness. Clothing Chemical: The dyestuff products produced and operated by Sinochem are extensively used in the textile and apparel industry and are helping to diversify clothing. Food Agriculture: We are breeding new grain and vegetable varieties to enrich people’s diets. Our green pesticides and fertilizers are increasing crop production. Chemical: We are producing food additives that improve food quality. Housing Chemical: We use polyurethane products to improve the energy saving effects of building materials; we use PP and PVC plastic materials for pipeline, doors and window to improve people’s lives. Real estate: We adhere to the strategy of “delivering upscale products” to create high-quality real estate and to meet people's needs. Transportation Chemical: We are supplying r ubber products for the manufact ure of automobile tires, and producing plastics material for car manufacturing to meet the demands of automobile industry. Energy: We have built nearly 400 gas stations, and provide a stable supply of diesel and gasoline to the market in order to meet people’s transportation needs. Medical Care Chemical: We have establish DSM Sinochem Pharmaceutical Corporation with Royal DSM N.V., promoting technological upgrades of China’s anti-infective industry. Finance: We provide financial leasing services for the purchasing of medical equipment in hospitals, and promote the development of healthcare in underdeveloped areas. At the end of 2011, Far Eastern Horizon had provided services to 1,507 hospitals. Education Finance: We provide financial leasing for the purchasing of educational equipment in schools. We also dedicate ourselves to improving conditions in schools, and contribute to the progress of regional education. At the end of 2011, Far Eastern Horizon had provided services to 70 universities, 220 vocational training schools, and 120 high schools. 24 25 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Promoting Technological Innovation Sinochem took charge of 89 provincial-level or higher projects, and Creating the Highest Value for Shareholders received 24 provincial-level or higher technological awards. We developed Sinochem Group has established an approach to technological or amended 32 national-level standards and 30 industrial standards, and development that “encourages independent innovation, focuses applied for 178 patents. Sixty-nine of our applications were granted and ten Sinochem Group is a key SOE, and shoulders the task of preserving and increasing state-owned assets. The company is pressing on key projects, and supports business growth”. The company were granted overseas. forward with its strategy to enhance the lean management, increase profitability, and create more value for shareholders. At the end is doing this to enhance its capacity in technological innovation Sinochem has deepened the technological exchange and cooperation of 2011, the company was given a Grade A Enterprise rating by SASAC. activities with leading institutes, universities, and worldwide companies and to strengthen its hardware and software. We continue to in the areas of biomaterial, bioprocess, organic fertilizer, food additives, rely on technological innovation to support and guide our chemical engineering, transgenic breeding, new material, new energy, Major Operational Indicators of Sinochem (Unit: billion of RMB) strategic transformation and we focus on strategically important environmental protection, and counterfeiting technology. indus tries . We s trive to implement new technology, increas e capital for technological upgrades, and employ higher caliber Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 experts and personnel to speed up technological breakthroughs that contribute to our industrial development needs and support Operating revenue 229.73 308.98 243.03 335.33 458.95 Sinochem’s “Third Long March”. Enhancing IT Development Net profit 5.75 6.45 5.22 7.35 10.70 Sinochem was included in the innovation enterprises list released by Sinochem Group’s IT development aims at “serving business Ministry of Science and Technology, SASAC, and the All China Federation and creating value”. We do this by increasing our operational Total assets 108.74 135.50 171.60 211.46 258.19 of Trade Unions. We were also selected as one of a third batch innovation e ff i c i e n c y, r e d u c i n g o p e r a t i o n a l r i s k s , a n d a d d i n g v a l u e t o Shareholders’ equity 40.76 47.86 66.72 76.38 87.33 bases for overseas high-caliber talents by the Organizing Department of our business segments. We focus on supporting business and the CCCPC. enhancing internal controls and are committed to carrying out our strategic plan on IT development and promoting systemic IT improvements. Implementing Lean Management Case: Optimizing the Procurement System for Shipping Service and Reducing Shipping Costs Sinochem is building a project management mechanism that is based on Sinochem International had implemented a program called “Optimizing its IT system. We are enhancing our control over all aspects of our project Sinochem Group is implementing lean management techniques the Procurement System for Shipping Service and Reducing Shipping construction by strengthening the project approval process, our proposal and cultivating a lean mindset and habits in all its employees. review and evaluation processes prior to production. Cost”, and reduced shipping costs in its sales revenue by 4.7 percent, We e n s u r e t h a t o u r e m p l o y e e s l o o k a t t h e i r w o r k r e l a t e d We are building a uniform project management system and an HSE and cutting costs and expenditures by RMB 1.67 million per annum. weaknesses, continuously reduce costs, increase efficiency, and information system. enhance the company’s competiveness. More than 150 branches under Sinochem have now adopted the e-HR Established the Procurement Committee and Procurement system to manage their personnel and compensation information. Department and rules and regulations, and adopted a specialized The company continues to pursue excellence to improve its operations and 33 branches under Sinochem use the TC system to manage their funds and management approach; release its potential. We have made a marked improvement in reducing to enhance their control over funds and settlements. Improved and standardized operational processes, established a new costs and expenditures in procurement, production, logistics, and project Sinochem has built an e-system and data sharing system to improve its price review mechanism, separated price inquiry and price quotation construction, as well as in energy conservation and consumption reduction. financial analysis and evaluations and risk management, ensuring that the processes, enhanced price response and price accuracy mechanisms, In 2011, we completed 211 lean projects at the group level and more than data is shared in a timely fashion and more accurately. and provides support to the sales business; 1,900 projects at the branch level, saving RMB 306 million in expenditures Signed long-term service contract with shipping companies, and in the process. developed a new price system; Increased self-booking capacity and scale. Sinochem developed 154 new products (new process). Sales for the new products was RMB 3.5 billion, up by 118% compared to 2010. In Case: Optimize the Dehumidification and Cooling Process for Slow-release particular, three new products and two new processes facilitated sales Fertilizer revenue of more than RMB 100 million. Sinochem Shandong Fertilizer is the leading company in Sinochem’s Sinochem continued to promote the commercialization of our key fertilizer operations. It is guided by a lean management philosophy technological achievements. Our project to synthesize the process for and regularly upgrades its technology to reduce production costs. In pymetrozine pesticide was conducted by SYRICI. The institute found a order to “optimize the dehumidification and cooling process for slowsubstitute for the toxic raw material of the pesticide and in the process release fertilizer”, it has modified its heat-transfer agent process to resolved problems associated with waste air, water, and solid treatment. At increase the efficiency and increase the air volume cycle in the system. the conclusion of the project all indicators reached international standards. The company has also reduced water containments in fluidizing air The final product was the first pesticide to have a production value of more and standardized its solvents and enforcement of solvents. It has than RMB 100 million for the Shenyang Kechuang Company. Sinochem also standardized its operational processes and improvements have Lantian also developed R134a, a fourth generation fluoride catalyst. The been to its checks and assessment procedures. As a result, electricity product’s catalytic efficiency is 12% greater than the third generation and consumption per ton of fertilizer has decreased by 53.55%, saving its production capacity is up 10%. R134a is now applied to 5,000 tons per RMB 1.06 million in power. annum production unit, and has increased production volume by 600 tons and profit by RMB 30 million. In addition to enhancing the development of SYRICI and ZCIRI, Sinochem 211 1900 306 is contributing to national seed security and the development of China’s modern agriculture. We are constructing the China Seed Life Science and Technology Center, and promoting research on regular seed breeding, molecular breeding, and transgenic breeding. We are committed to investing more than RMB 5 billion into the center. Completed 211 lean projects at the group level Completed more than 1,900 projects at the branch level Saved RMB 306 million in expenditures 26 27 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Expanding Our Oil Business Service Portfolio By leveraging various advantages in our petrochemical industrial chain, we continue to expand our oil business scope and enrich our oil business service portfolio. We are also optimizing our oil trade structure and providing premium oil reserve services as well as services for end consumption of our refined oil products. Enhancing Oil Trade Services at Home and Abroad Case: Providing Customers with Comprehensive Services By relying on our reputation, established business channels Sinochem gas stations uphold the service goal of “Providing customers and advanced technology, we continue to provide premium oil with all-round quality services”, and constantly enrich their services and professional services to customers at home and abroad and portfolio. The stations offer customers various value-added services in addition to providing oil. These include self-service car cleaning have formed stable and broad sales channels on a global scale, facilities, tire pressure testing and inflation, glass cleaning, mobile becoming the principal oil supplier of refinery plants in China, phone charging devices, self-service shoe polishing, free newspapers, Southeast Asia, Europe and America in the process. In 2011, our umbrella rentals and other services. transit volume of crude oil and profits hit a record high. The total operating value of crude oil and refined oil now exceeds 60 million tons per year. Improving Petrochemical Storage & Logistics Services Our core business focuses on the development of our longterm customers and bonded goods. As a result, we have strengthened our integrated management and improved our level of customer service. In 2011, warehousing turnover exceeded 35 million tons. By the end of 2011, our storage capacity was approximately 25 million m 3 , inclusive of warehouses that we are currently operating, building and managing. Complete Sales Service Network for End Consumption I n 2 0 11 , w e f o c u s e d o u r a t t e n t i o n o n o u r r e f i n e r y p l a n t s , stepping up the pace of construction and supporting capacity and improving our service network for end consumption of oil products. By the end of 2011, we had 17 light oil distribution o u t l e t s a n d n e a r l y 4 0 0 g a s s t a t i o n s . We a l s o f o r m e d a s a l e s Providing Satisfactory Services to Develop network that covers markets in the north, east and south of China, and improved all aspects of our customer services. with Clients Increasing the Development of Gas Stations: focusing on a petrochemical project in Quanzhou, we implemented a series of measures that included stronger guidance from headquarters, greater efforts in developing Sinochem Group, through the concept of “Services create value” and the responsible goal of “being packaged projects, and the construction of a supporting network. Our actions resulted in a record surge in the number of signed and opened gas an enterprise trusted by customers”, strives to create value for our customers by extending our stations, and increased the pace of construction in our gas station network. service content, innovating our service model, deepening our service portfolio, improving our Increasing the Development of Oil Depot for Distribution: by adopting service capacity, providing satisfactory services, and creating value for our customers. a development strategy that focused on the acquiring of existing oil warehouses and building new ones, we targeted specific markets and developed a number of new oil warehouses in Liaoning, Shandong, Jiangxi and other strategically important provinces. This has resulted in a robust distribution pattern and further improved our services capacity for end markets. Construction of Refined Oil Pipeline: we have completed a feasibility study report on the central-south refined oil pipeline, the results of which were included in The 12th Five-Year Plan on National Oil and Gas Pipe Network. 28 29 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Providing Satisfactory Seed Sales Services Extending Pesticide Service System Improving the Service System for “Agriculture, the Countryside and Farmers” Sinochem is building a national seed company and is focused on Sinochem is constantly perfecting its R&D system in the field As a member of the “national team” in the agricultural industry, Sinochem Group persists in its mission to “build a harmonious the construction of science and technology, production, and sales of pesticide business, improving production management, and China, ensuring safe agriculture and serving Chinese farmers with heart and soul”. We also regularly improve our service system for in the industry chain. Sinochem Group will continue to extend the establishing a sound marketing system that provides farmers “agriculture, the countryside and farmers” to increase agricultural output and farmers’ income. service scope of its seed business by establishing 22 provincial with cost-effective and environmentally friendly pesticides. marketing service centers in the country, and carrying out guidance and demonstration activities like the “10,000 mu Demonstration Domestically, the Agrochemical Center has completed the integration of Establishing Scientific Fertilization Service System Field and the 100 mu Demonstration Plot”. In 2011, we created 25 its domestic marketing systems, established a marketing team consisting of high-yield demonstration fields and conducted more than 600 on143 employees, and formed a more comprehensive domestic organizational Sinochem actively promotes the concept of “scientific and marketing structure that includes a sales department, a technical field meetings. In cooperation with the agricultural technology balanced fertilization” and work to popularize agricultural department, a marketing department, and an operations department. We service department, we conducted a range of experiments and knowledge to meet the goal of “Developing agriculture and have done this to lay a solid foundation that will enable us to strengthen demonstrations, and provided agricultural technology services enriching farmers by science and technology”. Relying on our our services in domestic markets. that have enhanced our core competitiveness in various markets. China-wide distribution network, we have created an integrated Internationally, Sinochem International adheres to its strategic principles We will continue to strive to provide farmers with the best quality of “Taking root in China and mapping our distribution in Asia-pacific service system that at its core includes an “Agrochemical seeds and more thoughtful services. regions” to increase investment in our own brand and products. We knowledge dissemination system, and an on-field guidance currently have more than 80 independently registered products overseas system and soil testing formula fertilization service system” Enhancing services through independent innovation. We built the China and have achieved stable business growth in the markets of the Philippines, to increase agricultural benefits and farmers’ income. In 2011, Seed Life Science and Technology Center in Wuhan, which represents Thailand, Vietnam and other countries. SinoFert was recognized as a “Top 10 Farmer Assured Brand” the highest-level of R&D in the seed industry. We also established a and a “Farm Assured Company”, and received numerous other commercial seed breeding system that combines conventional seed awards. breeding with biotechnology seed breeding, and actively promotes independent innovation to support and enhance our seed service capacity. Ensuring services by increasing seed production capacity. We continue Agrochemical knowledge dissemination system: we have established and are Case: A New Promotion Model of Agricultural Technology—Farmer to research and improve our coordination capability and polymerization improving our agrochemical knowledge dissemination system via telephone, Field School efficiency, production and marketing. In 2011, SINOSEEDS promoted broadcast systems and other promotional materials and channels. In 2011, we The Ministry of Agriculture and SinoFert jointly launched an the expansion of the Zhangye Company, the reconstruction of Mianyang upgraded our free telephone hotline services, and took the lead in setting up the innovative model of agricultural technology promotion—the “Farmer Company following an earthquake, and the construction of Fujian Nongjia Field School”—which essentially give lessons in the field. Farmers Project to improve seed production, processing capacity and seed quality. 400 telephone customer service system. By the end of 2011, we had received are encouraged to actively participate in the training sessions while Extending services through Chinese-foreign cooperation. In order to a total of 200,000 phone calls. In cooperation with the Central People's significantly enhance our service capacity in the wheat seed business, we Broadcasting Station, we sponsored an agrochemical knowledge program to learning about the new agricultural technology model. The participatory have undertaken a series of measures that include, among other things, promote scientific fertilization and diseases and pest prevention knowledge. An training is based on active learning rather than the passive listening establishing the China Seed Hybrid Wheat Seed Industry (Beijing) Co., audience of more than 1.4 billion people watched the program. that characterizes the traditional approach. The new model also makes Ltd., and acquiring the Henan Lianfeng Seed Industry Co., Ltd. We have On-field guidance system: we have established an on-field guidance the farmer the subject of the training and is guided by scientific and also deepened our international cooperation in the field of vegetable and service system that comprises scientific fertilization model villages technological elements. This approach accelerates learning and is corn business to help improve our service capacity for related products. and agricultural experts. The system aims to provide farmers with oncultivating a new group of farmers with basic education and knowledge field guidance on the use of fertilizers. By the end of 2011, we had built of farming and business in order to enhance the quality of the farmers more than 3,000 scientific fertilization model villages. Each village also and improve their competence for independent development. promotes a further ten villages. This approach has benefited millions of SinoFert and the Science Education Department of the Ministry of farmers. Agriculture plans to run 60 demonstration “Farmer Field School” Soil testing formula fertilization service system: we have established a projects so that farmers benefit and learn from practical agricultural sound system for soil testing fertilization services that provides farmer technology. The construction of the demonstration schools is allowing with professional support in the scientific fertilization and rational use us to explore the experience of starting farmer field schools in different of fertilizer. In association with the Chinese Academy of Agricultural industries and in different regions. We are also promoting a group Sciences, we established a three-level service system that consists of a of grassroots technicians to be instructors, innovating our thinking “technical center — laboratory — service station”. and our promotional activities, and developing agricultural training according to real needs in order to improve farmers' scientific and cultural quality and promote local industrial development. Case: Sending International Agrochemical Experts into the Field In 2011, SinoFert invited international agrochemical experts to demonstration meetings in Laibin city, Guangxi, and Zhongshan City, Guangdong, to demonstrate the balanced use of fertilizer to sugarcane and bananas, and highlighting the popularization of agrochemical knowledge. The experts then went into the field, offered one-to-one training to farmers, explained how to fertilize sugarcane and bananas in balanced way, and provided the farmers with new technologies and approaches. 30 31 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Liquid Chemicals Logistics Services with the Plastics Business Services that Get Closer to Providing Comprehensive Chemical Business Services Highest Safety Standards Customer Demands S i n o c h e m G r o u p s t r o n g l y e m p h a s i z e s q u a l i t y m a n a g e m e n t , m a i n t a i n s a c u s t o m e ro r i e n t e d a p p r o a c h t o i t s t a i l o r e d R & D a n d Sinochem's subsidiary Sinochem International has the largest Sinochem engages in plastics business such as plastics in bulk, production, and strives to provide global customers with high-quality chemical products and professional services. liquid chemicals shipping fleet in China and its ISO tank fleet engineering plastics, and general plastics. We have established meets the highest safety standards. We have a proven ability a client-centered marketing service model and provide to provide comprehensive chemical logistics solution for professional marketing services for upstream and downstream domestic and foreign customers. In addition, we have chemicals customers. Our principal purpose is to enhance accessibility Enriching Fluorine Chemical Product Varieties Provide overall rubber services depots with business certificates in Tianjin, Dalian, Shanghai, to plastics to our upstream resources; the second purpose is Guangzhou and other major port cities. The depots ensure that to accelerate the layout of our marketing network in order to Sinochem has established a complete industrial chain that S i n o c h e m ‘ s s u b s i d i a r y S i n o c h e m I n t e r n a t i o n a l i s t h e l a rg e s t our services are closer to our customers and that we can reduce get close to end customer services; and the third purpose is to is integrated into one body of our resources (fluorite and rubber marketing service provider in China. Our upstream logistical costs. strengthen our services for end customers and provide them hydrofluoric acid) development, R&D, production, and extension strategy focuses on resource, while our marketing with a one-package solution. s a l e s . We h a v e a l s o b e c o m e t h e l e a d i n g f l u o r i n e c h e m i c a l strategy emphasizes high-end customers. The company acquired manufacturer and supply the most complete variety of ODS p l a n t r e s o u r c e s a n d h a s e x p a n d e d i t s p r o c e s s i n g c a p a c i t y. In 2011, Sinochem Plastics, one of our subsidiaries, strengthened the alternatives. Our products cover ODS alternatives, fluorine We h a v e a l s o i m p r o v e d o u r m a r k e t i n g p l a n s a n d e s t a b l i s h e d Case: Providing High-end Liquid Chemicals Shipping Services construction of its marketing network, setting up 16 branches and sales polymer and fluorine-containing fine chemicals, among which an integrated industrial chain business model to improve our Sinochem International offers domestic coastal and international longdepartments in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Chongqing, Changsha and other range and short-range ocean transportation of liquid chemicals and more than ten kinds of our products, such as HFC-134a, have service capacity, quality and efficiency. By the end of 2011, our cities. The network covers all main markets in China. The company ship management. Our main ships are in accord with the certification the largest share in domestic and international markets. natural rubber processing capacity was 530,000 tons at home also extended the scope of its services to provide quality products and of International Chemical Industry Distributors Association and meet and abroad, and we sold 800,000 tons of natural rubber, ranking professional services to a broader group of customers. all annual safety inspections of major international oil companies such first in the Chinese market and second in the world. We have built a logistics distribution center that is closer to the enterprise’s Established a joint venture with Belgium Solvay Holdings Ltd, cooperating as SHELL and BP, and meet the qualification standards for high-end markets, providing a one-package logistics solution, optimizing the in the field of high-purity wet chemicals, and producing high-end fluorine customer service. By the end of 2011, we managed 47 ships and had the configuration of logistics, and reducing overall logistics cost. chemicals including electronic-grade hydrofluoric acid to meet the rapid In 2011, we reserved 100,000 hectares of land for natural rubber cultivation shipping capacity to accommodate more than 450,000 tons, accounting We have implemented a “big client strategy” and provide targeted and development needs of China in the high-tech industry. in Africa, Indonesia and other regions, improving the global layout of our for 16% of domestic markets and 61% of high-end markets. differentiated services to those clients. processing capacity and upgrading our quality to meet individual needs. We established a new customer management system to analyze customers’ demands and provide specialized services for key targeted customers. We increased our sales to domestic the top 35 tire manufacturer by 34% and by 131% to global the top ten tire manufacturer over the previous year. 32 33 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Providing Considerate Property Services Developing Reliable and Efficient Financial and Bidding Services Through our one-stop management service, unified property services, professional service team, and a range of other measures, Sinochem Group has a complete non-bank financial business scope including lease financing, trust, securities investment, funds, Sinochem Group provides customers with considerate property services and is constantly improving its service quality and standards life insurance and other businesses. Through our diversified products, strong risk controls mechanism and professional market t o a c h i e v e r e c o g n i t i o n f r o m i t s c u s t o m e r s a n d s o c i e t y. I n 2 0 11 , F r a n s h i o n P r o p e r t y w a s a w a r d e d t h e “ 2 0 11 ( 8 t h ) E x c e l l e n c e operations, we offer customers considerable services. achievement Award”. Its two buildings, the Chemsunny World Trade Center and the Sinochem Building, were granted the “2011(8th) most trade value office Award” and the “2011(8th) regional classic landmark Office Building Award”, respectively. In addition, it The Financial Leasing Business Promotes Industrial In 2011, FOTIC established a wealth management center and introduced received the “2011 Office Building Style Landmark” property honor for the Jin Mao Tower. the special “Five Elements Wealth” management services to high net Development worth customers. The move pioneered the wealth management brand in the Implementing one-stop service management. We have merged our rental Far East Horizon, Sinochem’s listed enterprise in Hong Kong, trust industry. Throughout the year, the company held 27 “Wealth Private service window with the property service window in the Chemsunny World Case: Providing Special Security Services for the Enterprises in Chemsunny combines its industrial and financial capital and focuses on Lecture” activities, invited 2,300 customers get to know the company Trade Center and the Sinochem Building and strengthened all coordination World Trade Center traditional business such as medical care, printing, shipping, through organized visits, and popularized financial knowledge via forums, mechanisms between their various departments to improve the speed of our Major customers of the Beijing Chemsunny World Trade Center construction, industrial equipments, and education, and tailors lectures and others. service and increase customers’ satisfaction with our services. include the China Import and Export Bank, the Agricultural Bank, the one-stop financial solutions for its customers. It has developed Financial Unifying property services. We are unifying the Jin Mao property service CITIC Bank, the Bohai Bank and other financial institutions. Prior to from a single financial service agency into an integrated Forum brand, upgrading our property service certificates, offering competitive December 31st, the day for the settlement between the banking industry industrial operations service agency that is located in China but employment for leadership positions, and learning from the service and the People’s Bank of China, the Chemsunny Property Management thinks and acts globally, and is committed to promoting national standards and systems used in five-star hotels so as to incrementally Center conducts an electricity check and conducts an emergency economic and social sustainable development. Parenting Metal Health Wellness enhance our service standards. plan to support the work of financial customers. It provides security Wood Earth Cultivating our professional service team. Through our decoration services such as uninterrupted air-conditioning for 48 hours, the use of Fire Water engineering measures in the Jin Mao Palace and the Jin Mao Noble Manor a function room (toilets and a tea room) and others valued facilities to Far East Horizon conducts benchmarking with leading industry Demonstration Area, we have modified our decoration teams, and are ensure that customers can complete their settlement work on time. counterparts, regularly upgrades its operating mechanism, refines the Fashion Investment engaging in project design, type, and construction management to support classification of its product business, optimizes its leasing service Sports and Collection the improvement of our commercial real estate quality. processes, and works to build a comprehensive customer service network in China. The company has increased its foreign professional platform to support and High-quality Tendering Services upgrade Chinese medical care, printing and other industries. Sinochem’s subsidiary Sinochem International Tendering Co., It actively explores innovative financial services, makes greater efforts Ltd. (Sinochem Tendering) is committed to providing customers in the promotion of complex business activities, and has enhanced its with high-quality tendering services, helping them procure integrated services. quality products and services at a reasonable price, and offering customers value-added services such as auditing and archiving We possess a “Class-A Certificate for International Tendering A g e n c y ” , a “ C l a s s A C e r t i f i c a t e f o r E n g i n e e r i n g Te n d e r i n g Agency”, a “Class-A Certificate for Central Investment Project Tendering Agency”, a “Class-A Certificate for Governmental Procurement Agency of PRC”, and a “Class-C Certificate for Engineering Consultation”. We primarily offer services in the fields of aerospace, railway transportation, petrochemicals, municipal utilities, marine, and nonferrous metallurgy. We have undertaken tendering on related technology consultations, the importing of equipment, procurement management, and international business consultation for many key State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) including Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd (COMAC), China Aerospace Science & Industry Corporation Providing Trust Services with Strict Adherence to (CASIC), China Aerospace Science Corporation (CASC), Trustee's Intention China South Railway Group (CSR), China CRH Corporation Limited (CRH), China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC), Sinochem’s subsidiary China Foreign Economy and Trade Trust China Shipbuilding Industry Corporation (CSIC), Aluminum Co., Ltd. (FOTIC) has responded to changes in the market Corporation of China (CHINALCO), and Dongbei Special and new policies, and actively adjusts its business structure Steel Corporation Limited. Sinochem Tendering has received a c c o r d i n g l y. T h r o u g h o u r p r o f e s s i o n a l a n d d i f f e r e n t i a t e d several honors including the “China Top 10 Tendering Agent”, business strategy, we are constantly developing our marketing the “Outstanding Enterprise for the 30th Anniversary of C h i n a Te n d e r i n g I n d u s t r y D e v e l o p m e n t ” , t h e “ To p 1 0 M o s t capabilities and expanding our direct marketing channels. We C o m p e t i t i v e Te n d e r i n g A g e n c y ” , t h e “ M o s t R e s p e c t a b l e rely on our outstanding performance in financial markets and Te n d e r i n g A g e n c y ” , a n d t h e “ M o s t C o m p e t i t i v e Te n d e r i n g have received wide recognition in the marketplace, receiving a Agency for Railway and Machinery Industry”. number of awards such as the “2011 Best Wealth Management Award”, the “Annual Award for Best Wealth Management Trust The bidding for the Phase-I Project of the CSIC Shanghai Changxing C o m p a n y ” , t h e “ A n n u a l Aw a r d f o r B e s t We a l t h M a n a g e m e n t Shipbuilding Base—which was made by Sinochem Tendering—was Brand”, and the “2011 Best Trust Wealth Management Award”. incorporated into the “China 30-Year Classic Bidding Projects”. 34 35 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Improving Our HSE Management Mechanism We took national laws and regulations as the basis of our activities and drew on internationally advanced HSE concepts, systems and standards to blend aspects of our management and corporate culture. We also intensified our classified management, established a five-level HSE management framework, and established a HSE management mechanism that is in accord with our position as a Global Top 500 company. Optimizing the HSE Management Model The Company Defines Ten Principles for HSE Operation: 1. Work safety is a prerequisite for us to develop our business; We rearranged the members on our HSE committee, appointing 2. All operations should be provided with a safe operational method; the members of the Group’s leading group and the leaders of 3. Production tasks should be done safely, no matter how urgent they are; o u r t i e rt w o s u b s i d i a r i e s a s m e m b e r s o f H S E c o m m i t t e e t o 4. Risk assessments should be conducted before any operation; 5. All high risk operations must be approved before implementation; strengthen the supervision of our HSE management and provide 6. All operations should cease without safe working conditions or the possibility a strong organizational guarantee to our research and decisionof risk; Practicing HSE Management to Achieve Safe, making. We defined the HSE responsibility of the management 7. All operations should be done in accordance with the established management and employees at all levels to clarify the HSE management’s and technical standards; responsibility and provided a solid foundation for our HSE Green and Harmonious Development 8. Ensure all safety protection devices and systems are in good condition; implementation. In addition, we improved our HSE evaluation 9. Never exceed the design limits of equipment, tools or technical processes at mechanism by adjusting the weighting of the evaluation and any time; turning it into a single process and modifying it so that it is 10. Make timely reports on abnormal conditions, hidden dangers, near accidents both a qualitative and quantitative process. We also improved and accidents. Sinochem Group has always taken the occupational health, production safety, and environmental our HSE management performance by installing an incentive protection (HSE) as an important part of its CSR, and an integral constituent of its sustainable mechanism. development strategy. Our systematic, professional and lean HSE management is contributing to the building of an intrinsically safe, environmentally and resource friendly enterprise, and is helping us achieve harmonious development among people and the environment. Improving Our HSE Management System With the Leadership of HSE as Its Core, Sinochem has Established 13 HSE Management Elements: We are improving our HSE system and are striving to develop management systems that match the HSE management system a n d m e c h a n i s m . I n 2 0 11 , b a s e d o n t h e t o p l e v e l d e s i g n , Management Evaluation and in accordance we prepared and released the Sinochem HSE Management continuous with laws and improvement regulations is Regulations and Sinochem HSE Management Handbook, the bottom line Risk which further defines our HSE management framework, Emergency management management is essential management concepts, operational standards, management goals, management processes, management elements and HSE r e s p o n s i b i l i t y, a n d p u t s f o r w a r d t h e g e n e r a l r e q u i r e m e n t s Occupational Responsibility health and training is o f t h e H S E m a n a g e m e n t t o t h e G r o u p . P r e s e n t l y, t h e y h a v e management the foundation become programmatic documents for the promotion of our wellThe leadership of HSE is at recognized and advanced HSE concepts and methods at home the core The and abroad, and for standardizing employees’ behavior and our Security management completeness of equipment and HSE management activities. facilities The Company provides Ten Concepts on HSE Management: The The safety of management of operation and 1. HSE is our social responsibility, and not merely an economic and legal responsibility; contractors The maintenance 2. HSE is the basis of survival for the enterprise and a guarantee of its development; management Environmental of accidents 3. HSE needs systematic and scientific management; management caused by hidden 4. The leadership and commitment of management is key to achieving outstanding dangers HSE performance; 5. Risk management is central to the management of HSE; 6. Continuous training, tracking and intensification of employees are effective ways to develop safety habits; 7. Any defects must be corrected in a timely manner; 8. Emergency and crisis management is an important part of HSE management; 9. The performance of HSE management can and must be measured and evaluated; 10.HSE management is a process of continual improvement. 36 37 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Sinochem Group has incorporated its HSE management Sinochem Lantian has developed effective systems for the allocation of system into the full cycle of its production and operations, safety funds, allocating safety investment by ratio, controlling HSE risks Occupational Health and Production Safety and established HSE management systems and an operations in the production process and reducing emissions. In 2011, the company allocated RMB 67.21 million to safety funds and retrofitted 32 dangerous mechanism that integrates decision-making management, Sinochem Group has raised its production safety to national stability and social harmony levels, and established a long-term and devices and equipment. production and operations, technical support, incentives and effective mechanism for production safety by developing safety standards that reduce occupational risks and improve intrinsic The Petroleum Center has attached great importance to the HSE constraints into one body to ensure the practice of a full life management of gas station contractors, conducting HSE management safety. In 2011, we had no major accidents that were attributable to production safety issues or occupational disease. cycle HSE management approach. trainings, enhancing awareness on HSE, and improving the overall competence of HSE management. In 2011, 43 staff, supervisors and safety officers on construction sites sat the annual qualification examination for Occupational Health on-site supervisors at construction site. Case: “Petroleum Cup” Fire Skills Competition By using national laws and regulations and our own planning In 2011, six storage enterprises including Sinochem Xingzhong, Expansion project system as a guide, Sinochem Group has fostered the creation Sinochem East, Sinochem Nantong, Sinochem Yangzhou, Sinochem Reconstruction project Acquired companies Enhancing the Awareness and Competence of HSE of a highly professional management team. We conduct special Tianjin Terminal, and Sinochem Zhuhai, participated in the “Petroleum New construction project Divested companies inspections and investigations, work hard to intensify our efforts Cup” fire skills competition, competing for five items such as safety Sinochem continued to improve our awareness on responsibility, in occupational health supervision, control and prevention, and knowledge contest and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The competition HSE management leadership and laws and regulations at all levels of management protect the legitimate rights and interests of employees in all replicates real situations. As a result, the fire skills competition in decision by participating in overseas exchanges, carrying out special aspects of occupation health. In 2011, we improved our special improved the fire safety awareness and competence of employees. making management system, established occupational health regulators, trainings via our HSE internal trainers, clean production increased the number of occupational health supervisors, and auditors, and occupational health management training. We also conducted employee medical examinations and offered health arranged for core employees to study HSE engineering through care to ensure the health and well-being of our employees. Full lifecycle Design o u r o n t h e j o b g r a d u a t e c o u r s e . I n a d d i t i o n , w e o rg a n i z e d a HSE “ P r o d u c t i o n S a f e t y M o n t h ” , t h e “ 11 9 F i r e D a y ” , t h e “ E s s a y management Installation Production Safety for 6.5 World Environment Day”, a “HSE Contest”, and other HSE management HSE Operations activities, and sent “safety precautions” to all employees According to practical, financial and wide-reaching aspects in the value management regularly. Our regular publicity and education measures have of our various asset projects, Sinochem Group stresses the chain in production Maintenance promotion of compliance in safety standards and the importance established an atmosphere that encourages staff participation and has established an internal cooperation mechanism for HSE of renovation in its technical risk processes. We have recently Change Sales Procurement made modifications to ensure that we meet all safety standards Services as well as enhanced HSE awareness among our employees. Scrap or discard and have revamped 15 dangerous technical processes in accordance with national requirements. We have also established In 2011, we achieved a 100% training rate for responsible persons an accid e n t s tatis tics man ag e me n t b o o k to co lle ct s ta tis tical a n d l e a d e r s i n c h a rg e o f H S E , a n 8 0 % r a t e f o r m a n a g e m e n t information related to accidents. The information covers the personnel, and a 100% rate for all recruits. nature of accidents, and contributes to the strengthening of our scientific management approach. In addition, we have established a management database for major hazard sources in order to dynamically monitor them. We continuously inspect and rectify hidden dangers so as to eliminate and reduce them and Emergency Management put an end to production safety accidents. Strengthening HSE Sinochem Group has integrated the “full life cycle” concept management in our construction projects is extremely important Production safety is a hot topic in the practice of corporate governance and to us as is investment and acquisition that ensures the safety of i n t o i t s a p p r o a c h t o e m e rg e n c y a n d c r i s i s m a n a g e m e n t , a n d topic that Chinese enterprises pay great attention to in their management. our construction and investment activities. We are strengthening has established the emergency management principles of Sinochem Group has set up a production safety model that cooperates our supervision over contractors to stop all accidents caused by “Giving priority to prevention, combining prevention with with stakeholders in its overseas operations, jointly establishing a HSE contractors, and are carrying out safety education campaigns, rescue; making inspection and preparation at earlier stages; management system that covers the full life cycle of its business and publicity activities and on-site standardized operations to conducting routine management and war-time emergency”. After successfully reduces hidden safety dangers associated with its offshore gas s t r e n g t h e n a n d f u r t h e r d e v e l o p o u r s a f e t y c u l t u r e . We a l s o establishing the evaluation system for emergency management fields project in the United Arabia Emirates (UAE ). conduct external on-field HSE audits to intensify professional —— Abstract from Best Practice in the Internationalization of Chinese i n 2 0 11 , w e a c t i v e l y c o n d u c t e d a n e m e rg e n c y m a n a g e m e n t HSE management. In 2011, Sinochem Group carried out HSE Enterprise — the Challenge of Global Corporate Citizens evaluation at our headquarters, tier-two subsidiaries and a u d i t s , i n s p e c t i n g 1 7 t i e rt w o s u b s i d i a r i e s a n d 7 6 t i e rt h r e e t i e rt h r e e e n t e r p r i s e s t o i n v e s t i g a t e a n y p r o b l e m s w i t h o u r enterprises. We discovered 1,449 problems and hidden dangers, rectifying and controlling all of them in a timely manner. approach to emergency management and to make corresponding rectification plans. The evaluation effectively and comprehensively enhanced our level of emergency management. Case: Safe Production for 1,200 Days Sinochem Group participated in a planning preparation pilot Zhonghua Taicang used JHA, HAZOP and other risk analysis tools project organized by the national emergency command center. to identify risk sources and conduct risk assessments, and prevent The on-site plans of Sinochem Xingzhou and Sinochem Taicang the risk of HSE. The company made on-site improvements using were used as examples of successful on-site disposal planning Du Keping, Vice President of Sinochem Group, attended the 2011 China stop safety observations and other methods to inspect and eliminate Responsible Care Conference in Beijing and delivered a speech themed as for enterprises in the national hazardous chemical industry by hidden dangers. In 2011, the company invested RMB 9.42 million in “building HSE core competitiveness”. The speech emphasized the importance of 16 intrinsic safety modification projects, further improving the safety the National Emergency Command Center, and were recognized taking a green path to harmonious development on behalf of representatives of conditions of the enterprise. By the end of 2011, Sinochem Taicang had as contributing to the emergency standardized management of central enterprises. achieved safe production for 1,200 consecutive days. the industry. 38 39 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Ecological Environmental Protection We h a v e p o s i t i v e l y t r a n s f o r m e d o u r d e v e l o p m e n t m o d e l a n d a r e s t r i v i n g t o a c h i e v e g r e e n d e v e l o p m e n t , u s i n g e n v i r o n m e n t protection equipment and advanced technology to minimize the impact of our business operations on the environment. Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Ecological Protection Advocating a Low-carbon Life Case: Enzymatic Technology — A Significant Advantage in Energy Sinochem Group regularly improves its guarantee mechanism Conservation and Emission Reduction Sinochem advocates the concept of “green harmony” and pursue Sinochem advocates the concept of low-carbon life, and for energy conservation and emissions reduction, and has DSM Sinochem Pharmaceutical Corporation's enzymatic technology, the optimization of economic, resource and environmental have conducted a series of public activities to encourage our established and perfected three major systems for organizational when compared with traditional chemical technology, has advantages in b e n e f i t s . I n 2 0 11 , w e i s s u e d t h e S i n o c h e m C o r p o r a t i o n ’s employees and stakeholders to take active action and jointly management, statistics and monitoring, evaluation and energy conservation and emissions reduction, environmental protection Regulations on Environmental Protection, clarified our build a low-carbon society. and the safety of products, and is supported by the 12th Five-Year Plan incentives. In 2011, we discomposed our energy conservation environmental protection requirements, and standardized data and a key part of the development of pharmaceutical industry. targets at all levels, and set targets to reduce our consumption statistics and our compliance management approach to all We promote the concept of a low-carbon office among our staff via of energy in production through strong scientific management. construction and M&A projects. trainings, and uniformly manage electricity, water, paper and other office The efficient conversion rate and relatively short production supplies. Throughout the year, we saved 39,000 tons of standard coal and process has greatly reduced the use of raw materials and energy We carry out environmental protection activities by adhering to the theme 2.17 million tons of water, reduced our emissions of COD by Throughout the development process of phosphate, potassium, consumption in production processes. In comparison with the of “Jointly constructing ecological civilization and sharing the green 187.87 tons, ammonia by 29.5 tons, SO 2 by 174.45 tons and dust fluorite and other mineral resources, Sinochem Group has traditional method, the energy consumption for each kilogram of future” at our gas stations. We hand out color pamphlets to customers to by 177.33 tons. We also comprehensively utilized 822,400 tons product has decreased 50%, greatly reducing the emissions of CO2. focused on environmental protection, has strived to improve increase the public’s understanding and knowledge of fuel-efficient driving of general solid waste. In all aspects of energy conservation and We use acid, alkali and enzyme preparation as our main raw the ecological and geological environment in its mines, and has and to advocate the concept of green consumption. emissions reduction, Sinochem Group met the required targets materials for biological transformation and catalysis, putting an stimulated the healthy and orderly development of the mining set by the SASAC of the State Council. end to the use of solvents with potentially carcinogenic effects. industry and its surroundings. Compared with the traditional chemical method, the new process has reduced the consumption of organic solvent by 90%, and 39000 significantly reduced the discharge of wastewater containing COD and the emissions of VOC by more than 90%. Case: Sinochem Lantian Winning the Title of “Advanced Mine for We rarely use any other special chemicals in our production National Mineral Resources Development and Integration” processes, and have improved the overall safety of our production In the development of mineral resources, Sinochem Lantian follows process and products. a strategy that prioritizes conservation, optimizes the structure of Annually saved 39000 tons of standard coal mineral development, improves the scale and centralization of mineral In addition, an evaluation by a European professional environmental development, and promotes the efficient development and utilization of research organization shows that the new technology achieves better mineral resources. In 2011, Zhongying Mining Company, affiliated to 2.17 results than the traditional chemical process (results below). Sinochem Lantian, achieved the title of “Advanced Mine for National Resources Development and Integration”. It was the only enterprise engaged in fluorite mining to be listed among the prize-winning Land use 1.00 Emissions enterprises. Annually saved 2.17 million tons of water 0.50 Sinochem Fuling introduced an internationally advanced, large-scale 0.00 sulfur-burning sulfuric acid low-grade heat recovery system, which transfers low-grade heat energy into high-grade energy and increases heat recovery efficiency. Since being put into operation, the system has saved more than 40,000 tons of standard coal annually, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions by more than 200,000 tons. Resource Potential poisonous In 2011, Sinochem Group established the Sinochem Energy Conservation consumption hazards and Environmental Protection Shareholding (Beijing) Co., Ltd. The Potential risks company offers energy conservation consultation to industrial and architectural enterprises, and was invited to participate in the national The green points represents industrial motor energy efficiency inspection project. the existing chemical process The self-developed, high-active-long-acting fluorating catalyst has allowed Sinochem Group to break the technical monopoly of developed countries The blue represents the DSM in the refrigerant market, which occupied more than 40% of the domestic technical process market share for environmentally friendly refrigerants for automobile air conditioners. This new development is expected to reduce emissions of —— European professional environmental tens of ODS substances. research and evaluation association Drawing on the “Jin Mao Tower” project, Franshion Properties organized the “Panda Standard” carbon exchange, which was praised by the government and the local community. 40 41 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Protecting Employees' Rights Sinochem Group strictly abides by all state laws and regulations, pursues the principles of equal employment, is transparent in its affairs, promotes democratic management, and protects the legitimate rights and interests of its employees. Rights Protection Sinochem strictly follows the international code of behavior and Each year we arrange routine medical examinations for the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, employees and pay attention to protecting the female and firmly opposes any form of discrimination. In terms of employees’ rights, interests, and health. For female employees recruitment, remuneration and promotion, we provide fair and who are pregnant or on breast feeding, we provide maternity just treatment to all employees regardless of nationality, skin insurance and maternity leave, and pay wages in accordance color, race, gender, religious belief and/or cultural background, with our corporate provisions. We improve the health awareness so that employees can promote the development within the of female employees through various lectures and promotional common concept of “Creating value and pursuing excellence”. activities and work hard to enrich their daily life. In 2011, we We also forbid child labor and prohibit forced labor. In 2011, provided health tips via email to all female employees so as we signed labor contracts with all of our employees. to provide them with useful suggestions on their physical and mental health. Valuing Employees’ Talent to Develop Together By the end of 2011, Sinochem had a total of 47,022 employees. The average age is 34, of which 32.7% are female employees, Employees’ Gender an increase of 1.7% over the previous year. Moreover, 17.7% are from foreign countries, up by 0.7% year on year. We have a goal of “being an enterprise beloved by employees” and adhere to the principle Female employee 32.7％ that “Human resources are Sinochem’s first resource, and Sinochem’s value develops with its employees”. Sinochem Group fully integrates its care for employees from recruitment to Male employee 67.3％ retirement, and strives to develop in cooperation with them. Employees’ Age Employees’ Nationality 56 and above 2.3％ Foreign employee 17.7％ 46 to 55 12.2％ Chinese employee 82.3％ 36 to 45 25.1％ 25 to 35 43.1％ 24 and Below 17.2％ Employees’ Post Employees’ Education (Only Chinese employees) Doctoral degree 0.4％ Production workers 61.7％ Master’s degree 6.7％ Technicians 15.3％ Bachelor’s degree (including Management 23.0％ double bachelor’s degrees)18.8％ Oc c u p a t i o n a l tr a i n i n g degree 17.8％ Below occupation training degree 56.3％ 42 43 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Democratic Management Employee Remuneration and Benefits Realizing Employees’ Value Through activities that strengthen the work of trade unions, Sinochem Group is constantly improving its remuneration Sinochem Group promotes the construction of a “harmonious system to ensure that it is in line with the market and to ensure We are enhancing the training and education programs for our employees, innovating our training models, extending our training Sinochem”, and encourages employees to participate in the that employees’ income match what they contribute. scope and enriching the training content to improve the overall quality of our employees. We also offer new career development d e m o c r a t i c m a n a g e m e n t o f t h e e n t e r p r i s e . We c o n s t a n t l y opportunities and will continue to help them choose an optimal path for their development. improve our Workers’ Congress System and promote it at our Based on artificial cost analysis, we have optimized the headquarters and in the congresses of tier-two subsidiaries to structure of employees’ remuneration to ensure fairness in m a k e o u r a ff a i r s t r a n s p a r e n t . We c l e a r l y d e f i n e t h e s u b j e c t , t h e a l l o c a t i o n o f i n c o m e . We w i l l c o n t i n u e t o i n n o v a t e o u r procedures and responsibility of business transparency while incentive mechanism to ensure that income allocation is more Diverse Training Case: Strengthening the Integrated Training for Frontline Employees scientific, and we will improve our mechanism for performance Sinochem Pingyuan Chemicals, a subsidiary of Sinofert, provides also publicly strengthening our transparency through our a s s e s s m e n t . We w i l l a l s o i m p r o v e t h e r a t i o n a l e o f t h e Sinochem Group strives to improve employees’ professional frontline employees with integrated training. The trainees include 1,680 i n t e r n a l p u b l i c a tion, Sinochem Today, and other channels to capacity and quality and has established targeted training operators and technicians in 55 positions across three key factories. ensure the most recent information is available to employees. performance assessment. courses that relate to our employees’ business position and The training covers chemical principles related to their posts, technical indicators, how to use fire equipment and other professional We h a v e e s t a b l i s h e d a w e l f a r e s y s t e m f o r e m p l o y e e s , a n d future development. knowledge. Through the training, examinations, evaluations and other provide them with basic benefits such as social insurance, a measures, we have improved the skills of all frontline employees. Case: The “National Model Home for Workers” at Sinochem Ningbo provident fund, paid annual leave, and commercial insurance, We have prepared a corporate culture training program for our Sinochem Ningbo implements a workers’ congress system. The new recruits to help them adapt to a new working environment. and have established a serious disease insurance system to employee representatives regularly familiarize themselves with reports For grassroots-level workers, we provide professional skills strengthen medical care, family property and personal accident. on business management trends and the development and planning training to enhance their skills, and for grassroots-level of the enterprise. In addition, they consult with the company to solve Optimizing Development Channel managers and employees in key positions we conduct leadership employees’ appeal for benefits. The company carries out a number of occupational training seminars to improve employees’ business training to enhance their leadership capacity. We a r e c o n s t a n t l y i m p r o v i n g o u r d u a l c a r e e r d e v e l o p m e n t skills, organizes various forms of art and sport activities to enrich the Case: FOTIC’s “Optimization Scheme on Remuneration System” channels for employees to help them to make decisions about cultural life of employees, and provides financial assistance to needy In 2011, in accordance with features in the financial industry and their career. We do this for personnel in management positions employees to help them overcome difficulties. In 2011, Sinochem based on an investigation into remuneration standards in the industry, Leadership training and professional positions and base our input on their personal Ningbo was awarded the honorary titles of the “National Model Home FOTIC introduced the “Optimization Scheme on Remuneration development, willingness, and capability after they have for Workers” and the “The best employer in Ningbo”. System”, and established an incentive mechanism that is in line with its Grassroots-level manager and key positions accumulated work experience and skills. By improving and development position and business strategy. By providing employees Professional skills training refining our employee career development mechanism, clearly with comprehensive, equal and diverse remuneration system, the defining the requirements for post value contribution, and company has enhanced its employees’ sense of achievement, fairness Grassroots-level employees establishing hierarchical and classified training systems, we and belonging. can encourage our employees to better understand their own Corporate culture training advantages and disadvantages. We have also strengthened our New recruits management of production skills to ensure the effectiveness of skills appraisals through internal investigations. In addition, we have implemented the Sinochem Group Management I n 2 0 11 , S i n o c h e m h e a d q u a r t e r s c o n d u c t e d 3 7 t r a i n i n g s a n d Regulations on Qualification of Professional Technical Positions achieved a training satisfaction rate of 9.2 points (maximum 10 to standardize our management system for professional or points). The training rate for key positions was 92.9%, and the technical titles, optimize the evaluation system, and ensure the average training time was 25.9 hours per person. fairness and rationality of employee promotion channels. We a r e s t r e n g t h e n i n g t h e c o n s t r u c t i o n o f o u r t r a i n i n g system, developing the Sinochem Corporation Programme o n C o n s t r u c t i o n o f Tr a i n i n g S y s t e m , i n t e g r a t i n g t r a i n i n g resources, and improving our overall training system by setting up courses, arranging lecturers, building a case database, and strengthening our approach to guidance and evaluation. In accordance with the realities of different posts, we create VI Level Group Executives Chief Specialist innovative training models, and have introduced action and travel learning approaches to enhance our leadership V Level Senior Manager Senior Specialist training for employees in key position. The results have been impressive. We have also combined our corporate strategy and IV Level Manager Specialist business features to improve the training system for various groups. Our training management system has been optimized III Level Supervisor and we collect and analyze the demand for training via EMBA II Level Commissioner and MBA of employees in key positions and core staff to o p t i m i z e a l l a s p e c t s o f t r a i n i n g . We a l s o e x p e r i m e n t w i t h I Level Assistant advanced professional technology training systems and have developed professional certification courses for engineering and HSE management. In addition, we have established a production skills training system which focuses on actual operations and is supplemented through our production knowledge training to provide all production workers with appropriate training. Management Sequence Professional Sequence 44 45 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Increasing the Employees’ Sense of Belonging We focus on enhancing our corporate culture, and carry out recreational activities in diverse forms with rich content to enrich the culture life of employees in their leisure time. We also help employees mitigate difficulties and anxiety, and provide financial assistance to needy employees to increase their sense of belonging. Building Corporate Culture Caring for Employees’ Daily Life Caring for Retired Employees Case: “Nursing Bottle” Assistance Plan Sinochem Group focuses on building a corporate culture that Sinochem Group attaches importance to assisting employees We recognize that Shanghai has a high living cost, Far East Horizon, is Sinochem Group has adopted and implemented political and is “Honest, Cooperative, and Good at Learning, as well as in need, has developed systems for caring for employees, located in Shanghai and has introduced the humanistic “nursing bottle” l i v i n g t r e a t m e n t f o r r e t i r e d e m p l o y e e s . We h a v e i n t r o d u c e d assistance plan which provides a RMB 5,000 interest-free loan for new t h e C h i n a S i n o c h e m G r o u p ’s O p i n i o n s o n S t r e n g t h e n i n g Diligent, Innovative, and Constantly Pursuing Excellence”. In i m p l e m e n t s a n E m p l o y e e A s s i s t a n c e P l a n ( E PA ) , a n d o ff e r s employees who moves to Shanghai for work. The plan helps employees 2011, to encourage our employees to realize their dreams we employees comprehensive and thoughtful care. Services for Retired Employees to further improve our service tide over the financial difficulties associated with adjusting to a new put forward the three principles of: “the soul, the rules and the management mechanism and to improve the quality and life in the city. atmosphere for our success”. Establishing employee files for those in need and being their “first insider efficiency of service management. and first helper”. Revising the Sinochem Group Corporate Culture Handbook to enrich the Institutionalizing congratulation and condolence activities, and creating a We are honored to visit elderly Party members and veterans. We content of corporate culture. harmonious working atmosphere. have set up a veterans’ lounge in the Chemsunny World Trade Carrying out A-Good Campaign to enhance the occupational quality of Holding rich and colorful activities to enrich the cultural life of employees. Case: Parent-child Activities Center to make the old and retired comrades feel at home, and employees and enrich the meaning of our corporate spirit. In 2011, we organized badminton competitions, football matches, walking Sinochem Petroleum Exploration & Production Co., Ltd.(Sinochem we arrange for retired employees to participate in our Spring Spreading our corporate culture and best practice through Sinochem Today , races and other events, and carried out parent-child activities, fun games E&P) organized cherry-picking activities for employees and their Festival get-together and our spring and autumn tour, and to Sinochem Political Work , our website and other media channels to enhance and other activities to promote communication between employees and children on Children’s Day. The children picked cherries together with visit industrial and agricultural production and construction employees’ identification with the enterprise. between employees and their family. their parents and enjoyed the fruits of hard work. The parent-child activities brought together good friends and enhanced the employees’ f a c i l i t i e s . We p r o v i d e h e a l t h c o n v a l e s c e n c e a n d h o l d c h e s s , feelings towards “Working hard and living happily”. photography, calligraphy and paintings contents for them. Department / Unit Culture Building Activities Sinochem Extensively carried out labor competitions around A-Good Labor Union Campaign, and actively conducted activities with the theme of “Doing pioneering work for the third times and striving to be young vanguard”. SINOSEEDS Organized speech contests themed as “Innovative working and happy life” to enrich employees’ life in their leisure time and to highlight their mental outlook. Franshion Organized employees to participate in outdoor development Properties training, renewing the “Long March” road and other activities to increase their communication and awareness on cooperation as well as temper their willpower. Sinochem Carried out knowledge contests themed as “You are the Plastics talent”, which covers career quality, job skills, production safety, business management, and Party building, among others, to show the business quality and skills of our employees. 46 47 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Poverty Alleviation In response to calls from the Party Central Committee, Sinochem Group has, since 2002, established a poverty alleviation relationship with the areas of Tibet and Inner Mongolia, and one-to-one support for Dachaidan regions in the Haixi prefecture of Qinghai province in 2010. Over the past ten years we have adhered to the principles of “Primarily helping to develop and secondarily providing assistance”, and have upheld the one-to-one assistance principles of “Connecting the ideological change with material assistance, while combining i n t e l l e c t u a l i n v e s t m e n t w i t h p r o j e c t i n v e s t m e n t ” . We h a v e c a r r i e d o u t i n f r a s t r u c t u r e Participating in Socially-beneficial Activities to construction and occupational training that benefits farmers, and by the end of 2011 we had dispatched 16 poverty alleviation leaders to Tibet, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai, as well as Facilitate Social Progress contributed a total of RMB 92.03 million to the promotion of local economic, social and cultural development. Our goal is to be “the most respectable enterprise”. We give back to society by providing socially-beneficial activities and facilitates that contribute to social harmony and progress while maintaining our approach to sustainable development. Guiding ideology Combining project and intellectual assistance and connecting the promotion of economic development with the transformation of ideological concepts. Donating Objective Financing to to improve local medical education competence in care self-development Contributed RMB 16 assistance cadres and promote 93.02 million rapid economic and social development Infrastructure Results Making a leap-forward in economic and social development in Gangba County of Tibet; gradually reducing poverty in the Helingeer and Qingshuihe Counties of Inner Mongolia; and greatly improving medical and sanitary conditions and childhood education in the Dachaidan areas of Qinghai province. Sinochem’s poverty alleviation mode 48 49 Sustainable Development Report 2011 In Tibet, we focus on combining our one-to-one assistance with Donations for Medical Care and Educational Development Sinochem’s Major Donation Projects in Tibet, the advantages of local businesses and provide good vegetable Inner Mongolia and Qinghai in 2011 and grains seeds to local agricultural cultivation technology research institutions for trial planting to improve the planting Sinochem Group has been paying attention to the health and education in underdeveloped areas for many years and regularly donates of local agricultural products and to increase the yield per unit Project Category Capital Input money and materials to improve the local medical and sanitary conditions and to help poor students complete their studies. and help farmers raise their income. In 2011, we carried out (million RMB) infrastructure construction projects for irrigation and water c o n s e r v a n c y, e d u c a t i o n , h e a l t h , t r a n s p o r t a t i o n , a n d h o u s i n g Tibet i n Ti b e t . We i n t e n s i f i e d o u r e f f o r t s i n s c i e n t i f i c t r a i n i n g Gangba County new middle school students Education 1.524 canteen Case: Helping to Build a Village Medical Care Station Case: Donations for Education and helped develop local special industries. This resulted in When developing our pesticide business in underdeveloped areas, In 2011, poor conditions in the Guojiatun Central Primary School near improved production and better living conditions for peasants Gangba County road surface hardening and Infrastructure 0.604 road signs project Sinochem International found that farmers had difficulty receiving the corn seed production base in Chende, Hebei province, encouraged and herdsmen. medical treatment. The company therefore took the initiative to the SINOSEEDS to organize the “Seven-color Seed” education aid Gangba County middle school teaching staff Infrastructure 0.886 turnover housing project contact charity organizations and discuss a support plan. Since 2009, activity. The company donated 31 new computers and 370 books to the Sinochem International has promoted the “Red Cross Angel Plan” in primary school, improving the teaching environment substantially in Gangba County staff turnover housing Infrastructure 0.886 project association with China Red Cross Society and has donated funds to the the process. construction of well-equipped Bo'ai Medical Stations in poor villages Changlong Town Qiongxiu village house Infrastructure 0.60 in Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhui, Guizhou, and other provinces. Nearly renovation project (housing project) ten thousand farmers have, to date, been able to receive medical Gangba County Lan and OA system Infrastructure 0.20 treatment against common illnesses in these villages. construction for four towns and one county Zhike Town Muxiong reservoir desilting basin Irrigation 0.38 and channel engineering works Gangba County water supply system Infrastructure 1.0 In Tongbaiji village and the neighboring villages of Ercheng Town, reconstruction project Hongan County, Hubei Province, more than 5,000 farmer no longer had Gangba County lighting and employee Infrastructure 1.1 to travel tens of kilometers to the county hospital for medical treatment turnover housing project (phase I) following the opening of the Boai Medical Station, which was donated Expense of quality and skills training Intellectual 0.4105 and built by Sinochem International. assistance —— Morning News (sponsored by the Jiefang Daily Group) Donations for disaster relief Disaster relief 0.58 Other contributions Donation 0.02 Inner Mongolia Rain collection solar dripping irrigation Irrigation works 1.4 works in Duijiuye Village, Yaogou Town, Qingshuihe County Case: “Sending Love in Western Hunan” Continued project in Migrant New Village Infrastructure 1.0 Yangqungou Town, Helingeer County The Franshion Properties Changsha Branch Company also conducted the “Sending love in Western Hunan” activity, sending winter clothing Agricultural Park and Small Farmer Sci-tech Agricultural science 0.4 and office supplies worth nearly RMB 10,000 to the Luoheping Central Park in Helingeer County and technology Primary School in Eryou Town, Yuanling County, Huaihua city. Qinghai In Inner Mongolia, through designating cadres to stay at a The medical equipment procurement Medical care 1.8 for people’s Hospital in the Dachaidan selected area to work all the year round in combination with the Administrative Areas assistance to development, we help the impoverished villages The procurement of earthquake emergency Earthquake relief 0.4 improve the village appearance and living conditions. Through supplies in the Dachaidan Administrative our efforts, we have basically solved the local schooling Areas d i ff i c u l t y a n d t h e p r o b l e m o f p o o r m e d i c a l c o n d i t i o n s , a n d helped the people in Helingeer and Qingshuihe counties gradually get out of poverty and push them onto the path of Case: Donations for Deaf-mutes School well-off life. Manulife-Sinochem practiced the concept of “sustained public benefit” for a long time and was recognized as “The public benefit messenger I n Q i n g h a i , a n d in accordance with the economic and social of insurance industry”. In 2011, Manulife-Sinochem donated to development of the Dachaidan area, we put forward the the Shanghai Deaf-mutes School and purchased special visual-aid working principles of “Combining project assistance with equipments to improved the study and life of all low-sight students. intellectual assistance, and connecting the promotion of e c o n o m i c d e v e l o p m e n t w i t h t h e c h a n g e o f i d e o l o g y ” . We r e g u l a r l y o ff e r s u g g e s t i o n s a n d s e r v i c e s t o t h e d e v e l o p m e n t of the local people’s livelihoods. In 2011, we invested nearly RMB 5 million in kindergartens and the purchasing of medical equipment for hospitals in the Dachaidan areas. The investment greatly improved the local infrastructure for education and medical care and solved challenges associated with sending children to kindergartens and seeing a doctor in the region. 50 51 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Win-win Cooperation Contributing to Community Development Enhancing Our Contractors’ Competence of CSR Implementation In countries where we operate, Sinochem Group not only creates employment opportunities for local residents, but also boosts local economic and social development. We enthusiastically participate in socially-beneficial activities and improve local infrastructure We a c t i v e l y p r o m o t e o u r C S R c o n c e p t o f “ E n h a n c i n g a w a r e n e s s o f r e s p o n s i b i l i t y a n d p r o m o t i n g e n t r e p r e n e u r i a l s p i r i t ” t o by contributing money and materials to enhance medical care and education, among others. We encourage and organize employees to contractors. We adhere to the concepts of putting “human first”, caring for the construction personnel of contractors, and enhancing participate in volunteer activities and transfer our love. our contractors’ competence and awareness of our CSR. Case: Providing a Good Living Environment for Construction Workers Case: Participating in the international trainings Case: Boost the Economic and Social of Contractors In 2011, Sinochem E&P participated in the Oil and Gas Resource Development on Project Site Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Co.,LTD. exerts great effort in Management Workshop organized by the Ministry of Commerce Sinochem Quanzhou has been constantly coordinating with local government to expropriate 139 acres of land in International Officials College. The company welcomed 40 trainees improving the employment environment the immediate vicinity of the project construction site to build camps from the Oil and Gas Resource Management Seminar for Arabian and supporting infrastructure that can accommodate 8,000 to 10,000 contractor construction workers. Countries and the Iraq Seminar for Economic Development Strategy construction in its working environment, The camp site also has a Camp Police Station, a medical station, Senior Officials. The visit combined with multimedia videos, special and is striving to contribute to the local a property management office, supermarkets and other supporting reports, discussions and exchanges provided the company with the economic and social development. agencies. The company rented the camp buildings to project contractors opportunity to explained to the trainees the “going global strategy of Chinese energy enterprises” and the oil and gas resource management During the project construction, we at a lower rate than that of surrounding residences. The site shortened the commute to work for construction workers, providing a comfortable conditions of Sinochem Group. It also helped the Arabian officials provided a large number of employment and safe living condition, and allowing the contractors to focus on in the energy industry better understand the development of China’s o p p o r t u n i t i e s , o ff e r i n g t r a i n i n g t o work and fulfill their responsibilities to employees. energy industry, enhanced mutual friendship and promoted cooperation. local residents to improve their overall employment skills. We also carried out diverse joint construction and cultural exchange activities with the Spurring Industrial Progress Case: Promoting the Development of Medical Care and Education local garrison and schools and offered Far East Horizon established the Far East Medical Management training resources to four local schools. Sinochem Group actively participates in the formulation of College in 2009 to provide training on hospital management for the We also donated more than 800 books standards for the fluorine chemical industry and promotes the management of county-level medical institutions. By the end of 2011, to the local garrison. s t a n d a r d i z e d d e v e l o p m e n t o f t h e i n d u s t r y. T h r o u g h f o r u m s , the college had trained a total of 500 people, enhancing their capacity seminars and other high-end communication platforms, we have for hospital management and promoting the development of basic promoted our development concept and shared our development medical cause. experience in an effort to spur industrial progress and achieve sustainable development with our partners. Case: Carry Out “Social Care Commitment Day” Case: Enter Columbia to Build Harmonious Communities I benefited a great deal from the training as it was wonderfully Since 2004,Manulife-Sinochem has conducted an annual “Social Care The Columbia Emerald Company views community construction as Case: Helping to Develop the Fluorine Chemical Industry enlightening. It will be a great help to the cultural construction and the Commitment Day”. In 2011, the company planned and organized a key social responsibility practice at its project site and has invested We actively promote scientific and technological innovation in the development strategy of the hospital in the future. the activity of “37℃ Warmth” calling on all employees in Nanjing and in the development of local education and health care. The company fluorine chemical industry, particularly as relates to its development —— Wang Ze'en, President of Enshi Central Hospital Chengdu to hold a charity fair to sell the “Loving Table Lamp”. At the promotes local employment policies and focuses on training local in China. In 2011, we generated 13 scientific and technology event, 26,221 table lamps were sold and RMB 490,000 was raised. The employees. It employed unskilled workers for overseas oilfield achievements in the field of fluorine chemicals, and received three The novel content of the training was really a great joy to me. funds were used to support cataract surgery for 520 elderly patients in operations from local communities and has a local employment rate prizes for scientific and technological progress. We also applied for —— Meng Qingchuan, President of Jiyang County Sichuan. of 100%. In terms of procurement, the company implements local 44 patents, chaired or participated in the formulation of three national Chinese Medicine Hospital policies, purchasing related products and services from local suppliers standards and six industry standards. Moreover, we completed our to promote local industry and employment. In addition, the company key laboratory for new energy materials. In addition, a number of participates in local socially-beneficial activities and has invested in our new materials research topics were included in the National 863 program. Commissioned by the Ministry of Industry and Information In order to promote public welfare and social philanthropy in China, public infrastructure such as a student canteen and a medical station, Technology, we completed our 12th Five-Year Plan report on the the company launched the “Far East Horizon Public Fund” in January among others, to the benefit of more than 5,000 local people. fluorine chemical industry. 2011, which is primarily used for the “Far East Horizon Scholarship”, the “Far East Horizon Students’ Grant”, the “Donation for Postdisaster Reconstruction or Poverty Alleviation in China”, and other public donations. The company adheres to transparent management in all aspects of the fund and makes all income and expenses available to Case: Supporting China’s Chemicals “Going Global” the public. In 2011, we raised a total of RMB 8.372 million, of which The Safety Evaluation Center of SYRICI is engaged in the assessment RMB 1.22 million was used for scholarships that rewarded excellent and study of agricultural safety, medical products and other fine students at eleven colleges and universities including Shanghai chemicals, and aims at providing scientific data for the protection of Jiaotong University, Tongji University, Nankai University and Wuhan human health and the ecological environment. Recently, the Center University. obtained a certificate of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) from the In order to encourage and guide college students to join the Chinese Netherlands government, a member of OECD. The certification greatly printing industry, the company established the “China Printing College reduces the international registration costs for Chinese medicines, Student Union” in 2006. To date, we have contributed RMB 1.2 pesticides, cosmetics and other chemical products, and will shorten million. Through our scholarships, student grants and other financial overseas registration periods. It is also provides a foundation from means, we have helped more than 230 students major in printing to which Chinese chemical products can enter overseas markets and complete their studies, thus fostering excellent talent for the soaring further the internationalization process. development of the Chinese printing industry. 52 53 Sustainable Development Report 2011 CSR FEATURE REPORT CREATING GREEN COMPETITIVENESS PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT green products and services. While harvesting these economic Throughout Sinochem Group’s strategic transformation, we have benefits, we have also improved the environment, conserved emphasized that we shall not follow the old low-level, redundant valuable energy, and contributed to the sustainable development development pattern. We are committed to participating and gaining an of society. upper hand in high-level industrial competition. This requires that we pursue technological and independent innovation, and provide society In recent years, “the green engine” that drives our company with environmentally friendly and energy saving products and services. has been operating full time. The sales of our green products It also requires that we create green competitiveness and a unique have helped our rapid growth. We have taken the lead in China competitive edge, realizing both economic and social benefits as well in d e v elo p i n g an d tr a n s f e r r in g g r e en te ch n o lo g ies r el ate d to as the sustainable development of the company. Liu Deshu pesticides, fluorine chemicals, and the treatment of waste gas, President & CEO water and solid substances. We also sit at the top of domestic Sinochem Group R&D lists and lists for production capacity of ODS substitutes, green pesticides development and manufacturing, and the production of clean chemical products. In 2011, the value of comprehensive energy consumption per RMB ten thousand Yuan “Green Competitiveness” refers to a company’s ability to gain output was 0.381 MT of standard coal, far below the SASAC an upper hand in the market by achieving its environmental indicator of 0.933 MT, and our SO 2 and COD discharge rates protection goals, ecological balance, human health, and have been reduced by 29.82% and 48.17% year-on-year. sustainable development. Green competitiveness is central to the entire operational process of a business from production inputs to output. It not only means providing green products to society, but also ensuring the adoption of clean production processes Relying on independent innovation and promoting a green throughout the company. transformation, Sinochem Group’s sales of new green products has resulted in and contributed to the company’s rapid growth. The We continue to transform from a traditional trading enterprise company takes the lead in the domestic market in the R&D and t o a n i n d u s t r i a l a n d s e r v i c e b a s e d c o m p a n y. T h r o u g h o u t production of ODS substitutes, green pesticides development and this process we have remained committed to building our manufacturing, and the production of clean chemical products. “The green competitiveness and are relying on technological and green engine” of Sinochem is always running. —— People’s Daily independent innovation to achieve sustainable development. We organically combine environmental protection with energy efficiency, and implement this approach throughout the entire 29.82% industrial chain from R&D and production to sales. Green competitiveness penetrates every aspect of our business operations and is already contributing to building a “Sinochem Green Value Chain”. We have embedded “green” elements in our approach to technological innovation to enhance our green SO2 emissions reduced by 29.82% cr ed en tials an d have obtained competitive advantages in the market by developing low-carbon production and providing In the process of transforming from a traditional trading enterprise to 48.17% COD emissions reduced by 48.17% Diagram of Sinochem Group’s Green Competitiveness an industrial and service-based company, Sinochem has relied on its major business in energy, chemicals, and agricultural inputs, and has integrated “green elements” into its approach to innovation in order to facilitate green competitiveness that benefits the company. Seeds: green competitiveness ideas Apply fertilizers: fund injection —— Xinhua News Agency Internal and external environment: Watering: staff placement company transformation and environmental protection 54 55 Sustainable Development Report 2011 The Practice of the Green Competitiveness in Sinochem’s Five Major Business Segments FUTURE OUTLOOK Sinochem has invested in building the Quanzhou Petrochemical Project, which adopts world-class process, integrates a clean production philosophy, and extends its control and management over I n 2 0 1 2 , S i n o c h e m G r o u p w i l l f o l l o w S A S A C ’s r e q u i r e m e n t We are implementing a green strategy, and building an energythe production process and through the whole product life cycle. It manages and controls the entire o f “ b e c o m i n g s t r o n g e r a n d b e t t e r, c u l t i v a t i n g a w o r l d c l a s s c o n s e r v a t i v e e n v i o r n m e n t . We w i l l c o n t i n u e t o e n h a n c e o u r p ro d u c t l i fe c yc l e by o pt i m i z i n g t h e d e s i g n a n d e l i m i n at i n g a l l p o l l u t i o n . I t a l s o re d u c e s e n e rg y e n t e r p r i s e w i t h i n t e r n a t i o n a l c o m p e t i t i v e n e s s ” . We w i l l a l s o production safety and emissions reduction strategy. We regard Energy honor the goals of Sinochem’s “Third Long March” by pressing production safety as an issue closely related to the harmony consumption and GHG emission in the production process, increases energy efficiency, and reduces or Business ahead with our strategies, enhancing our lean management, and stability of the country and society, and will continue to avoids the production and emission of pollutants in the production and service process to mitigate or eliminate its impact on people’s health and the environment. When the project goes into production, inspiring all Sinochem people to pursue excellence, and trying improve our management approach to production safety to the gasoline and diesel it produces will meet the Euro IV standard, and a many part of its products will to create comprehensive value for the economy, the, the society e n s u r e t h e s a f e t y o p e r a t i o n o f t h e c o m p a n y. I n a d d i t i o n , w e meet the Euro V standard. and the environment. will stick to the philosophy of green development, accelerate i n d u s t r i a l r e s t r u c t u r i n g a n d t h e u p g r a d i n g o f t e c h n o l o g y, We w i l l s t r e n g t h e n o u r c o r p o r a t e m a n g e m e n t a n d l a y a promote clean production, reduction energy consumption, and s o l i d f o u n d a t i o n f o r o u r f u t u r e g r o w t h . We w i l l s t i c k t o increase capital for environment protection. Our homegrown and IP-protected new green pesticides are highly efficiency, low in toxicity, and low in residual. As lean mangement, further improving the management system a result, they reduce our impact on soil and guarantee the quality and safety of our agro-produce. efficiency to comprehensively achieve our operation objectives. We w i l l h e l p o u r e m p l o y e e s r e a l i z e t h e i r i n d i v i d u a l g r o w t h Sinofert Company cooperates with many research institutes, including the Chinese Academy of Agricultural At the same time, we focus on our main business accompanied and focus on value promotion. We aim to become a respected Agricultural Sciences and the China Agricultural University and has developed a series of green fertilizer products. We have enterprise among employess. By creating an innovative by multiple operations, continuously realizing strategy built and continue to improve our soil testing and formula fertilization service system, and we organize agricultural Business transformation so as to steadily develop Sinochem in a stable management mechanism and enhancing our professional training technology fairs and onsite instruction sessions in rural areas to further the dissemination of knowledge on healthy and sustainable way. and career coaching system, we will create an extensively scientific fertilization to farmers. We also help to improve the ecological environment of the Chinese agricultural industry and rural areas by contributing to the sustainable use of the arable land in China. By optimizing our key growing environment for the talents and help them realize their links in the production process, we have cut down our discharge of waste gas, water, and solid substance to protect We will better support and serve China’s economy and people’s individual value during the “Third Long March”, and achieving the environment. livelihoods. We will combine company development with social joint growth with them. demand, making greater contributions to energy and agricultural security and China’s chemical engineering and technological We w i l l d r a w u p o n o u r a d v a n t a g e s a n d a c t i v e l y p a r t i c i p a t e Sinochem is striving to develop its fluorine chemical business so as to provide environmentally friendly, progress as as to improve people’s livelihoods. i n s o c i a l w e l f a r e . We w i l l c o m b i n e o u r b u s i n e s s s t r e n g t h s low-carbon, and green products to society. We have developed an ODS substitute, HFC134a, with of energy, agriculture, chemical engineering, real estate and proprietary IP rights. This helps to reduce the discharge of tens of thousands of ODS and protects the We will innovate new business models and improve our value financial business with our social welfare work, and encourage eco-system of the planet. Along with Honeywell we have set up a joint venture to produce an HFC-245fa creation ability for clients. We will enhance our communication our employees to take part in voluntary activities to contribute Chemical foaming agent, which will replace the ozone-depleting 141b foaming agent that is extensively used in w i t h c l i e n t s a n d b e t t e r u n d e r s t a n d t h e ir s p e c i f i c d e m a n d s a s to social development and social harmony. Business the domestic household appliance industry, as well as the thermal installation material used in electrical well as the drive behind their demands. We will also explore appliances, architecture, and transportation fields to upgrade the industry and related fields. We adopte new business models to provide more and better value-added advanced enzymatic method which has the advantages of achieving energy saving and emission reduction, services in order to grow with our clients. environmental protection and products safety. Franshion Properties sees “creating green competitiveness” as one of its development strategies and complies with the green philosophy in all aspects of its business operations. In 2011, Franshion Properties presented a speech at the World Climate Conference, the first Chinese real estate company to speak at the event. The title of the speech was “the Green Development and Practice of Chinese Real Estate Industry: Franshion Properties’ Green Exploration Real Estate and Endeavor”, and it introduced the achievements of Chinese real estate developers in terms of green, lowBusiness carbon strategy implementation and business transformation. The speech also covered the construction of ecological cities, green schools, green hotels, and renovations that target energy conservation, as well as contract energy management, and carbon neutralization. In 2011, Fransion Properties voluntarily bought 16,800 MT “Panda Standard” carbon emission reduction credits through the China Beijing Environmental Exchange, and made the Jin Mao Palace project in Beijing, the first carbon neutral project in China’s residential property development sector. Fa r E a s t e r n H o r i zo n c a r r i e s o u t a c o m p r e h e n s i v e i n d u s t r i a l a n d o p e ra t i o n a l s e r v i c e s t ra t e g y, providing innovative financial services that include financial leasing for companies, and also help them implementing industrial upgrades, reducing energy consumption, increasing productivity, and reducing emissions. It is scaling up its investment in hydropower generation projects, with annual Financial g r i d co n n e c t i o n vo l u m e n o w at 1 . 6 b i l l i o n KW H , a n d i t p ro v i d e s a n d i m p ro ve s wate r t re at m e nt Business facilities leasing services for companies and is strengthening their water treatment capacity. In total, Far Easter Horizon has increased its daily water treatment capacity by 1.07 million MT and helped tap water factories overhaul their plants by supplying them with new advanced facilities, thus increasing their daily water supply capacity by 0.89 million MT. 56 57 Sustainable Development Report 2011 EXPERT'S COMMENTS EXPERT'S COMMENTS I have read through the Sinochem Group 2011 Report on Sustainable Development , and made The Sinochem Group 2011 Report on Sustainable Development is a platform for Sinochem the following comments: Group to demonstrate the value it has created for the economy, society, and the environment. It is an important channel for Sinochem to strengthen its communication capacity and Sinochem Group has taken the scientific development concept as its guidance, has operational transparency. It is also represents an important action taken by Sinochem to implemented a comprehensive approach to risk management, and built up its green answer the call of Chinese government on the harmonious development strategy of the “12th competitiveness. By drawing on its business strength in energy, agriculture, chemicals, real Five-Year Plan”. While disclosing the issues closely followed by stakeholders, the report estate, and finance, it recognizes and shoulders its corporate citizenship, and continues to enhance its capacity to create composite value for the economy, society, and the environment. has enhanced its disclosure on core indicators and performance data, which is complete The report systematically summarizes Sinochem’s CSR work in 2011, and has the following and informative. It is concise in language, and well written and designed with many vivid features: diagrams. It is a highly readable, good quality CSR report. Firstly, it is in line with the disclosure requirements of COP (Communication on Progress) The Report has the following features: Policy of the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC). The report has fully published Sinochem’s 2011 progress on the UNGC’s Ten Principles, particularly disclosing progress Firstly, the report is very informative. It systematically discloses how Sinochem Group, as in the following aspects: the company’s compliance with state and local laws, equal pay a central government-owned multinational conglomerate, follows the scientific development for equal work, improvements to the democratic participation system, enhancement of c o n c e p t a n d a d h e r e s t o i t s g o a l o f “ g r o w i n g b e t t e r a n d s t r o n g e r, c r e a t i n g a w o r l d c l a s s labor management, caring for employees, respect on the human rights of employees; HSE company to serve the national economy and people’s life, providing satisfactory services for m a n a g e m e n t , t h e d e v e l o p m e n t o f c y c l e e c o n o m y, a d o p t i o n o f e n v i r o n m e n t a l p r o t e c t i o n clients, operating safely, healthily, and in an environmentally friendly way in order to help equipment and technology to reduce the impact of business operation’s on the environment; conducting a series of anti-corruption activities, and keeping a transparent business employees achieve individual growth, and promote social progress. The report also discloses operation. All information in the report demonstrates Sinochem’s fruitful achievement in its Sinochem’s CSR practices and achievements in the process of creating value for the society. CSR efforts. S e c o n d l y, t h e r e p o r t f u l l y d e m o n s t r a t e s t h e f e a t u r e s o f S i n o c h e m ’s d i ff e r e n t b u s i n e s s Secondly, the report fully reflects the business operation features of Sinochem Group. The segments. Through the CSR Matrix, it has presented the CSR philosophy and practice of company has further enriched the content of its CSR Matrix, and disclosed the respective the energy, agricultural, chemical, real estate, and financial segments of Sinochem Group. CSR practices of Sinochem’s five business segments. Based on the reality of the company’s It clearly shows the features of each segment’s CSR work, which is convenient for different operations, the report discloses the company’s contribution to every aspect of people’s lives, stakeholders to understand and analyze the company’s CSR practice. showing the integration of the company’s operations with its CSR practices and reflects the company’s operational features through a multidimensional perspective. Thirdly, the theme of serving people’s lives is at the heart of CSR. “Sinochem Is beside You” disclosed what Sinochem has done to increase people’s happiness, enrich people’s lives, Thirdly, the comments of stakeholders run through the major content of the report. The company has improved its communication mechanism with all stakeholders, actively and improve medical care and education for society. It integrated CSR into the life of all responded to the expectations and requirements of the stakeholders, and enhanced the stakeholders, and shortened the distance between Sinochem and its stakeholders, while at the company’s operation and CSR work, which has received positive responses and extensive same time vividly demonstrating the features of Sinochem’s CSR work. recognition from all stakeholders, and enhanced the credibility of the report. I look forward to seeing Sinochem make the best of its business strengths, enhance its R&D In general, the report is informative, reflecting the facts, and highly readable. It is in accord capacity and sustainability, and make even greater contributions to industrial development with the latest requirement of UNGP on annual communication in CSR progress, and is a and social harmony throughout its “Third Long March” process. well-made report. I have the following advice to give Sinochem in terms of further improving the report: First, the company should seek to enhance its disclosure on the connection between the content of each chapter and Sinochem’s realization of sustainable development, highlighting the practice of sustainable development philosophy in Sinochem’s day-to-day operations; Second, Sinochem should make the best of its international platform and enhance its participation in both domestic and international CSR matters. At the same time, it should intensify its disclosure on its overseas operations, and enhance its international image as a responsible corporate citizen. Li Decheng Director of the Board of the United Nations Global Compact Chu Xuping Chairman of China Enterprise Confederation Director of Research Bureau of SASAC under State Council 58 59 Sustainable Development Report 2011 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNITED GLOBAL REPORTING INIATIATIVE (GRI) INDEX NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Note: Fully disclosed Partly disclosed Not disclosed N Not applicable Extent of Where Reported As a member of the UN Global Compact, Sinochem Group has reported the implementation of the Global Compact annually since NO. GRI Content Index Disclosure (Catalog of Report) 2010. In 2011, Sinochem actively carried out and made positive progress. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization P4-5 Issues Principles Performance in 2011 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities P4-5 Organizational Profile Human rights Respect and support the protection of internationally Fully respect employees’ rights to birth, education, and labor; 2.1 Name of the organization P6 proclaimed human rights; Intensify skills training for employees; No complicity in human rights abuses. Facilitate overseas employees to visit their family or relatives; 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services P6-7 No contact with human rights abusers. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization,including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures P6,P8 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters P6 Labor standards Uphold freedom of association and the effective Strictly abide by all laws and regulations, pursue an equal and nonNumber of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that 2.5 P18,P53 are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report recognition of the right to collective bargaining; discrimination employment policy, and execute the equal pay system; Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; No employment of child labor; 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P6 Effectively abolish all forms of child labor; Constantly improve democratic management systems such as the Workers’ 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,and types of ustomers/beneficiaries) P7 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and Congress system, and ensure employees’ right to participate in the occupation. management of enterprise; 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization P6 Strictly implement the paid leave system, encourage employees to work by 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership P18-19,P32 daily schedule, and introduce a policy on the compensation of overtime. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period P14 Report Parameters Environment Take a precautionary approach to environmental Implement a green competitive strategy; 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided P1 challenges; Integrate the concept of cleaner production into the full refinery process U n d e r t a ke i n i t i a t i v e s t h a t p r o m o t e g r e a t e r and provide clean energy; 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) P1 environmental responsibility; Develop green fertilizer products, create green pesticide, and help improve P1 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Encourage the development and promotion of the agricultural and ecological environment through the establishment of 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents P1,P66 environmentally friendly technologies. the soil testing formula fertilization system; Make greater efforts to develop the fluorine chemical industry and provide 3.5 Process for defining report content P15 environmentally friendly, low-carbon and green products for the society; Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI 3.6 P1 Make voluntary purchase of carbon offsetting credits and create a carbonBoundary Protocol for further guidance offsetting real estate project; 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P1 Provide financing and leasing services for wastewater treatment equipment. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying P1 Anti-corruption Work against corruption in all its forms, including Implement a responsibility system for the construction of a clean and estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report extortion and bribery. honest enterprise; Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 3.10 such re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisition, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement P1 Strengthen the construction of the supervision mechanism for special methods) commissioner of Discipline Inspection Committee; Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in 3.11 Carry out special education and publicity on corruption-free employment; the report Strengthen the establishment of the internal control system. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosure in the report P61-65 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance 3.13 report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) Governance, Commitments,and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight P8 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer.( (and, if so, their function 4.2 within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body P8 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided P10 60 61 Sustainable Development Report 2011 Extent of Where Reported Extent of Where Reported NO. GRI Content Index Disclosure (Catalog of Report) NO. GRI Content Index Disclosure (Catalog of Report) Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance P9 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity P41 4.7 body and its committees,including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by 4.8 P8 operations, by level of extinction risk environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight P40,P54 4.9 economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or P37 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight P40,P54 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 environmental and social performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved P40 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization P9-10 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight P40 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the P60 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight P40 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 4.13 in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides P60 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination P40 substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P40 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization P13 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P13 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group EN24 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has P13 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting EN25 the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff P40 Economic EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation P40 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and P26 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category governments EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with P40 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change environmental laws and regulations EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations P44 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce P56 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government P27 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type P37-38 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 operation P44 Labor Practices and Decent Work EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation P53 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender P43 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC7 locations of operation LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through P51 EC8 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation P44 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts P9 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P44 Environmental LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements P44 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume P40-41 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials P40-41 LA6 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs P39 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P40,P54 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region P39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source P40,P54 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements P40 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their LA8 families, or community members regarding serious diseases P46-47 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy P41 EN6 requirements as a result of these initiatives LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions P44 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved P40 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category P45 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P40 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and LA11 assist them in managing career endings P45 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews,by gender P45 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused P40 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity LA13 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity P43 EN11 value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas P41,P56 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and renumeration of women to men by employee category, by signifi cant locations of operation of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored P41 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 62 63 Sustainable Development Report 2011 FEEDBACK FORM In order to improve Sinochem Group’s CRS work, we look forward to your feedback, which will be an important basis for Extent of Where Reported our improvement. We hope to receive your valuable advice on our Report and our work. NO. GRI Content Index Disclosure (Catalog of Report) Human Rights Your Information: Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Name: Company: HR1 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights Telephone: E-mail: screening, and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant HR3 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Your Comments: HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken P43 In your opinion, the Report is: Operations and signifi cant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations and signifi cant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad HR6 P43 taken to contribute to the eff ective abolition of child labor Operations and signifi cant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR7 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor P43 In your opinion, the disclosure in the Report’s is: HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Very Informative Informative Medium Somewhat Informative Not Informative HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact In your opinion, the quality of the information disclosure in the Report is: assessments HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Very High High Medium Low Very Low Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development P49-50,P53 In your opinion, the structure of the Report is: programs SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption P11 Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures P11 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption P11 In your opinion,the layout design of the Report is: SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Your thoughts and suggestions on Sinochem Group’s CSR work as well as on the compilation and publication of its Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and SO8 regulations sustainable development report: SO9 Operations with significant potential or actualnegative impacts on local communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative SO10 impacts on local communities P40,P54 Product Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and P33 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements P30 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P22 Contact: Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including General Administrative Oﬃce PR6 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship P23 Sinochem Group Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Address: Central Tower F11, Chemsunny World Trade Center, Fuxingmennei Street 28, Beijing, China PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Post Code: 100031 PR9 Monetary value of signifi cant fi nes for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use Telephone: +86 10 59568926 of products and services Fax: +86 10 59568890 E-mail: songyang02@sinochem.com 64 65
