CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2011 ACTIVITY THE ARMOR GROUP CONTENTS 02  The ARMOR group 04  Our intentions, our commitments 06  The ARMOR group sustainable development strategy 08  Governance 10  Social 14  Environment 18  Involvement within the community 23  GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Index REPORT SCOPE This Corporate Social Responsibility report covers all Although the structure has been guided by the Global ReporARMOR group sites, with the exception of the subsidiary in ting Initiative international profile disclosure report, this the Czech Republic, which was acquired in 2010, and the report concentrates on portraying the significant impacts and commercial subsidiaries. It follows two years of Sustainable efforts of the group, without breaching the level of confidenDevelopment reports: 2009 and 2010. It serves as a report on tiality demanded by competitive considerations. It includes a progress made in 2011 on the ten principles of the UN Global few indicators that have been consolidated across its full Compact, to which the group is a signatory. scope. The level of transparency will increase in line with the subsidiaries’ involvement in the group’s CSR activity.  THE DIGITAL VERSION OF THIS REPORT IS AVAILABLE FOR CONSULTATION ON WWW.ARMOR-GROUP.COM  WORLD LEADER IN THE COMPANY ARMOR GROUP PRODUCTS THERMAL TRANSFER ARMOR Industrial Coding & Printing offer a range of TherThe ARMOR group has been an expert TECHNOLOGY mal Transfer ribbons to meet the needs of all automatic in print technologies for 90 years. identification applications. Every product in circulation all  NO. 1 EUROPEAN over the world, and every service on offer, has a name, an ARMOR Industrial Coding & Printing (AICP) designs and origin, a recipient in short, an identity marked on a label: INKJET CARTRIDGES manufactures inked films used in Thermal Transfer technoa barcode. Thermal Transfer technology allows printing on MANUFACTURER logy. This is the most widely-used technology in the world numerous materials, in a durable way and in all types of for marking barcodes, logos, expiry dates or other batch environment. It is the most widespread technology in the  NO. 1 IN SALES numbers on labels or flexible packaging. world for product identification and traceability. OF LASER CARTRIDGES ARMOR Office Printing (AOP) is the European leader in IN FRANCE ARMOR Office Printing fully masters the two main compacompatible consumables for inkjet, laser, fax and impact tible cartridge technologies (laser and inkjet), for both new, printing. patent-compliant products, and remanufactured products. As an organisation independent of printer manufacturers, It offers alternative cartridges that are compatible with ARMOR Office Printing offers an optimal alternative solution, more than 90% of printers on the market. Because ARMOR regardless of equipment brand, printer definition, number of is fully confident in the quality of its products, its cartridges pages or characters printed. Its products are marketed carry a two-year guarantee. under the ARMOR brand and under retailer own-brands. ARMOR Sustainable Energies (ASE) draws together the activities related to the OSCAR (Organic Solar Cells by ARmor) research programme, devoted to thin film organic photovoltaic technology. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 2 THE ARMOR GROUP OUR FACILITIES ARMOR USA ARMOR Korea ARMOR Beijing ARMOR Japan ARMOR Shangaï ASM ARMOR China ARMOR ARMOR Asia Brasil Group Head Office ARMOR Sao Paulo Sales Office AICP Production Site AICP Artech Polska Sales Office AOP ARMOR ARMOR Benelux GMBH ARMOR Polska ARMOR UK Production Site AOP Artech Moravia KVM supplies ARMOR SRO ARMOR SA STAFFING LEVELS BY ZONE ARMOR Italie including commercial subsidiaries ARMOR Iberica • America / 92 • Europe / 1,218 • Asia / 139 • North Africa / 338 ARMOR Industrie 1,787  OVERALL STAFFING LEVELS The ARMOR group comprises ARMOR SA, a joint stock company with IN FULL-TIMEcapital of €10,299,450 and 24 industrial and commercial subsidiaries EQUIVALENT worldwide, all of which are majority-owned by ARMOR SA. EMPLOYEES GROUP TURNOVER AT THE END OF 2011: E199 M. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 3 OUR INTENTIONS, OUR COMMITMENTS 7NQUESTIONS O T R E I N T E N TTO ION, NOS ENGAGEMENTS HUBERT DE BOISREDON Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ARMOR group 01 ARMOR is a medium-sized business why produce this CSR report, even though no law obliges you to do so? Digital is progressing, but print remains complementary and continues to develop, especially in business. AOP (ARMOR Office Printing) has introduced many improvements, so as to limit environmental impact. All ARMOR cartridges are remaQuite simply because, for us, explaining our progress is part nufactured, and thus contribute to conserving the planet’s and parcel of our CSR process. We consider that it is imporresources. Moreover, ARMOR provides environmental labeltant to be transparent, accountable in our commitment, in ling of its products, allowing consumers to take ecological a precise and quantified manner. This can only serve to issues into account when deciding which products to buy. reinforce our credibility in the eyes of both our partners and our employees. ARMOR Industrial Coding and Printing (AICP) supplies print consumables for traceability (barcodes, expiry dates, place Moreover, the ARMOR group is a signatory to the United of manufacture, etc.). This information contributes, depending Nations Global Compact. This voluntary commitment, which on its application, to clarifying consumer choices in terms is renewed each year, compels us to move forward on the of health, safety as well as their level of environmental and ten principles of responsibility as they are defined by the collective commitment. So it’s extremely compatible with UN, and to report on our progress. sustainable development! In addition, eco-design is integral to our new products; this is true of our SolFree® range, 02 The ARMOR group is an expert in print technology. Isn’t this activity incompatible with the notion of sustainable development especially which is the world’s first range of solvent-free Thermal Transfer consumables. in the current era, with digital increasingly gaining ground on the traditional printed document? 03 How do you explain the establishment of some of your production sites in countries in which 2011 KEY EVENTS  MARCH  JANUARY • ARMOR selected to trial environmental • Signature of the diversity charter labelling (ARMOR in France) (AOP in France) page 20  JULY • Social security cover extended to all • Relocation of the Singapore factory (AOP in Morocco) (AICP in Singapour) page 13  JULY • Awards ceremony for the first graduates of the ARMOR University  APRIL (AICP in France) page 12 • Signature of the business linkages suppliers charter • Commissioning of the second High Speed (ARMOR in France) page 19 Machine (AICP in France) Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 4 OUR INTENTIONS, OUR COMMITMENTS labour is described as being ’low-cost’? Are you one detrimental to the sector and runs counter to a sustainable of these industrial companies which outsources development approach. ARMOR invests significantly in both production to increase profit margins? Research & Development (R&D) and in its legal department, so as to scrupulously comply with original patents whilst On the contrary, the main ARMOR factory is in France, and encouraging the multiple usage of a single cartridge. supplies all semi-finished Thermal Transfer products, worldwide. The more China, Brazil or South-East Asia develops, the more production in France increases. It’s outsourcing turned inside-out! We currently employ 650 people in 06 According to you, the integration of the CSR approach and the eco-design of your products constitute a growth driver. Has this commitment, the Nantes region. initially made in 2007, produced the expected results? 04 Yes, but the transport of your merchandise does have an environmental impact isn’t one of the principles of sustainable It undoubtedly has. In the midst of the 2009 economic crisis, sales of ARMOR recycled cartridges increased by 40%. Our strategy has allowed us, not just to record growth of 15% in development to produce close to your markets? our turnover for 2011, but also to envisage an additional investment of €50 million to launch, as planned, production The production subsidiaries for finished products are of thin photovoltaic films by 2015-2016. spread across several continents, so as to be as close as possible to the consumers we serve. Moreover, because we seek to optimize proximity to European markets, our Polish, Czech and Moroccan sites are either in Europe, or at the 07 What sort of feedback do you get from Group employees about your commitment to corporate social responsibility? gateway to Europe. Most of our foreign-based establishments were created in response to the needs of local marIn terms of CSR, every step forward has been made possible kets, precisely to limit the environmental impacts of the by our employees. All of them are involved in the everyday transport of merchandise. ARMOR cartridges are not just implementation of our values: humanism, innovation, com‘responsible’ products, but are also sold 30% to 40% cheamitment and customer service. Every two years, employees per than non-remanufactured products. are called upon to participate in working groups on these values. We measure the gaps between the vision announced 05 The ARMOR group is positioned on a highly competitive market, up against the print giants. In this context, what is the ARMOR strategy? and the reality, and we draw up plans of action. In this way, we regularly keep track of the ten major actions we have defined. These actions contribute to strengthening both the feeling of belonging among ARMOR group employees, and The ARMOR strategy is to work in partnership with the OEM their approval of our CSR commitment. This commitment is (Original Equipment Manufacturers) and to fight together a key ingredient in ARMOR’s success to date, as well as to against counterfeiting and all types of cloning, which is that of the future.  OCTOBER • Sponsorship of the 13th Job Academy against exclusion (ARMOR in France) page 22 • Evening event to raise internal awareness  AUGUST of disability at work (ARMOR in France) page 11 • Creation of the first closed-loop material recycling system (AOP) page 14  NOVEMBER • €35M investment loan agreed by  DECEMBER the banks in support of the activity, • Agreement regarding professional equality  SEPTEMBER for the 2011-2015 period (ARMOR) between men and women • Creation of the Cercle de l’Entreprenariat (ARMOR in France) Populaire Nantes Atlantique in support of • Signature of the voluntary collection economic initiative (ARMOR in France) page 22 agreement (AOP in France) page 20 • Agreement on the prevention of physical strain at work (ARMOR in France) • Three new production lines brought into service (AOP in Pologne) • Launch of the smart chip for inkjet cartridges (AOP) page 14 Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 5 THE ARMOR GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY IMPACTS AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES  AOP PROCUREMENT PRODUCTION LOGISTICS PRINTING COLLECTION END OF LIFE DISTRIBUTION SORTING CO2 CARTRIDGES LASER CARTRIDGES COLLECTED Intermediate material waste recovered NON RE-USABLES (including toner powder) • Material recovery SECOND LIFE including toner CO2 CO2 powder if cartridge Waste: is non-reusable end-of-life Morocco: cartridges Laser remanufacturing LASER OR INKJET END USER Pigments CARTRIDGES Paper and energy Intermediate waste incinerated: • Remanufactured under consumed • Production of Energy PACKAGING • CO2 emission the ARMOR, Wecare4 or in printing INKJET CARTRIDGES distributor sub-brands Cardboard NON RE-USABLES • New under the ARMOR Plastic CO2 CO2 • Incineration with or distributor brand or without energy Harvesting of recovery non-renewable resources Czech Republic: CUSTOMER: distributor Inkjet remanufacturing AFTER SALES Virgin or recycled SERVICE: ARMOR raw materials HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH in the absence CO2 CO2 of sorting by Responsible and transparent labelling on packaging: the end-user Poland: • New or remanufactured product Local and/or responsible • Instructions for responsible usage purchasing practice New inkjet • Environmental Labelling & Product Quality (within France) Health, employee protection, particularly those in contact with toner powder Employment Contribution to local development Impacts Products & Services Quality Policy: from Purchasing to After Sales Service of suppliers activities Impact of customers activities, both distributors and end users Water consumption, treatment of effluents Energy consumption SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY • Respecting human rights and guaranteeing • Controlling supplies in terms of quality, • Limiting environmental impact: energy consumption workplace safety responsibility, flows and prices and harvesting of non-renewable resources, polluting • Preventing the appearance of work-related MSD • Controlling the quality of products and services emissions and CO2, waste • Developing employability through training, skills • Protecting know-how and respecting intellectual • Controlling risk management and equality of opportunity property • Developing diversity, gender balance and the • Maintaining competitiveness employment of disabled people • Contributing to the local development of areas in • Favouring professional fulfilment at work which the company is established and work-life balance • Building commitment to sustainable development in its sphere of influence (customers, territory, etc.)  AICP PROCUREMENT PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION USE AND Manufacture of ink Slitting (customer or neutral sub-brand), END OF LIFE Coating Packaging After Sales Service Quality Policy: from R&D to After Sales Service VOC coating emissions captured and incinerated (within France) • production of energy PET • CO2 emission Solvents (depending on application) Silicons Slitting waste Polystyrene • recycled (within France) Polypropylene CO2 CO2 Electricity, gas Print-related CUSTOMERS END USER: Harvesting • Printer Manufacturers COMPANY of non-renewable Location resources • Value Added Resellers Ordinary industrial waste: CO2 of slitting (Designers of integrated solutions • used film activities by for marking and traceability) • packaging geographical Resins distribution Waxes area Pigments Safety, chemical risk control in collaboration with the local authority Cardboard Health, ergonomics and prevention of work-related injuries Responsible & local purchasing practice Sealing and depletion of soils Employment Contribution to local development Impacts of supplier activities SITES: Brazil, China, United States, France, Singapore Impact of activities of both customers and end users R&D ECO-DESIGN Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 6 THE ARMOR GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY STRATEGY Given the impact of its activities, the group is aware of its responsibilities and intends to act accordingly, by giving men and women from the company a key role to play, being respectful of the environment, and through technical and managerial innovation yet while paying special attention to both customers and economic performance, as a guarantee of long-term viability. The group strategy relies on • being anchored in the circular economy which consists of minimizing harvesting of earthly resources and recycling waste, as in a natural ecosystem, the development of employee competences and its twin expertise • eco-designing products so as to minimize their impact on the environment in printing techniques, to orient throughout their life cycle, its activities towards improved • developing new activities that are directly related to limiting the impact of sustainability by: human activities on the environment. TWO PROGRAMMES WORKING HAND IN HAND In France, two operational plans of action support this strategy: the Decaplan and the Alternative Print Program. AICP applies the Decaplan, which is dedicated AOP applies the Alternative Print Program, to the Thermal Transfer activity. dedicated to ink cartridges. Ten working groups, A TEN-STRAND PLAN A SIX-STRAND PLAN which include people • Human development • Eco-design from every level and • Health and Safety • Material recycling every profile within • Social Life The six-strand plan is dealt with by • Committed collection the company (mana• Territorial integration as many working groups made up • Responsible production gement, operators, social partners, • Sustainable transport of willing, committed participants. • Human development etc.) offer a range of operations • Responsible purchases • Involvement within throughout the year so as to make • Eco-design the community each action, on each of the ten • Energy strands, a reality. • Environmental footprint • Waste management  THE DETAIL OF BOTH PLANS OF ACTION IS ON WWW.ARMOR-GROUP.COM RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN SUPPORT ARMOR group R&D is a major growth driver for innovation. Research concentrates on innovation National Institute of Solar Energy), Amcor (manueach of the company’s activities. The R&D departand the development of new products, securing facturer of packaging), Plasto Technologies ment of the Thermal Transfer activity in France raw materials, as well as on the optimization and (manufacturer of adhesives) and the Université de designs, and industrially develops ink ribbons. All improved reliability of manufacturing processes. Bordeaux 1, represented by the Laboratory of of this work is then deployed on production sites in Organic Polymer Chemistry (LCPO). ARMOR’s France and in the international subsidiaries. In five ARMOR Sustainable Energies (ASE) draws expertise in the process of industrial coating on years, its workforce has increased by 50%, now together the activities related to the OSCAR thin film is an asset in the development of this employing 33 engineers, doctoral students and (Organic Solar Cells by ARmor) research pronew activity. technicians (without counting external partners) gramme, devoted to thin film organic photovoltaic and its budget has increased by 140% in four years. technology. This research programme is being Ultimately, ARMOR seeks to position itself as a key conducted in partnership with a French consortium European player in this sector, making this activity This constant dynamism allows ARMOR to comprising: CEA-INES (French Atomic Energy the group’s 3rd activity, with production starting in remain competitive and at the cutting edge of and Alternative Energies Commission French 2015-2016 at the La Chevrolière production site. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 7 GOVERNANCE ANCHORING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN THE GOVERNANCE OF THE GROUP In 2011, the group has continued structuring its governance around corporate social responsibility. The sustainable development committee has been reinforced. The group’s commitment beyond France is further strengthened by the identification of a network of CSR correspondents, the launch of a CSR self-assessment process, and deployment of the Values process in the subsidiaries. GROUP A MORE STRUCTURED “ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT  Board Frequency: bi-monthly Members: CEO, COMMITTEE of Directors Shareholder-Administrators, This committee’s role is to guarantee the Personnel Representatives  General (advisory capacity)  Sustainable integration of sustainable development at the Management Development heart of our strategy. Within its very structure, it Committee Committee must be able to consolidate the expectations of  Strategic Frequency: monthly Frequency: monthly Frequency: bi-monthly the key stakeholders. This is why the “SD comMembers: CEO, Members: CEO, AFD, Committee Shareholder-Administrators, DSP, AICP Sales and Chaired by: Chief mittee” was restructured in 2011. I lead it, but it Administrative and Financial Marketing Director, Executive Officer is chaired by the Group’s CEO, Hubert de BoisreDirector (AFD), Director of Headed by: Director of don. It brings together the group’s departmental AICP Industrial Director, Sustainable Development Strategic Planning (DSP) AOP Managing Director (HR, finance, legal, etc.) and operational (purchasing, marketing, industrial) directors for the two main activities. Each is at once an ambassador AICP, AOP, ASE ACTIVITIES for the group and a carrier of expectations with regard to it, in its relationship with the group’s  Executive Frequency: monthly Network of stakeholders be they employees, customers, Members: correspondents Committees AICP, ASE: CEO, functional and operational directors director of subsidiary suppliers, shareholders, or local authorities. It is by activity AOP: MD, functional and operational directors or SD delegate important that the committee members have the necessary decision-making power to render our ” orientations operational. Depending on the various agendas, other contributors are invited to participate.  Annabelle Guillet, Director of Sustainable Shareholders Suppliers Development, appointed in 2010. States Financial partners STAKEHOLDER (banks, insurers) REPRESENTATIVES Financial GENDER BALANCE WITHIN GOVERNANCE Management Legal Purchasing BODIES AND WITHIN THE GROUP Management Management Service For the moment, only men sit on the board and Employees Providers management committee. The proportion of women on the AICP and AOP executive committees stands at 20% and 9% respectively; on Trade HR Management IT Management the sustainable development committee it is Unions SD* COMMITTEE 30%. In comparison, 52% of ARMOR employees Media worldwide are women. In France, women’s Customers AICP/AOP representation reaches 31% of the total workOperational R&D Management force: 32% of managers, 44% of supervisors, Management 66% of employees and 18% of workers. Marketing/ Competitors International Local Communication Subsidiary authorities and Commercial Management Management Research Neighbours partners Partners * SD: Sustainable Development Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 8 GOVERNANCE A CSR CORRESPONDENT IN EACH A CSR INVENTORY OF CORE VALUES IN INDIVIDUAL SUBSIDIARY SUBSIDIARIES TO EXTEND THE AND COLLECTIVE RESPONSIBILITY Deployment of the approach relies as it must PROCESS INTERNATIONALLY In 2009, ARMOR initiated a process on the on local communication for greater effectiIn early 2011, an inter-business working group, Group’s values, in order that each person might veness and pertinence with regard to local with the assistance of a CSR consultancy, drew make them their own, adopting them as a guide issues. As initiators of the processes in the up a self-assessment questionnaire comprising to their professional behaviour. A welcome booGroup’s French subsidiaries, the Decaplan and almost 300 questions. It was designed taking into klet lists and explains these values. Although Alternative Print Program project leaders, are account the Group’s membership of the Global putting them into practice at everyday level is an automatically involved. At international level, Compact, the ISO 26000 guidelines and the individual responsibility, the Group’s collective although channels of communication were already demands of recognized standards such as ISO and corporate social responsibility depend on it. open on quality, human resources management, 14001 (environment management), OHSAS 18001 The values chosen by the Group are: humanism, safety, and the environment, only the director of (occupational health and safety), SA 8000 (workinnovation, commitment and customer service. a subsidiary had the full view of corporate social place standard) so as to assess the corporate responsibility for that subsidiary. As subsidiasocial responsibility of subsidiaries. This quesWorking groups within each subsidiary examine ries have gradually become involved in a CSR tionnaire has been deployed gradually and with their everyday practice through the filter of the process, the need to consolidate an initial state support and guidance, including a CSR awaGroup’s four values, and identify areas in need of play and co-ordination for the definition, reness element. of improvement. The 2011 summary of these implementation and reporting of plans of action works gave rise to the plan of action entitled: justifies the designation of a correspondent in The self-assessment furnishes an initial state of “10 decisions for a better experience of group each subsidiary. Subsidiary directors either take play, enabling each subsidiary to face up to its values” which addresses such diverse matters this responsibility on themselves, or delegate it responsibilities in relation to both the local situaas: internal communication, familiarity with to a colleague, while ensuring that this person tion and the Group’s international commitments. organisational charts and people, the developis provided with necessary and adequate It also detects risks to be kept under control in ment of competences, internal mobility, and resources and authority to federate and co-ordithe short, medium and long term, as well as best corporate social commitment. nate action within the subsidiary. practice to be shared. In 2011, seven of the nine main ARMOR international subsidiaries self-assessed in this way. On the basis of the results presented in 2012, each of these will propose a plan of actions to include objectives and associated indicators.  2012 OBJECTIVE: ALL OPERATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES ASSESSED, WITH CSR ACTION PLANS UNDERWAY. ‘Values’ working groups in China and the United States. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 9 SOCIAL KEY PLAYERS IN ARMOR CHANGE AND STRATEGY Human relations in the company are approached as a whole. All aspects of social responsibility are linked, and together they set the tone of the social climate: responsibility with regard to quality of employment, respect for human rights at work, the fight against discrimination (from access to employment to equality of treatment within the company), the development of a safe work environment, the match between employee competences and the group’s current and future needs, and lastly, personal fulfilment at work. Year after year, the group uses social dialogue to offer its employees more comprehensive social rights. 700 +4%  SITE WORKFORCES: 1,505 PRIVILEGING HIGH-QUALITY EMPLOYMENT 2011 EVOLUTION IN COMPARISON WITH 2010 (report scope, in full-time equivalent posts) In 2011, ARMOR was a net creator of jobs in every area in which it is established. +11% +21% 500 635 To achieve its ambitions, ARMOR actively seeks to promote permanent posts, which represent 85% of its workforce worldwide, limiting recourse 338 309 +12% +16% to short-term, temporary and agency jobs as much as possible. In France, the number of 131 92 people employed on permanent contracts 0 increased by 2.7% in 2011. France North Africa Europe Asia America outside France SOCIAL DIALOGUE IS SHAPED ON AN EVERYDAY BASIS Good Practice A balanced social dialogue is fundamental to disIn France, as is required by law, bodies already SIGNATURE OF AGREEMENTS cussions around social-economic dilemmas, and exist for dialogue between management and perWITH SOCIAL PARTNERS IN FRANCE serves to drive the group’s social responsibility sonnel representatives: Works Committees, Perforward. In keeping with this belief, ARMOR is sonnel Delegates, Health and Safety Committees By signing, an agreement on professional determined to encourage a framework which will (CHSCT), Trade Union Delegates and negotiation equality in 2011, the social partners facilitate this dialogue, drawing on personnel sessions. Personnel representatives are also preexpressed their intention to ensure that social representation within bodies as befits the local sent, in an advisory capacity, at each board meedialogue addresses the issue of equality context, so that company strategy and data are ting. In 2011, this dialogue enabled the signature between men and women. This agreement shared in a spirit of mutual transparency, respect of five agreements, two of which addressed the provides for fair treatment of job applications; and trust. themes of professional equality and the prevenbetter access to training for women; tion of physical strain at work. improved consistency in classification systems by allowing promotion to a higher coefficient where this is objectively possible; and the relaunch of a “Forward Planning for Jobs and Skills” plan, which will facilitate comparisons between jobs. An agreement on the prevention of workplace  PROPORTION OF 65% risk and the improvement of health at work has also been signed. The social partners are committed to making sure actions likely to WORKFORCE COVERED Poland, limit physical strain at work are enacted. The BY A HEALTH AND SAFETY measures suggested essentially concern the COMMITTEE: France, adaptation and fitting-out of workstations, Brazil improvements to working conditions especially in terms of organisation, and facilitation of end-of-career planning. Through these two agreements, ARMOR is compliant with changes to French legislation as of 2011. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 10 SOCIAL FIGHTING DISCRIMINATION ENCOURAGING ACCESS TO WORK FOR DISABLED PEOPLE AND ENCOURAGING DIVERSITY Disabled people are, on average, twice as likely to be unemployed. EncouraARMOR’s actions in favour of diversity, and against ging their access to employment is therefore both a social and an economic all forms of discrimination, are motivated not only issue. By relying on local support structures where they exist, the ARMOR by its concern to comply with legislation, but also by group has taken initiatives in this field: maintenance of employment, direct the multitude of backgrounds represented in its employment of disabled people, the development of subcontracting specific workforce. Its approach is three-pronged: tasks to entrusted workshops or specially-adapted companies, raising awareness among personnel and partners, and other actions to encourage the • Equality of opportunity: recruitment, integraintegration of disabled staff. tion, access to training, promotion, and pay. • Employability: acquisition of competences allowing people to keep pace with developments, and support and guidance to optimize the chances of staying in employment, for people in difficulty. • Access to employment for people from vulnerable groups: young people, women, disabled people, seniors, people from underprivileged areas, etc., as dictated by local issues in the areas in which the company is established. Humanism a group value has raised the question of the fight against discrimination. In 2011, ARMOR signed the Diversity Charter, which encourages Operator using the sign language translation tablet. companies to guarantee the promotion and respect of diversity in their workforces. Today, ARMOR France has the equivalent of 23 disabled employees, representing an employment rate of about 4.1%. Reaching the legal requirement of 6% remains an important target. ARMOR has therefore multiplied its actions aimed at encouraging the integration of this group within its teams: Good Practice • The PRISME programme in favour of the integration of deaf and hearingSIGNATURE OF THE DIVERSITY CHARTER impaired people in business, which was launched in 2009, is bearing fruit at the Thermal Transfer Industrial Expertise Center, La Chevrolière. Its In signing this charter, aim is to come up with a high-performance communication system to 5 ARMOR has undertaken to: reinforce their general abilities and establish a communication channel between deaf operators EMPLOYEES IN POLAND • Raise awareness of, and train those and their line management or work colleagues. managers and employees involved ARE DISABLED, In 2011, this tool enabled these five deaf people in recruitment, training and career REPRESENTING 1.5% to be offered access to the same training oppormanagement in issues concerning OF THE WORKFORCE. tunities as other employees. non-discrimination and diversity. • In 2011, the ARMOR group in France reinforced its resources, notably by • Respect and promote application appointing two diversity correspondents to federate site actions and of the principle of fighting discrimination develop synergies. in all its forms and at every stage in human resources management. • An evening event to raise awareness of the issue of employment of disabled people, entitled “Together, let’s share our differences” was • Seek to reflect the diversity of society, and organised in October 2011 for all employees, their partners and families. in particular cultural and ethnic diversity, In addition to spending an enjoyable evening, which included a play and in its workforce, at the various levels of sketches on the theme of disability, ARMOR invited along businesses qualification. which have employed disabled people and called upon some of its employees to speak about their experiences. Almost 200 people attended • Communicate to all employees about its this event. commitment to non-discrimination and diversity, and inform them about the concrete results of this commitment. • Make the drawing-up and implementation of the diversity policy a matter of dialogue 4.4% OF THE VOLUME OF SERVICE PURCHASED ENTRUSTED TO ORGANISATIONS EMPLOYING MAINLY DISABLED PEOPLE IN THE UNITED STATES. with personnel representatives. IN FRANCE, 4.6% OF GENERAL SERVICES (EXCLUSIVE • Include a chapter describing its commitment to non-discrimination and OF TECHNICAL SERVICES) AMOUNTS TO €70,000. diversity in the annual report: actions implemented, practice and results. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 11 SOCIAL IDENTIFYING INTERNAL COMPETENCES AND MOVING THEM FORWARD Skills management is part of the way in which In 2011, the ongoing training budget represented ARMOR group strategy is put to work. It is also a 3.24% of the payroll, which is 2.8 times the legal  PROPORTION OF THE WORKFORCE lever for enhancing employability and professiominimum. The plan for the year 2011 was excepnal development, whilst complying with requiretionally ambitious. Indeed, the innovative characBENEFITING FROM AN INDIVIDUAL ments in terms of equality of treatment. ter of the training courses on offer allowed us to PERFORMANCE INTERVIEW, receive several financial aids from local authoriWORLDWIDE: 65% Training needs are generally identified at annual ties and training fund collection agencies (OPCA individual interviews, but also, in France, through Organismes Paritaires Collecteurs Agréés). specific interviews known as “second part of This training plan concerned 424 employees, career” interviews, for employees aged over 45. which is 67% of the workforce: 64% of the men and 74% of the women. Good Practice CREATION OF THE ARMOR UNIVERSITY AT THE LA CHEVROLIÈRE SITE IN FRANCE The La Chevrolière site has new facilities that are completely given over to obtaining qualifications recognised by the French state. The first year of the University’s activity was beneficial to 35 willing employees from the site, for a course entitled Automated Installations and Machinery Operator (Conducteur d’Installations et de Machines Automatisées CIMA), a Level 5 (CAP/BEP) vocational qualification, undertaken during working hours. Qualifications are awarded through validation of work experience (VAE) with ARMOR being responsible for all administrative procedures and the setting up of essential human and material resources (trainers, equipment, buildings/prefabs, supplies, etc.). The support of the French state’s professional training body AFPA completes the process for the project engineering and deployment, together with the OPCA for Chemicals, Oil, Pharmacy (C2P), the French chemical industries association (UIC Union de Industries Chimiques) and the Regional Directorate of Business , Award of the CIMA qualification (CAP/BEP level vocational qualification). First graduation, July 2011. Employment, Competition, Consumption, and Professional Training (DIRECCTE Directions régionales des entreprises, de la concurrence, de la consommation, du travail et de l’emploi). 50-YEAR-OLD COATING OPERATOR, “ In addition to the ARMOR group CSR policy, PASCAL BRANGER ONE OF THE ELEVEN preparations must be made for the evolution GRADUATES OF THE FIRST INTAKE of activities related to Thermal Transfer, along This training has enriched my vision of with anticipation of needs arising as a result of ARMOR, teaching me about where I fit into the the diversification embarked upon by ARMOR whole. I’ve also learned to better understand particularly in the production of thin organic how the coating machine, on which I work every photovoltaic film. From 2013, the ARMOR day, functions. Now, I’m able to recognise the University will offer new training themes. reasons behind a breakdown, and I’ve got the right vocabulary to help me discuss issues with the maintenance department. And then, it was also a personal challenge, and I’m relieved to ” see that I am capable of learning new things about my job and about the company I’ve been  NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES working at for 11 years now. HAVING ACCESSED TRAINING IN FRANCE: 2009: 251 2010: 291 2011: 424 Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 12 SOCIAL DEVELOPING A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT Good Practice MSD PREVENTION The health and safety of persons, and the safety of goods are priorities, as illustrated by the impleThe PARI programme for internal rehabilitation mentation of protection and prevention measures, and retraining was set up in 2010 to reduce with the ambitious objective of attaining zero acciMSD (MusculoSkeletal Disorders), encourage dents. This commitment translates, for example, retention in employment and the integration into the provision of PPE (Personal Protection of seniors and disabled people. Conducted Equipment) and promotion of its use, the ergonowith the CHSCT and all employees, it brings mic adaptation of workstations, protection against together a range of internal projects on the noise nuisance, chemical risk or exposure to heat theme of ergonomics. In 2011, ARMOR and bad weather. In 2011, ARMOR invested more developed a new quality-labelling system for than €1.3 M in France to improve working condiworkstations, in collaboration with the tions (in the sense of French employment law). CARSAT pension insurance fund (Caisse d’Assurance Retraite et Santé au Travail) in In 2011, although the frequency rate of accidents Fire Drill in China. the Pays de Loire: “Cadre Vert”, aimed at at work in our French facilities was slightly higher preventing lower back pain. The main (12.88 vs. 10.23 in 2010) the accidents recorded objective is to analyse those posts at risk, were not as serious: 0.12 compared with 0.26  ALL ARMOR EMPLOYEES and remove the factors that are to blame. within the Union des Industries Chimiques. ARE TRAINED IN FIRE DRILLS The protection of production equipment and tools is another important aspect of health and safety policy. ARMOR is constantly improving its risk  FRENCH AND POLISH SITES  PROPORTION OHSAS 18001 CERTIFIED control, in particular through the enhancement OF WORKFORCE 69% of employee fire fighting and fire prevention skills OFFERED and the deployment of effective, risk-appropriate 2012 OBJECTIVE: CERTIFICATION REGULAR MEDICAL resources. For example, in 2011, the La ChevroOF THE UNITED STATES SITE CHECKUPS: lière site completely reviewed and optimized its 2013 OBJECTIVE: CERTIFICATION Internal Organisation Plan (IOP) for an emerOF THE MOROCCO SITE gency situation. ENCOURAGING WORKPLACE FULFILMENT AND WELL-BEING Within the context of a competitive global ecoNevertheless, these notions are difficult to deal employees (which may be expressed in a range of nomy, the demanding pace of work means that it with in a comprehensive manner. The managedomains) and welcoming initiatives designed to sometimes spills over into personal time. ARMOR ment bodies of subsidiaries are charged with develop social ties, both within and outside of the is therefore encouraging of initiatives which help complying with local legislation in force, while company. employees achieve a healthier work-life balance. remaining attentive to challenges faced by their Good Practices THE EVOLUTION OF WORKING CONDITIONS ELECTION OF A SOCIAL COMMITTEE IN POLAND In 2011, the ongoing development of the allowing weekend working to become a thing Each year, ARMOR goes beyond its legal Thermal Transfer activities in Asia required of the past, and reducing the number of obligations in Poland by setting up a social fund relocation of the Singapore site. Employees overtime hours for employees. In the USA, the which pays for actions aimed at the well-being were first informed of this in January. After working environment has been given fresh of employees. In 2011, this social committee this, regular information was provided at thought, with the premises being repainted chose to co-finance the purchase of tickets for department meetings, and all employees had throughout to offer employees better cultural activities, organising sporting activities a chance to visit the new premises in May. In conditions in which to work. as well as social events at the production site July, the site was moved to a 4,000 m² (Christmas gifts for the children, a picnic, etc.). building (including a 325 m² office area). The In 2012, ARMOR will hold elections among staff facility boasts energyefficient air-conditioning, to choose the employees who will make up the low-energy lighting, and an improved social committee responsible for management sprinkler system which is compliant with of this fund. ESFR (Early Suppression Fast Response) fire A SOCIAL BAROMETER IN FRANCE legislation. The objective for 2012 is to reduce energy consumption in the offices by 10%. The group is determined to encourage personal development among its employees  IN 2011, TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE ARMOR Asia also organised staff transport by developing their skills (technical, WELL-BEING OF ITS EMPLOYEES IN between home and site, with multiple pick-up linguistic, communication, etc.) and by points throughout the city. This initiative facilitating their integration to the company. MOROCCO, ARMOR MADE involved organisational change, with longer working days, but with more days off and In 2011, ARMOR decided to measure employee satisfaction through a social health insurance fewer overtime hours. questionnaire. As soon as its results are available, in 2012, a plan of action will be To ensure ongoing improvement, ARMOR has embarked upon, so as to continue work on set up three new production lines in Poland, the most sensitive points. AVAILABLE TO ALL. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 13 ENVIRONMENT REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Two types of complementary actions are conducted so as to take into account the environmental impact of ARMOR activities and products: • eco-design, which aims to reduce product impact throughout its lifecycle, • environmental site management, to control the residual impact of production. Good Practice THE ECO-DESIGN OF ARMOR PRODUCTS CREATION OF THE FIRST CLOSED The two main ARMOR activities have different levels To reduce the end-of-life impact, ARMOR has parRECOVERY CIRCUIT IN OFFICE of flexibility in this domain. ticipated in drawing up the New Life programme, alongside those actors involved in the collection APPLICATIONS The original cartridges are designed by printer and recycling of materials. brands, so that the ARMOR Office Printing activity To reduce the end-of-life impact of a laser necessitates acting on the second part of the carThe inked ribbons designed for Thermal Transfer cartridge, which may already have been tridge lifecycle. Eco-design therefore targets the applications are designed and manufactured in remanufactured three times, ARMOR has process of remanufacturing, formulation and the France, at the La Chevrolière site. In September participated in drawing up the New Life manufacture of inks and packaging components, 2009, R&D developed a new ribbon named Solprogramme, which recovers all the materials while complying with the intellectual property Free®, using the only manufacturing process that is from an end-of-life laser cartridge. patents registered by the original brands. solvent-free even when coating the back. This This new process, designed by Revialis innovative technology allows the reduction of In September 2011, ARMOR conducted an analysis ARMOR’s partner in the collection of used impact on the environment, including the carbon of the lifecycle of its products, so as to better idenlaser cartridges offers an overall solution footprint. For example, replacing a traditional wax tify both impacts and potential for improvement, as involving the recycling of IT consumables into ribbon with an AWR® 470 SolFree® ribbon enables well as to enable labelling to include information office items. These products are produced by a saving of 365g of CO2 (for a 110mm x 300m ribbon) about the environmental impact of those cartridges Han, the third New Life partner and German in a way that is transparent for the printer, while intended for the use of the general public. leader in office equipment manufacture. maintaining the same level of quality. Through this closed circuit, New Life On average, cartridges can be remanufactured guarantees “zero waste” in the recycling of three times. Beyond this, print quality suffers. cartridges. Revialis, ARMOR and Han bring together their respective expertise to effectively reduce the environmental impact of their activities. Good Practices A CHIP FOR ARMOR CARTRIDGES JUMBO INK CARTRIDGES In February 2011, a printer manufacturer In December 2009, ARMOR commercialized  CONSISTENT WITH THIS, registered a patent to protect its cartridges its first high volume laser ink cartridge: the equipped with an electronic chip which 80% OF THE LASER Jumbo cartridge. This type of cartridge offers measures interaction between the level of ink twice as much print capacity as a standard CARTRIDGES RANGE IS NOW recorded in the chip’s memory and the light cartridge whilst maintaining the same PACKAGED IN RECYCLED emitted. This patent concerns the inkjet dimensions, thanks to increased toner weight. CARDBOARD BOXES, PRINTED cartridges families, which is about 45% of this In addition to its technical and economic WITH PLANT-BASED INKS. manufacturer’s installed base of printers in performance, there is an undeniable West Europe. ARMOR responded to this in the environmental advantage. The consumption of spring of 2011 by developing a new cartridge raw materials (plastic structure, packaging, incorporating infrared LEDs. Then, in etc.) is reduced because just one cartridge December 2011, in order to provide users can print as much as two. Transport and with an ink level indicator, ARMOR launched storage costs are divided by two throughout Sparky the smart chip to resolve all the product’s lifecycle (manufacture, compatibility issues over the long term. This distribution and end-of-life). In modelling this unique solution facilitates use, meets legal lifecycle, it has been observed that between a requirements, and complies with patents standard cartridge and a Jumbo cartridge, the currently in force. In this way, at the point of environmental impact (in equivalent tons of insertion to the printer, the cartridge LEDs CO2) is divided by two. ARMOR has therefore send a light signal that is identical to that of significantly broadened its Jumbo laser range, the original cartridges, so that the consumer and more than thirty models are currently on is both informed and reassured. the market. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 14 ENVIRONMENT Good Practice ANALYSIS OF THE CARTRIDGE LIFECYCLE Two impacts both of which are significant the original cartridge’s impact over three environmental labelling. These ACVs will and revealing of the environmental uses), but also the packaging and assembly; allow us, depending on the cartridge or contribution made by remanufacturing print it is possible to make progress on both of cartridge range, to target actions which will cartridges have been selected for the these fronts. lead to a reduction in the product’s burden on quantitative analysis of the product lifecycle: the environment. contribution to climate change and harvesting The method for measuring the impact of the of natural resources, per 100 pages printed. laser cartridge is similar. However, its unitary Solvent-free toner, plant-based plastic parts, impact is four or five times that of an inkjet biodegradable or recyclable bags, and the use Because remanufactured cartridges re-use cartridge, because of its weight, which is 12 of original gears are projects being studied used parts, the methodology suggested to 19 times higher, while offering a lifespan with a view to further reducing impact on spreads the impact of the initial cartridge’s that is 2.5 to 5 times longer. non-renewable resources. manufacture over its three uses. Through this hypothesis, the most impactful phases of the Following this initial Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), lifecycle for a remanufactured inkjet cartridge a decision has been taken to extend this are, in descending order: the production of measure to other models, beginning with raw materials (essentially the amortization of laser cartridges and using the data to test  LIFE CYCLE ASSESSEMENT OF REMANUFACTURED HP 336 INKJET CARTRIDGE Remanufactured HP336 inkjet Raw materials Assembly Packaging Delivery Use End-of-life cartridge (%) production Exhaustion of natural 50.9 15.1 28.0 5.7 0.8 -0.6 resources Climate change 44.4 17.0 26.0 5.4 0.8 6.3 Good Practices ECO-DESIGN WITHIN THE ASE ACTIVITY LONGER THERMAL TRANSFER RIBBONS ARMOR is determined to offer an eco-designed range, and increasing the length of its Thermal Transfer ribbons seems to be a pertinent response to reducing CO2 emissions, waste and the consumption of nonrenewable resources. However, the diameter of the rolls is limited by the space available in the printer. This is why APR® 600 LL (Long Length) was introduced, in 2011. This product is 20% longer yet has the same dimensions as the standard equivalent. To succeed in creating such a ribbon, the ink had to be reformulated so that the PolyEthylene Terephthalate (PET) film is coated with a thinner layer. In addition, the PET film itself is about 11% thinner. APR® 600 LL thus offers multiple advantages, both ecological and economic: • reduction of stock volumes, The ASE activity has chosen to integrate ecodesign right from the launch of the OSCAR • reduction in the volume of product transported, project on photovoltaic cells. The lifecycle of the cells has been completely reconsidered, so as • reduced number of changes of roll on user production lines, to minimize the impact on the environment. In this way, the components used, which are • 20% less waste for the same number of printouts, organic in nature allow production of thirdgeneration photovoltaic cells, offering a twin • savings of 180g of CO2 in comparison with a standard-dimension ribbon. advantage: • they minimize harvesting of non-renewable natural resources because the materials are extracted from carbon sources rather than mineral deposits (unlike the first two generations of photovoltaic cells), • they facilitate the recycling and end-of-life recovery of the photovoltaic cells. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 15 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT OF SITES  RECOVERY OF PRODUCTION WASTE GENERATED In 2011, four of nine sites were ISO 14001 certified: La Chevrolière and Le Cordon Bleu in France, and the Polish and Moroccan sites abroad. The 120 group aspires to deploy environmental manage537 tons 275 tons 2 113 tons ment at all of its subsidiaries, by conducting 100 regulatory compliance, waste collection and 19 waste processing actions. Some sites will also 80 % material recovered see significant reductions in energy and water consumption. 62 % incinerated with generation 60 of energy or heat 99 % incinerated 40 81 Good Practice % landfill 12 TOWARDS CONTROLLING 20 14 Asia, Europe other than France: THE IMPACT OF WASTE data not available in 2011 1 12 Eight years ago, ARMOR initiated the REC’PET 0 (PET recycling) project, which aims to identify North Africa America France and implement a sustainable solution for recovery of the PET film scraps from its Thermal Transfer activity. At the La Good Practices Chevrolière site alone, about 800 tons of PET film waste was generated in 2011. WASTE RECYCLING IN THE USA These scraps are highly specific plastic waste, because PET films are, among others, inked The quantity of waste from ARMOR USA increased by 10% in 2011, mainly because of growth in the and extremely thin (about 10 μm) which activity. During the same period, the rate of material waste recovery increased by 33%, reaching 23% makes them more difficult to re-use via of all waste generated. This result has been achieved through: traditional techniques. To date, substantial • reduction in the volume of film waste, representing about 25 tons saved in comparison with 2010, human and financial investments have been made, demonstrating the group’s • the extension of waste recovery through selective sorting that was already practiced, determination to find sustainable solutions. As an illustration, since September 2011, • actions aimed at raising awareness, so that each employee contributes to moving forward this the La Chevrolière site has managed to environmental management aspect. Certification of the ISO 14001 environmental management system is completely stop sending this waste to landfill. planned for late 2012, and will allow efforts in this direction to continue. 9% 4%  WATER CONSUMPTION INDICATOR (IN M3) 3% FOR ARMOR POLAND VOC* EMISSIONS REDUCED BY 85% IN 10 YEARS 3% In 2002, the La Chevrolière site invested in an incinerator equipped with a VOC processing system at emission and a co-generation system, to complement the natural gas. This has allowed an immediate reduction of around 80% in total VOC emissions. Asia Since then, the development of products such as SolFree® in 2010, as well as improvements in the efficiency of capturing and incinerating VOCs, have further allowed VOC emissions Franceper m² of ribbon produced to be reduced by 85%, between 2003 and 2011, all in all representing a 94% Europe reduction France in emissions outside 47% between 2001 2011 and 2011. The VOC emissions indicator is monitored within the context of the site’s operating 2010 2,635 permit. In 2011, the incinerator burned 5,500 tons of America VOC, thus avoiding their emission in the5% 3,365 1% 2009 atmosphere whilst reducing the consumption of natural gas by 80%. North Africa 81% Freight 4,265 *VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) are atmospheric pollutants having effects onTravel both health and biodiversity. They contribute to increasing the concentration of ozone in the atmosphere and have WATER MANAGEMENT IN POLAND warming power of about 10 times that of CO2. Amortization 275 tons 2 113 tons ARMOR Poland is the only site which uses Raw materials 19 water in the production process. It is used for the production%of ink and material for cleaning the ink recovered 100 62 manufacture tanks. Thewith % incinerated effluent is treated by generation 90 of energy or heat an approved service provider. Since 2009, water 80 % incinerated  EVOLUTION of VOC EMISSIONS/M² PRODUCED 81 consumption has been reduced by 61% even 70 though 12 the site’s activity is growing. These % landfill 60 (base index of 100, year 2003) reductions 14 were generated Asia, Europe by the setting-up of other than France: 50 data not available in 2011 recirculation 12 circuits. 40 30 America France 20 10 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 16 ENVIRONMENT 120 120 FIGHTING 100 CLIMATE 537 100 tons 537 tons CHANGE 275 tons 275 tons 2 113 tons2 113 tons The better to comprehend 19the impact 19 of its actiIf we consider the carbon assessement as a • through freight, 80 % material%recovered material recovered vities on80the major issue that is climate change, whole, for the La Chevrolière site 100 in 100France, the 62 62 and in anticipation 60 60 of French legislation, in 2008 % incinerated of energy or potential % incinerated with generation with generation of energy heat or heat improvement areas 90 included a90reduction • through employee travel. 80 80 and 2009 ARMOR99group’s 99 French operation sites % incinerated in VOC % incinerated emissions into the atmosphere. For the 70 70 conducted 40 analyses 40 on the 81 CO2 emissions 81 related rest, a large part of the emissions is induced outThe action plans thus prioritize eco-design and 12 12 % landfill % landfill 60 60 to their activities (carbon assessement). side of ARMOR’s sites in France:50 logistics optimization, acting on energy consump20 20 50 14 14 otherEurope Asia, EuropeAsia, data not data not available other than France: than France: available in 2011 in 2011 40 40 tion and the promotion of collective or alternative For the regulatory 0 0 1 12 scope of the French law known 1 12 • during the extraction and production 30 30of inputs, modes of transport. North Africa America America France France as Grenelle IINorth (scopeAfrica 1 and 2 according to the ISO such as PET, during the collection 20 and rema20 14064-1 standard), emissions reach the equivanufacturing of cartridges or packaging 10 10 lent of 21,680 tons. 0 0 2003 20032004 20042005 20052006 2006 2007 20072008 20082009 2009 2010 20102  2012 OBJECTIVES: UPDATING  CARBON ASSESSEMENT FOR THE AOP  CARBON ASSESSEMENT AT THE AICP OF CARBON IMPACT ANALYSES FOR CORDON BLEU SITE LA CHEVROLIÈRE SITE THE TWO MAIN ARMOR ACTIVITIES (including inputs and outputs) AND MEASUREMENT OF PROGRESS 2008 2009 MADE 120 THANKS TO THE ACTION PLANS 9% 9% 26% 26% 537 tons 275 tons IMPLEMENTED. 2 113 tons 27% 27% 100 10% 10% 9% 9% 19 4% PRINTING: % % 80 • ARMOR 4% OFFICE % material recovered 100 3% 3% CARBON ASSESSEMENT ON 62 ALL SITES. 3% % incinerated with generation 90 10% 10% 60 3% of energy or heat 99 80 % incinerated 4% 4% 40 • THERMAL 81 TRANSFER Asia ACTIVITY: 70 12 %Asia landfill 60 TRIALLING A MULTI-CRITERIA France France 50 10% 10% 20 14 Asia, Europe other than France: 9% 9% METHODOLOGY FOR ANALYSIS OF Europe THE data not available Europe outside outside France 47% in 2011France 47% 40 1 12 7% 7% 35% 35% IMPACT 0 OF North ITS LA Africa CHEVROLIÈRE America France America SITE. America 5% 5% 1% 1% 30 North Africa North Africa 20 PET film manufacture PET film manufacture 81% 81% Freight Freight Energy 10 Energy Manufacture Manufacture and use ofand use of solvents solvents Travel Travel Waste0 Waste Manufacture Manufacture of other rawof other raw materials materials Amortization Amortization Other 2003 Other 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 201 Use and end-of-life Use and end-of-life of rolls of rolls Raw materials Raw materials Energy Energy Freight Freight and Traveland Travel ARMOR Office Printing production is not based in France and therefore falls outside  ENERGY CONSUMPTION the scope of the 2008 study. BREAKDOWN Electricity consumption: 17 695 MWH 26% 9% 27% 10% 9% 4% % Good Practices 3% 10% 3% OPTIMIZATION OF TRANSPORT FLOW 4% Asia In late 2011, the AOP activity embarked by setting up a shuttle system. A transporter will France upon a major merchandise transport flow be charged with collecting empty 10%cartridges Europe outside France 47% rationalization project.9%Prior to this, there from several customers and will transport the America were several centres 7% for the distribution of products35%to the distribution centres. All of these North Africa finished5% products, 1% and each site established cartridges will be delivered to the production PET film manufacture 81% its own distribution rules. Freight EnergyFrom now on, factory via aManufacture single lorry. and use of solvents transport flow will be managed Travel Waste at ARMOR Manufacture of other raw materials To which are added: 11,423 MWh of natural gas, group level, to: Amortization Other Use and end-of-life of rolls Raw materials 99% of which in France. Energy • standardize management of orders REDUCING THE IMPACT Freight and Travel and stocks through use of a common OF HOME-WORK JOURNEYS software solution, In response to the environmental and  SINCE DECEMBER 2010, economic concerns of its employees, • reduce delivery lead times by centralizing THE LA CHEVROLIÈRE SITE HAS BEEN management of distributions at two sites a computerized tool has been set up at EN 16001 CERTIFIED (France and Poland), La Chevrolière to facilitate car-sharing. (ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM). 20% of the staff use car-sharing to get to • ensure better traceability by delegating work. In 2011, greenhouse gases released product delivery to just five service providers, into the atmosphere were reduced by the equivalent of 114 tons of CO2.  2012 OBJECTIVE: OBTAIN THE ISO 50001, • optimize monitoring of merchandise stock by facilitating the creation of indicators. In China and Singapore, shared transport is INTERNATIONAL STANDARD available to staff to get them to work. In EQUIVALENT TO THE EN 16001 Moreover, inter-site flow between Nantes, Morocco, most employees live close to the EUROPEAN STANDARD. Poland and the Czech Republic will be optimized site, and walk to work. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 17 I N V O LV E M E N T W I T H I N T H E C O M M U N I T Y INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY, AND SHARING BEST PRACTICES ARMOR’s social responsibility is anchored in the concrete reality of its activities. Providing a second life to cartridges destined for destruction contributes to limiting the production of waste. Being an active player in product traceability by creating high-performance, eco-designed support is participating in responsible consumption. The group as a whole: • monitors the quality of its products and services for the health and safety of its customers and the efficiency of the resources used, • selects its suppliers by integrating corporate social responsibility criteria, which encourages them to make progress, • guides the act of purchase and usage of its products, including at end-of-life, and exercises a responsible influence on public authorities, • gets involved in the development of territories, promoting CSR to them. QUALITY IN THE SERVICE OF THE CUSTOMER Good Practice The ARMOR group quality management system is customers has increased by 10% since 2007. DEPLOYMENT OF comprehensive, starting in product design and Efforts made have been rewarded, since 59.3% of MANAGEMENT TOOLS continuing right through to after sales service. customers have noted an improvement in terms The ISO 9001 certification, which is continually of product quality, delivery lead times, the deveTo ensure the competitiveness of its renewed at all sites, and planned for 2012 in Bralopment of new products and the number of production sites and the quality of its zil, recognises the ARMOR’s commitment and ranges on the market. products, ARMOR makes use of numerous encourages its desire to continue with its impromanagement tools, usually tested at the vement actions. Customer satisfaction is at the Following on from the latest results, a plan of French sites, and then deployed in the heart of this approach, in terms of both product action has been brought to fruition in each secsubsidiaries. For example, ARMOR makes and service quality. A hotline, on which we listen tor, with, for example, the setting up of a new use of self-check to ensure that its products to customer needs and complaints, is, for extranet: 2go2, the effects of which will be meaare compliant, PDCA (Plan Do Check Act) example, offered to customers of the AOP activity. sured in a new survey in 2012. continual progress methodology, Lean Manufacturing, progress audits, the 5S, etc. Customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken to The AOP activity conducted a similar process in AICP in France has also implemented measure their level of satisfaction. The AICP acti2009, following which a plan of action was drawn the 6 sigma method to optimize its vity does this every two years, worldwide. up, resulting in the restructuring of certain of the manufacturing process. company’s departments. In 2012, the impacts of The results are encouraging, with clear progress these changes and their effectiveness will be In Brazil, which is a recently opened production being made since 2003. The level of overall satischecked up on among customers. site (2007), ARMOR has initiated a 5S approach faction is 93.7% for 2010, which is close to that of in its workshops. Moreover, just like ARMOR 2007, and the proportion of highly-satisfied in France, ARMOR Brazil has set up daily 20-minutes meetings to discuss such matters as production results, customer complaints or maintenance planning.  AICP CUSTOMERS SURVEY RESULT TOTAL 2003 2005 2007 2010 BASE (352) (127) (246) (348) SATISFIED 89.2% 95.3% 93.5% 93.7% Highly satisfied 16.8% 31.5% 25.6% 35.6% Satisfied 72.4% 63.8% 67.9% 58.0% DISSATISFIED 10.8% 4.7% 6.5% 6.3% Moderately satisfied 8.8% 4.7% 6.1% 5.7% Not very satisfied 0.9% 0.4% 0.3% Not at all satisfied 1.1% 0.3% 20 minutes meeting in Brazil. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 18 I N V O LV E M E N T W I T H I N T H E C O M M U N I T Y A SHARED, CONCRETE RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING POLICY The ARMOR purchasing policy aims to establish time, to raise awareness of sustainable develop ARMOR OFFICE PRINTING ASSESSED a durable relationship with suppliers, so as to ment among suppliers, and to collect data on 73% OF THE PANEL OF ACTIVE ensure the lasting nature of supplies to the their ability to control their activities and proSUPPLIERS. group, whilst favouring, where possible, local ducts. The assessment is conducted afresh every purchasing, in order to participate in the econoyear, so as to measure progress made and supAVERAGE SCORE OBTAINED: 12/20 mic development of the areas in which the port the suppliers in their work. WITH 20% OF SUPPLIERS ALREADY ARMOR sites are located. ABOVE 15/20 THANKS TO THEIR Complementary to this, the Thermal Transfer ENVIRONMENTAL OR SOCIAL In France, the group’s two main activities have, activity buyers conduct interviews regarding for more than three years now, conducted an general criteria such as responsiveness, inforCOMMITMENT. assessment of their suppliers in line with corpomation sharing, and trust. In this way, in 2011, rate responsibility, by means of questionnaires across all the suppliers assessed: 80% comply for ARMOR Office Printing, and via online selfwith the general criteria and 53% with the sustaiassessment for the Thermal Transfer activity. nable development criteria. These approaches aim, at one and the same Good Practices DEDICATED DIALOGUE MEETINGS: SIGNATURE OF A SUPPLIER RELATIONS CHARTER TEAM MEETINGS On 14th April 2011, the ARMOR group signed The quality of the relationship relies on the the business linkages charter offered by the establishment of a dialogue, of mutual trust French government, to increase company between buyers and suppliers. This is why AICP accountability through ten commitments: has, in 2011, continued with the regular ensuring financial equity in the supplier organisation of work meetings and sharing with relationship, reducing the risk of dependency suppliers known as “Team Meetings”. between principals and suppliers, etc. They constitute a special moment to Just six of the department’s companies have communicate broadly with partners, including signed this charter, as a moral commitment on themes such as sustainable development. to good conduct towards their suppliers. In 2011, 70 suppliers from the Thermal Transfer Indicators to measure the group’s level activity have taken part in these events. of compliance with this charter are currently being drawn up. A plan of action will then be defined, in line with its findings. Signature of the charter at the regional prefecture. SECURING SUPPLIES OF RAW MATERIALS LOCAL PURCHASES In 2011, the ARMOR purchasing department in France concentrated its efforts on securing At its international establishments, ARMOR development whilst limiting the transport of sources for the supply of raw materials an has chosen to entrust the supply of raw merchandise. In this way, the subsidiaries important guarantee of continuity for its materials outside of the group to its select their own suppliers, with the support of activities. Indeed, certain markets have subsidiaries, so as to favour local purchases the French R&D departments. become very tense. For example, the increase which contribute to the local economic in the prices of oil products and the closure of several thin film production lines have contributed to reducing the availability of PET film, which is strategic for the Thermal Transfer activity. In this context, securing the 80 % markets relies on close collaboration 60 % between ARMOR and its suppliers. Data 40 % not available For its part, ARMOR Office Printing works in 2011 20 % with the world’s biggest toner manufacturers and works alongside them in R&D, developing 0% a mutually trusting partnership that helps France Europe North Africa America Asia secure purchases. This also contributes to outside France enriching its technical expertise so as to develop, tomorrow, products that are more  AVERAGE PROPORTION OF LOCAL PURCHASES BY GEOGRAPHIC ZONE respectful of the environment, whilst (exclusive of intra-group purchases) maintaining ARMOR quality. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 19 I N V O LV E M E N T W I T H I N T H E C O M M U N I T Y EXERCISING RESPONSIBLE Good Practice INFLUENCE SO AS TO GUIDE CONNECTED LABELS © rangizzz Fotolia CHOICES AND USAGES AICP now prints a QR (Quick Response) code OF PRODUCTS on the labels of its products. This 2-dimensional Because the group is committed to corporate barcode, when scanned by a smartphone, social responsibility, it is keen to see this comopens the page for the corresponding product mitment become selection criteria for custoinformation sheet, available in seven languages, mers. For this reason, the group’s marketing on the website. actions integrate further transparency, to guide customers in their purchases, in their use of the This tool allows the comparison of all the product and in the selective sorting of the proARMOR products in terms of cost, duct after use, as well as more information about performance (print quality, sensitivity and the group’s approach. strength) and environmental impact. The A smartphone scanning a QR Code. product information sheets also include details This strategy has also prevailed in ARMOR’s deciof product certifications and approvals, sion to involve itself with the public authorities so instructions on how they should be stored, and safety and disposal conditions for the various that the cartridges market becomes more transshow examples of ribbon applications, as well types of waste generated by Thermal Transfer parent through the use of environmental labelling, as the range of colours available. ribbons are available on ARMOR’s 2go2 more responsible in the face of counterfeiting and extranet, along with more detailed product more sustainable through collection and recovery. Moreover, sheets providing information about information sheets. Good Practices ARMOR SELECTED FOR EMPTY CARTRIDGE COLLECTION: ARMOR SIGNS A FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT EXPERIMENTATION WITH WITH THE FRENCH MINISTRY FOR ECOLOGY ENVIRONMENTAL LABELLING Of 230 candidate companies, ARMOR is one of the 168 selected to participate in the experimentation of environmental labelling conducted by the French government as part of the Grenelle laws targeting consumers’ rights to have access to environmental information about products. For ARMOR Office Printing, as the sole representative of the print consumables sector, this is all about: • proving the feasibility of measuring and displaying the environmental footprint of its products (from manufacture, through usage, and right to end-of-life), Reception at the Ministry for Ecology, November 2011. • creating a methodological framework which Barely 45% of used cartridges are collected The signatories will provide an annual report will be subject to validation by ADEME separately and recovered by remanufacturers on the quantities of cartridges sold, collected (French Agency for Environment and Energy such as ARMOR or producers of original and processed so as to ensure that progress Management) and by the sector’s industrials, cartridges. The rest are dealt with by local continues to be made throughout the sector. at the end of the experimentation process. authorities. This agreement underlines the importance of For one year, prior to potentially becoming In November 2011, ARMOR, along with cartridge remanufacturers such as ARMOR in standard practice, around 80 ARMOR ink all the other actors of the office printer the sustainability of this sector. cartridge references will be subjected to a cartridges sector, signed a voluntary quantitative assessment of their framework agreement with the French environmental impact. Soon, ARMOR Ministry for Ecology, in a bid to strengthen, packaging will provide consumers with two  AMONG THE CARTRIDGES COLLECTED between now and 2015: environmental indicators, to guide their BY ARMOR AND ITS PARTNER REVIALIS: choice: impact on the climate and resources • the separate collection of cartridges (+5% consumption per 100 pages printed. The per year), in particular through providing • LASER: 95% ARE REMANUFACTURED quantified data is already available on the information to users and developing a OR RECYCLED FOR RECOVERY website for a few of the flagship references. network of public collection points, OF MATERIALS, 2% ARE USED FOR ENERGY RECOVERY. • their recovery at a rate of more than 70%, with traceability required and in compliance • JET D’ENCRE: 85% ARE with environmental standards, by favouring, over landfill, and in the following order: REMANUFACTURED, 6% ARE USED re-use, recycling of materials, energy FOR ENERGY RECOVERY. recovery (electricity or heat), incineration. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 20 I N V O LV E M E N T W I T H I N T H E C O M M U N I T Y Good Practice NETWORKS OF INFLUENCE FIGHTING COUNTERFEITING ARMOR is a member of several networks and associations, through which it is also well-placed to be influential: The fact that suppliers with few scruples are marketing new, low-cost cartridges known as ‘clones’ because they fail to respect intellectual • Union des Industries Chimiques, and its Responsible Care charter, property is a serious threat to the cartridge recycling sector, in which ARMOR is a major player. In Spain, there are already no remanufacturers • le Forum des amis du Pacte Mondial, an association aimed at promoting left and in Italy, the market has shrunk by 50%. the UN Global Compact and the sharing of associated best practice, The prices on offer result in production conditions that are respectful of • Dirigeants Responsables de l’Ouest, an association of business leaders neither the employees, nor the environment, nor the quality for the end in Pays de la Loire and Brittany, federated around the idea of corporate customer. Moreover, these ‘clones’ disrupt recovery circuits because social responsibility as a support to economic performance, legally, they are counterfeits, and technically, they are difficult to re-use. • MEDEF (French Employers’ Association), the top business network in ARMOR has worked in collaboration with ETIRA (European Toner & France: it defends and promotes businesses of all sizes and from every Inkjet RemAnufacturers) which brings together 51 remanufacturers of sector of activity, laser and inkjet cartridges in Europe, to launch a plan of action aimed at raising awareness among all the actors in the print sector, inciting them • Club Carbon’At: Association of carbon assessement users in the Atlantic to become involved. region, • ETIRA (European Toner & Inkjet RemAnufacturers). ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT WHICH BENEFITS ALL STAKEHOLDERS ARMOR SA scope Industrial investments and reserves Banks: The amount includes financial fees, repayment of debts and financing received. In 2011, despite the difficult €17.6 M economic times, ARMOR’s financial partners extended a 10% of turnover is invested credit line of €35 M over 5 years to secure the financing in the company. of investments in material and equipment (particularly concerning the organic photovoltaic film development programmes). Employees: Banks : €5.7 M net received €34.2 M 62% Beyond their pay and the associated employer contributions, is returned Customers : €199 M (ARMOR Group) the 611 ARMOR SA employees to stakeholders have the advantage of social Customers : €164 M (ARMOR SA scope) benefits, an incentive plan, and a +16.7% in comparison with 2010 PEE (savings) / PERCO (pension) plan with the company making additional contributions. These benefits were subject to agreements signed with personnel Subsidiaries: representatives. Income from equity investments: €2.0 M Equity providers: 1 2 3 4 €4.2 M Customers: Each year, the group’s CSR Strategy is ARMOR SA reimbursed €4.2 M presented to its main customers as an integral part of the of the debt incurred in connection with its acquisition in 2008. Suppliers: group’s appeal and competitiveness. €64.3 M (raw materials) more than 640 suppliers in France. Subsidiaries: Because they are already using quality management and implementing actions in favour of Every year, ARMOR SA’s strateemployee safety and the environment, the subsidiaries gic suppliers attend a team gradually become involved in the group’s CSR process. This meeting to share the group’s was notably the case in 2011, through the self-assessment Company: €4.3 M strategy as well as its expectaof the sites. ARMOR’s economic health tions in terms of corporate resbenefits communities via the ponsibility. payment of taxes and duties, and through financing philanthropy actions. ARMOR also receives subsidies. Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 21 I N V O LV E M E N T W I T H I N T H E C O M M U N I T Y A PHILANTHROPY POLICY TO MATCH THE ARMOR GROUP IDENTITY AND VALUES ARMOR’s commitment to sustainable developADIE is a major player in microARMOR sponsored Nantes’ 13th ment has led it towards a philanthropy policy that credit worldwide. It supports Job Academy, which was organimatches in with its identity and values. Although people who are excluded from sed by the FACE Atlantique club, the first actions were mainly initiated on its own the labour market and the tradiwith 16 group employees provihistorical territory, in the Nantes region, the subtional banking system by helping them create ding support and guidance to 15 jobseekers. This sidiaries also participate in projects sharing a their own businesses, and thus their own jobs, idea was born of an alarming observation: in common objective: cultivating social committhrough the use of microcredit. ARMOR wanted underprivileged areas (Zones Urbaines Sensibles), ment among employees, and encouraging to go beyond the classic commitment by particiqualified and highly-motivated jobseekers are socially-responsible initiatives. pating in the creation, within ADIE Loire-Atlanunable to find work for reasons that are related to tique, of the Cercle de l’Entreprenariat Populaire their origin, address, name, or because their quaGiven that access to employment is a decisive Nantes-Atlantique (Association to propose entrelifications are out of sync with the labour market. factor in the fight against exclusion, ARMOR’s preneurship around Nantes Region through choices in France have concerned ADIE (an assopromoting microcredit), chaired by Hubert de In response, the Job Academy enables a comciation in favour of the ‘right to economic initiaBoisredon, CEO of the group. The objective of this pany and its employees to mobilize around these tive’) and FACE (a foundation to fight exclusion), ‘circle’ is to bring together those business leahighly-motivated, educated and/or qualified canboth because it shares their orientations, and ders in Loire-Atlantique who want to support didates, supporting these jobseekers in their because of the complementarity nature of the ADIE’s action in favour of micro-entrepreneurs. quest to find employment. two organisations. The initiative was launched in September 2011, and currently counts 21 SMEs and ETI (Mid-Sized The objective is a lasting contract: ideally a perBusinesses) in Loire-Atlantique. manent post, or a confirmed temporary post of more than six months. Each jobseeker receives individual and group support and guidance towards employment for a maximum period of one year. In exchange, jobseekers undertake, by signing a charter, to be active in their job-hunting. The success of this coaching towards a job lies in the renewed confidence developed by the ‘group effect’ and in the construction of a network around the jobseeker. SHARING BEST PRACTICE AND POOLING ACTIONS The La Chevrolière site seeks to share its thinking and extend some actions, such as the one aimed at conserving biodiversity, throughout the area of industrial activity in which ARMOR is The 13th Nantes Job Academy, on the banks of the Loire. established. An initial stage of making contact with companies was achieved in 2011, giving rise to the IEPAD (inter-enterprise sustainable business park) project. Ten of the twelve busiGood Practice nesses at the park are working together on three  ARMOR’S SOCIAL AND SPONSORSHIP CONCRETE ACTIONS IN MOROCCO main themes: ACTION IN MOROCCO One extremely concrete example of this • co-ordinating actions falling within the scope philanthropy policy enacted at a subsidiary is of Corporate Social Responsibility, 7% 4% involvement in the local life of the village of 4% Bir Jdid, where ARMOR’s Moroccan facility is • establishing a form of ‘representativity’ among located. In 2011, ARMOR made a financial local authorities and associations, 7% contribution to six support actions, for an amount equivalent to 109 months of • contributing to the concerted and harmonious Moroccan minimum wage. The grants are deployment of industrial activities and services diverse: some are directly paid to employees, in the La Chevrolière area. such as the schooling allowance or for the Festival of Sacrifice; others benefit the local One concrete objective of this project is to pool 78% population as a whole, via infrastructures or waste management of the various sites, firstly to social ties, and support is also offered to reduce the impact of transport on the environnational solidarity initiatives. ment, and secondly to reduce waste manageAllowance paid to personnel within the framework of social action ment costs. Contribution to the national action in favour of underprivileged children (distribution of schoolbags) Contribution to the renovation of the village primary school Contribution to the renovation of the village mosque Sponsorship of the football club Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 22 GRI (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) INDEX, COVERAGE AND CORRESPONDENCE TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT Self-declaration of the GRI Profile Disclosure application level: C Global Level GRI Profile Compact of GRI Report THEMES Disclosure Principles coverage Page(s) Remarks Profile (name, legal form, products, establishments, size) 2.1-2.8 2/3 p. 2-3 Sales volume and market share are confidential THE GROUP Significant changes, investments and taking into account of CSR (including human rights) 2.9 & HR1 1 0 Confidential Declaration by CEO, Strategy & Analysis 1.1-1.2 2/3 p. 4-7 Awards received during the reporting period 2.10 100% None Structure & members of the governance bodies, gender balance 4.1-4.4 ; LA13 6 2/3 p. 8 Top management subjected to a clause excluding Prevention of conflicts of interest 4.6 10 2/3 conflicts of interest Detailed operation of the highest governance body 4.5-4.7 ; 4.9-4.10 0 Confidential GOVERNANCE Values, policies & internal codes 4.8 1/3 p.9 Application of the precautionary principle 4.11 7 1/3 p.14 Via eco-design in R&D External commitments & subscriptions 4.12-4.13 100% p.11, 19-20 Integrated to the report: employees, shareholders, banks, Dialogue with Stakeholders 4.14 4.17 2/3 p.8 customers, suppliers, partners, competitors, local communities Direct economic value created and distributed, public subsidies received EC1, EC4 1/3 p.21 Scope: France Risks and opportunities related to climate change EC2 1/3 p.17 Spending on locally-based suppliers EC6 2/3 p. 19 ECONOMY Philanthropy EC8 1/3 p.22 Significant indirect impact EC9 1/3 p.6 Local practices: wages, pension, management recruitment EC3, EC5, EC7 0 Non-consolidated in 2011 Human rights Elimination of forced labour and child labour HR6-HR7 4&5 1/3 p.5 Diversity & Non-discrimination HR4 6 1/3 p. 9-11 Freedom of association & collective bargaining rights HR5 3 1/3 p. 10 Selection, involvement, and monitoring of suppliers in line with CSR (including human rights) HR2-3 2 2/3 p. 19 Scope: France Labour Standards Quality of employment LA1 2/3 p. 9-11 SOCIAL Employee social benefits LA3 1/3 p.13, 21 Scope: France Notice period for organisational changes LA5 1/3 p. 13 Occupational Health & Safety (joint management-worker committees, LA6-7, LA9 2/3 p. 10, 13 topics & agreements, accidents & initiatives) Employability of employees and training LA10-11 2/3 p. 12 Scope: France Individual performance reviews LA12 100% p. 12 Employee turnover, coverage by collective agreements, ratio of basic salary of men LA2, LA4, LA8, LA14 3&6 0 Non-consolidated in 2011 to women, preventive public health measures (employees and their families) Materials (raw materials / recycled materials) EN1, EN2 8 1/3 p. 6, 19 Volumes are confidential Direct energy: consumption, initiatives & results EN3, EN5-6 8 2/3 p. 16 Water: Consumption & recycling EN8, EN10 8 2/3 p. 16 Scope: Poland Biodiversity sensitive areas EN11, EN14 8 1/3 p. 17 Greenhouse Gas Emissions & efforts at reduction EN16-18 8 2/3 p. 17 Polluting emissions EN20 8 2/3 p. 16 Scope: France ENVIRONMENT Waste: weight and disposal method EN22 8 2/3 p. 16 Hazardous waste: transport EN24 8 0 Confidential Eco-design of products and services EN26 9 2/3 p. 14-15 Transport EN29 8 1/3 p. 17 EN4, EN7, EN9, EN12Indirect energy, watercourses affected and effluents, 15, EN20-21, EN25, 8 0 Non-consolidated in 2011 qualitative impact on biodiversity, environmental expenditure EN30 Consumer Health and Safety PR1 1/3 p. 18 PRODUCT Product labelling & customer satisfaction PR3-5 2/3 p. 18, 20 LIABILITY Responsible marketing & advertising programmes PR7 1/3 General principles for the prevention of greenwashing Bribery & corruption (risk & training) SO2-3 10 1/3 Aware buyers Participation in public policy SO5 100% p. 20-21 SOCIETY Contributions to political parties SO6 10 100% None Local communities: negative / positive impact SO1 0 Non-consolidated in 2011 INCIDENTS, In France, ARMOR, as a producer, has been ordered Incidents of non-compliance with the legislation or voluntary code and fines HR4, HR9, PR2, PR4, VIOLATIONS, FINES to treat its waste (empty printer cartridges). incurred (in issues relating to: human rights, consumer health and safety, EN23, PR8, PR9, SO4, 1 100% & MEASURES Reason: The approved service provider had gone out environment, marketing, privacy, corruption, competition) SO7, SO8 TAKEN of business. Period covered & scope 3.1-3.3 ; 3.5-3.7 100% p. 2 Annabelle Guillet Contact person 3.4 100% contact@armor-group.com Developments with regard to previous reports & corrections 3.8, 3.10, 3.11 1/3 No corrections made to previous reports THE PRESENT REPORT Consolidation at group level of indicators Methodological principles for indicator consolidation 3.9 1/3 measured by subsidiaries within the context of their management systems GRI Index 3.12 100% p. 23 Third-party validation 3.13 0 No third-party verification in 2011 Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2011 activity 23 Printed with vegetable-based inks by Goubault Imprimeur ISO 14001 PUB929 Cover photo : © rolf bopp Fotolia ARMOR 20 rue Chevreul CS 90508 44105 Nantes cedex 4 Tél. +33 (0) 2 40 38 40 00 Fax +33 (0) 2 40 38 40 01 armor@armor-group.com www.armor-group.com MIX Paper from responsibles sources
