Annual Report 2011 Contents Business Review Nefab's history 2 The year in summary 3 The President's comments 4 Nefab's strategy 7 Customer offering 8 Complete packaging solutions 8 Packaging secrets 10 From needs analysis to customer benefits 12 Packaging specialists with commitment and customer focus 14 Customer satisfaction 16 Market trends 18 Nefab's global market potential 18 Globally – three rapidly growing regions 20 Region Europe 22 Region Asia 25 Region America 26 Market segments 28 Telecom 28 Energy 30 Industry 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability management 36 Stakeholder dialog 38 Environment 40 Employees and community involvement 42 Annual Report Five years in summary 47 Directors' report 48 Corporate governance report 53 Group management team 60 Board of Directors 61 Financial statements 62 Group Income statement, Group 62 Statement of comprehensive income, Group 62 Statement of financial position, Group 63 Statement of cash flows, Group 65 Changes in equity, Group 66 Parent company Income statement, parent company 67 Statement of comprehensive income, parent company 67 Statement of financial position, parent company 68 Statement of cash flows, parent company 70 Changes in equity, parent company 71 Notes 72 Auditors' report 105 Definitions 106 GRI table 107 At Nefab, you as a customer come first! Your business and your products are more important than ours. We are dedicated to serve and strive to deliver customized products, solutions and services that make your business even more successful. The complete packaging solutions we develop are optimized to reduce total cost and environmental impact in your supply chain. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we are ready to serve in every corner of the world. Nefab – the global partner for complete packaging solutions. Nefab offers complete packaging solutions to international industrial groups, with a focus on telecom, energy, aerospace, vehicles and healthcare equipment industries. Nefab has about 3,000 employees in Europe, North and South America and Asia. Sales in 2011 amounted to USD 485 million. Since its creation in 1949, Nefab has evolved from a local Swedish production-oriented company to a market-oriented supplier in the global packaging market. The year in summary Region +14% Invoicing increased by 26% from Europe SEK 2,497 m to SEK 3,150 m + 26% increased sales from SEK 1,467 m to SEK 1,679 m. At the end of 2011, a decision was made to establish sales local sales Russia. companies and Russia. in Turkey companies Peinetti SAS SAS Peinetti and in Turkey in France was in France acquired was acquired in August in August The and 2011.2011 operOperating profit increased by 48% from ations of Woodybox the operations in Sweden of Woodybox in 245 SEK 165 m to SEK 245 m were Sweden acquired in September were acquired 2011. in September 2011. SEK m Nefab's priority market segments are telecom, energy, vehicles, healthcare equipment and aerospace. Nefab's history 1949 1960-1970 1980–1990 Production focus Product focus Geographical expansion In 1923, Sigurd Nordgren opened In the 1960s and 1970s, expendAt the start of the 1980s, Nefab a carpentry workshop in able and reusable packaging were began to broaden its horizons and Ovanåker in Hälsingland, Swedeveloped together with Ericsson, start looking at markets outside den. Two of his sons took over the company's largest customer. Sweden. The expansion began in and started the production of The Nefab box became more the European markets, before bakery trays made from ​​ plyor less standard in the telecom spreading further to North and wood and steel strip. In 1949, industry. South America as well as Asia. the sons' company, Nordgrens Nefab is continuously striving to Emballage FABrik (NEFAB), provide a local service for global received its biggest order for customers. 1,000 bakery trays, signaling the start of what is today a marketoriented global service company. Region Region Asia +16% America +109% increased sales from SEK 729 m to increased sales from SEK 308 m to SEK 843 m. During the year, the SEK 641 m. The acquisition of decision was made to establish Chick Packaging included from two new units in China: a facility in September 2010. Shares were Chengdu in western China, and a acquired in PDS Global, Mexico, in unit in Shenyang in northern China. August 2011. During the year, a A decision was also taken regardproduction unit was established in ing the establishment of a producDallas in the US. tion unit in Malaysia. Nefab offers packaging solutions for all types of transportation. The picture shows Gammelgården, located next to Nefab's original premises in Runemo, Hälsingland. 2000–2009 2010– Market and service focus Segment focus At the turn of the millennium, the At the start of the present decade, company adjusted the strategic the company's focus on selected direction in order to better address market segments intensified. With its customers' needs. The vision of the geographical structure as a becoming the global partner for base, complemented by a global complete packaging solutions was segment and customer-oriented established. The company sales organization, greater attenexpanded into a number of markets tion is being paid to developing and acquisitions were made to existing customer relationships and enhance the level of competence creating new business opportuniwithin complementary packaging ties in priority market segments. materials and service areas. The President's comments From products to customized complete solutions New organization During the last decade, Nefab consciously shifted from being a production-focused company to a solution-focused company offering customized complete solutions. In 2011, this process entered a new phase and we have implemented substantial changes to the organization. Five geographic regions with reporting responsibilities have been reduced to three: America, Asia and Europe. The change has been most significant in Europe, where the three former regions, Nordic, Western Europe and Central Europe, have been merged into one. The business development function with a focus on each market segment has also been developed. The strategy is deeply rooted in Nefab's historical development and the aim is to make greater use of our global presence and generate new business opportunities. Ever since the 1960s, our development has been based on close and long-term customer relationships where we, as packaging supplier, have followed our customers across the world. This means we have vast experience for business On 1 January 2012, I became President and CEO development on a global level. By selecting a segfor the Nefab Group. I am very pleased to be able ment-oriented model, we can continue to to sum up a successful 2011, during which time the strengthen the relationship with these customers, operations were led by our former President and while also creating the conditions to identify new CEO, Stefan Ekqvist, who will continue to be a long-term customer relationships for the future. member of the Nefab Group management team. The model simply makes it possible to focus more Being President of the Nefab Group is a rewardclearly on priority industry segments and in that ing task for a number of reasons. Nefab's global way provide even better solutions and services. presence and ability to offer customers complete This is to ensure that customers can count on the packaging solutions anywhere in the world puts us help of a packaging expert who specializes in cusin a unique position. This allows us to choose protomer needs. jects and relationships that are long-term and provide us with a competitive edge. The Nefab Group Market trends in 2011 also has a stable, strategic platform in which our Going into 2011, we had high expectations of the vast experience and specialization in various market and the economy. During the fourth quarindustry segments gives us room to further ter however, growth was constrained owing to strengthen our position in existing and future marthe European debt crisis, yet still we have suckets. An example of this is our expansion in the cessfully managed to achieve, and to some extent rapidly growing Asian market. By pulling together, surpass, our targets. Sales in 2011 amounted to we have effectively managed to build a dominant SEK 3,150 m, compared with SEK 2,497 m in 2010. market position in China where we now have proOperating profit amounted to SEK 245 m comduction in six different facilities. This is just one pared with SEK 165 m in 2010. example of the skills and experience that characThe positive results can be explained by a terize Nefab and that will now prove very useful as sound business, previously implemented stream1)  djusted for acquisitions A we continue to grow the company both organilining measures and our globality, which enables and expressed at comparable exchange rates. cally and through acquisitions. us to take advantage of opportunities in the 4 Nefab Annual Report 2011 The President's comments In 2011, the image of Nefab as a global packaging partner has grown even stronger. The Group has expanded into a number of emerging markets and made strategic acquisitions to broaden and strengthen our customer relations. After six years as Executive Vice President for the Asia Pacific region, I can vouch for Nefab's strong position in the international packaging market. world's emerging markets. Region Europe in fact increases the Group's presence in a strategically saw growth1) of 11 percent in 2011. The recovery important geographical location. from the previous recession and clear strategic During the year, investments have also been targets are two contributing factors behind this. made in new technology and software to make Region Asia also performed well during the year, development and deliveries more efficient. with a 23 percent increase in sales. Nefab has had a well-developed strategy for the region, helping Sustainability us to respond quickly and seize opportunities in a Sustainability work is an important part of Nefab's mature market. Region America had growth of 3 customer offering. A structured process leads to percent. Operations in North America and Canada a favorable business climate that attracts skills, have room for development. Long-term strategic provides more efficient control and strengthens work is currently under way aimed at broadening the brand. The sustainability work will help to the customer offering and winning new market open new doors for business with customers with share. In 2010, the American company Chick the same mindset. Packaging was acquired, providing a substantial This year, we are reporting our sustainability boost to Nefab's presence in North America. work according to GRI's G3 framework for the During the financial year, intensive integration very first time and we are also reaffirming our work was carried out and we look forward to taksupport for the UN's Global Compact for the ing advantage of the synergies and the expanded coming year. customer base resulting from the acquisition. Moving into 2012 Acquisitions and investments It is obviously difficult to speculate on possible Nefab's strategy is to grow both organically and developments in 2012 since the uncertain situathrough acquisitions, and in 2011 ​​two acquisitions tion within the eurozone could affect possibilities were made that will be important for Nefab's conboth negatively and positively. In light of our pretinued growth. In September, Nefab acquired PDS vious performance during periods of economic Global Packaging Services, with production in instability, I dare to say that I look to the future Guadalajara, Mexico. The company has 70 with confidence. Many thanks to our employees in employees and offers a complete portfolio of over 30 countries who have made 2011 a great packaging solutions. The acquisition came about year and an equally big thank you to Nefab's as a result of a key customer's plans to expand its departing President, Stefan Ekqvist, who has activities in the area – and this acquisition will positioned us so well for 2012. therefore strengthen our partnership with this customer. It will also strengthen Nefab's local presence and result in greater business opportunities with globally active customers who require on-site service. The geographical location is also David Mörk favorable since the production facilities are well President and CEO placed to serve the North American market. The other strategic acquisition made during the year was the French packaging company, Peinetti SAS. The company has 80 employees with production in Lyon and Grenoble. Peinetti SAS focuses on packaging for bulky and heavy industrial equipment and is firmly established among customers in the energy segment. The acquisition strengthens Nefab's relationships with a number of key customers in the Energy market segment and Nefab Annual Report 2011 5 Business Review Vision Business Nefab shall be the global Nefab satisfies customer concept partner for complete expectations by offering packaging solutions. customized complete packaging solutions that reduce total costs and environmental impact. Core Nefab's corporate culture values is based on the core values ​​of Simplicity, Respect and Empowerment. Nefab's strategy – Business Review Nefab's strategy Target group Organization Nefab targets multinational manufacturing comNefab has a matrix organization in order to best panies. The priority market segments are teleserve local markets, while simultaneously pursucom, energy and industry. ing global business development in selected market segments. The geographical structure is Customer offering based on three regions – Europe, Asia and AmerNefab provides added value by delivering world ica – combined with the three market segments: leading packaging products, services and cusTelecom, Energy, and Industry. The regions and tomer adapted packaging solutions. local companies are responsible for their own income statements and balance sheets. The marSuppliers ket segments drive the development of product The ability to offer the market's the best solutions and service offerings and are responsible for requires good relationships with a broad supplier global growth and profitability within each marbase. When selecting suppliers, Nefab will give ket segment. priority to those who, like Nefab, strive to establish partnerships. Growth Nefab is growing both organically and through Global presence acquisitions. The objective is to organically grow To offer Nefab’s global customers local service, faster than the underlying market by: Nefab has established operations in the world's • Following multinational customers in their most important industrial regions. geographical expansion • Offering a broad range of products and Environment services to existing customers Nefab shall be a leader in sustainable packaging • Entering new geographical markets and solutions for industrial use. In our quest, we conindustrial segments centrate on minimizing the environmental impact • Developing unique industry-specific customer of packaging throughout its life cycle and on offerings in terms of solutions, services and increasing opportunities for recycling. packaging expertise Employees Acquisitions shall strengthen our position as the Nefab is a knowledge-based company. The posiglobal partner for complete packaging solutions. tion as market leader shall be enhanced through The acquisition strategy focuses on packaging the continuous development of employee skills. companies that add value for customers in The development potential shall be so attractive selected market segments through a combination that existing employees choose to stay in the of high service levels and a strong local presence. organization while making it possible to recruit qualified new employees. The core values and ​​ Financial targets ethics that form Nefab's culture and values should ​​ • Growth: Nefab shall generate organic growth of determine how employees are expected to act. at least 8.5 percent annually. Further growth will This common spirit and culture will help to be generated through company acquisitions. strengthen unity and cooperation throughout the • Profitability: Nefab shall generate an annual Group, which is now established in more than 30 EBITA of at least 10 percent. countries on three continents. • Financial stability: The company's equity ratio, i.e. equity and shareholders' contributions in relation to total capital, must be at least 40 percent. • Cash flow: Nefab shall generate a strong and stable cash flow. Growth in invoicing will tie up no more than 20 percent of capital and investments over time must not exceed the company's depreciation. Nefab Annual Report 2011 7 Business Review – customer offering Complete packaging solutions Nefab's product and service concept is Complete packaging solutions. Our offer is to deliver solutions that are optimized from the perspective of product protection and total cost. Design expertise within multiple packaging materials and a global delivery and service platform makes Nefab a strong partner for companies in the target group. This is also what we strive for in our vision: to be the global partner for complete packaging solutions. Nefab's solutions are based on the customer's situation and needs. A complete packaging solution consists of inner and outer packaging that is optimized for the customer's distribution and offers protection against the stresses that their products are subjected to during transport and handling. 8 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Customer offering – Business Review A packaging should save more than it costs. Ruben Rausing, founder of TetraPak Total cost Global delivery and service platform A packaging should save more than it costs. Nefab is represented in North and South America, Those are the words of one of the packaging Europe and Asia. Each region has a well estabindustry's titans, Ruben Rausing. This is also at lished organization with its own packaging engithe core of Nefab's offering to the market. Packneers and test laboratories, which in collaboration aging costs represent a relatively small proporwith the sales organization is primed to address tion of a manufacturing company's total costs. the complex challenges of packaging technology. But the choice of packaging solutions still has an The delivery of products and services originates indirect effect on other major cost items, includfrom more than 100 production and service units ing handling and transportation. For customers in that Nefab has located around the world. In some Nefab's target group, packaging costs usually cases, deliveries are also made directly from represent 0.5–1.0 percent of the customer's prodNefab's global supplier network. uct value, while the total cost of logistics can be Nefab's concept is to design complete packagfive to six times greater than that. Companies that ing solutions that reduce total cost and environcarefully evaluate the choice of packaging solumental impact by selecting the best materials tions therefore have the opportunity to make sigavailable. The concept places high demands on nificant savings. Nefab takes the customer's initiexpertise in packaging design, material properties ative to reduce its packaging costs a step further. and logistical flows. Nefab has a global network of more than 120 packaging engineers who develop, Multi-material design design and validate customers' unique packaging The process of designing a packaging solution solutions every single day. begins after studying the customer's product, packaging process and supply chain. Apart from creating product protection that is based on the product's characteristics – such as sensitivity to shock, vibration and humidity – the packaging is also optimized for the logistic flow with respect to the cost drivers that are reported in the next section (Packaging secrets). With needs analyses and packaging designs that include all the materials required by the circumstances, Nefab can develop a complete solution with packaging products and services that have been tailored to the customer's process. The result is lower total costs and reduced environmental impact. Nefab Annual Report 2011 9 Business Review – customer offering Packaging secrets A packaging conceals many hidden costs and opportunities. Packaging design influences not only product protection and the actual cost of the packaging, it also has a substantial effect on a company's other major cost items. Nefab's concept is to identify the major cost driving factors and then develop a complete packaging solution that minimizes the customer's total costs. This section explains how the right packaging solution can improve six different cost items for a company. Handling Warehousing Nefab creates a package that is quicker to fill and Nefab creates packaging with minimal void volprovides better ergonomic working conditions. ume and optimal fill factor, saving on storage The customer saves time and money on faster space and increasing the customer's cost effiprocessing and shortened delivery times with the ciency with regards to inventory management for potential to minimize work-related injuries. both packaging and finished products. Damages Administration Nefab takes into account the stresses that the Nefab also undertakes to reduce administrative package is subjected to throughout its life cycle. costs through Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) The package is designed to provide maximum services, web-order systems, recycling systems product protection at the lowest possible mateand pool services. The customer can turn fixed rial cost. The customer saves money on materials costs into variable costs and reduce the capital and through reduced costs attributable to prodtied up. uct damages and claims. Packaging and the environment Transport Nefab's packaging solutions are developed for Nefab optimizes packaging size and weight with optimized use of materials, waste management respect to the customer's supply chain. That way, and recycling. The customer can thereby save on customers can get more packages into each shipmaterial costs and environmental charges ment, including containers and truck trailers, and throughout the life cycle of the packaging. save money by transporting less air – while also reducing CO2 emissions. 10 Nefab Annual Report 2011 customer offering – Business Review Total Cost Index % 100 90 80 70 60 TRANSPORT 50 ADMINISTRATION 40 WAREHOUSING 30 DAMAGES 20 HANDLING 10 PACKAGING 0 Current solution Nefab's solution Nefab Annual Report 2011 11 Business Review – customer offering From needs analysis to customer benefits Nefab's business concept is to offer complete packaging solutions that reduce total costs and environmental impact. To safeguard the offering to its customers, Nefab works according to a four-step process where the customer's flows are analyzed and solutions are developed according to specific customer requirements. Once the solution has been implemented, a follow-up is completed together with the customer to ensure that the desired function and performance have been achieved. 12 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Need analysis Design and Testing Work begins with the identification A new, complete packaging solution is and gathering of facts. What requireformed around the needs analysis. ments must the packaging fulfill and Samples are produced as required and how do the logistical flows work? validation is performed through Based on this, a status report is physical tests, trial packaging created from the six cost drivers: and/or simulations. handling, damage, transportation, warehousing, administration, and packaging/environment. ❶ ❷ Supplier Transport Customer Distribution End customer IMPLEMENTATION AND FOLLOW UP ❹ ❸ CHOICE OF PACKAGING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Packaging solutions are delivered and A complete packaging solution usually implemented in the customer flow. consists of several packaging Once the new solution is in use, Nefab products. During this step, decisions can offer post calculation to confirm are also made about service committhe total cost and environmental ments that can help to reduce the impact. For global and complex deals, customer's packaging costs, such as Nefab offers support and coordination warehousing or pool systems. during the implementation phase. Nefab Annual Report 2011 13 Business Review – customer offering Packaging specialists with commitment and customer focus ❶ Need analysis ❷ Design and Testing Packaging reviews form part of the process Packaging engineers are tasked with designing a when adding new customers, or are done at the new packaging solution that is based on the request of existing customers. With the client's needs analysis. Nefab has more than 120 packagpermission, we enter their production facility and, ing engineers spread across the three regions. over a period of one to three days, we map the The amount and type of information is critical customer's products, production and packaging when a packaging solution is to be developed. flows. We gather facts about the handling, any The needs analysis is often comprehensive, and in problems with damages and claims, conditions those cases where we work directly with the cusduring transport – such as humidity and forms of tomer's product developers, we can test ideas transportation, environmental aspects, warehouseffectively. Factors we must also consider are the ing plus administrative details regarding volumes size of packaging series and where the packaging and logistical solutions. will be produced and used. If the packaging is After this information has been collected, it is designed in Europe but produced in another part analyzed in the form of a Cost Take Out Report of the world, we consider during the design phase (CTO), which shows how much money the cuswhich materials are available at the location in tomer can save with a new packaging solution, question. Another important factor is whether to without any impact on quality and functionality. manufacture all or part of the solution in our own In existing client relationships where we already facilities or whether this shall be procured exterhave a good understanding of the customer's nally. To help us, we have an internet-based packaging flow and where the assignment may design library that includes all packaging solurelate to a single packaging line, we use the same tions designed by Nefab. This adds value for the method but work from a level that is reasonable customer and makes our own process efficient by given the information we already have. A CTO is not having to constantly reinvent the wheel. also produced in this case. Patrick Bergeret, Ildiko Farkas, Senior Packaging Manager PDC Designer, Nefab (Packaging France Development Center) Europe 14 Nefab Annual Report 2011 customer offering – Business Review ❸ Choice of packaging products and services ❹ Implementation and follow up Design proposals are often customized, but they The aim of our packaging review is to tailor a can also be based on standard solutions. There new, more efficient solution that is as ideally are also some basic 'truths' that affect the choice suited to the customer's existing product flows as of solutions and materials. In the case of one-way possible. The implementation of the new packagtransport of not-too-heavy products, in relatively ing into production is done using prototypes and dry conditions, corrugated cardboard can be the the customer's employees are trained in the hannatural material for the outer packaging. If the dling of the new products. When needed, packcustomer wants reusable packaging, the options aging instructions are also used to ensure the can be plywood or plastic. If transportation quality of the packaging process. involves substantial temperature changes, or if Cost efficiency is at the heart of Nefab's offering the packaging needs to be washed between uses, – the complete packaging solution – and therefore then the latter makes for a wise choice. The reathis is always followed up in dialog with the cussoning is similar for inner packaging. If the prodtomer. Is the solution as functional as expected? uct requires shock or vibration protection, foam Has it resulted in savings in the areas promised in may be a solution. In cases where it is important the CTO report? Having open and honest commuto have a protective atmosphere, for example to nication with the customer is obvious. Our goal is prevent corrosion, products can be packaged in to have a partnership based on trust, where clidifferent types of bags containing either a desicents feel that we are constantly working to cant or VCI protection (Vapor Corrosion Inhibidevelop their solutions and profitability. tor). Also very common is inner packaging from ESD materials, which protects electronic equipment against electro-static discharge. The complete packaging solution also includes logistic services that help to reduce the total cost. It is also becoming increasingly common that the customer lets Nefab take responsibility for the actual packaging – this applies particularly to sensitive electronic and medical products where you want to have control over the entire process. Wei Lijun, Tom Kusek, Business Area Regional Sales Director AeroManager, Nefab space & RenewaUSA ble Energy, Nefab China Nefab Annual Report 2011 15 Business Review – customer satisfaction Environment and employees are important success factors Nefab's customers are growing increasingly aware. This year's customer survey shows a continued upward trend in Nefab's customer relationships. Nefab employees distinguish themselves particularly well, scoring highly in all regions. Every year, Nefab conducts a customer survey Heightened environmental awareness Customer satisfaction index by region 2011 aimed at measuring customer satisfaction and This year's survey shows that customers continue obtaining customer feedback regarding Nefab's to take a strong interest in sustainable packaging Group offering, Nefab's level of service and customer solutions. This confirms the importance of Nefab 83% demand for packaging solutions. The customer continuing to develop innovative, environmentally survey is an important part of Nefab quality work, efficient solutions. The survey also revealed that which aims to improve the market offering and customers want to know more about how they AmeriCA increase customer satisfaction. can use environmentally friendly packaging solu88% tions in their operations. Showing confidence The 2011 customer survey was the eighth in sucMoving towards the vision AsiA cession and was conducted by ZonderaCom. The For the first time, we have tried to evaluate cus82% survey was sent to Nefab's customers throughout tomers' perceptions of Nefab in terms of our the world. Nearly 500 customers responded to vision to be the global partner for complete the survey, which is a response rate of 28 percent. packaging solutions. Customers were asked to In the survey, customers were able to specify assess how Nefab acts based on the following EuropE whether they wished to respond anonymously or statements: 83% not. 76 percent chose to share their information with Nefab, which provides a positive indication about the company's customer relationships. The • Nefab acts locally as opposed to globally • Nefab offers products as opposed to complete customer surveys have shown a positive trend in solutions recent years and this was also maintained in 2011. • Nefab is a supplier as opposed to a partner The survey's customer satisfaction index amounted to 83, which was in line with last year The responses show that customers increasingly and points to a continued high level of confidence regard Nefab as a global solution-oriented partamong customers. ner, rather than a local product-oriented supplier. Employees mean the most The most distinctive features of the survey are the results from questions pertaining to employees. In all regions, these questions produced better results compared with the other two focus areas. The conclusion is that one of the most important factors for customer satisfaction is cooperation and communication with Nefab's employees. 16 Nefab Annual Report 2011 customer satisfaction – Business Review How do customers perceive Nefab with regards to Vision (scale 1–5)? 1 3.53 5 Locally Globally 1 3.53 5 Product Complete solutions 1 3.44 5 Supplier Partner  interest in environmentally friendly Result for Nefab's employees reusable packaging systems 100 80 60 40 20 0 eric a Asi a ope Am Eur Result for Nefab's employees, 2011 Result for Nefab's employees, 2010 A quarter of Nefab customers are requesting support T  he graph shows the percentage of respondents who with the implementation of environmentally friendly answered positively regarding their existing cooperation reusable packaging. with Nefab's employees. Nefab Annual Report 2011 17 Business Review – Market development Nefab's global market potential Nefab's global market offering is unique. Few companies can similarly provide complete packaging solutions on a global level. New opportunities are being created for the Group's growth by focusing on selected market segments in which globalization is a major driver. Of the global packaging market, 40 percent repmobile computing and an increasing demand for resents industrial and transport packaging and network and storage capacity. Nefab is the leader 60 percent represents consumer packaging. in packaging solutions for the market segment. Nefab focuses on the former, which in 2009 corWithin the Energy market segment, growth is responded to USD 250 billion*. Of the total conbeing driven by the continuing increase in global sumption of industrial and transport packaging, energy demand, as well as the considerable 93 percent takes place in markets where Nefab is investments in infrastructure being made in ​​ present. The global market for packaging is relaemerging markets. In this area, Nefab is also a tively evenly spread over three regions: Europe leader in packaging solutions. Within the Industry accounts for 35 percent of world consumption, market segment, Nefab has identified the growth while the Americas and Asia account for 29 perareas of aerospace, vehicles and healthcare cent each. The global transport market is equipment which are being driven by increased expected to grow at a slightly higher rate than travel, the modernization of aircraft fleets, overall global growth. The market achieved its increasing demand for heavy vehicles and a highest level to date in 2008, 9.3 percent of GDP, growing population. and is expected to have recovered by 2013**. BRIC countries are the markets where growth is Competitive situation expected to be highest. Nefab already has a Nefab delivers complete packaging solutions that strong position in China, India and Brazil. In 2011, include products and services on a global scale. efforts to penetrate the Russian market were The concept is designed to help customers intensified. Mexico is another interesting emergreduce costs by focusing on complete solutions ing market where the acquisition of PDS Global rather than the purchase price and of individual Packaging ensures Nefab's global offering to cusproducts. Design and development expertise, tomers in the telecom market segment. combined with a unique global platform make Nefab one of the strongest suppliers in the marMarket trends ket. No matter where in the world the customer is Globalization is a general market trend – products located, Nefab can offer functional solutions that and packages can be developed and produced are the most cost-effective. anywhere in the world. Large companies are Presently, there are only a few individual comorganized by product areas and they also tend to petitors that can offer the same types of solutions consolidate the supplier base based on their on a global scale. The market is fragmented and global standardization requirements. The demand competition consists mainly of companies that for sustainable, environmentally efficient solucan either offer just one type of packaging globtions is increasing rapidly as are the demands for ally, or complete solutions locally. An example advanced development techniques and virtual of the former could be globally active suppliers design. of corrugated packaging products. These may be a competitor in certain markets and partners Focus on growth areas in others. Nefab has chosen to focus operations on three Based on Nefab's unique position and offering, strategic market segments: Telecom, Energy and the company has a number of market advantages Industry. Within the Telecom market segment, that will help future growth. development is being driven by an increase in 18 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Global packaging market USD 630 billion* Industrial packaging USD 250 billion* Nefab's primary target group USD 4 billion * Source: The Future of Global Packaging (Pira International 2009) ** Source: Global Sea freight through the economic downturn (Datamonitor 2009) Business Review – market development Globally – three rapidly growing regions Nefab's global operations are conducted within three regions: America, Asia and Europe. All regions are in an expansive phase where interesting growth markets are offering new business opportunities. The regions have developed positively in 2011, but the focus has varied. Region America has concentrated its business on the consolidation and continued development of previous acquisitions. Region Asia grew strongly with a number of new international customers and strengthened its position, notably in China. Region Europe has undertaken a strategically important restructuring, strengthening its position ahead of continued expansion. 20 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Market development – Business Review GROUP Europe 2011 2010 Number of production Sales 1,679,369 1,467,300 units: 35 Growth1 11% Number of employees: Operating profit (EBITA) 176 127 2,934 Test laboratories: 4 Asia 2011 2010 Service units: 72 Sales 842,722 728,837 Packaging Growth1 23% engineers: 120 Operating profit (EBITA) 67 52 America 2011 2010 Sales 641,320 307,506 Growth1 3% Operating profit (EBITA) 10 2 1) Following adjustment for acquisitions and expressed at comparable exchange rates. Nefab Annual Report 2011 21 Business Review – market development Region Europe The region's total sales increased from SEK 1,467 m to SEK 1,679 m. The region's operating profit before amortization of goodwill increased from SEK 113.5 m to SEK 160.7 m. Geographical customer demand for Packaging Reviews. Much expansion continBo Angelstrand, of the increased sales are attributable to the Executive Vice ued during the acquisition of the packaging company Peinetti in President Europe year. Planning has France in 2011. begun for two new During the year, a new Europe organization was subsidiaries in launched. As a result of this, the local companies Russia and Turkey, in Benelux, Sweden, Germany and Austria all have and these will be new management. In France the wooden packagestablished during Events in 2011 ing manufacturer Peinetti was acquired, providing 2012. 2011 began weakly before turning into positive a strategically important portal to new customers growth in most European countries during the in the Energy market segment. The production second and third quarters. The period was also capacity in northern Europe was restructured, characterized by a dramatic increase in commodwhich included 5,000 m2 expansion of the facility ity prices, although it was possible to return this in Estonia. This will now be able to serve the to the market. This year's fourth quarter was whole of Europe. The geographical expansion marked by uncertainty regarding the European continued during the year, including the estabdebt crisis. In total, growth for the entire region lishment of a separate sales organization in increased by 11 percent following adjustment for Morocco. Planning has begun for two new subsidacquisitions and expressed at comparable iaries in Russia and Turkey and these will be exchange rates. established during 2012. The Telecom market segment performed very well during the first three quarters but was Future outlooks affected during the fourth quarter by instability in Lower demand is expected in 2012 as a result of the supply chain, resulting in lower production the slowdown in the European economy. Despite volumes. Total growth for the market segment this, Nefab has a strong product and project portfinished at 21 percent. The other market areas, folio, providing opportunities for increased marhowever, noted continued strong demand at the ket share in the European market. Focus areas are end of the year. The Industry market segment fincompanies within Energy, Vehicles, Aerospace ished up at 8 percent. The Energy market segand Healthcare Equipment. We expect an ment increased sales by 26 percent and it is also increase in service sales, of which packaging serworth noting that there has been an increase in vices is an important part. 22 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Facts Number of production units: 14 Number of employees: 988 Test laboratories: 2 Service units: 50 Packaging engineers: 45 Manufacturing and sales Converting and sales Sales offices Nefab's markets Nefab Annual Report 2011 23 Facts Number of production units: 9 Number of employees: 1,366 Test laboratories: 2 Service units: 20 Packaging engineers: 60 Manufacturing and sales Sales offices Nefab's markets 24 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Market development – Business Review Region Asia The region's sales increased from SEK 729 m to SEK 843 m. The region's operating profit before amortization of goodwill increased from SEK 39.3 m to SEK 55.6 m. In 2011, Nefab service for key customers and during the year, established techStefan Ekqvist, Nefab also introduced packaging capacity for Executive Vice nology for the heavy products in the Chinese market. A number President Asia manufacture of of global agreements were also signed with cuspackaging for tomers operating in the region, including compreheavy products in hensive consulting services. 2011 was also the year the Chinese marwhen the region organized its first global Pakadket. Further emy, a training course with participants from investments, such Events in 2011 Australia, Belgium, France, India, China, Korea, as the establish2011 was a successful year for the region, with Sweden and Germany. The training program, ment of producgrowth in all geographical areas. The sales which is organized by Nefab, includes theory and tion units in Malayincrease was greatest in India with 53 percent, folpractice regarding packaging materials, sales sia, Pune in India lowed by China, which recorded growth of 20 processes and testing methods. plus Chengdu and percent. Southeast Asia has also performed well Shenyang in during the year with a sales increase of 11 percent. Future outlooks China, will ensure Overall, sales for the region increased by 23 perFour new production units will be added in the continued growth cent following adjustment for acquisitions and region over the next few years: Chengdu and in the region. expressed at comparable exchange rates. Sales to Shenyang in China, Pune in India and in Malaysia. the priority market segments have also perThe integration of market segments and global formed well compared to last year. Telecom processes will continue in the region and China recorded growth of 27 percent while Industry will also be connected to the global design netgrew at 16 percent. The Energy market segment work. Knowledge and expertise within design, grew by 43 percent and the future continues to sales and operation will be transferred from look positive with increased demand for sophistiEurope, with the focus on areas such as the packcated customized packaging solutions. aging of heavy products. During the year, a new market-oriented structure was successfully implemented in China. A new production line for the manufacture of Nefab's lightweight pallet will increase the level of Nefab Annual Report 2011 25 Business Review – market development Region America The region's sales increased from SEK 308 m to SEK 641 m. The region's operating profit before amortization of goodwill increased from SEK 2 m to SEK 10 m. In 2011, PDS Nefab's production unit in Kentucky was closed Global in Mexico Brian Bulatao, during the year. The facility manufactured packagExecutive was acquired, ing for moving heavy machinery and oil rigs and Vice President giving us a strong Americas was therefore not regarded as core business. Durlocal presence in ing the year, a strategic initiative has been underthe area while taken with structural investments in machinery, also solidifying software and human capital. The US's first ExPakour position as a production was installed at the factory in Dallas global partner for Events in 2011 where the region's headquarters are located. New complete packIn 2011, growth for the region amounted to 3 perequipment with technologies that enable aging solutions. cent following adjustment for acquisitions and increased service levels through efficient producexpressed at comparable exchange rates. The tion of small batches and samples have been region's sales performance has been strongest in installed at a number of production units. New Brazil, which grew by 38 percent. Mexico has also software also makes it possible to simulate matehad positive growth as well as doubling sales rial stresses that speed up the development through acquired and organic growth. The US process and enhance market competitiveness. and Canada had modest growth in 2011. The region's capacity in terms of engineering Market segments in the region have performed and design has been reinforced during the year positively during the year. The Telecom market and also includes technical sales support staff segment has had growth of 8 percent, with much who support the sales teams in their work. of the increase from increased sales in both Brazil and Mexico. The Energy and Industry market segFuture outlooks ments grew by 8 percent and 1 percent respecIn 2012, the focus is expected to remain on tively in 2011. In San Jose, a new telecommunicagrowth and development in terms of new product tions center has opened where a showroom will launches, geographical expansion and a focus on be built to display Nefab's expertise within customer service. For example, in the coming design, production and packaging tests. years a new center aimed at Telecom will be The year was characterized largely by acquisiestablished in San Jose, California. Investments in tions and mergers. In 2010, the American packagnew technology will be made in Canada and a ing company Chick Packaging was acquired, and new production line for lighter packaging will be the past year has involved a great deal of work installed in Mexico. According to plans, geographsuch as coordinating the sales force, financial ical expansion will also continue in Mexico. integration, branding and enhanced product offerings. In 2011, Nefab acquired the packaging company PDS Global in Guadalajara, Mexico. The acquisition has resulted in a broader range and increased on-site service to customers in the area, which is also reflected in sales. 26 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Facts Number of production units: 12 Number of employees: 580 Service units: 2 Packaging engineers: 15 Manufacturing and sales Nefab's markets Nefab Annual Report 2011 27 Business Review – Telecom market segment New areas opening up for further growth Revenue compared Restructuring was carried out in 2011 in order to increase market share within with 20101 new, strategically important areas. Sales within the segment increased from SEK 699 m to SEK 856 m. +22% Nefab was among the first suppliers to the teleMarket 2011 tELECOM com industry and customer relations within the The Telecom Business Segment had sales of Market Segment have developed strongly over SEK 856 m in 2011 compared with SEK 699 m in the years. Nefab has a unique insight into the 2010. For 2011, customers reported a strong industry’s needs, and is able to quickly meet and upshift but production lost momentum during take advantage of structural changes in the the year, mainly due to a global shortage of elecindustry. In light of technological developments, tronics components. The market has also disMore than 50 Nefab has redefined the area during 2011 and is played an increased focus on high-speed prodyears’ experience of now focusing on mobile infrastructure in its ucts, which has resulted in greater competition packaging entirety. The existing operations, directed toward and further pressure on margins in terms of packwithin the telecoms providers of mobile networks, have been suppleaging. Business in Asia, and particularly in China, industry mented with a new group of customers as providhas grown very strongly. ers of servers, routers and fiber. Mobile technolLocal and ogy has become increasingly dependent on data Future outlooks global service transfer, which has opened the doors to a comThe dramatic rise of smartphones and tablets platform pletely new market. Potential customers include that connect to the Internet has greatly increased major international hardware suppliers. the need for computing power in mobile netNefab delivers packaging solutions to Original works. This means that capacity must be Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) as well as to expanded, with more antennas and better IT contract suppliers and subcontractors. As teleinfrastructure. It is expected that the level of Complete com products use increasingly advanced technolinvestment will continue to increase in the coming solutions for ogy they become more sensitive, increasing the five years. In combination with a new focus on mobile infrastructure need for complete, customized packaging solusuppliers of computers and IT technology, this is tions in large volumes. These can include inner expected to mean a sharp increase in sales in the and outer packaging, plus protection against segment through 2014. The acquisition of the 1) Adjusted for acquisivibration, corrosion and electrostatic discharge. Mexican packaging company, PDS Global Packtions and expressed at comparable exchange Few competitors are able to offer the same aging Services, also opens up new possibilities to rates qualified solutions at a global level. introduce Nefab’s concept, complete packaging solutions, on a wider scale in the US and Mexico. Trends In the future, expansion of the communications OEMs demand more services in direct connection network in the USA is expected to make telecom with their development centers, favoring Nefab the number one growth market. which has the skills and capacity to provide design resources. OEMs also tend to outsource major parts of production to contract manufacturers who want to avoid tying up capital. This means an increased market for Nefab’s supplier managed inventory and leasing services. 28 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Telecom market segment – Business Review 37% LOWER COST % of sales Packaging review led to streamlined logistics Telecom, 27% Other, 73% Nefab has undertaken a highly successful packaging review on behalf of a major subcontractor with a presence in Europe, Asia and the US. Initially, electronic panels were packed in traditional corrugated packaging that were placed on wooden pallets, stretch filmed and transported by air from Shanghai to Europe. “The packages were not optimally filled and the pallets could not be stacked. This resulted in heavy and therefore expensive shipping weights, and was bad for the Telecom sales broken down by region environment. It also took a long time to unwrap the panels when they arrived. Europe, 47% Nefab’s project group analyzed the flow Asia, 40% and developed a lidded container that America, 13% allowed 90 units per pallet, instead of 60 previously. The pallets could now be stacked three high, while also eliminating the need for stretch film and lengthy unwrapping. A new lightweight pallet also helped to lower the shipping weight considerably. The final outcome was an annual cost saving of 37 percent!” Anders Mörk, Executive Vice President Market Segment Telecom Nefab Annual Report 2011 29 Business Review – Energy market segment Strategy for global growth with major customers Sales compared The ever-increasing worldwide demand for energy makes this area a future with 20101 market, and in 2011, strategic work began to launch Nefab’s offering globally. Sales within the Market Segment increased from SEK 157 m to SEK 265 m. +22% In the energy industry, product protection and Market 2011 eNERGY delivery performance are crucial. Valuable, sensiGrowth in the energy industry continues to be tive and often bulky technology must be transhampered by the volatile global economy. Many ported to sometimes remote places. Interruptions manufacturers are therefore looking for cost savand delays are not an option. ings, opening the door to Nefab’s expertise in Nefab’s customers are active within three areas, packaging reviews and streamlining. The new power production (using generators and equipsegment has developed satisfactorily during 2011 Complete ment for power plants), power transmission and sales for the full year were SEK 265 m. solutions for (components in all weight classes) and renewable the Energy energy sources that include equipment for wind Future outlooks industry power. Packaging solutions therefore include eveNefab’s focus on the energy segment is thought rything from single packages for large and heavy to have great potential, and the objective is to products to mass produced solutions. Often, it is grow Nefab’s global market share substantially. FEM analysis about complete solutions with inner and outer Work has begun to consolidate and develop and test labs packaging for highly sensitive goods. Nefab is existing customer relationships and to equip the to guarantee one of the few packaging suppliers that can offer organization for future growth. In Europe and packaging such versatility across the world. America, the market is expected to remain almost solutions Customers include a number of world-leaders level during the next year. The demand for energy and Nefab has built a global team in order to should increase slightly, but it may also accelerate develop business with these companies. Nefab strongly if the global economy picks up. Asia is Customized can thereby cooperate with customers at local the region where energy production is increasing solutions for and strategic levels – right alongside the customthe most, with high demand for products within individual er’s headquarters and development centers. power generation and power supply. Asia is also packaging as expected to increase exports of energy-related well as large Trends products. The result may be that manufacturers series Globalization is a clear trend even in the energy are squeezed by high volumes and demands for industry, where the major providers are choosing price reductions. to locate their production near to customers. This 1) Adjusted for acquisitions and expressed at is particularly true for the BRIC countries (Brazil, comparable exchange rates Russia, India, China) where the need is substantial. Evaluations and changes to packaging systems are seen as effective and quick ways to make savings and there is growing interest in reviewing total costs and designs. Customer involvement in environmental issues has also increased significantly. 30 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Energy market segment – Business Review Race against the clock % of sales Large format called for smart solutions Energy, 8% Other, 92% A major power outage in Spain, caused by a broken power generator, put enormous pressure on one of Nefab’s power generation customers. 13 new generator cores had to be quickly shipped from the US to Spain so that the generator could be rebuilt on-site. Each part weighed 5.4 tons and measured 3.3 meters in diameter. The parts also had to fit in the hold of an aircraft and be loaded horizontally. “We had 60 days, which was very short for such a large project. We formed a project Energy sales broken down by region team consisting of employees from Nefab and from the customer. To distribute the weight and provide good support for the Europe, 30% modules, we built a platform out of plyAsia, 30% America, 40% wood and timber for the actual packaging process. Since the generator cores could only be loaded horizontally, we constructed two lifting cradles, one for the outbound shipping, and one in Spain. The project was completed and the parts in place after only 47 days.” Rui Garrido Executive Vice President Market Segment Energy Nefab Annual Report 2011 31 Business Review – Industry market segment Broad customer base under continous development Sales compared Operations in 2011 were positively affected by the global recovery and sales with 20101 increased from SEK 1,641 m to SEK 2,029 m. A strategic initiative was also introduced during the year, focusing on three growth industries: aerospace, vehicles +7% and healthcare equipment. Nefab has a long tradition of providing packaging of activity: supply and maintenance. Supply Industry to exporting manufacturers and is today one of includes the inflow of components to aircraft the world’s leading suppliers in the field. The manufacturers – from the fuselage and wings to Industry Market Segment is Nefab’s broadest instrument panels, seats and other components. Market Segment and includes packaging soluThe packaging solutions vary from large expendtions for products in all sizes and weight classes able packaging to packaging for small and for a number of customers. These customers medium components in small series, with a focus Leading include the market’s leading manufacturers of on the protection of valuable and complex prodpackaging supplier for steel products, engineering, technical instruments ucts. Nefab’s customers include major aircraft the manufacand appliances. Packaging solutions mainly manufacturers and a number of customers in the turing include export packaging and reusable packaging fragmented supplier market. Maintenance industry that is designed based on the customer’s supply includes the airlines’ maintenance of their fleets chain. The competition is primarily made up of and, frequently, other airlines’ fleets. Nefab’s serPackaging international manufacturers of corrugated packvices include entire packaging systems with engineers on aging as well as local packaging suppliers that inventory management and the delivery of spethree specialize in individual materials. Nefab, however, cially designed packaging for spare parts to continents has the strength to offer customized packaging hangars throughout the world. In an industry solutions from a wide range of materials, ensuring where safety and punctuality are critical to the the optimization of packaging in relation to the customer’s business, Nefab competes with speed total cost. In addition, Nefab can offer a global and high delivery accuracy. Nefab currently has Dedicated team for the service to those stakeholders operating in several airline customers in Europe, Asia and North automotive, markets. During the year, focus was put on three America. aerospace and market segments with growth potential. healthcare Healthcare Equipment equipment Aerospace As the global population increases, so does the industries Forecasts indicate that the number of aircraft in share of older people. The production of healththe world will double in the next 20 years. The care equipment is therefore a future market. 1) Adjusted for acquisitrend is being driven by increased passenger and Nefab’s customers are active in two areas: meditions and expressed at comparable exchange freight transport, as well as other developments cal diagnostics and treatment equipment. MRI rates in the industry. Expensive jet fuel is stimulating and CT scanners and X-ray equipment belong to demand for fuel-efficient engines and passengers the former group, while the latter includes are demanding ever greater comfort, leading to machines for dialysis and cardiopulmonary resusthe premature replacement of aircraft. In future, citation. The field exclusively contains high-value the classic aircraft manufacturers will face comproducts and sensitive electronics, placing high petition from new players in countries such as demands on product protection. Formats are China, India, Brazil and Russia. generally large and since the products are often Nefab is targeting both commercial and military assembled and put into operation while still in aircraft. The market is divided into the two fields their protective transport containers, the packag32 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Industry market segment – Business Review ing must be made to fit into elevators and through doorways until it reaches the treatment room. The market is also governed largely by the % of sales rules of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, which also takes the packaging into account with Industry, 64% regards to quality assurance. Packaging suppliers Other, 36% must therefore be involved in the product development process and for this reason, the market demands sustainable processing. However once trust has been established, there are frequently opportunities for developing long-term customer relationships. Nefab’s customers include three of the largest suppliers in this market. Vehicles The vehicle industry is a powerful engine in the world market for packaging products. It is estimated that the vehicle industry accounts for about 40 percent of all industrial and transport Industry sales broken down by region packaging. Nefab’s cooperation with the vehicle industry goes back more than 60 years. Today’s vehicle industry is global, with Europe, 59% advanced development, manufacturing and Asia, 20% transport flows. Nefab’s customers are to be America, 21% found in all branches – from the large European and Asian car and truck manufacturers to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and suppliers. Packaging solutions cover various flows: between suppliers and OEMs as well as vehicle manufacturers’ internal handling of components. “Knock Down Units” are becoming increasingly common and mean that all vehicles are transported in parts for assembly at a factory in a different part of the world. The after-market is also an important part of the packaging potential within the Market Segment. The complexity of the automotive industry demands a large number of materials and the Nefab Annual Report 2011 33 Business Review – Industry market segment ability to design customized solutions. Packaging generally has to cope with stresses over long distances, and includes everything from expendable Always in the air packaging to returnable packaging. Nefab stands Full control of the out from the competition as a global, materially packaging flow diverse packaging company that offers efficient complete packaging solutions. The competition Nefab has completed a packaging logistics consists of international packaging companies efficiency project for a major European airwith limited material choices, or suppliers that are line, which includes a packaging review tied to certain places. and a new supply arrangement. Nefab is responsible for the computer systems plus Trends the storage and delivery of spare-parts Increased globalization is evident in industries packaging to the airline’s maintenance where international companies are engaged in hangars. worldwide production. The sub-segments within the market segment Industry within the Business “The system means that the airline has been Segment reflect a structural redistribution, with able to improve the quality and reliability of increased production and growth in the so-called supply in their spare-parts chain. The sysBRIC countries: Brazil, Russia, India and China. tem also means reduced packaging costs. By going from 20 or so suppliers to one has Market 2011 substantially reduced the overabundance of The Market Segment Industry has grown strongly packaging.“ in 2011. Invoicing amounted to SEK 2,029 m (1,641), Olivier de Guitaut, which is an increase of 7 percent. Executive Vice President Market Segment Industry Future outlooks In light of the uncertain international financial market, it is difficult to predict the development for 2012. Continued investments in the aerospace and healthcare equipment segments will be applied. The aim is to triple sales within aerospace and to double sales within the healthcare equipment industry. Trends within the Market Segment are following Nefab’s overall vision to focus on complete packaging solutions that includes value added services. 34 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability report Nefab wants to secure a place in a sustainable future society. To do that, we are actively Sustainability management 36 working in our operations to achieve sustainaStakeholder dialogue 38 ble development and manage our stakeholdEnvironment 40 ers' requirements and expectations. This is the Employees and community involvement 42 first sustainability report that Nefab has prepared in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative G3 Guidelines), level C, which is reported once a year in conjunction with the annual report. (GRI profile can be found on pages 107–108) Nefab's sustainability report covers the key aspects of the company's social and environmental impact and the content is based on Nefab's ongoing stakeholder dialogue and the strategic importance of each area for the company. The report includes all Group companies in terms of all key ratios. With regards to environmental impact indicators, particular focus has been placed on the production units and for some smaller sales companies, simplified templates were used as a basis for the measurements. Products sold by Nefab but not manufactured by us are not included in our measurements, nor are activities that are outside Nefab's control area, such as the activities of sub-contractors. Nefab Annual Report 2011 35 Sustainability report – Sustainability management A part of Nefab's customer offering As a global supplier with operations in more than 30 countries, Nefab has an inspiring opportunity to work with sustainability issues from an overall perspective. Sustainability work is broad, including support for human rights and environmental issues as well as fighting corruption. Naturally, the Group also has an obligation to meet these requirements in its own operations and to continuously develop procedures, processes and reporting within this area. Sustainability strategy Environmental policy Core values Code of conduct Nefab prepares its sustainability reporting in accordance with GRI's (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0, with Nefab reporting at Level C Self-Declared. 36 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Sustainability management – Sustainability report Sustainability work is an important and integrated Nefab's combined approach regarding sustainpart of Nefab's customer offering. A structured ability, along with the overall objectives, strateprocess leads to a favorable business climate that gies and organization, was decided by the Board attracts skills, provides more efficient control and of Directors in December 2011. strengthens the brand. Sustainability work also play a key role in Nefab's competitiveness, paving Organization the way for doing business with new customers Nefab has selected a network organization for its who share the same values. The sustainability sustainability work with Nefab's Green Team at work is governed by Nefab's vision, core values ​​ the heart of this network. The Green Team manand code of conduct as well as the policies estabages and coordinates the sustainability work, for lished in relation to laws and regulations. In 2011, example by initiating new concepts and tools that Nefab's sustainability work has entered a new can enhance the environmental work within the phase in which many practical measures have framework of Nefab's concept of complete packbeen implemented, while new strategies have aging solutions. The group includes employees been drawn up for future work. with various skills and roles who work under the guidance of a coordinator. In 2011, the decision Nefab's core values was taken to invest in a new full-time position to In 2011, Nefab's values were ​​ simplified and clarified lead the work. in order to create optimal conditions for implementation and understanding throughout the Global Compact Group. During the year, the values Simplicity , Since 2008, Nefab has been involved in Global Respect and Empowerment have been introCompact,the UN's efforts regarding sustainability. duced for employees in every part of the Group. Global Compact is a strategic initiative for comThese words can be summarized to say that panies that have pledged to adapt their operaNefab offers simple solutions to complex protions and strategies in accordance with ten princicesses. Customers and the world at large will ples in the areas of human rights, labor law, enviencounter humble people who show respect for ronment and anti-corruption. The initiative for the their own and others' cultures, and who are comGlobal Compact was taken in 1999 by the then UN mitted to their work. An enthusiasm that is built Secretary General Kofi Annan and aims to create on Nefab being an open and honest company a more sustainability-oriented global economy. In with room for personal initiative and responsibility. the project, the UN works with business and society on an international level. Nefab reports its Vision and strategy for sustainability development work each year and the latest report In 2011 strategies were established for Nefab suswas completed in autumn 2011. The complete tainability work, with measurable objectives for report is available at www.nefab.com the next three years. The overall goal is to position Nefab as a leading green company within indusEconomic value creation trial packaging. Nefab uses the term green to Sustainability work affects both revenues and communicate its sustainability work from a broad costs and is part of Nefab's long-term value creaperspective. For this to be achievable, three basic tion, which is of vital importance not only for the strategies have been developed: company but also for society as a whole. • Nefab  will ensure sustainability throughout the Created and distributed economic supply chain. value, SEK m Stakeholders 2011 • Sustainability shall be more clearly instilled into Directly creates economic value Nefab's own operations and internal processes. Revenues Customers 3,150 • Sustainability will be an integrated part of Nefab's customer offering. Distributed economic value Operating costs Suppliers 2,263 Personnel costs Employees 641 Targets and action plans have been developed for Owners/ each of these areas. Nefab should be seen as the Financial net Banks 185 first choice among global packaging companies Tax Society 14 in terms of sustainability, and will build a strong employer brand through its sustainability work. Investments As an employer Nefab must be recognized as a Net investments Suppliers 140 company that cares about people, the environment and society. Nefab Annual Report 2011 37 Sustainability report – Stakeholder dialogue You will never know unless you ask Successful sustainability work is based on continuous dialogue with the outside world. Nefab's global operations mean that we work under many different circumstances where laws and expectations of the company may be very different. In a constantly changing world, communication with all company stakeholders is key to further development. Nefab's stakeholders include employees, customSuppliers ers, suppliers, owners, environment and society Continuous dialog with suppliers takes place as a whole (such as government agencies and through daily contact as well as through work various associations). The company maintains regarding the code of conduct and controls. continuous communication and conducts handsThese issues mainly concern human rights, health on work with stakeholders on multiple levels. and safety, social responsibility, environment and quality. The Group's purchasing organization also Employees and customers conducts an ongoing review of the supplier base Every year, employees and customers are given in accordance with established criteria and prothe opportunity to express their views and wishes cesses. in comprehensive surveys. The employee survey addresses issues relating to health, leadership, job Owners satisfaction and working conditions, while cusAn overall perspective is important for Nefab tomers express how Nefab meets their requireowners, and the organization is always ready to ments in terms of quality, product safety and correspond to individual questions. The goal, howporate responsibility. ever, is to provide as much complete information as possible from the start. Issues emanating from the owners often revolve around the Nefab business model with a focus on long-term value creation. Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) % Environment and society 100 Government agencies in Nefab's various markets are primarily interested in safety, working condi75 tions and health. The dialogue occurs mainly 50 through advice, inspections and meetings with representatives of various government agencies. 25 Through its support of Global Compact, Nefab indirectly contributes to a comprehensive global 0 2010 2011 stakeholder dialogue with a broad perspective. Employee Satisfation Index (ESI) Response rate Response rate for both years 84%. 38 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Stakeholder dialogue – Sustainability report MERS OWNERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENT SOCI Nefab's stakeholders CUSTOMERS OWNERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY Securing a place for Nefab in a sustainable future society Nefab Annual Report 2011 39 Sustainability report – Environment Packaging as a way of influencing Nefab's greatest contribution to the environment is directly linked to its business offering, which encourages the customer to choose the most environmentally-efficient solution. In the work to develop new optimal packaging concepts, Nefab is finding new, sustainable solutions that make a global impact through its customers. Nefab's packaging is always optimized to give age suppliers to do the same. Nefab's procuremaximum protection with minimal material conment organization is actively working to ensure sumption. In this way, resources can be saved in that suppliers conform to Nefab's code of conthe packaging supply chain, while also reducing duct and accept their own responsibilities toward losses due to damage and discarded products. the environment. All suppliers must follow the Designing the packaging properly leads to more environmental laws and regulations applicable in efficient loads in trucks and containers, which each country. Nefab's procurement organization means that customers carry less air and can conducts an ongoing evaluation and developreduce C02 emissions. As far as possible, all packment of the supplier base. Nefab's operations are aging solutions from Nefab are also designed also affected by a number of laws and regulations with consideration to recycling.. The customer covering the entire packaging industry. For offering includes a range of smart returnable instance, packaging must not be contaminated packaging and rental systems that increase utiliby harmful insects nor may they be manufactured zation and reduce the consumption of materials using hazardous chemicals that could ultimately and energy. Today, Nefab has two established harm the environment. tools that are used to control the packaging solution's environmental impact and to drive cusFuture initiatives tomer motivation. The first is life cycle analysis A number of different improvement projects are (LCA), which takes into account the packaging's being pursued within the framework of ISO14001, environmental impact throughout its life cycle. with continuous improvement as an overriding RECO analyses are also performed, showing how theme. Such initiatives include energy efficiency a packaging review, with investment in new, more and emission reductions (CO2) for our own vehienvironmentally-friendly packaging, can improve cle fleet. In 2011, we also began working to take the customer's profitability. better and more accurate measurements of CO2 and other relevant emissions from manufacturing Environmental policy units. Nefab's environmental policy is based on the principle that with our complete packaging soluKey ratios 2011 2010 tions, we can avoid wasting resources both in the Plywood consumption (m3) 104,181 93,091 packaging itself and in terms of damages. The Steel consumption (tons) 9,810 8,932 goal is that the packaging products should have Consumption of paint and coatings low environmental impact throughout their life (tons) 45 38 cycles. The minimum requirement in our own proWater consumption (m3) 80,932 67,594 duction is to to comply with current laws and regDirect and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (tons) 1) 878 – ulations and the aim is to surpass them. Today, 1)  missions from our own production, excluding inbound and outbound E eleven of Nefab's facilities are certified in accordtransportation. ance with ISO 14001 with the aim of all production facilities becoming certified – a process that will take a few years. The intention is to use natural resources as carefully as possible and to encour40 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Environment – Sustainability report Information about the environmental Implementation of sustainable impact of different packaging solutions returnable packaging systems Yes, 17% Yes, 23% No, 83% No, 77%  uestion: The proportion of respondents from the Q  uestion: The proportion of respondents who want Q customer survey who want information about the support with the implementation of sustainable returnable environmental impact of various packaging solutions. packaging systems. Nefab Annual Report 2011 41 Sustainability report – Employees and community involvement Knowledge, commitment and diversity Nefab's employees naturally play a key role in our sustainability work through various initiatives throughout the value chain. Employees This makes it easier to follow the development in Nefab is a knowledge-based company and its each organization, while still maintaining individmarket-leading position is maintained by focusual integrity. The employee survey is conducted ing on the individual employee's development. by an external partner to ensure the methodology Nefab will offer attractive opportunities to ensure and integrity in every aspect. that employees choose to remain while allowing valuable new skills to be recruited. Nefab is charInternal training – Web Academy & Pakademy acterized by a customer-oriented corporate culWebAcademy is Nefab's intranet-based skills porture where employees are encouraged to develop tal. As part of WebAcademy, employees are a proactive approach. Nefab's values ​​and code of offered a variety of basic tutorials on the compaconduct form the basis for the corporate culture ny's packaging solutions and sales processes, as to reflect the Group's global expertise and diverwell as courses dealing with the company's social sity. Every year, all employees are invited to parresponsibility, environment and human rights. ticipate in an employee survey in which they Pakademy started in China in 2008 to address the respond to a number of questions concerning need to educate the large number of newly health, job satisfaction, leadership, physical and recruited engineers and salespeople. The fivepsychological working conditions, etc. In connecweek training program includes theory and praction with the 2010 survey the concept was develtice regarding packaging materials, sales prooped to include a comprehensive employee cesses and testing methods. In 2011, the program index, simplifying comparisons and targets from was attended for the first time by participants one year to another. Units that scored the lowest from countries outside Asia. Nefab's ambition is index are subject to improvement measures. A to use Pakademy as a global training program for second measure was to include the organizational employees from all regions. structures of the operations in the survey. Employees by region Employees by age group Europe, 34% Up to 29 years, 36 % Asia, 46% 30–39 years, 33 % America, 20% 40-54 years, 24% Over 55 years, 7 %   42 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Employees and community involvement – Sustainability report Code of Conduct the aim is to take the initiative for positive develNefab's code of conduct was last updated in opment – work that is described in greater detail 2007 and is based on the principles in the UN's on the facing page. Global Compact and other international policy Naturally, the customer is also included in documents. Nefab's code of conduct. In every meeting with Nefab supports and respects human rights and Nefab, customers and suppliers must feel that ensures that the company is not complicit in any they encounter absolute professionalism. Marketbreaches against them. ing and advertising should reflect reality and With regard to labor issues, employees have full Nefab also assures its customers that the prodfreedom of association and there is no form of ucts and services meet legal requirements and forced labor. Nefab is not involved in any form of agreements regarding quality. child labor, nobody is employed below the age of In 2011, one violation of Nefab's code of con15 and hazardous work is never performed by duct and a serious workplace accident were employees under the age of 18. Nefab also underreported. Appropriate measures have been taken takes to provide all employees with a safe and to prevent this from happening again. healthy working environment in accordance with international standards and local laws. DiscrimiKey ratios – Employees 2011 2010 nation based on race, skin color, gender, sexual Percentage of employees who orientation, nationality, marital status, pregnancy, have union agreements 19% 19% political opinion, ethnic or social background, age, Hours of training per employee 12.2 13.4 disability or trade union membership is prohibPercentage of employees who have regular development talks 28% 29% ited. Physical and mental harassment or intimidaBoard members for the Group, 5% female 5% female tion is naturally prohibited. gender breakdown 95% male 95% male Nefab also works actively against all types of Presidents and other senior 20% female 16% female corruption. The company's integrity, responsibilexecutives1) 80% male 84% male ity and reputation must be upheld in all circumPercentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies 7% 5% stances and the company must not be associated 1) Management team members and similar. with any type of bribery, extortion or other corrupt activities. Environmental work must be conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations and Employees by gender Employees by function % 100 Sales, Marketing and 80 Distribution, 28 % Administration, 11 % 60 Production, 61 % 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 Female Male   Nefab Annual Report 2011 43 Sustainability report – Employees and community involvement Code of Conduct Comparison UN Global Compact and Nefab Code of Conduct Code of Conduct UNGC Principles Nefab Code of Conduct Human Rights Human Rights 1. B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of Nefab supports and respects the protection of internationinternationally proclaimed Human Rights. ally proclaimed human rights and ensures that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. B usinesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Labour standards 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to ­bargaining. form, join or not to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining when employed by Nefab. 4. B  usinesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Forced and compulsory labour forced and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated by Nefab and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. 5. B usinesses should uphold the effective abolition of Child labour child labour. Nefab shall not be complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work within Nefab. 6. B  usinesses should uphold the elimination of discriminaWorkplace tion in respect of employment and occupation. Nefab shall provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees Discrimination Diversity among Nefab employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited within Nefab as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Environment Environment 7. B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept for Nefab and finite resources is avoided as often as possible. Nefab also has a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. B  usinesses should undertake initiatives to promote Environmental responsibility ­greater environmental responsibility. Innovative developments in products and services that offer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility are promoted and supported by Nefab. 9. B  usinesses should encourage the development and ­diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility forms, including extortion and bribery. must be upheld and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Consumer interest When dealing with consumers, Nefab acts in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. Nefab also ensures that the goods or services it supplies meet all agreed and legal standards. 44 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Sustainability report 45 Annual report and consolidated financial statements for the financial year 01-01-2011 to 12-31-2011 The Board of Directors and President of Nefab Holding AB (corporate identification number 556734-6050) present the following annual report and consolidated financial statements. Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts are in SEK thousands. Five years in summary 47 8W  ages, other remuneration and social Board of Directors' report 48 security expenses 79 Corporate governance report 53 9 Personnel 81 Group management team 60 10 Related party transactions 82 Board of Directors 61 11 Remuneration of auditors 84 Financial statements 62 12 Leases 85 Group 62 13 Profit from financial items 86 Income statement, Group 62 14 Current/deferred tax 86 Statement of comprehensive income, 15 Tangible fixed assets 88 Group 62 16 Intangible assets 89 Statement of financial position, Group 63 17 Shares in Group companies 91 Statement of cash flows, Group 65 18 Acquisitions 94 Changes in equity, Group 66 19 Inventories 96 Parent company 67 20 Accounts receivable 96 Income statement, parent company 67 21 Prepayments and accrued income 97 Statement of comprehensive income, 22 Other current receivables 97 parent company 67 23 Financial instruments by category 97 Statement of financial position, parent 24 Number of shares 98 company 68 25 Translation differences 99 Statement of cash flows, parent company 70 26 Interest-bearing net debt 100 Changes in equity, parent company 71 27 Financial assets and liabilities 101 Notes 72 28 Provisions for pensions 101 1 General information 72 29 Other provisions 101 30 Other current liabilities 101 2 Summary of important accounting principles 72 31 Accrued expenses and deferred income 102 3 Financial risks and other risk factors 75 32 Pledged assets per liability item 102 4K  ey estimates and assumptions for 33 Contingent assets and contingent accounting purposes 76 liabilities 102 5 Segment information 77 34 Events after the reporting date 102 6 Intra-group transactions 79 Auditors' report 105 7 Items affecting comparability 79 Definitions 106 46 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Five years in summary Five years in summary SEK m 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 INCOME STATEMENT (3 months) Net sales 3,150 2,497 2,105 2,595 644 Cost of goods sold -2,333 -1,809 -1,471 -1,837 -465 Gross profit 817 688 634 758 179 Selling expenses -380 -337 -324 -323 -82 Administrative expenses -202 -186 -174 -173 -45 Other income and expenses 10 1 -1 -1 -2 Operating profit 245 165 135 261 50 Net financial income excluding interest on shareholder loans -45 -101 -50 -95 -14 Interest on shareholder loans -140 -124 -112 -93 -21 Profit after financial items 60 -60 -27 73 15 Tax -14 -25 -18 -44 -10 Minority 0 0 0 0 0 Net profit 46 -85 -45 29 4 EBITDA 342 268 233 337 68 EBITA 280 209 168 284 55 BALANCE SHEET Intangible fixed assets 2,456 2,417 2,348 2,491 2,225 Tangible fixed assets 367 344 372 392 311 Financial fixed assets 62 52 38 31 34 Inventories 280 221 193 259 252 Accounts receivable 630 593 410 582 534 Other current assets 53 57 54 56 44 Cash and bank balances 108 118 193 181 203 Total assets 3,956 3,803 3,608 3,992 3,602 Equity 820 758 716 856 507 Shareholder loans 1,311 1,171 1,047 935 741 Interest-bearing liabilities 1,108 1,179 1,319 1,535 1,466 Other long-term liabilities 182 172 164 179 167 Accounts payable 322 345 236 285 294 Other current liabilities 213 178 126 202 428 Total equity and liabilities 3,956 3,803 3,608 3,992 3,602 Adjusted capital employed 818 712 670 794 663 KEY RATIOS Gross margin, % 25.9% 27.6% 30.1% 29.2% 27.8% Operating margin, % 7.8% 6.6% 6.4% 10.1% 7.7% EBITDA margin 10.9% 10.7% 11.1% 13.0% 10.5% EBITA margin 8.9% 8.4% 8.0% 11.0% 8.6% Return on equity, % 5.8% -11.5% -5.7% 4.2% – Return on total capital, % 6.4% 4.5% 3.6% 7.0% – Return on adjusted capital employed, % 36.6% 30.2% 22.9% 39.0% – Interest-bearing net debt external creditors 1,000 1,061 1,126 1,354 1,264 Equity ratio, % 20.7% 19.9% 19.8% 21.4% 14.1% Adjusted equity ratio, % 53.9% 50.7% 48.9% 44.9% 34.6% Adjusted debt/equity ratio, times 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.9 1.2 Quick ratio, % 106.1% 94.1% 109.8% 81.2% 76.7% Average number of employees 2,934 2,442 2,231 2,343 2,163 Invoicing per employee (SEK 000s) 1.1 1.0 0.9 1.1 1.2 Net investments, SEK m 140 320 56 100 – Definitions can be found on page 106. Nefab Annual Report 2011 47 Board of Directors' report Board of Directors' report The Board of Directors and President of Nefab Holding AB, with corporate identification number 556734-6050, hereby present the annual report and consolidated financial statements for the financial year 2011. Information about the business and ownership tion and amortization of acquired intangible Nefab's business concept is to deliver complete assets (EBITA) for the year amounted to packaging solutions to international industrial SEK 280 m (209), corresponding to 8.9% of invoigroups, notably within the telecom and energy cing (8.4), compared with the company's target industries. Nefab has subsidiaries in Europe, EBITA margin of at least 10%. North and South America and Asia. In the spring of 2011 a reorganization of the Nefab Holding AB is the parent company of the company was undertaken, at which a special unit Nefab Group. Operations are conducted based in was established to work with global customers Jönköping and consist of the management of and customer segments. At the same time, the shares in the Nefab Group and the preparation of three former regional market areas in Europe consolidated financial statements. were merged to form one region. During the year, a change was made in the Group company's financing by replacing the former The Group's revenues for the financial year main bank with two new partner banks. This has amounted to SEK 3,150 m. The share of commerincreased the company's financial capacity by cial products and services amounted to 48% (47) about SEK 300 m while annual repayments have of revenues. Revenues by geographical markets fallen. The change represents a significant improare as follows: vement in the company's ability to generate continued growth, while also creating greater flexibiPro forma lity in the financing structure. Region Revenues % revenues % In June 2011, the decision was taken to appoint Europe 1,676 53% 1,748 54% a new President for the company. David Mörk, North and South America 642 20% 646 20% who had previously been responsible for the Asia 830 26% 830 26% company's operations in Asia, was appointed PreOther 2 0% 2 0% sident while departing President, Stefan Ekqvist, Group total 3,150 100% 3,224 100% assumed responsibility for Asia. Implementation Pro forma revenues include revenues from acquired units as if they had been of the new management occurred at the start of acquired from 1 January. 2012. Since then, a minor adjustment was made to Invoicing increased by 8% in 2011 to SEK 3,150 m the reorganization of the company that took (2,929 last year pro forma including Chick). Acquplace during the spring of 2011, resulting in a clariisitions completed in 2011 are included with SEK fication of its global customer processing through 57 m in invoicing for the year. Changes in the introduction of market segments and account exchange rates have meant that sales for 2011 managers for customers in the company's market were SEK 194 m lower than they would have been segments, Telecom, Energy and Industry. The had translation been made using 2010 exchange change is expected to be fully implemented by 1 rates. Excluding acquisitions and currency moveApril 2012. ments, invoicing grew by 12% compared to the company's target of at least 8.5% organic growth. Operating profit for the Group before deprecia48 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors' report Europe In September 2011, operations were acquired in Invoicing in markets in Europe for the year Woodybox, a company in southern Sweden that amounted to SEK 1,676 m (1,465), an increase of includes the production of packaging for long14%. Acquisitions completed in 2011 have affected term storage, similar to those at Nefab marketed invoicing by SEK 47 m. Moreover Chick, the group under the product name NEFAB Long-term Packof companies acquired in 2010, is included for the aging. Operations comprise annual invoicing of whole of 2011, having only belonged to the Group about SEK 10 m. Following the acquisition, profor approximately three months of 2010. Converduction has been transferred to Nefab's facility in ted using the same average exchange rates that Estonia and retail to Nefab's Swedish sales comapplied during 2010 and excluding acquisitions, pany Nefab Packaging Sweden AB. The purchase the total revenues for 2011 amounted to price was SEK 9.8 m for assets and liabilities, of SEK 1,703 m, compared with SEK 1,532 m for the which the value of inventories held on the comprevious year including Chick for the full year, an pletion date was SEK 0.8 m. The surplus value has increase of 11%. been allocated to amortizable intangible assets. Operating profit for the region before depreciaAt the end of 2011, a decision was made to estation and amortization of acquired intangible blish a sales company in Turkey. The decision was assets (EBITA) for the year amounted to prompted by a request from one of Nefab's gloSEK 176 m (127), corresponding to 10.5% of total bal customers for services in the market in wesinvoicing (8.7). tern Turkey. The company is expected to be comIn the spring of 2011, a reorganization was plete and operational by the end of the first quarundertaken in which the three former market ter of 2012. areas in Europe were merged into a single unit. In A decision was also taken regarding the esta2010, the acquisition of Chick Companies Inc. was blishment of operations in Russia. For a number completed in the US, including three companies of years, Nefab has supplied the market in Russia with operations in Germany. In 2011, these three with deliveries from the unit in Estonia. An companies have been integrated with Nefab's increase in demand now means that it is consideexisting operations in Germany and are now red better to supply the market through a prebeing run under joint management. sence inside the country. Initially, a sales company In 2010 it was decided to expand Nefab operawill be started in Moscow. In parallel with this, a tions in Estonia and in 2011, work commenced to preliminary study will begin to look at establisexpand the company's wholly owned real estate. hing a production unit in the country. The expanded production facility is expected to be fully operational in early Q2, 2012. North and South America Peinetti SAS in France was acquired in August Invoicing in North and South American markets 2011. The company supplies customers in French for the year amounted to SEK 642 m (307), an industry with wooden outer packaging and relaincrease of 109%. Acquisitions completed in 2011 ted packaging services. In 2011, invoicing amounhave affected invoicing by SEK 10 m. Chick is ted to SEK 117 m, of which SEK 46 m relates to included for the whole of 2011, having only areas of operations that were divested in Decembelonged to the Group for approximately three ber 2011. For Nefab's holding period, invoicing months in 2010. Converted using the same averamounts to SEK 47 m, of which age exchange rates that applied during 2010 SEK 19 m refers to subsequently divested operaand excluding acquisitions, the total revenues for tions. The purchase price for the shares amoun2011 amounted to SEK 694 m, compared with ted to € 3.3 m. The surplus value that arose in SEK 672 m for the previous year including Chick conjunction with the acquisition has largely been for the full year, an increase of 3%. allocated to amortizable intangible assets. Only Operating profit for the region before one minor goodwill item has been recorded. depreciation and amortization of acquired intanNefab Annual Report 2011 49 Board of Directors' report gible assets (EBITA) for the year amounted to Operating profit for the region before SEK 10 m (2), corresponding to 1.6% of total invoidepreciation and amortization of acquired intancing (0.7). The result for 2011 includes one-off gible assets (EBITA) for the year amounted to costs totaling SEK 7 m. SEK 67 m (52), corresponding to 7.9% of total Shares were acquired in PDS Global, Mexico, in invoicing (7.1). August 2011. The company manufactures and During the year, the decision was made to estasells industrial packaging in different materials to blish two new units in China: a facility in Chengdu customers in the Mexican market. The company in western China, and a unit in Shenyang in employs 70 people and in 2011, invoicing amounnorthern China. The establishment in Chengdu is ted to around SEK 30 m. For Nefab's holding a result of a growing industrial presence in the period, invoicing amounted to SEK 10 m. The Chinese inland. The distance and the conditions purchase price for the shares amounted to $ 1.8 m for transport from Nefab's other manufacturing at a fixed price, plus an additional payment of up units is such that a local presence is needed in to $ 600 k. The surplus value that arose in conjunorder to provide a reasonable level of service to ction with the acquisition has been allocated to the company's customers. With regards to the amortizable intangible assets. establishment in Shenyang, this is an area where During the year, a production unit was establisNefab today has several large customers that hed in Dallas in the US. The capacity at the were previously supplied from the factory in facility is considered to be equal to sales of around Langfang outside Beijing. In this case, the estaSEK 50 m and the investment, totaling about SEK blishment is also driven by a desire to improve 12 m, has partly been made through the transfer of service levels for the company's customers. In equipment from other facilities in the Group. In conjunction with these two start-ups, it has been conjunction with the start of production in Dallas, decided to phase out production at Nefab's unit the company has moved to larger more suitable in Xiamen in eastern China. premises. The old premises have been partly subA decision was also taken regarding the estalet for the period until the lease expires and a problishment of a production unit in Malaysia. As vision of approximately SEK 3 m has been charproduction costs increase in China, major estaged against profit for the third quarter for the blishments are taking place in the countries of unused part of the buildings not covered by the Southeast Asia, including Thailand and Malaysia. future rental income from subleasing. Until now, the markets have been supplied by proIn September, one of the American units was ducts manufactured in Nefab's units in southern affected by a bad debt loss due to bankruptcy of China. The establishment of processing in Malayone of the company's major customers. The bad sia means a reduction in logistics costs as well as debt loss has also resulted in a one-off cost of shortened lead times to the company's custoapproximately SEK 4 m in the third quarter, plus mers in the area. loss of sales volumes. The establishment of a third unit in India, deciAt the end of the year, a merger of legal entities ded in 2010, has been delayed and will be comcommenced, with the intention of eventually pleted in early 2012. The official opening will take reducing the number of legal entities in the US place in May 2012. Nefab then has three facilities from around 20 units to three. in India, one outside Delhi, one in Chennai and one outside Mumbai. Asia Invoicing in markets in Asia for the year amounMarket segments ted to SEK 830 m (721), an increase of 15%. ConTelecom verted using the same average exchange rates Invoicing to customers within telecom for the that applied during 2010, total invoicing for 2011 year amounted to SEK 856 m (699), an increase amounted to SEK 884 m, an increase of 23%. of 22%. The acquisition of Chick, which was com50 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors' report pleted in the third quarter of 2010, has a relatively Return on capital employed for 2011 amounted small proportion of invoicing within the Telecom to 7.8% (5.8). Return on total capital amounted to segment. Converted using the same average 6.3% (4.9). exchange rates that applied during 2010 and The results of the Group and Parent Company's excluding acquisitions, total invoicing for 2011 operations and the financial position at the yearamounted to SEK 897 m, an increase of 22%. end is otherwise shown in the following income statement and balance sheet with notes. Energy Invoicing to customers within the energy industry Financial position for the year amounted to SEK 265 m (157), an At 31 December 2011, the Group had interest-beaincrease of 69%. The major increase is due to the ring net debt to external creditors of fact that Chick – acquired in the third quarter of SEK 1,000 m (1,061). Liquidity, including unut-ili2010 – has a relatively large proportion of invoized bank advances amounted to SEK 321 m cing to customers within the Energy segment. (304). Converted using the same average exchange rates that applied during 2010 and excluding Investments acquisitions, total invoicing for 2011 amounted to The Group's operating investments during the SEK 262 m, an increase of 22%. year amounted to SEK 140 m (320). These include: Industry SEK 55 k (272) investments in acquisitions and Invoicing to customers within other industries for SEK 85 m (48) material investments in operations. the year amounted to SEK 2,029 m (1,641), an increase of 24%. The increase includes SEK 275 m Employees following the acquisition of Chick in the US. At the end of the year, the Group had 3,048 Converted using the same average exchange employees (2,864). The average number of rates that applied during 2010 and excluding employees during the year was 2,934 (2,442). acquisitions, total invoicing for 2011 amounted to Here, the number of employees in newly acquired SEK 2,125 m, an increase of 7%. units has only been included for the portion of the year during which they were included in the Consolidated results of operations Nefab Group. The Group's operating profit for the year amounted to SEK 245 m (165). The operating profit has Parent company been charged with amortization on acquisitionThe Group management, financing and coordinarelated intangible and tangible values ​​of surplus tion of marketing, production, purchasing and values of SEK -35 m (-30) and items affecting business development is conducted in part under comparability of SEK 0 m (-14). Last year's items the parent company Nefab Holding AB, but priaffecting comparability were related to the resmarily within the wholly owned subsidiary Nefab tructuring process in the Nordic region of SEK 6 AB. The parent company's revenues for the year m plus SEK 8 m in costs associated with the acquamounted to SEK 1 m (1). Revenues consist of isition of Chick Companies in the US. invoiced services to subsidiaries. Operating profit The Group's profit after financial items for the amounted to SEK –3 m (–3). The profit after finanyear amounted to SEK 60 m (-60). This result has cial items amounted to SEK –25 m (–21). been charged with SEK 140 m (124) interest on subordinated shareholder loans. Interest on the Risks shareholder loan has not been paid in cash but Nefab conducts work on risk management based added to the debt, in line with the credit agreeon a structure in which the Group and the largest ment with Nefab's principal creditors. units in the Group regularly analyze the risks that Nefab Annual Report 2011 51 Board of Directors' report exist and how a change or event might affect the Significant events after the year end company. Preventive measures to reduce the risks In January 2012, a merger took place in the US in are also considered. Nefab's assessed risks are order to reduce the number of legal entities, see described more fully in Note 3. note 34. Research and development Future development The Group conducts continuous extensive proGroup order books have a short life. On average, duct development in cooperation with customers. the time between an order being received and In addition to this, the subsidiary Nefab Teknik AB delivery is around 3 weeks. This means that the undertakes Group-wide product and material company has limited information about deliveries development projects. The development of promore than one month ahead. Relevant informaduction technology takes place here in addition tion about the future is difficult to determine, to the manufacture of the Group's production which is why Nefab chooses not to report such machinery. estimates. The development of methods and tools for The Group's objective however is that volume marketing and skills training is carried out in netgrowth should outpace growth in the underlying work form and is coordinated through the subsimarket. diary Nefab AB. Accounting principles Environmental information Since 2008, Nefab Holding AB has reported in In Sweden, the Group has a duty of notification accordance with IFRS (International Financial for its operations in accordance with the Swedish Reporting Standards). See also note 2. Environmental Code. The duty of notification applies to Nefab Production Runemo AB and Proposed appropriation of profit covers the use of more than 5 tons of solvents, in The following funds are at the disposal of the machining operations where more than 1 m3 of Annual General Meeting (SEK k): cutting oil is used, plus burning facilities with a total installed output of 500 kW. For the financial Share premium reserve 468,515 year, the amount of cutting oil consumed amounProfit/loss brought forward 0 ted to 1,960 (2,940) liters. The operations with a Net loss -25,163 duty of notification correspond to 5 percent (6) Total 443,352 of the company's net sales. No significant injunctions, accidents or inciThe Board of Directors and President propose dents have taken place during the year. that the profit is appropriated so that the loss of SEK –25,163 k is fully offset against the share preEthical rules mium reserve and that the remaining share preNefab's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is mium reserve of SEK 443,352 k be carried forbased on Nefab's core values, OECD guidelines ward. and the UN Global Compacts ten principles in the areas of human rights, working conditions, environment and anti-corruption. For further information about CSR, visit www.nefab.com/Corporate_ Social_Responsibility.aspx 52 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report – Directors' report Corporate governance report Nefab is a Swedish stock corporation, which from 2011 applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Nefab hereby submits the 2011 corporate governance report which has been prepared by the company's Board of Directors and reviewed by the auditors. Nefab's corporate governance is based on the Nomination Committee Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Nefab currently has two main shareholders who Articles of Incorporation of Nefab Holding AB, the together represent 98% of capital/votes and Swedish Companies Act, other applicable Swethese two owners together comprise the Nominadish and foreign laws and regulations, plus intertion Committee. nal codes, policies and guidelines. Since Nefab's shares are not quoted on a reguBoard of Directors lated market, no explanation is given for any deviThe Board of Directors decides on matters conations from the Swedish Code of Corporate cerning the Group's strategic direction, financing, Governance. investments, acquisitions, divestments, organizational issues plus rules and policies. The Board of Nefab's owners Directors is kept regularly informed of activities Shares and shareholders through monthly reports from Group manageThe Nefab Group comprises the parent company ment. Nefab Holding AB (556734-6050), the wholly owned subsidiary Nefab AB (556226-8143) and Board Members more than 70 wholly owned subsidiaries in 30 Nefab's Articles of Incorporation state that the countries. Board shall, to the extent elected by the General Nefab Holding AB was founded in 2007 before Meeting, comprise a minimum of one and a maxithe takeover by Nefab AB in the fall of 2007. Until mum of ten Board members, with up to ten deputhe takeover, Nefab AB had been quoted on the ties. If the Board of Directors consists of one or Stockholm Stock Exchange since May 1996. Prior two Board members, at least one deputy shall be to that, Nefab AB had been privately owned since elected. its foundation in 1949. Nefab's Board of Directors currently consists of At the end of 2011, Nefab Holding AB had a six members elected by the Annual General Meeshare capital of SEK 272 k, divided into 6,465,874 ting and two members and two deputies elected shares where the shares represent one vote each. by the trade unions. Four members of the Board According to the Articles of Incorporation, shares represent the company's two main shareholders, can be either ordinary or preferred shares. All while other members are independent owners. issued shares are ordinary shares. The largest shaNobody from the company or any of its subsidiareholder in the company at the year-end was ries' management are included in the Board of Cidron Diego Sarl (Nordic Capital) with 58.8% of Directors. shares/votes and Kiddo Ltd (family Nordgren/ The Company's President and Chief Financial Pihl​​) with 39.2% of shares/votes. The remaining Officer attend Board meetings as rapporteur 2% is owned by 15 Board members and senior where the Chief Financial Officer also serves as executives in the company. Therefore at the year the Board secretary. Other employees in the end, there were 17 shareholders in the company. Group participate at Board meetings to report on specific issues. Annual General Meeting 2011 The Annual General Meeting is Nefab's highest The independence of the Board decision-making body. The Annual General MeeThe Board's assessment regarding the members' ting is held each year in Stockholm. independence in relation to the company and the Nefab Annual Report 2011 53 Directors' report – Corporate governance report shareholders is shown in the attached table. Chairof the Board in advance of the Board meeting man of the Board Lars-Åke Rydh was President of held in December, when the evaluation is discusthe company until the spring of 2008 and is theresed and improvements are suggested. fore considered as a dependent of the company. The assessments conducted in recent years show that the expertise of the constituent Board Work of the Board rules of procedure members as well as the quality of the meetings is The work of the Board is regulated by the Swevery good. No noteworthy observations have dish Companies Act, the Articles of Incorporation been made. and the rules of procedure decided by the Board for their work. The Audit Committee The Board's rules of procedure include rules for The Board annually appoints an Audit Committee, the number of meetings held per financial year, where some of the Board's work is prepared and what is to be discussed, plus the allocation of then submitted to the Board in summary. duties between the Board and President. The Audit Committee's main task is to oversee In addition to the rules of procedure, the Board the accounting and financial reporting for the annually decides a financial policy with the rules Group, to maintain regular contact with the audifor financing, currency management and custotors and review their work plan and remuneration. mer credit. The Committee shall also assist the Nomination The Board of Directors normally holds seven Committee in the selection of auditors and their Board meetings each year. Four of these meeremuneration ahead of Annual General Meetings tings are to discuss interim reports and the annual at which new auditors are elected. financial statements. One meeting per year is The Audit Committee is governed by written more extensive in time, where particular attention rules of procedure. The rules of procedure include is devoted to strategic issues. The company's the issues to be discussed. The Audit Committee auditors attend Board meetings as needed, but at normally meets three times during the year – in least once a year. February, June and October. The notice to attend and supporting docuIn 2011, the Audit Committee consisted of Larsments for the decisions and reports are sent to Åke Rydh and Adam Samuelsson, with Samuelsthe Board one week prior to each meeting. For son as Committee Chairman. The company's matters that are intended for a decision, the auditors and the Chief Financial Officer have Board usually receives detailed supporting docuattended all three of this year's meetings. Minutes ments before the meeting. from the Committee meetings are written by the company's Chief Financial Officer. The work of the Board in 2011 In 2011, the Board of Directors has held 15 meeRemuneration Committee tings, seven of which were regular meetings plus The Board annually appoints a Remuneration eight additional Board meetings. Of this year's Committee, where some of the Board's work is meetings, there were five physical meetings, eight prepared and then submitted to the Board in telephone conferences and two per capsulam summary. meetings, where the material and draft resoluThe task of the Remuneration Committee is to tions were circulated and approved, after which develop proposals to the Board regarding salary the minutes were signed by all Board members. and other remuneration of the President and Additional meetings during 2011 were prompapprove the President's proposals for salaries and ted in particular by changes to the company's remuneration of other members of Group manafinancing, as well as to reach agreement and gement. This task also includes reviewing remunemake decisions in relation to acquisitions. ration of Board members when they are appointed as consultants by the executive management. Evaluation of the Board's work The Committee also deals with any Group-wide The Board shall ensure that its work is evaluated bonus systems and option programs. The Comannually using a systematic and structured promittee usually meets twice a year in connection cess. This evaluation is initiated by the Chairman with salary reviews around the year-end. 54 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report – Directors' report In 2011, the Remuneration Committee consisted Board of Directors. This includes rules about of Ulf Rosberg, Jochum Pihl and Lars-Åke Rydh, which decisions can be made by ​​ the President with Rydh as Committee Chairman. and which ones require the Board's decision. There are also limits to what investments can be Remuneration of the Board of Directors made under the President's authority. Remuneration of Board members is decided The President is responsible for the necessary annually by the Annual General Meeting. There information and documentation as a basis for the are no Board fees for Board members who are Board's work and for the Board to be able to employed by the Company. Union representatives make well informed decisions. The Board preshall receive a study fee. For committee work, sents Presidential issues and justifies the propothere is no special remuneration in addition to the sed decisions. The President is also responsible regular Board fee. for regular reporting to the Board with regard to Remuneration of the Board in 2011 amounted to the company's performance. SEK 1,250,000, of which SEK 500,000 was paid to the Chairman of the Board, Lars-Åke Rydh, Group management SEK 250,000 to the Board member Sune KarlsThe President is assisted by Group management son and SEK 125,000 to the other four members, made up​​ of Executive Vice Presidents for geoIng-Marie Nordgren, Jochum Pihl​​, Ulf Rosberg graphical areas, market areas and staff positions. and Adam Samuelsson. Besides the President – the Group management The company's President for the period until consists of three Executive Vice Presidents for the the end of 2011, Stefan Ekqvist, was a member of different geographical areas, three Executive Vice the Board up to 28 December 2011. He received Presidents for the market segments, and the no Board fee. The company's President from 28 company's CFO. December 2011, David Mörk, is not a member of Group management has monthly meetings to the Board. review the previous month's results, the state of operations and current strategic and operational Auditors issues. Two to three meetings per year are more At the Annual General Meeting in May 2007, Bersubstantial, at which the operations and strategy tel Enlund, authorized public accountant at Ernst are discussed in greater detail. & Young, was elected auditor of the company. For information about remuneration of senior Bertel Enlund has been the company's auditor executives, see note 10 on page 83. since then. In connection with Bertel Enlund leaving Ernst & Young in the spring of 2012, the Organization Nomination Committee proposes that Björn • Geographical areas Grundvall and Joakim Falck be elected the Nefab's operating subsidiaries are divided into company's auditors at the Annual General Meethree geographical areas – Europe, America ting in May 2012. Two deputies will also be and Asia. appointed. • Market segments Examination of the Group's companies around Nefab's customers are divided into a number of the world is coordinated by Ernst & Young. For all market segments (customer categories). At significantly large companies, operations are exapresent these are Telecom, Energy and Industry. mined by Ernst & Young in the country in question. For a small number of companies on a smalManagement of geographical areas ler scale, operations are examined by other local For each region there is an operating board that accounting firms. includes the parent company's President, CFO and the head of the Industry market segment, Nefab's operational control along with the regional Executive Vice President. President For each region, rules of procedure are establisThe President leads Nefab's current business. The hed every year in which responsibilities and framework consists of written instructions for the powers as well as approaches for the regional President that are established annually by the board are governed. Nefab Annual Report 2011 55 Directors' report – Corporate governance report Nefab's organization CEO David Mörk Business Finance Development Anna Stålenbring Olivier de Guitaut Telecom Energy Industry Anders Mörk Rui Garrido Olivier de Guitaut Americas Brian Bulatao Europe Bo Angelstrand Asia Stefan Ekqvist Management of subsidiaries within the Staff functions geographical areas The subsidiary Nefab AB contains the Group The activities of the subsidiaries are managed by management plus staff functions for the coordithe boards. The subsidiaries' board consists of the nation of Finance, HR, IT, Marketing, Procurement manager responsible for the subsidiary, the regioand Production. nal Executive Vice President (who normally chairs Trainee operations are also conducted under the company's board) and usually one or two Nefab AB. Recent graduates from various additional representatives from other operations countries are recruited regularly to the company, or staff areas. where they receive training and participate in For each subsidiary, rules of procedure are various projects within the various staff functions. established every year in which responsibilities Thereafter, they are recruited internally to diffeand powers as well as approaches for the subsidirent positions within the Group's various compaary board are governed. nies. Management of market segments Financial targets The operations in the different market segments Nefab's Board of Directors has established finanare controlled by the President and the work of cial targets for the company's operations. the steering committee is conducted within the These are as follows: framework of the Group management team. 56 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report – Directors' report • Growth bility is delegated as far as possible, and indiviNefab shall organically grow faster than the dual initiative is encouraged. The goal is to underlying market. In addition, Nefab will geneachieve balance between personal freedom and rate growth through acquisitions. The target for personal responsibility. the organic share of growth is currently 8.5% annually. Code of conduct • Profitability Nefab's Board has adopted a code of conduct Nefab will generate an annual operating profit that has its origins in recommendations issued by (after depreciation but before amortization of global organizations such as the UN and the intangible surplus value – EBITA) of at least OECD. The code of conduct aims to protect 10%. Nefab's good name and trusted brand. • Cash flow The code of conduct contains rules in the folloNefab shall generate a strong and stable cash wing areas (see also the more comprehensive flow. Growth in invoicing will tie up no more information on page 43): than 20% in working capital and investments • Human rights over time must not exceed the company's • Working conditions depreciation. • Environment • Financial stability • Corruption The company's equity ratio, i.e. equity (inclu• Consumer interests ding shareholder loans) in relation to total capi• Competition tal, shall not be less than 40%. • Violation of the code of conduct Nefab's core values Risk management Nefab has its roots in Hälsingland, Sweden. The Nefab's work with risk management is based on company has its origins in a carpentry workshop, the overall framework for risk management that which was founded in 1923 by Sigurd Nordgren, has been established. The overall structure inclugrandfather of one of today's majority owners. In des risk analyses and risk assessments at Group 1949, Sigurd's two eldest sons started a company level plus risk seminars and risk reporting at the in their father's workshop. The foundations of company level in accordance with established today's Nefab were laid at the end of the 1960s. models (see more detailed information on risk From that time, there emerged a strong entrepremanagement in the section Risk assessment in neurial spirit based on sensitivity, humility, the Board's report on internal control). honesty and patience with regard to the customer's needs. The company has continued to The Board's report on internal control grow on the basis of these values​​, which are Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Sweexpressed in the following three key words: dish Code of Corporate Governance, the Board of • Simplicity Directors is responsible for the company's interThis includes trying to find simple and effective nal control. solutions to problems and issues that we face, but also that we striveto act simply and natuNefab's handbook for internal control rally in our dealings with everyone. In support of its work with internal control, Nefab • Respect has developed a handbook for internal control Nefab will be characterized by responsiveness, that describes how internal control within the not just to customers but also to our employNefab Group shall function. The handbook is ees, suppliers and other people we meet. We based on COSO's framework for internal control shall also keep an open mind and show respect and includes general control rules as well as how for all individuals we encounter. these controls shall work at Nefab. • Empowerment Nefab's organization is flat, transparent and clearly focused on growth and profit. ResponsiNefab Annual Report 2011 57 Directors' report – Corporate governance report Control environment The risk reviews outlined above have been conThe company culture forms the basis for internal ducted for the Group as a whole as well as for the control within Nefab. Fundamental to the culture Group's larger companies and are repeated every of Nefab are the core values ​​that have been forthree years. mulated to describe Nefab's values ​​– simplicity, Each year, the risks identified are reported by all respect and empowerment. These values will ​​ be subsidiaries to staff functions for Risk Manageinstilled into all activities, from the work of the ment at the parent company. Risks are classified Board to local work conducted by the subsidiaas follows: ries. The fact that the family that founded the • Business climate (competition, laws and regulaNefab is still a major shareholder in the company tions, market conditions, etc.) helps to maintain the strong corporate culture. • Operational risks (risks for stoppages, The model for the company's operational conhealth risks, raw material supply, etc.) trol as described above on page 56, means that • IT risks operations are comprehensively managed • Personnel issues through board work at different levels. Each • Integrity risks (including risks for fraud, illegal board has established rules of procedure in which acts and confidence risks) responsibilities and authorities are established • Financial risks and working methods are described. For work in different areas, there are a number Control activities of Group-wide rules and guidelines formulated to The control activities that are established in ensure that the company is run properly. In Nefab can be divided into two groups: addition to templates for rules of procedure for • Annual self-assessments regarding internal boards, there is also the Finance Policy, Transfer controls Pricing Policy, IT Policy and Information Policy. • The procedures and regulations that exist Within each legal entity at Nefab, there are within the company and where compliance is also local rules and guidelines. For example, controlled in different ways each company has jurisdictional rules and limits for various financial transactions. These state who For the past couple of years Nefab has implemenis responsible for approving invoices to custoted a procedure for annual self-assessment where mers and from suppliers, for payroll calculations each legal entity responds to a fairly comprehenand payroll payments as well as for cash sive list of questions and statements. This list is payments etc. sent to the Group staff for Finance where they are For many years, Nefab has had a web-based all collected. Moreover, the list forms the basis for training portal, containing more than 30 courses the auditors review of each unit. After the internal in different areas. There are a number of courses and external audit, a summary of areas for improin areas that have a bearing on the company's vement is sent to each company for action to be control environment, such as courses in CSR, taken. Feedback is also provided to the Board. business plans, board work and business econoThe process is repeated every fall. mics. Training plans are set individually for The second group of control activities are the each employee. procedures contained within the company to ensure the internal control. These consist of multiRisk assessments ple, partially overlapping, activities of varying Nefab's work with risk management is based on degrees. Some of these activities are given below: the overall framework for risk management that • Monitoring compliance with rules and guidelihas been established. The overall structure inclunes, such as annual reporting by company of des risk analyses and risk assessments at Group compliance with the company's core values and ​​ level plus risk seminars and risk reporting at the its code of ethics. company level in accordance with established • Procedures and rules for monthly financial stamodels. tements and other reports. There is a financial In the case of Nefab, a risk seminar is when a manual that specifies rules for the reporting of company's management team meets for two half monthly financial statements in terms of fredays to inventory and analyze the risks in the opequency and content. The Group has a common rations. Initially, the risks are inventoried and then IT system for Group reporting and the system evaluated and ranked, following which a conseenvironment contains reconciliations and quence and response analysis is conducted for checks to ensure that reporting is done coreach risk. The measures are divided into risk rectly. The financial handbook contains rules for reduction and damage reduction measures and a handling anticipated losses in accounts receivaresponsible party is appointed for each measure. ble and inventories based on age analysis. It After completion of the risk workshop, the manaalso includes rules for inventories. gement has a good tool to continue using within • Analytical checks are carried out monthly by their local risk management process. the company's controllers. Any discrepancies 58 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report – Directors' report are analyzed with regard to the amounts and • Human Resources (HR) has its own designated key ratios, after which explanations are area on the intranet that contains the Group requested and measures are taken. training portal (Web Academy). Here, employ• Every company in the Group has authorization ees can find out about the 36 company-specific and attestation procedures. For the Group as a training courses plus they can take exams and whole, no invoice shall be registered nor payreceive diplomas online. ments made by the company without the • The intranet also provides access to Groupapproval of at least two people for the invoice/ wide tools including those for customer work, payment. As for payroll procedures, a so-called pricing, IT, etc. grandfather principle is applied, in which no payment can be established without approval Important rules and guidelines from the immediate supervisor. As mentioned earlier, Nefab has a number of • In addition to the Group's overall financial policy important regulations. They consist of Groupare local credit policies, where rules for credit wide frameworks plus local applications of these. and collection can be found. For the majority of The following regulations are included: the Group companies, credit limits are managed • Risk management policy in the company's business system, allowing for • Rules of procedure for boards a stop to be put on new orders when the custo• The Grandfather principle mer exceeds their credit limit. • Finance policy • There are general IT controls including authori• Transfer pricing policy zation with regard to access to separate subsys• HR policy tems and the rules and procedures for back-up. Shared business system Information and communication In 2005, Nefab began implementation of a Information and communication are key compoGroup-wide business system – Microsoft Dynanents of internal control, since they allow all indivimics AX. At present, the shared business system duals to receive instructions and feedback in order is used in most of the European companies, the to fulfill their respective areas of responsibility. Canadian operations, and parts of the American Within Nefab, the area complies through the and Chinese operations. It is estimated that about following framework: 60% of the Group's invoicing is done through the shared business system. Implementation is curIntranet rently under way in China, which will mean that For a number of years, Nefab has had an intranet about 80% of the company's operations will be called Aranea , which is located in a Web-based integrated within a couple of years. environment to which employees are granted access via appropriate password management. Website The following information is available via the Information about the company is also collected intranet: and updated regularly via the company's official • Information about employees with addresses website, www.nefab.com. and telephone numbers • Calendar for the Group Monitoring • News in the form of current news, internal ads Two key elements of the monitoring efforts within and notices, plus access to the company's quarthe framework of internal control are the terly newsletter/magazine. company's own annual self-evaluation in which • Company information such as organization, checklists are completed for reporting to staff presentations, history, rules and guidelines functions, and the annual external audit. • Customer-related information such as product In addition to these two key monitoring activiinformation, reference materials, templates for ties, there is a responsibility on the boards for contracts, customer database, etc. each subsidiary and regional steering group to • Production related information continuously ensure compliance with the • Finance-oriented information: for each local company's rules and procedures. unit, for example, there is a page where all comFrom time to time, visits are also made by the pany-specific material can be found, such as Group's staff Finance personnel to the various monthly reports, forecasts, board minutes, subsidiaries, where the procedures and rules are registration forms, etc. Group-wide rules and reviewed. These visits are documented in sepaguidelines are available here as well. rate reports that are distributed to the company's • IT has a specific area on the intranet where all board for discussion and decisions regarding any related information can be found. actions. • Purchasing related information is available and includes information about Group-wide suppliers. Nefab Annual Report 2011 59 Directors' report – Group management team Group management team David Mörk Bo Angelstrand Brian Bulatao Stefan Ekqvist President and CEO Executive Vice President Europe Executive Vice President Americas Executive Vice President Asia Born: 1973 Born: 1962 Born: 1964 Born: 1960 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: American Nationality: Swedish Education: Master of Business Education: Bachelor of Business Education: BS-Engineering, MBA Education: MSc Industrial Engineering and Administration Administration Management Previous experience: President Chick Previous experience: Executive Vice Previous experience: Sales Director Packaging 2007–2010, President FounderPrevious experience: CEO Nefab AB 2008– President Nefab Asia 2006–2011, Nefab Group 2001–2011, Business Area Thayer Aerospace 1998–2006, Consultant 2011, Director of Operations Nefab AB Director of Operations Nefab 2003–2006, Manager 1998–2001, Controller 1995–1998, McKinsey & Co 1994–1997 2006–2008, Head of Nordic Region Nefab Group IT Manager Nefab 2001–2003, Controller STORA Building Products 1990– 2001–2006, Group IT Manager Nefab 1999– Holding: 25,961 shares (0.4%), Consultancy business 1998–2000 1995, Controller Mölnlycke Toiletries 1988– 2001, ERP Project Manager Nefab 1997– 1990, Auditor 1986–1988 Commenced employment at Nefab: 2010 1999, Controller Nefab PlyPak AB 1995–1997, Holding: 5,250 shares (0.1%), 46,470 share Assumed present role: 2010 Administration Manager B&W Stormarknawarrants Holding: 2,625 shares (0.0%), 23,235 share der AB 1991–1995, Materials Manager Scandwarrants Commenced employment at Nefab: 2000 mec Plast AB 1990, Head of Marketing Commenced employment at Nefab: 1995 Supply Husqvarna AB 1987–1989, Materials Assumed present role: 2012 Assumed present role: 2011 management Electrolux Motor AB 1985– 1986 Holding: 5,250 shares (0.1%), 46,470 share warrants Commenced employment at Nefab: 1995 Assumed present role: 2012 Anna Stålenbring Olivier de Guitaut Rui Garrido Anders Mörk CFO Executive Vice President Business DevelopExecutive Vice President Energy Executive Vice President Telecom ment Born: 1961 Born: 1972 Born: 1975 Born: 1966 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Portuguese Nationality: Swedish Nationality: French Education: Bachelor of Business Education: Master of Business Education: Master of Business Administration Education: Bachelor of Business Administration Administration Administration Previous experience: Group Chief AccounPrevious experience: Sales Director Nefab Previous experience: Sales & Marketing tant Nefab 1994–2000, Controller Itab 1988– Previous experience: President Western Europe 2011–2012, MD Nefab Netherlands Director Nefab Asia 2009–2011, 1994, Auditor SpaRev 1982–1988 Europe Region Nefab 2007–2011, MD Nefab 2006–2011, MD Nefab Portugal 2003–2006, MD Nefab Dongguan and Nefab Shenzhen France 2005–2007, VP marketing and sales Sales Manager RA Embalagem 1996–2003, 2008–2009, Key Account Unit Director Holding: 3,937 shares (0.1%), 34,852 share Nefab North America 2000–2004, Sale Mgr Controller RA Embalagem 1992–1996 2005–2007, Business Dev Mgr China 2004– warrants Nefab France 1996–2000, Sales manager 2005, Group Telecom Coordinator Nefab Holding: – Commenced employment at Nefab: 1994 Curt 1993–1996, Business controller Euro2002–2004, Trainee Nefab 2001–2002, Telia copter 1989–1992 Commenced employment at Nefab: 2003 Nära – Sales 2000–2001 Assumed present role: 2000 Holding: 5,250 shares (0.1%), 46,470 share Assumed present role: 2012 Holding: – warrants Commenced employment at Nefab: 2001 Commenced employment at Nefab: 1996 Assumed present role: 2012 Assumed present role: 2011 60 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors – Board of Directors' report Board of Directors Lars-Åke Rydh Ing-Marie Nordgren Jochum Pihl Ulf Rosberg Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Board member Born: 1953 Born: 1952 Born: 1952 Born: 1965 Elected: 1994 Elected: 1983 Elected: 1982 Elected: 2007 Education: MSc Industrial Engineering and Education: Bachelor of Business Education: MSc Industrial Engineering and Education: MSc Economics, major in Management Administration Management Finance Other appointments: Chairman of the Other appointments: Board member at Other appointments: Board member at Other appointments: Senior Advisor Nordic Board at OEM International, SanSac, PlastLeoron Group, Dubai Edsbyn Senab AB, Handelsbanken, Alfta Capital. Board member at Bufab Holding print, CombiQ and Schuchardt Maskin. and Leoron Group, Dubai AB, FinnvedenBulten AB Dependence: Dependent in relation to Board member at Nolato, HL Display, Arla major shareholder Dependence: Dependent in relation to Dependence: Dependent in relation to Plast plus Olja ek. för. major shareholder major shareholder Holding: 2,536,134 shares (39.2%), 74,353 Dependence: Dependent in relation to the share warrants via family/company Holding: 2,536,134 shares (39.2%), 74,353 Holding: – company share warrants via family/company Committee member: – Committee member: Remuneration ComHolding: 10,500 shares (0.2%), 92,940 share Committee member: Remuneration Committee warrants Presence at Board meetings: 15 (15) mittee Presence at Board meetings: 15 (15) Committee member: Remuneration ComPresence at Audit Committee: – Presence at Board meetings: 15 (15) mittee, Audit Committee Presence at Audit Committee: – Presence at Remuneration Committee: – Presence at Audit Committee: – Presence at Board meetings: 15 (15) Presence at Remuneration Committee: 2 Board fee: SEK 125,000 Presence at Remuneration Committee: 2 (2) Presence at Audit Committee: 3 (3) Other payments: SEK 231,798 via company (2) Board fee: SEK 125,000 Presence at Remuneration Committee: 2 Board fee: SEK 125,000 (2) Other payments: – Other payments: SEK 231,798 via company Board fee: SEK 500,000 Other payments: SEK 435,000 for consultancy work via the company Adam Samuelsson Sune Karlsson Ove Jonsson Per Östling Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Born: 1972 Born: 1946 Born: 1961 Born: 1959 Elected: 2007 Elected: 2005 Elected: 2002 Elected: 2006 Education: MBA from Harvard Business Education: MSc Industrial Engineering, MBA Education: – Education: – School and MSc Economics Other appointments: Chairman of the Other appointments: – Other appointments: – Other appointments: Director Nordic CapiBoard at Eldon Group. Board member at Dependence: – Dependence: – tal. Board member at FinnvedenBulten AB New Russian Generation Ltd and SAG and Bufab Holding AB GmbH Holding: – Holding: – Dependence: Dependent in relation to Dependence: Independent of company or Committee member: – Committee member: – major shareholder major shareholder Presence at Board meetings: 13 (15) Presence at Board meetings: 15 (15) Holding: – Holding: 19,805 shares (0.3%), 15,000 share Presence at Audit Committee: – Presence at Audit Committee: – warrants Committee member: Audit Committee Presence at Remuneration Committee: – Presence at Remuneration Committee: – Committee member: – Presence at Board meetings: 15 (15) Board fee: – Board fee: – Presence at Board meetings: 14 (15) Presence at Audit Committee: 3 (3) Other payments: – Other payments: – Presence at Audit Committee: – Presence at Remuneration Committee: – Presence at Remuneration Committee: – Board fee: SEK 125,000 Board fee: SEK 250,000 Other payments: – Other payments: – Nefab Annual Report 2011 61 Financial statements Income statements Group SEK k Note 2011 2010 Revenues 5 3,149,658 2,497,164 Cost of goods sold 8, 9, 10, 12 -2,333,001 -1,809,099 Gross profit 816,657 688,065 Selling expenses 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 -379,879 -337,483 Administrative expenses 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 -202,113 -185,799 Other operating income 10,277 601 Other operating expenses 0 -20 Operating profit 7, 25 244,942 165,364 Profit from financial items Interest income and similar profit/loss items 13 1,624 1,648 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items 13 -187,034 -226,704 Profit after financial items 59,532 -59,692 Tax on profit for the year, current 14 -28,999 -35,016 Tax on profit for the year, deferred 14 15,062 9,828 Profit/loss for the year 45,595 -84,880 Statement of comprehensive income Group SEK k Note 2011 2010 Profit/loss for the year 45,595 -84,880 Other comprehensive income Translation differences 25 16,906 -40,002 Other comprehensive income for the year 16,906 -40,002 Comprehensive income for the year 62,501 -124,882 62 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Statement of financial position Group SEK k Note 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 ASSETS Fixed assets Tangible fixed assets 15 Lands and buildings 116,898 120,703 Plant and machinery 182,354 179,167 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 28,527 23,836 Construction in progress and advance payments for property, plant and equipment 38,721 20,184 Total tangible fixed assets 366,500 343,890 Intangible assets 16 Goodwill 1,931,076 1,903,305 Other intangible assets 524,836 514,121 Total intangible assets 2,455,912 2,417,426 Other fixed assets Deferred tax assets 14 50,805 42,135 Other securities held as non-current assets 216 123 Other long-term receivables 11,085 9,649 Total other fixed assets 62,106 51,907 Total fixed assets 2,884,518 2,813,223 Current assets Inventories etc. 19 Raw materials and consumables 101,607 79,939 Work-in-progress 10,228 10,362 Finished goods and goods for resale 164,575 130,165 Advance payments to suppliers 3,553 975 Total inventories etc. 279,963 221,441 Current receivables Accounts receivable 20 629,991 593,234 Other receivables 22, 23 33,805 25,745 Current tax assets 2,469 9,355 Prepayments and accrued income 21 17,073 21,451 Total current receivables 683,338 649,785 Cash and cash equivalents 27 108,417 118,214 Total current assets 1,071,718 989,440 TOTAL ASSETS 3,956,236 3,802,663 Nefab Annual Report 2011 63 Financial statements Statement of financial position Group SEK k Note 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 24 Equity attributable to parent company shareholders Share capital 272 272 Additional paid in capital 468,515 489,772 Other provisions 216,795 199,889 Retained earnings including profit/loss for the year 134,788 67,936 Total equity for parent company shareholders 820,370 757,869 LIABILITIES Long-term liabilities Shareholder loans 26 1,311,250 1,170,761 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 26 889,779 879,763 Provisions for pensions 28 7,025 5,797 Deferred tax liabilities 14 150,568 144,999 Other provisions 29 31,168 27,100 Total long-term liabilities 2,389,790 2,228,420 Current liabilities Current interest bearing liabilities 26 211,186 293,346 Accounts payable 322,354 345,117 Current tax liabilities 14,625 20,586 Other liabilities 23, 30 57,284 44,010 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 131,142 100,380 Other provisions 29 9,485 12,935 Total current liabilities 746,076 816,374 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,956,236 3,802,663 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Pledged assets 32 3,313,602 3,222,845 Contingent liabilities 33 17,428 3,673 64 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Statement of cash flows Group SEK k Note 2011 2010 Operating activities Operating profit 244,942 165,364 Adjustments for items not affecting cash flow Depreciation/amortization 96,902 90,151 Change in provisions 437 5,955 Disposals of fixed assets 3,873 2,654 Other items not affecting liquidity -6,799 3,956 Interest received 1,624 1,648 Interest paid -41,765 -40,517 Tax paid -28,074 -35,390 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 271,140 193,821 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+)/increase (–) in inventories -49,131 -133 Decrease (+)/increase (–) in current receivables -2,656 -75,161 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current liabilities -20,773 36,777 Cash flow from operating activities 198,580 155,304 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary 18 -50,891 -143,087 Purchase of fixed assets -92,287 -41,884 Sale of fixed assets 13,824 – Decrease (+)/increase (–) in long-term receivables -599 -1,937 Cash flow from investing activities -129,953 -186,908 Financing activities New capital issue – 166,744 Repayment of debt -822,933 -289,070 Borrowings 817,382 75,000 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current financial liabilities -72,188 12,835 Repayment of debt attributable to finance leases -1,752 -372 Cash flow from financing activities -79,491 -34,863 Cash flow for the year -10,864 -66,467 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 118,214 192,532 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 1,067 -7,851 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 108,417 118,214 Nefab Annual Report 2011 65 Financial statements Changes in equity Group Attributable to parent company shareholders Retained earAdditional nings incl. proShare paid in Translation fit/loss for the Total SEK k capital capital reserve year equity Equity at 1 January 2010 203 418,522 239,891 57,391 716,007 Profit/loss for the year according to the income statement -84,880 -84,880 Other comprehensive income -40,002 -40,002 Total comprehensive income -40,002 -84,880 -124,882 Appropriation of profits according to the Annual General Meeting -95,425 95,425 0 Option program 2,738 2,738 New capital issue 69 163,937 164,006 Total transactions with shareholders 69 71,250 95,425 166,744 Equity at 31 December 2010 272 489,772 199,889 67,936 757,869 Equity at 1 January 2011 272 489,772 199,889 67,936 757,869 Profit/loss for the year according to the income statement 45,595 45,595 Other comprehensive income 16,906 16,906 Total comprehensive income 16,906 45,595 62,501 Appropriation of profits according to the Annual General Meeting -21,257 21,257 0 Total transactions with shareholders -21,257 21,257 0 Equity at 31 December 2011 272 468,515 216,795 134,788 820,370 66 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Income statements Parent company SEK k Note 2011 2010 Revenues 5, 6 1,269 1,131 Gross profit 1,269 1,131 Administrative expenses 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 -4,707 -4,341 Other operating expenses -3 -15 Operating profit -3,441 -3,225 Profit from financial items 13 Profit from shares in Group companies 157,000 60,000 Interest expenses, Group companies -1 0 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items -178,721 -78,032 Profit after financial items -25,163 -21,257 Tax on profit for the year 14 0 0 Profit/loss for the year -25,163 -21,257 Statement of comprehensive income Parent company SEK k Note 2011 2010 Profit/loss for the year -25,163 -21,257 Other comprehensive income for the year 0 0 Comprehensive income for the year -25,163 -21,257 Nefab Annual Report 2011 67 Financial statements Statement of financial position Parent company SEK k Note 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 ASSETS Fixed assets Financial fixed assets Shares in Group companies 17 2,612,714 2,612,714 Total fixed assets 2,612,714 2,612,714 Current assets Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 0 Other receivables 22 183 613 Prepayments and accrued income 21 364 0 Total current receivables 547 613 Cash and cash equivalents 27 430 2,375 Total current assets 977 2,988 TOTAL ASSETS 2,613,691 2,615,702 68 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Financial statements SEK k Note 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 24 Restricted equity Share capital 272 272 Total restricted equity 272 272 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 468,515 487,034 Profit/loss brought forward 0 2,738 Profit/loss for the year -25,163 -21,257 Total non-restricted equity 443,352 468,515 Total equity 443,624 468,787 Long-term liabilities Shareholder loans 26 1,311,250 1,170,761 Long-term interest bearing liabilities 26 724,448 737,736 Total long-term liabilities 2,035,698 1,908,497 Current liabilities Current interest bearing liabilities 26 80,000 150,000 Accounts payable 859 2 Liabilities to Group companies 44,199 83,727 Other liabilities 30 4,041 1,513 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 5,270 3,176 Total current liabilities 134,369 238,418 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,613,691 2,615,702 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Pledged assets 32 2,612,714 2,612,714 Contingent liabilities 33 0 0 Nefab Annual Report 2011 69 Financial statements Statement of cash flows Parent company SEK k Note 2011 2010 Operating activities Operating profit -3,441 -3,225 Dividends received 157,000 60,000 Interest paid -34,559 -33,309 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 119,000 23,466 Cash flow from changes in working capital Decrease (+)/increase (–) in current receivables 66 467 Decrease (-)/increase (+) in current liabilities -34,049 -39,208 Cash flow from operating activities 85,017 -15,275 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiary 18 0 0 Cash flow from investing activities 0 0 Financing activities New capital issue 0 166,744 Borrowings 807,073 0 Repayment of loans -894,035 -150,000 Cash flow from financing activities -86,962 16,744 Cash flow for the year -1,945 1,469 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,375 906 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 430 2,375 70 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Changes in equity Parent company Share Share premium Other non-resSEK k capital reserve tricted equity Total equity Equity at 1 January 2010 203 418,522 -95,425 323,300 Profit/loss for the year according to the income statement -21,257 -21,257 Total comprehensive income -21,257 -21,257 Appropriation of profits according to the Annual General Meeting -95,425 95,425 0 Option program 2,738 2,738 New capital issue 69 163,937 164,006 Total transactions with shareholders 68,512 98,163 166,744 Equity at 31 December 2010 272 487,034 -18,519 468,787 Equity at 1 January 2011 272 487,034 -18,519 468,787 Profit/loss for the year according to the income statement -25,163 -25,163 Total comprehensive income -25,163 -25,163 Appropriation of profits according to the Annual General Meeting -18,519 18,519 0 Option program 0 New capital issue 0 Total transactions with shareholders 0 -18,519 18,519 0 Equity at 31 December 2011 272 468,515 -25,163 443,624 Nefab Annual Report 2011 71 notes Notes to the consolidated financial statements in the income statement. For acquired companies, the comNote 1 General information pany's profit is included in the consolidated financial stateNefab Holding AB and its subsidiaries deliver complete ments from the acquisition date. Proceeds from divestments packaging solutions to international industrial groups. of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial The parent company is a stock corporation registered in statement up to and including the divestment date. Sweden and based in the municipality of Stockholm. The The translation of Nefab's subsidiaries has been made address of the head office is Slottsgatan 14, Jönköping, using the current method. For further information about the Sweden. translation of foreign currency, see note 2.4. The main shareholder (58.8%) in Nefab Holding AB is 2.3 Changes in accounting principles and discloCidron Diego S.a.r.l., corp. id. no. 20072426895 based in sures Luxembourg. New and revised standards from IASB and IFRIC statements. Summary of important accounting During the year, IASB and IFRIC have introduced new Note 2 principles standards and interpretations and made other changes as follows: The most important accounting principles that have been applied in these consolidated financial statements are pre– IAS 24 Related party disclosures – amendment sented below. These principles have been applied consistThe amendment in IAS 24 clarifies the ently to all years presented, unless otherwise indicated. definition of related parties to facilitate the identification 2.1 Basis of preparation of the statements of such relationships and eliminate inconsistencies in the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in application. The revised standard also allows certain accordance with IFRS (the EU-approved International Finanexemption for disclosures regarding related national cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as well as interpretations of agencies, state enterprises or corresponding local, the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Comnational or international public bodies. mittee (IFRIC) at 31 December 2011) plus RFR 1 and RFR 2. – IAS 32 Financial instruments: Classification – amendment In the annual report, items have been valued at cost The definition of debt has been changed, meanexcept for certain financial derivative instruments, which ing that e.g. warrants issued by a company where the subhave been evaluated at fair value through profit or loss. The scription amount is determined in a currency other than more significant accounting policies that have been applied the company’s functional currency will be are described below. an equity instrument if they are issued pro rata to existing Preparing financial statements in conformity with IFRS shareholders. requires the executive management to make assessments – IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement and estimates, and to make assumptions that affect the – amendment application of accounting principles and the reported The amendment offers guidance for assessing the amounts for assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The recoverable amount of a “net pension asset”. The amendestimates and assumptions are based on historical experiment allows a company to report the prepayment of a ence and a number of other factors that seem reasonable minimum funding requirement as an asset. under the prevailing conditions. Actual results may differ IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity from these estimates and assessments. Instruments Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. The interpretation explains how a company should report Changes in estimates are reported in the period when the renegotiated terms for a financial liability that results in change is made. For more information about estimates and the company issuing equity instruments to a creditor and assumptions, see note 4.1. which fully or partially extinguishes the financial liability. 2.2 Consolidated financial statements None of the above new or amended standards and stateThe statements for the Nefab Holding Group comprise the ments in 2011 have had a material effect on the consolidated parent company and the companies in which Nefab Holding financial statements. AB owns more than 50% of the voting rights, or otherwise has a controlling interest. New and amended accounting principles applicable The consolidated financial statements have been prefrom 2012. pared using the purchase method, which means that shareThe new or amended standards and interpretations that holder equity includes the parent company's equity and the come into force during the financial year 2012 are presented share of subsidiaries' equity earned following the acquisition below. Nefab has chosen not to apply any of these standards date. According to the purchase method, assets and liabiliearly and has not yet evaluated the full impact on the conties in the subsidiary's statements are valued through an solidated financial statements. acquisition analysis at an estimated fair value in accordance with Group's accounting principles (IFRS). In this context, – IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures – amendment other unrecognized assets such as intangible assets in subThe amendment is aimed at increasing transparency in sidiaries are also identified and evaluated. All these calculadisclosures regarding the transfer of financial assets and tions of fair value include elements of estimates and assessto increase the user's understanding of the risk exposure ments. If the acquisition value exceeds the estimated fair related to the transfer of financial assets and how these value of the company's net assets, the difference is reported transfers can affect a company's financial statements, as goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than the fair value particularly transfers of financial assets involving securitiof the acquired subsidiary's net assets, a review is made of zation. Early application is permitted. the assets identified and evaluated surplus values. Once this – IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurehas been done, any remaining difference is reported directly ment 72 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 2 | cont. IFRS 9 is the first published standard in the major project it should be applied when other IFRS already require or to replace IAS 39. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the model permit fair value measurements. with multiple evaluation criteria based on two primary val– IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements – amendment uation categories: amortized cost and fair value. ClassifiThe most significant change in the revised IAS 1 is the cation is based on the company's business model and the requirement that items reported in other comprehensive characteristics in the contractual cash flows. The guidincome be presented in two groups. The distribution is ance in IAS 39 regarding impairment testing of financial because the items may or may not be reclassified for the assets and hedge accounting continues to apply. income statement (reclassification adjustments). The – IAS 12, Income Taxes – amendment amendment does not address the question of which items Currently, IAS 12 requires that deferred tax attributable to shall be included in other comprehensive income . an asset is valued differently depending on whether the – IAS 19 Employee benefits – amendment asset's carrying amount will be recovered by using it in The amendments to IAS 19 include significant changes operations or through sale. This creates significant diffiregarding the reporting of defined benefit pension plans. culties when the asset is valued at fair value under IAS 40, The possibility to defer actuarial gains and losses as part Investment Property. Therefore, an exemption is now of the “corridor” may not be applied, but must be continubeing introduced in the existing principle for the valuation ously recognized in other comprehensive income. In the of deferred tax assets or liabilities that arise in accounting income statement, items are reported that are attributafor investment properties at fair value. The change means ble to earnings of defined benefit pensions plus gains and that SIC 21 Income Taxes – Recovery of Revalued Nonlosses arising due to the settlement of a pension liability Depreciable Assets no longer applies to investment propand net financial items for the defined benefit plan. The erty measured at fair value. The remainder of SIC 21 is changes include additional changes that do not focus on transferred to IAS 12 and SIC 21 is withdrawn. accounting for pensions but other forms of employee – IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements benefits. Termination benefits shall be recorded at the The purpose of IFRS 10 is to establish principles for the earlier of the following: at the time when the offer of creation and presentation of consolidated financial stateremuneration cannot be withdrawn or in accordance with ments when a company controls one or more other comIAS 37 as part of e.g. the restructuring of the business. panies. The standard defines the concept of control and establishes control as a basis for consolidation. The stand2.4 Revenues ard provides guidance for determining whether one comRevenues are recorded as the significant risks and benefits pany controls another and will thereby consolidate this associated with the Group's products are transferred to the company in the consolidated financial statements. The buyer. standard also specifies how consolidated financial stateThe sale of goods is recognized upon delivery of products ments are to be prepared. to customers. Sales are reported net of VAT, discounts and – IAS 27 Separate financial statements – amendment exchange differences on foreign currency sales. In the conIAS 27 (revised 2011) contains the rules regarding sepasolidated financial statements, intra-group sales are elimirate financial statements that remain following inclusion nated. of control rules in IFRS 10. Revenues from services within packaging logistics, e.g. – IFRS 11 Joint arrangements pool operations and consulting services, are reported in the IFRS 11 provides a more realistic picture of joint arrangeperiod the service relates to. Most of the Group's services ments by focusing on the rights and obligations rather are charged on an ongoing basis. than on the legal form of an arrangement. There are two 2.5 Translation of foreign currency types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint Functional currency and reporting currency ventures. A joint operation occurs when a joint operator is Items included in the financial statements for the various directly entitled to the assets and commitments for the units in the Group are measured using the currency used in liabilities in a joint arrangement. In such an arrangement, the economic environment in which the unit operates (funcassets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are reported tional currency). In the consolidated financial statements based on the holder's share of these. A joint venture SEK (Swedish kronor) is used as the parent company's funcoccurs when a joint operator is entitled to the net assets tional and reporting currency. in a joint arrangement. In such an arrangement, the holder shall report its share according to the equity method. The Transactions and balance items proportional method is no longer permitted. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the – IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at IAS 28 (revised 2011) includes requirements to report joint the date of transaction. Receivables and liabilities denomiventures and associates using the equity method in nated in foreign currencies are valued at the rate on the accordance with IFRS 11. reporting date. Exchange rate differences relating to ongo– IFRS 12 Disclosures of interest in other entities ing operations are recognized in operating profit, while IFRS 12 includes disclosure requirements for subsidiaries, exchange rate differences attributable to the Group's financjoint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated strucing is recognized under financial income and expenses. tured entities. – IFRS 13 Fair value measurement Group companies IFRS 13 Fair value measurement intends to make evaluaThe profit and financial position for all Group companies tion at fair value more consistent and less complex by with functional currencies other than the reporting currency including a precise definition and a common source in (SEK), are translated into the reporting currency as follows: IFRS for fair value valuations and related disclosures. The –a ssets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated requirements, which are essentially the same between at the closing rate, IFRS and US GAAP, do not increase the scope for when –g oodwill and other consolidated surpluses and deficits are fair value shall be applied, but provides guidance on how translated at the closing rate, Nefab Annual Report 2011 73 notes NOTE 2 | cont. – revenues and expenses for each income statement are Termination payment translated at average exchange rates, and The Group recognizes provisions for severance pay when it – all exchange differences arising from the translation of the is committed to either terminating the contract with the Group's net assets are recognized as translation differemployee according to a detailed formal plan without the ences in other comprehensive income. possibility of withdrawal, or to providing termination – exchange rate differences related to hedging of net investpayment as a result of an offer made to encourage ments are also recognized as a translation difference in voluntary redundancy. other comprehensive income. Profit sharing and bonus plans 2.6 Employee benefits The Group recognizes a provision when there is a legal obliPension obligations gation or an informal obligation according to previous Group companies have different pension plans. The pension practice. plans are generally funded through payments from Group companies to insurance companies according to periodic Share-related benefits calculations. There are no share benefits within the Group. The Group mainly has defined contribution plans, but also See note 24. some defined benefit plans. A defined benefit pension plan 2.7 Leases is a pension plan that indicates an amount for the pension When lease agreements mean that the Group, as the lessee, benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually essentially enjoys the financial benefits and bears the finandependent on one or more factors such as age, period of cial risks attributable to the leased object, the object is service or salary. A defined contribution plan is a pension reported as a fixed asset in the statement of financial posiplan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a tion. Corresponding obligations to pay lease fees in the separate legal entity. future are recognized as liabilities. Each lease payment is One of the defined benefit plans has plan assets in a spesplit between amortization of debt and financial costs, cial foundation. An independent actuary calculates the size which are recognized in the income statement over the lease of the obligations for each defined benefit plan, and reasterm. Fixed assets held under finance leases are depreciated sesses the pension plans annually. The pension liability for over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term. defined benefit plans is calculated according to the ProLeases where a significant share of the risks and benefits jected Unit Credit Method, which distributes the cost over of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as the duration of the employee's service. These obligations are operating leases. For such leased items, lease payments are valued at the present value of expected future payments recorded linearly over the lease period. using a discount rate equal to the interest rate on governFor the parent company all leases are classified as operatment bonds with a maturity that approximates the actual ing leases. commitments. For funded plans, pension obligations are The Group acts in certain cases as the lessor. This refers recorded in the consolidated financial statements net followalmost exclusively to operating leases for the rental of packing deductions for plan assets. If a funded plan has plan aging products via pool systems. Rental income is accrued assets in excess of commitments, this is recorded as financial and recognized as income linearly in the period to which the fixed assets. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experiservice pertains. Costs associated with leasing revenues are ence-based adjustments and actuarial assumptions in recognized when they occur. Usually there are no notice excess of the greater of 10% of the value of the plan assets or periods within the operations, so future minimum lease pay10% of the defined benefit obligation, are distributed over ments are marginal. the employees' expected average remaining working lives. Costs relating to services performed in earlier periods are 2.8 Current and deferred income tax recognized directly in the income statement. Current tax for the period is based on profit for the period For defined contribution plans, the Group has no further adjusted for non-tax-deductible expenses and non-taxable payment obligations once the contributions are paid. The revenues plus tax adjustments relating to earlier periods. contributions are recognized as expenses in the period The current tax is based on enacted tax rates at the reportwhen the employees render the services to which the contriing date. butions pertain. Deferred tax is recognized on differences arising between Commitments for retirement pensions and family penthe fiscal value and the carrying amount of assets and liabilisions for salaried employees in Sweden are secured through ties, temporary differences, as well as on tax loss carry forinsurance with Alecta. These pension plans are defined benwards. Deferred tax liabilities are normally recognized for all efit plans but are handled as defined contribution plans in taxable temporary differences while deferred tax assets are accordance with the exceptions rule stated in IAS 19. The recognized to the extent that it is probable that the amounts Swedish Financial Reporting Board's statement UFR 3 can be offset against future taxable surpluses. applies until Alecta can report basic data for the calculation Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to of defined benefit pension obligations. UFR 3 means that the apply in the period in which the tax is realized. pension solution with Alecta is classified as a defined contriDeferred tax is also calculated on temporary differences bution plan until further notice. At the end of 2011, Alecta's arising on shares in subsidiaries, except in cases where the collective consolidation level amounted to 113 percent (146). reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled by Besides pension obligations, there are no other significant the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference post-employment benefits. will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Untaxed reserves in the individual companies are divided Short-term employee remuneration between deferred tax liabilities and retained earnings in the Short-term remuneration such as salaries, paid short-term consolidated balance sheet. Untaxed reserves mainly exist in absences (such as paid vacation and paid sick leave) etc. are the Swedish companies. recorded when the services eligible for remuneration are carried out. 74 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 2 | cont. 2.9 Tangible fixed assets and intangible assets Financial assets are evaluated at fair value via the Tangible fixed assets and intangible assets, excluding goodincome statement. will and brands, are reported net at cost less planned depreThis category consists of financial derivatives, currency forciation and possible impairment losses. If there is an indicaward agreements and currency option agreements held in tion that an asset has decreased in value, a calculation is order to reduce the uncertainty of future purchase and sales made of the asset's recoverable amount. In cases where an values. Assets and liabilities within this category are classiasset's carrying amount exceeds its estimated recoverable fied as current assets and current liabilities and are recogamount, the asset is immediately written down to its recovnized in the balance sheet item as other current assets or liaerable amount. bilities. After the acquisition date these assets and liabilities Expenditure to improve the performance of tangible are recognized at fair value. Realized and unrealized gains assets beyond the original level increases the asset's carryand losses arising from changes in fair value for this cateing amount and is activated with costs incurred. Expenditure gory are included in the income statement as financial for repairs and maintenance is recorded as costs. income or expenses if the hedge relates to financing activiBrands are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. ties and as other operating income or expenses if the hedge Brands regarded as having an indefinite useful life, and relates to operating activities, and are reported in the period therefore no annual depreciation is made. in which they occur because the Group does not apply Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39. Fair value is value of the Group's share of the acquired subsidiary's idenbased on market values​​, obtained from banks or institutions tifiable net assets or the assets and liabilities at the acquisithat deal with forward agreements and options. tion date. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is reported at cost less accumulated impairment losses. DepreFinancial assets held for sale ciation and amortization according to plan are not reported Financial assets held for sale are non-derivative assets where for goodwill. the assets have been identified as available for sale or they Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purhave not been classified in any other category. They are pose of impairment testing. The cash-generating units comincluded in current assets unless management intends to prise the segments in the Group, which represents the lowdispose of the asset within 12 months of the reporting est level where there are separately identifiable cash flows. period. Research and development Loans receivable, other receivables and other finanCosts for product and process development have been concial liabilities tinuously charged to profit, as the criteria for taking up an Loans receivable, other receivables and other financial liabiliintangible asset in the statement of financial position is not ties are non-derivative assets and liabilities. They are fulfilled. As the costs for the largest part relate to specific included in current assets and current liabilities except for customer orders, these are reported under cost of goods items that have a maturity date more than 12 months after sold. the reporting date, which are classified as fixed assets and long-term liabilities. Loans receivable, other receivables and Depreciation methods other financial liabilities are reported at amortized cost using Tangible and intangible fixed assets are amortized systematthe effective interest method. ically over the asset's estimated useful life. Straight-line Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recogdepreciation is used for all types of tangible and intangible nized at the settlement date – the date on which an asset is fixed assets. Depreciation has been performed by the foldelivered to or by the Group. lowing percentages per year: Financial instruments are derecognized from the statement of financial position when the right to receive cash Goodwill and brand No depreciation flows from the instrument has expired or been transferred Customer relations 12.5–20% and the Group has substantially transferred all risks and benOther intangible assets 12.5-33% efits associated with ownership. As for last year, provisions for risk of loss occurred followPlant and machinery 6–20% ing individual consideration. Consideration of the risk of loss Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 12.5–20% is primarily based on age structures. Computers 20-33% Borrowing costs Lands and 2-5% Borrowing costs are normally charged to the profit in the Land improvements 3.75% period to which they relate. Borrowing costs attributable to purchases or the construction of so-called qualifying assets 2.10 Financial instruments shall be capitalized as part of the asset's cost. A qualifying The Group classifies its financial instruments into two cateasset is an asset that takes considerable time to complete. gories: financial assets at fair value through the income statement plus loans receivable, other receivables and other 2.11 Inventories financial liabilities. The classification depends on the purInventories have been valued using a method that is based pose for which the instrument was acquired. The manageon the weighted average prices at the lower of acquisition ment determines the classification of the instrument on inicost and manufacturing cost and net realizable value. For tial recognition and re-evaluates this decision at every manufactured and finished goods, cost comprises direct reporting date. production costs and a reasonable proportion of indirect costs. 2.12 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and current investments with a maturity of up to 3 months. Nefab Annual Report 2011 75 notes NOTE 2 | cont. 2.13 Provisions and contingent liabilities 2.15 Cash flow statement A provision is recognized when the company has a legal or The cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect informal obligation as a result of a past event and it is probamethod. The reported cash flow only includes transactions ble that an outflow of resources will be required in order to that involve cash payments. settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Present value calculations are made to take 2.16 Events after the reporting date into account the time effect for significant future payments. For events after the reporting date, refer to the Director's Contingent liabilities are recognized in cases where the report, and note 34. requirements have been met for recognition as a liability 2.17 The parent company's accounting principles or not. The annual report for the parent company has been prepared in accordance with RFR 2 and the Annual Accounts 2.14 Government support Act. Government support is recognized at fair value when there Group contributions are reported in accordance with is reasonable assurance that the support will be received RFR2 in the income statement, both paid and received. and that the Group will comply with the conditions attached. Shareholders' contributions are recognized as an increase Government support attributable to costs is deferred and in the item, shares in Group companies. In cases where conrecognized as revenue in the period when the costs arise for tributions refer to the covering of losses, an impairment which the Government support is intended to compensate. assessment of the shares' value is required. Government support for the acquisition of tangible fixed assets reduces the asset's carrying amount. Note 3 Financial risks and other risk factors 3.1 Risk management process Risk when translating foreign subsidiaries' income Nefab's work with risk management is based on the overall statements and statements of financial position framework for risk management that has been established. Foreign subsidiaries' income statements are translated to The overall structure includes risk analyses and risk assessSwedish kronor using the average exchange rate. The subments at Group level, risk seminars and risk reporting at the sidiaries' statements of financial position are translated at company level in accordance with established models. the rate on the reporting date. Translation risks in the statements of financial position refer to changes caused by 3.2 Financial risks exchange rate changes to net assets in foreign currencies The Group's is exposed to financial risks through its internathat are translated into SEK. tional operations. Financial risk is the change in consolidated cash flow that can be explained by changes in exchange 3.4 Interest rate risk rates, interest rates as well as liquidity, funding and credit Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates negrisks. atively affect the Group's profit through increased borrowThe goal is to minimize the financial risk in a cost effective ing costs. Financing occurs through borrowing from banks manner to ensure the Group's liquidity needs and to optiand shareholders. mize the cost for raising capital. The Group's financial policy forms a framework of guide3.5 Liquidity and financing risk lines and rules for managing the financial risks and financial Liquidity and financing risk is the risk of being unable to activities in general. meet payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity or difficulties in raising external loans. Nefab seeks to achieve a 3.3 Currency risk high level of financial preparedness and effective fund raisBoth the consolidated income statement and statement of ing by building strong relationships with a few selected financial position are affected by currency fluctuations and banks. the Group's operations are therefore exposed to currency risks primarily in the following three areas: 3.6 Business risks – Transaction risk The Group is exposed to risks to varying degrees in different – Risk when translating foreign subsidiaries' income statemarkets. For the Group as a whole, two main risk areas are ments identified: risks associated with the procurement of raw – Risk when translating foreign subsidiaries' statements of materials and customer dependence on the telecom indusfinancial position try. Transaction risk 3.7 Commodity risk Transaction risk arises as a result of the Group's commercial The Group's own production is dependent on a number of payment flows that are made in currencies other than each raw materials, particularly steel and plywood. Rising prices subsidiary's local currency. The Group's policy is to hedge and lack of supply for these raw materials may negatively known flows and forecast flows within three months. Longer affect the Group's profit. The price of plywood may also option and forward contracts exist but require approval affect the material's competitiveness relative to other matefrom the Group management. rials. Most of the Group's products are sold in the same country 3.8 Customer dependence they are produced in. The main exceptions concern deliverThe Group's position as a leading packaging supplier to ies made from the Swedish production units to foreign end major telecom providers is a strength for the Group, while it users, from manufacturing units in Canada to the US as well also carries a risk. A simultaneous decrease in volume for all as deliveries from manufacturing units in Estonia and Slovabusinesses in the telecom industry would adversely affect kia to European markets. the Group. The large geographical spread of invoicing partly mitigates such effects. 76 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 4 Key estimates and assumptions for accounting purposes Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and where the final tax differs from the assessed tax, this is are based on historical experience and other factors, includreported in the period when the tax is determined. ing expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Identification and measurement of intangible assets upon acquisition 4.1 Key estimates and assumptions for accounting For company acquisitions, the executive management idenpurposes tifies and evaluates the surplus value that exists and makes The Group makes estimates and assumptions about the an assessment of the expected useful life. Identified surplus future. The accounting estimates that result from these will, values ​​will then be recognized as an intangible asset in by definition, rarely correspond to the actual results. The accordance with this. In connection with the evaluation, the estimates and assumptions that involve a significant risk for executive management makes estimates and assumptions material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and regarding, for example, future growth and the identification liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. of a discount rate. Impairment assessment of fixed assets Provisions The Group annually tests for any impairment of goodwill and Provisions are defined as liabilities that are uncertain with brands, in accordance with the accounting policy described respect to the time of settlement or amount. It follows that in the section Tangible and intangible assets. For all fixed some estimates and assumptions are always made when assets, impairment is also tested in the event that any indicaprovisions are reported. Within the Group, provisions include tion of this exists. The recoverable amounts for cash generthose for expected return of packaging material from cusating units are determined by calculating the value in use. tomers. The size of the provision is assessed based on previThese calculations require some estimates to be used. ous returns. Other provisions, such as warranty provisions (Note 16 Intangible assets) are made on the basis of assessed results. For pension provisions, assumptions are made about inflation, discount rate Income taxes and return on plan assets. The Group has fiscal deficits in some companies. These deficits may in future be offset against future profits. Deferred 4.2 Significant assessments in application of the tax is recognized to the extent it is deemed likely that the fiscompany's accounting principles cal deficit can be offset against surpluses in the coming With regard to property, there is a lease with the option to years' tax assessments, when the companies in question are purchase the property. The assessment has been made that expected to generate profits. This is described further in this is not going to occur. Classification is made in accordnote 14. ance with this and other factors as operating leases. In some cases, tax audits are taking place in Group companies. The Group recognizes any liability based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. In cases Nefab Annual Report 2011 77 notes Note 5 Segment information The Group's operations are managed and reported by geographical areas, which therefore forms the basis for the Group's segmentation. All types of the Group's products are available in the various geographical markets and to all customer segments. Europe Asia America Other Elimination Total SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Revenues External sales 1,676,394 1,464,791 829,979 721,421 641,320 307,499 1,965 3,453 3,149,658 2,497,164 Internal sales 2,975 2,276 12,743 7,416 0 7 163,041 113,787 -178,759 -123,486 – – Total revenues 1,679,369 1,467,067 842,722 728,837 641,320 307,506 165,006 117,240 -178,759 -123,486 3,149,658 2,497,164 Profit Operating profit (EBITDA) 208,366 158,457 84,058 70,617 19,308 8,355 30,111 18,086 341,843 255,515 Depreciation/amortization -32,827 -32,150 -17,380 -18,947 -9,000 -6,227 -2,697 -3,245 -61,904 -60,569 Operating profit (EBITA) 175,539 126,307 66,678 51,670 10,308 2,128 27,414 14,841 279,939 194,946 Depreciation/amortization of surplus value on intangible assets -14,879 -13,550 -11,069 -12,402 -9,049 -3,630 0 0 -34,997 -29,582 Operating profit 160,660 112,757 55,609 39,268 1,259 -1,502 27,414 14,841 0 0 244,942 165,364 Net financial income -185,410 -225,056 Profit after financial items 59,532 -59,692 Tax on profit for the year -13,937 -25,188 Profit/loss for the year 45,595 -84,880 Other disclosures Fixed assets 1,170,449 1,137,124 1,239,355 1,234,566 383,665 358,827 28,943 30,799 2,822,412 2,761,316 Inventories 170,988 130,284 55,334 52,262 43,113 31,450 10,528 7,445 279,963 221,441 Other assets 322,062 305,196 263,108 231,165 99,809 103,074 116,796 80,855 -120,906 -79,860 680,869 640,430 Non-allocatable assets 172,992 179,476 Total assets 1,663,499 1,572,604 1,557,797 1,517,993 526,587 493,351 156,267 119,099 -120,906 -79,860 3,956,236 3,802,663 Equity 820,370 757,869 Other liabilities 294,982 267,692 223,694 203,889 105,267 88,493 48,421 22,274 -120,931 -79,906 551,433 502,442 Non-allocatable liabilities 2,584,433 2,542,352 Total liabilities 294,982 267,692 223,694 203,889 105,267 88,493 48,421 22,274 -120,931 -79,906 3,956,236 3,802,663 Investments 85,442 49,547 14,605 4,046 38,618 261,931 934 4,067 139,599 319,591 Unallocated costs relate to shared costs. The geographical segments' assets consist primarily of tangible fixed assets, intangible fixed assets, inventories and receivables but exclude financial assets. Liabilities consist of operating liabilities but not by items such as tax liabilities and financial items. Investments consist of purchases of tangible fixed assets and intangible assets, including increases that have resulted from acquisitions. No income statement items other than operating profit are allocated to the regions. Market conditions and pricing prevails between Group companies and when trading between different geographical markets. 78 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 5 | cont. Geographical information Revenue from external customers (based on domicile) Below are the external sales revenues for Nefab's largest markets based on the customer's location. SEK k 2011 2010 Sweden 302,424 10% 317,037 13% China 700,846 22% 620,780 25% USA 492,761 16% 216,064 8% Germany 218,271 7% 170,994 7% France 202,767 6% 148,679 6% Other 1,232,589 39% 1,023,610 41% Total 3,149,658 100% 2,497,164 100% Fixed assets by Country Fixed assets are distributed for individually significant countries with respect to production capacity. Much of the Group's goodwill and intangible assets from acquisitions have been allocated to the Group's segments Europe, America and Asia and are reported below in the item other. SEK k 2011 2010 Sweden 39,594 1% 42,140 2% USA 258,584 9% 254,907 9% France 60,000 2% 57,779 2% China 56,798 2% 35,267 1% Estonia 53,034 2% 30,428 1% Slovakia 45,395 2% 45,559 2% Spain 37,372 1% 39,158 1% Other 2,271,635 81% 2,256,078 82% Total 2,822,412 100% 2,761,316 100% Revenue breakdown by type of income: Group Parent company SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 In-house manufactured products 1,636,941 1,321,842 – – Commercial products 1,235,688 1,046,158 – – Official services 277,029 129,164 1,269 1,131 Total 3,149,658 2,497,164 1,269 1,131 Group revenues to some extent consist of services. In addition to the official services specified above, services are also performed relating to the sale of goods. This is an integral part of the invoicing that takes place for the sale of goods. Nefab Annual Report 2011 79 notes Note 6 Intra-group transactions Note 7 Items affecting comparability The entire parent company's net sales relates to invoicing to In 2010 restructuring continued for the production structure subsidiaries. Of the total operating cost, 0 percent (0) reprein northern Europe that began in 2009. The restructuring sents invoicing from subsidiaries. mainly related to the relocation of the production plant in Sweden, which was closed down and moved to Estonia. The Group's operating profit for 2010 was charged with SEK 5,857 k in connection with this restructuring. The bulk of this amount consisted of costs for personnel, both in the project and for redundancy payments. In addition, operating profit for 2010 was charged with acquisition costs of SEK 7,885 k. Note 8 Wages, other remuneration and social security expenses 2011 2010 Wages and Pension Wages and Pension SEK k remuneration expenses remuneration expenses Parent company (Sweden) Boards and President 1,208 0 1,150 – (of which variable remuneration) 0 – Other employees 631 90 653 93 Subsidiary (Sweden) Boards and Presidents 5,981 1,371 5,011 1,227 (of which variable remuneration) (1,032) 932) Other employees 74,936 7,577 74,424 6,319 Subsidiary (abroad) Boards and Presidents 24,415 772 23,991 985 (of which variable remuneration) (1,527) (995) Other employees 393,116 9,834 302,087 9,371 Total 500,287 19,644 407,316 17,995 (of which variable remuneration to Boards and Presidents) (2,559) (1,927) 80 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 8 | cont. 2011 2010 Board of Directors Board of Directors and Other and Other The following applies by country: President employees President employees Sweden 7,189 75,271 6,161 75,077 Norway 957 8,374 891 8,243 Denmark 983 935 975 947 Finland 0 1,039 – 1,412 Estonia 912 13,677 1,060 10,048 Russia 0 296 0 298 Netherlands 1,265 8,392 1,088 7,156 Belgium 1,220 7,200 1,097 6,641 Germany 3,641 31,328 2,087 23,728 Austria 1,147 3,207 1,069 3,521 Poland 852 1,986 631 1,672 Hungary 518 4,638 550 4,002 Romania 0 654 – 539 Slovakia 488 15,267 964 14,808 United Kingdom 583 1,707 723 1,513 France 1,465 34,761 1,517 22,403 Spain 1,093 28,989 1,088 31,161 Italy 0 2,412 – 2,376 Portugal 388 2,791 305 2,948 Canada 1,024 25,902 1,091 24,212 USA 1,787 116,191 2,154 43,206 China 3,395 68,028 3,901 78,300 Singapore 0 2,227 – 1,808 Czech Republic 0 688 – 574 Mexico 0 603 – 651 India 798 5,247 807 3,641 Brazil 1,899 6,873 1,993 6,577 Total 31,604 468,683 30,152 377,164 Social security expenses, SEK k 2011 2010 Parent company 599 590 Subsidiary, Sweden 27,832 27,701 Subsidiary, abroad 92,890 69,586 Total 121,321 97,877 Pension expenses for pension plans that are treated as defined contribution amount to SEK 19,644 k (17,995) for the Group, and SEK 90 k (93) for the parent company. Nefab Annual Report 2011 81 notes Note 9 Personnel Average number of employees by country Group Parent company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Of which Of which Of which Of which Total male Total male Total male Total male Sweden 199 159 193 156 1 1 1 1 Norway 18 12 18 12 – – – – Denmark 3 2 3 2 – – – – Finland 3 2 3 2 – – – – Russia 2 1 2 1 – – – – Estonia 130 73 93 49 – – – – Poland 12 7 10 7 – – – – Czech Republic 4 2 3 2 – – – – Hungary 36 26 30 21 – – – – Romania 4 2 3 2 Slovakia 126 88 135 96 – – – – Netherlands 28 24 23 18 – – – – Belgium 26 17 25 16 – – – – Germany 115 96 61 49 – – – – Austria 9 6 9 7 – – – – United Kingdom 4 1 5 3 – – – – France 115 96 80 66 – – – – Spain 124 101 126 101 – – – – Italy 6 4 6 4 – – – – Portugal 24 16 21 13 – – – – Canada 93 83 82 70 – – – – Mexico 35 24 2 2 – – – – USA 409 360 149 132 – – – – China 1,269 991 1,225 954 – – – – India 82 81 72 70 – – – – Singapore 15 5 14 4 – – – – Brazil 43 36 49 41 – – – – Total 2,934 2,315 2,442 1,900 1 1 1 1 Board members and senior executives Group Parent company 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Of Of Of Of Number at which Number at which Number at which Number at which reporting date male reporting date male reporting date male reporting date male Board Members 63 95% 64 95% 9 89% 9 89% Presidents and other senior executives 128 85% 118 85% 1 100% 1 100% 82 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 10 Related party transactions The Nordgren/Pihl family ​​ has received remuneration from The following transactions have taken place with related the company Sanope S.A. The invoices that Nefab Holding parties AB received in 2011 from Sanope S.A. have been subsequently invoiced to the subsidiary Nefab AB. Market condiPurchase of services tions and pricing prevails between Nefab and the Nordgren/ Group Parent company Pihl family ​​ with the company. SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 Lease agreements exist with companies owned by senior executives of the Group's subsidiaries in the two newly Sanope S.A. 463 484 463 484 acquired companies Peinetti and PDS. These lease expenses Other senior execuare included below in the item purchase of services from tives/Board 3,585 445 – – other senior executives. Total 4,048 929 463 484 Transactions take place between Group companies relating to the provision of goods and services and the provision Closing debt at year end resulting from the of financial and intangible services. Market conditions and purchase of services pricing are applied to all transactions. All intra-group transactions are eliminated. Group Parent company SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 Sanope S.A. (principal owner family) – – – – Other senior executives/Board 452 – – – Total 452 0 0 0 Remuneration to senior executives in 2011 Fixed salary/ Pension Other remuneSEK k fees Variable salary Other benefits expenses ration Total Chairman of the Board 500 – – – 435 935 Other Board members 708 – – – 463 1,171 President and CEO 2,384 416 0 738 – 3,538 Other senior executives (9 people) 12,873 1,219 1,063 1,618 221 16,994 Total 16,465 1,635 1,063 2,356 1,119 22,638 Remuneration to senior executives in 2010 Fixed salary/ Pension Other remuneSEK k fees Variable salary Other benefits expenses ration Total Chairman of the Board 500 – – – 445 945 Other Board members 650 – – – 484 1,134 President and CEO 2,215 707 32 762 – 3,716 Other senior executives (9 people) 11,281 1,955 1,052 1,650 432 16,370 Total 14,646 2,662 1,084 2,412 1,361 22,165 All pension expenses in 2011 and 2010 relate to defined contribution plans. Nefab Annual Report 2011 83 notes NOTE 10 | cont. Remuneration of Board members amounts to SEK 1,250 k in For the newly appointed President, David Mörk, the same accordance with a decision by the Annual General Meeting. employment conditions apply except for pension contribuSEK 500 k is to the Chairman and SEK 250 k to Mr Karlsson, tions, which instead amount to 30% of the basic salary. with members Rosberg, Samuelsson, North Branch and Pihl​​ For other members of the Group management, remunerreceiving SEK 125 k each. Recorded Board fees for the finanation has been received totaling SEK 14,092 k for nine peocial year 2011 amount to SEK 1,208 k. As in previous years, ple. SEK 1,219 k of of this amount relates to variable salary. Board members with permanent employment in the Group For 2011, the variable salary consists of two parts, the first of have not received any special remuneration. No special fees which is related to the Group's results and the other is are payable for committee work. Employee representatives related to the achievement of certain predetermined goals. receive a study fee The variable salary for each executive is capped at around Chairman Lars-Åke Rydh has additionally received remu35% (in one case 145%) of the basic salary. Nine people in the neration for consultancy work within his professional field of Group management have made salary waivers of benefits, competence. These fees altogether totaled SEK 435 k. such as car privileges. The total amount for benefits is The owner family Nordgren/Pihl ​​has received remunerathereby SEK 1,063 k. tion from the company Sanope S.A. SEK 463 k in remuneraThe Employment Protection Act applies for two people in tion was paid and represents payment for work relating to the Group management team, while other members have the Group's expansion project, marketing and other develnotice periods ranging between 3 months and 30 months, opment work. where a 12 month notice period being the most common Salary and other remuneration to the President Stefan from the company. Ekqvist was expensed during the year totaling SEK 2,384 k. Pension premiums of SEK 1,618 k have been expensed for SEK 416 k of the remuneration relates to variable salary. Penother members of the Group management. sion premiums for the President were expensed during the The Group has one outstanding option program, see year totaling SEK 738 k. note 24. The variable salary program consists of two parts, the first The Board of Directors has established a remuneration of which is related to the Group's results and the other is committee that is tasked with developing proposals to the related to the achievement of certain predetermined goals. Board regarding salary and other remuneration to the PresiThe variable salary is capped at 40% of the his annual basic dent. This task also includes reviewing remuneration of salary. Board members when they are appointed as consultants by The President's pension plan includes pension provisions the executive management. Furthermore, the remuneration amounting to 35% of the base salary. The President's of executives closest to the President shall be authorized by employment conditions include 12 months' notice from the the remuneration committee. During the year, the remuneracompany plus severance pay equal to basic salary for a tion committee comprised Lars-Åke Rydh, Ulf Rosberg and period of 6 months. A notice period of 12 months applies for Jochum Pihl. The President's remuneration is paid from the termination by the President. Severance pay is not paid in subsidiary Nefab AB. this case. 84 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 11 Remuneration of auditors Group Parent company 2011 2010 2011 2010 Ernst & Young Auditing assignments 4,437 5,068 100 100 Audit activities other than auditing assignments 1,003 54 – – Tax advice 114 229 – – Other services 315 197 – – Total Ernst & Young 5,869 5,548 100 100 Other auditors Auditing assignments 627 848 – – Audit activities other than auditing assignments 0 79 – – Tax advice 108 388 – – Other services 117 5 – – Total other auditors 852 1,320 0 0 Total 6,721 6,868 100 100 Auditing assignments refer to the auditor's remuneration intended to provide analytical material, even for someone for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that has been necessary other than the client, plus advice and other assistance resultin order to submit the auditors' report. This also includes ing from observations made during an evaluation. fees for audit advice given in connection with an auditing Tax advice is included within this. Other services include assignment. advice not attributable to any of the previously listed types Auditing services other than auditing assignments refer of services such as legal services in addition to audit activito reviews of the administrative or financial information in ties concerning matters other than taxes. line with the constitution, articles of incorporation, statutes or agreements and which culminate in a report that is Nefab Annual Report 2011 85 notes Note 12 Leases Assets that the Group leases through finance leases and that are reported as tangible fixed assets consist of: Lands and buildings SEK k 2011 2010 Acquisition value 23,238 24,053 Accumulated depreciation -16,163 -16,023 Net book value 7,075 8,030 Future payment commitments for the Group for leases are as follows: Finance leases Operating leases 2011 2010 2011 2010 SEK k Nominal Present value Nominal Present value Nominal Nominal Payment due within one year 1,881 1,791 1,821 1,735 102,705 90,432 Payable later than one year but within 5 years 481 436 2,386 2,143 158,946 184,430 Payable due later than 5 years – – – – 60,100 37,011 Lease payments during the year amount to 1,819 1,762 118,517 110,280 Finance leases The Group as lessor Larger leased objects refer to property leases for the proThe Group acts as lessor in operating leases for the rental of duction facility in France. packaging products via pool systems. Leasing revenue for There are no variable lease payments. Nor are there any the year amounts to SEK 22,434 k (14,516), excluding hansignificant purchase options or restrictions resulting from dling revenues from these customers. Usually there are no leases. notice periods within the operations, so future minimum lease payments are marginal. Operating leases Larger leased objects refer to factory and office leases. There are no variable lease payments. Nor are there any significant or restrictions resulting from leases. There is a purchase option relating to a property in Sweden. 86 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 13 Profit from financial items Profit from shares in Group companies Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items Group Parent company Group Parent company SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 Dividends from Interest expenses, subsidiaries – – 157,000 60,000 Group companies – – -1 – Total 0 0 157,000 60,000 Interest expenses, Shareholder loans -140,489 -123,964 -140,489 -123,964 Interest income and similar profit/loss items Interest expenses, other -38,147 -40,141 -26,816 -30,187 Group Parent company Other financial SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 expenses -7,322 -1,957 -6,704 -1,581 Interest income, Exchange rate difother 1,624 1,648 – – ferences (net) 1,449 -58,313 -2,187 79,051 Total 1,624 1,648 0 0 Fair value gains/ losses for financial instruments -2,525 -2,329 -2,525 -1,351 Total -187,034 -226,704 -178,722 -78,032 Note 14 Current/deferred tax Deferred taxes are reported regarding future tax consequences of events that are reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Among other things, a review has been made of the Group's loss deductions and the tax value has been capitalized to the extent it is deemed likely that the tax loss carry forwards can be offset against surpluses in the next few years' tax assessments, when the subsidiary in question is expected to generate profit. 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 SEK k Losses Fiscal value Losses Fiscal value Total accumulated fiscal losses 438,637 117,483 355,702 98,334 Deficit for which fiscal value capitalized on the reporting date 122,923 31,769 84,999 24,146 Losses for which the tax value is not capitalized in the financial statements 315,714 85,714 270,703 74,188 The above losses are mostly related to operations in SweSEK 31,769 k, and this amount has been capitalized as den, Brazil and Germany and represent the amount in local deferred tax assets. currency translated to Swedish kronor at the rate on the Loss deductions in Brazil and Sweden make up a large reporting date. The increase in the total fiscal deficit is part of the total tax loss carry forwards. As a result of the mainly due to new deficits in Sweden. The increase in capilocal tax rules in Brazil, which states that only 30% of future talized losses compared with previous years is largely attribtaxable income may be offset against losses carried forward, utable to tax loss carry forwards in the US and China that are there is therefore uncertainty about the time for the loss deemed able to be utilized. carry forward's utilization. Loss carry forwards in Sweden Of the total losses of SEK 438,637 k, SEK 122,923 k is have not been capitalized as they are not considered to be assessed as likely to be utilized. The tax value of these is able to be utilized in the coming years. Nefab Annual Report 2011 87 notes NOTE 14 | cont. The Group's tax loss carry forwards have the followIn addition to loss carry forwards, SEK 19,036 k (2,957) has ing maturity dates: been capitalized, which is equivalent to the tax value of temporary differences. Most of the activated other temporary 12-31-2011 differences were deemed to be able to be utilized regularly Considered Non-consiover the next five years. SEK k Total deficit deficitdered deficit The tax cost for the Group for 2011 amounted to –23% 2012–2016 27,057 27,057 – (–42) of profit. 2017-2021 18,912 18,912 – 2022-2031 32,471 32,471 – Unlimited 360,197 44,483 315,714 Total 438,637 122,923 315,714 Difference between reported tax expense and tax expense based on current tax rates Group Parent company SEK k 2011 2010 2011 2010 Profit before tax 59,532 -59,692 -25,163 -21,257 Tax according to current tax rates: Tax according to current tax rate in Sweden (26.3%) -15,657 15,699 6,618 5,591 Difference in tax rates for foreign companies 12,615 -8,891 – – Non-tax items consolidated depreciation/impairments -40 -179 – – Adjustment of deferred taxes from previous years 9,080 -2,968 – – Adjustments for taxes attributable to previous years assessments – -3,770 – – Non-deductible expenses etc. -11,258 -13,211 – – Adjustment of tax reserves from previous years 1,000 640 – – Change in unrecognized temporary differences 1,848 -1,103 – – Change in unrecognized tax loss carry forwards -11,526 -11,405 -6,618 -5,591 Tax expenses for the year -13,937 -25,188 0 0 Effective tax rate 23.4% -42.2% 0.0% 0.0% Temporary differences Deferred tax assets Temporary differences arise when assets or liabilities carryGroup ing amounts and fiscal values are different. Temporary differences for the following items have resulted in deferred tax SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 liabilities and deferred tax assets: Loss carry forwards 31,769 24,146 Deferred tax liabilities Tangible fixed assets 1,919 3,171 Intangible assets 5,667 5,126 Group Other 11,450 9,692 SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Total 50,805 42,135 Tangible fixed assets 1,562 1,439 Intangible assets 139,757 137,161 The Group's Estonian subsidiary is not subject to any income Estimated dividend from Estonia 8,912 5,762 tax. However, the company is taxed with a dividend to the Other 337 637 parent company. Deferred tax liabilities are reported in relation to this of SEK 8,912 k concerning estimated dividends in Total 150,568 144,999 the foreseeable future. No other deferred tax liabilities are judged to exist regarding subsidiaries' undistributed retained earnings. 88 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 15 Tangible fixed assets Group Equipment, Plant Equipment, Construction Lands and and tools, fixtures in buildings machinery and fittings progress Total Accumulated acquisition value at 1 January 2010 At the start of the year 249,361 566,736 92,022 10,400 918,519 Purchases 1,612 16,743 8,704 9,245 36,304 Through acquisition of subsidiary 7,193 9,726 2,218 2,536 21,673 Divestments/disposals -589 -16,622 -4,720 -38 -21,969 Reclassifications 2,389 808 569 -2,244 1,522 Translation differences for the year -14,045 -40,491 -7,050 285 -61,301 At the year-end 245,921 536,900 91,743 20,184 894,748 Accumulated planned depreciation/amortization at 1 January 2010 At the start of the year -111,453 -362,978 -69,107 – -543,538 Divestments/disposals 541 14,869 3,923 – 19,333 Through acquisition of subsidiary – – – – 0 Reclassifications -5,295 4,542 546 – -207 Depreciation/amortization for the year -11,601 -39,093 -8,632 – -59,326 Translation differences for the year 4,262 26,445 5,363 – 36,070 At the year-end -123,546 -356,215 -67,907 0 -547,668 Accumulated depreciation/amortization at 1 January 2010 At the start of the year -1,672 -1,518 – – -3,190 Impairment for the year – 0 – – 0 Translation differences for the year – 0 – – 0 At the year-end -1,672 -1,518 0 0 -3,190 Closing net book value at 31 December 2010 120,703 179,167 23,836 20,184 343,890 Accumulated acquisition value at 1 January 2011 At the start of the year 245,921 536,900 91,743 20,184 894,748 Purchases 4,302 27,119 13,752 46,573 91,746 Through acquisition of subsidiary 2,298 16,571 2,222 0 21,091 Divestments/disposals -17,668 -33,543 -6,255 -66 -57,532 Reclassifications 7,825 17,342 2,166 -27,469 -136 Translation differences for the year 36 974 -586 -501 -77 At the year-end 242,714 565,363 103,042 38,721 949,840 Accumulated planned depreciation/amortization at 1 January 2011 At the start of the year -123,546 -356,215 -67,907 – -547,668 Divestments/disposals 12,022 25,795 4,937 – 42,754 Through acquisition of subsidiary -22 -13,357 -1,265 – -14,644 Reclassifications -252 1,336 -1,066 – 18 Depreciation/amortization for the year -12,181 -38,371 -9,369 – -59,921 Translation differences for the year -165 -706 155 – -716 At the year-end -124,144 -381,518 -74,515 0 -580,177 Accumulated depreciation/amortization at 1 January 2011 At the start of the year -1,672 -1,518 – – -3,190 Impairment for the year – 27 – – 27 Translation differences for the year – 0 – – 0 At the year-end -1,672 -1,491 0 0 -3,163 Closing net book value at 31 December 2011 116,898 182,354 28,527 38,721 366,500 Nefab Annual Report 2011 89 notes NOTE 15 | cont. Depreciation by function Depreciation by asset type Group Group SEK k 2011 2010 SEK k 2011 2010 Cost of goods sold -47,905 -44,024 Lands and buildings -12,181 -11,601 Selling expenses -4,297 -6,618 Plant and machinery -38,371 -39,093 Administrative expenses -7,719 -8,684 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fitTotal depreciation for the year tings -9,369 -8,632 by function -59,921 -59,326 Total depreciation for the year by asset type -59,921 -59,326 Note 16 Intangible assets Group Customer Other intangiGoodwill Brand relations ble assets Total Accumulated acquisition value at 1 January 2010 At the start of the year 1,863,673 328,043 209,727 12,853 2,414,296 Purchases 136,983 – 70,555 2,161 209,699 Through acquisition of subsidiary 35,295 – 4,421 584 40,300 Divestments/disposals – – – -46 -46 Reclassifications 372 – – -1,085 -713 Translation differences for the year -133,559 – -20,631 -623 -154,813 At the year-end 1,902,764 328,043 264,072 13,844 2,508,723 Accumulated planned depreciation/amortization at 1 January 2010 At the start of the year 622 – -57,792 -9,034 -66,204 Divestments/disposals – – – 28 28 Reclassifications – – – 257 257 Depreciation/amortization for the year – – -28,629 -2,196 -30,825 Translation differences for the year -81 – 4,979 549 5,447 At the year-end 541 0 -81,442 -10,396 -91,297 Closing net book value at 31 December 2010 1,903,305 328,043 182,630 3,448 2,417,426 90 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 16 | cont. Group Customer Other intangiGoodwill Brand relations ble assets Total Accumulated acquisition value at 1 January 2011 At the start of the year 1,902,764 328,043 264,072 13,844 2,508,723 Purchases 8,386 – 46,495 1,200 56,081 Through acquisition of subsidiary – – – 488 488 Divestments/disposals – – – -606 -606 Reclassifications – – – 9 9 Translation differences for the year 19,375 – 1,557 -144 20,788 At the year-end 1,930,525 328,043 312,124 14,791 2,585,483 Accumulated planned depreciation/amortization at 1 January 2011 At the start of the year 541 – -81,442 -10,396 -91,297 Divestments/disposals – – – 588 588 Through acquisition of subsidiary – – – -443 -443 Reclassifications – – – 0 0 Depreciation/amortization for the year – – -34,997 -1,984 -36,981 Translation differences for the year 10 – -1,645 197 -1,438 At the year-end 551 0 -118,084 -12,038 -129,571 Closing net book value at 31 December 2011 1,931,076 328,043 194,040 2,753 2,455,912 Depreciation by function Intangible assets by segment Goodwill and brands associated with acquisitions are alloGroup cated to cash generating units and consist of identified segSEK k 2011 2010 ments. In Nefab's case, the identified segments are the geoCost of goods sold – – graphical areas that Nefab operates within, and which also Selling expenses -36,981 -30,825 reflects the way Nefab organizes its operations. The three segments consist of Europe, Asia and America. Administrative expenses – – The goodwill value for Nefab consist primarily of common Total -36,981 -30,825 concepts and methods used within sales, purchasing and production. In order to spread these concepts throughout Depreciation by asset type the organization, continuous training is held in the form of a web-based training system as well as group-wide product Group and sales training courses in Sweden and China. Nefab's SEK k 2011 2010 operations are oriented around providing products and serGoodwill – – vices to global clients in a similar way regardless of where the customer is. Customer relations -34,997 -28,629 Other intangible assets -1,984 -2,196 Goodwill by segment Total -36,981 -30,825 Group In accordance with IFRS 3 there is no amortization of goodSEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 will and brands since these assets are considered to have an Europe 668,438 664,408 indefinite useful life. These assets are instead tested at least Asia 1,026,699 1,008,775 annually for impairment. America 235,939 230,122 Amortization of customer relationships usually occurs at 12.5% annually. ​​ Shorter amortization periods also exist. Total 1,931,076 1,903,305 Amortization of customer relations is reported as selling expenses. Amortization of other intangible assets, mainly Impairment testing for goodwill and brands software, is reported as selling expenses. For the purpose of impairment testing requirements, GoodCosts for product and process development are expensed will and brands with indefinite useful lives have been allocontinuously as they do not meet the requirements for acticated to cash generating units in accordance with Nefab's vation. These costs are not measured specifically, but are commercial organization. seen as an integral part of companies' costs. The carrying values of​​ all cash generating units are tested annually for impairment. The recoverable amounts (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less selling expenses) Nefab Annual Report 2011 91 notes NOTE 16 | cont. has been determined normally based on value in use, develSignificant assumptions used for calculations of oped using discounted cash flow calculations. value in use: At 31 December 2011, the recoverable values based ​​ on value in use in all cases exceeded the carrying amount, so SEK k Europe Asia America the impairment goodwill-related items was not necessary. Gross margin When testing, the management uses assumptions it considand other cost In line with In line with In line with ers reasonable based on the best available information at levels 1) 2011 2011 2011 the reporting date. Growth rate +8.3% – +5.0% – The key assumptions used in value in use calculations 2011–2015 2) +5.0% – +10.8% +22.3% +23.0% were sales growth, EBITDA margin development, the disGrowth rate count rate (Weighted Average Cost of Capital) and limit valafter 2015 2) 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% ues ​​for the growth rate in free cash flow. The calculations Discount rate 3) 10.7% 11.1% 10.2% were based on management approved 5-year forecasts, which the management believes reflect past experience, 1) Budgeted gross margins and cost levels. 2) Growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows. forecasts in industry studies, and other information available 3) Discount rate before tax applied to estimated future cash flows. externally. A growth rate of 2% has been used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the 5-year forecasts. In each case, the management believes that even long-term growth rates will exceed the average growth rates for the markets in which the Nefab Group operates, but as a precaution a long-term growth rate of 2% was used. The assessment outlined above has not indicated and impairment requirement of goodwill. A sensitivity analysis, where the growth rate for 2012 and later is reduced by 2 percentage points per year for all segments shows no impairment requirement in Europe, Asia and America. A sensitivity analysis where the WACC is increased by 1 percentage point shows no impairment requirement in any segment. Note 17 Shares in Group companies Accumulated cost In 2007, the parent company acquired a 90.01% stake in Nefab AB for SEK 2,337,481 k. In 2008, a further 1.35% of the Parent company shares in Nefab AB were acquired. The process regarding SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 the compulsory acquisition of the remaining 8.64% stake in At the start of the year 2,612,714 2,612,714 Nefab AB was completed in January 2010. The cost for the remaining 8.64% of the shares amounted to SEK 234,617 k. At the year-end 2,612,714 2,612,714 Throughout the consolidated financial statements, Nefab AB has been treated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Nefab Book value at the year-end 2,612,714 2,612,714 Holding AB. The parent company makes assessments of the subsidiary's book value annually or as needed. In one such assessment in 2011, no impairments were found to exist regarding the book value of the directly owned subsidiary. Specification of shares in Group companies Corporate Id Registered ParticipatingNumber of shaProfit/loss for No. office interest res Book value the year Equity Sweden Nefab AB 556226-8143 Ovanåker 100% 27,629,480 2,612,714 161,963 1,137,067 92 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 17 | cont. Specification of indirectly owned shares in Swedish Group companies Registered Participating Number Corporate Id No. office interest of shares Sweden Nefab Production Runemo AB 556139-5103 Ovanåker 100% 25,000 Nefab Packaging Sweden AB 556190-5208 Ovanåker 100% 742,300 Nefab Logistics AB 556239-6977 Ovanåker 100% 1,000 Nefab LogPak AB 556534-9056 Habo 100% 1,000 Nefab Specialemballage AB 556607-7805 Upplands-Bro 100% 1,000 Nefab PlyPak AB 556170-1987 Habo 100% 5,000 Nefab Supply HB 1) 916952-5566 Ovanåker 100% 10 Nefab Teknik AB 556176-5768 Ovanåker 100% 1,000 Specification of indirectly owned shares in foreign Group companies Registered Participating Number office interest of shares Abroad Nefab Packaging Belgium N.V. 2) Belgium 100% 100 Nefab Embalagens Ltda. Brazil 100% 11,723,192 Nefab Danmark A/S Denmark 100% 500 Nefab Packaging UK Ltd United Kingdom 100% 150,000 Nefab Eesti AS Estonia 100% 4,000 Nefab Packaging OÜ Estonia 100% 40 Oy Nefab AB Finland 100% 200 Nefab SAS France 100% 22,000 Peinetti Emballages SAS France 100% 50,000 Nefab Bijl B.V. Netherlands 100% 400 Chick Packaging and Logistics BV Netherlands 100% 2 Chick International GmbH Germany 100% 2 Translog GmbH Germany 100% 2 GPC Global Packing Center GmbH Germany 100% 2 Nefab India Private Limited India 100% 250,000 Nefab Inc. (Canada) Canada 100% 783,800 Nefab Packaging Engineering (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Langfang Nefab Packaging Engineering Co., Ltd. 3) China 100% 1 Xiamen Nefab Packaging Engineering Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Nefab Wuhan Packaging Engineering Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Nefab Packaging Engineering (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Nefab Supply Chain Service Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Nefab Packaging Engineering Dongguan Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Nefab Teknik Wuxi Co., Ltd. China 100% 1 Nefab Packaging Mexico SA de CV 4) Mexico 100% – PDS Global Packaging Mexico S.A. de C.V. 5) Mexico 100% 110,500 Nefab Packaging Norway AS Norway 100% 500 Nefab Packaking Poland Sp.zo.o Poland 100% 100 Nefab Packaging Romania S.R.L. Romania 100% 8,860 Nefab Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100% 200,000 Nefab Packaging Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 100% – Nefab Annual Report 2011 93 notes NOTE 17 | cont. Registered Participating Number office interest of shares Nefab España S.L. Spain 100% 6,907,012 Nefab S.A. Spain 100% 1,000,000 Nefab Plywood Pontevedra S.L. Spain 100% 100,000 Nefab Srl Italy 100% – Nefab RA Produtos de Embalagem Lda Portugal 100% 300,000 Nefab Packaging Czech Republic SRO Czech Republic 100% – Nefab Packaging Germany GmbH Germany 100% 13,000 Nefab Packaging Hungary Kft Hungary 100% – Nefab, Inc. (US) USA 100% 1,000 Nefab Companies Inc USA 100% 3,000 Chick Companies Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging Group Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of New York, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of California, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Mid-South, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of New England Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Dallas-Fort Worth, Inc. USA 100% 100 Bailey Machinery Movers Fabricators, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Virginia, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Industrial Services, Inc. USA 100% 1,000 Chick Packaging of Pennsylvania, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Texas, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of MidWest, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Northern California, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Relocation Services, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Massachusetts, Inc. USA 100% 100 Chick Packaging of Atlanta, Inc. USA 100% 1,000 CP Folding Box Corp. USA 100% 100 Chick International Inc. USA 100% 100 Nefab Packaging Austria GmbH Austria 100% 1 Nefab Eder Verpackungstechnik GmbH Austria 100% – 1) 90% of the company is owned by Nefab AB and 10% through the wholly owned subsidiary Nefab Packaging Sweden AB. 2) 99% of the company is owned by Nefab AB and 1% through Nefab Packaging Sweden AB. 3) 25% of the company is owned by Nefab AB and 75% through Nefab Packaging Engineering (Wuxi) Co. Ltd. 4) 99% of the company is owned by Nefab AB and 1% by Nefab Inc (USA). 5) 1% of the company is owned by Nefab AB and 99% by Nefab Packaging Mexico SA DE CV. 94 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 18 Acquisitions During the year the following companies were formed and acquisitions completed: Proportion of Share of Company Registered office Operations Acquisition date equity voting power Peinetti Emballages SAS France Packaging solutions August 2011 Woodybox i Malmö AB (acquisition of assets and liabilities) Sweden Packaging solutions September 2011 100% 100% PDS Global Packaging Mexico S.A. de C.V. Mexico Packaging solutions September 2011 100% 100% All acquired companies are recognized in the consolidated Sweden and comprise the production of packaging for longfinancial statements using the purchase method. term storage. In August 2011, the company acquired 100% of the shares In September 2011, 100% of the shares were acquired in in the French company Peinetti Emballages SAS. The comthe company PDS Global Packaging Mexico S.A. de C.V. The pany supplies customers in French industry with wooden company manufactures and sells industrial packaging in difouter packaging and related packaging services. ferent materials to customers in the Mexican market. The operations of Woodybox i Malmö AB were acquired Below is information regarding acquired goodwill and net in September 2011. Operations are conducted in southern assets for 2011. Peinetti Emballages PDS Global Packaging Refers to 2011 SAS Services S.S. DE C.V. Woodybox Purchase price – Cash paid -29,458 -11,625 -9,810 – Purchase price not paid – -4,200 – Total purchase price -29,458 -15,825 -9,810 Fair value of net assets acquired 22,900 13,997 9,810 Goodwill -6,558 -1,828 0 The 2011 impact on the Group's cash and cash equivalents For the acquired subsidiaries during the year, the total value from the acquired subsidiaries amounts to SEK –41,081 k. All of acquired assets and liabilities, purchase prices and the payments relate to acquisitions made in 2011. impact on the Group's cash and cash equivalents are as follows: Peinetti PDS Global Packaging Emballages SAS Services S.S. DE C.V. Woodybox Acquired Acquired Acquired Refers to 2011 Fair value book value Fair value book value Fair value book value Intangible assets 25,348 – 12,147 – 9,000 – Tangible assets 3,884 3,884 2,536 2,536 – – Financial assets 930 930 – – – – Inventories 8,103 8,103 5,437 5,437 810 810 Other current assets 23,704 23,704 1,315 1,315 – – Cash and cash equivalents – – 3 3 – – Provisions -8,546 -181 -3,644 – – – Other long-term liabilities -1,463 -1,463 – – – – Current liabilities -29,061 -29,061 -3,795 -3,795 – – Net assets acquired 22,900 5,917 13,997 5,494 9,810 810 Cash settled purchase price -29,458 -11,625 -9,810 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies – 3 – Effect on consolidated cash and cash equivalents from acquisitions during the year -29,458 -11,623 -9,810 Total cash flow attributable to investments in subsidiaries -29,458 -11,623 -9,810 Nefab Annual Report 2011 95 notes NOTE 18 | cont. Below is information regarding acquired net assets and In September 2010, a 100% stake was acquired in the Amerigoodwill for 2010. can company Chick Companies, Inc. through a newly formed In January 2010 the operations of Sapac Packaging & subsidiary Nefab Companies, Inc. Recycling NV were acquired in Belgium. The acquired operaThe Chick group of companies consists of around twenty tions include the sale of inner packaging, particularly cushcompanies with operations in the U.S. and in Germany and ioning materials. employs about 475 people. Chick Sapac Packaging Refers to 2010 Companies, Inc. & Recycling NV Purchase price – Cash paid -145,429 -5,840 – Purchase price not paid -7,697 – Total purchase price -153,126 -5,840 Fair value of net assets acquired 16,143 5,840 Goodwill -136,983 0 The 2010 impact on the Group's cash and cash equivalents from the acquisition of subsidiaries amounts to SEK –143,086 k. During 2010, the total value of acquired assets and liabilities, purchase prices and the impact on the Group's cash and cash equivalents from acquired subsidiaries are as follows: Sapac Packaging Chick Packaging Group & Recycling NV Acquired book Acquired book Refers to 2010 Fair value value Fair value value Goodwill 35,295 35,295 – – Intangible assets 70,144 3,345 5,022 – Tangible assets 19,503 19,503 – – Financial assets 15,553 15,553 – – Inventories 23,808 24,243 818 818 Other current assets 96,260 101,073 – – Cash and cash equivalents 8,182 8,182 – – Provisions -29,088 -5,537 – – Other long-term liabilities -174 -174 – – Current liabilities -223,341 -222,102 – – Net assets acquired 16,143 -20,619 5,840 818 Cash settled purchase price -145,429 -5,840 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 8,182 – Effect on consolidated cash and cash equivalents from acquisitions during the year -137,247 -5,840 Payment of purchase price for previous years' acquisitions – – Total cash flow attributable to investments in subsidiaries -137,247 -5,840 96 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 19 Inventories Note 20 Accounts receivable Group Group SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Inventories 291,873 233,291 Accounts receivable 635,861 600,469 Inventory impairment -11,910 -11,850 Provision for doubtful accounts Total 279,963 221,441 receivable -5,870 -7,235 Inventory impairment at the start Total 629,991 593,234 of the year -11,850 -12,535 Provision for doubtful accounts Provision for impairment -60 685 receivable at start of year -7,235 -7,662 Total inventory impairment -11,910 -11,850 Reserve for doubtful accounts receivable from acquisitions 0 -1,131 Net change in provisions 1,365 1,558 The value of goods provided as security for loans amounts Total bad debt provisions -5,870 -7,235 to SEK 279,963 k (221,441). Only marginal parts of the Group's inventories expected to be recovered later are 12 months after the reporting date. Accounts receivable are exposed to credit risk. More about credit risks is explained in note 3. Age analysis of overdue accounts receivable is as follows: Group SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Less than 1 month 98,347 81,528 2 to 3 months 19,982 13,154 Greater than 3 months 5,187 3,444 Total 123,516 98,126 Nefab Annual Report 2011 97 notes Note 21 Prepayments and accrued income Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Prepaid rent and leasing fees 6,311 5,544 – – Prepaid insurance 3,034 4,664 – – Prepaid support and consulting fees 2,477 2,460 274 – Accrued sales revenues 472 3,895 90 – Accrued interest income – – – – Accrued bonus income 93 144 – – Other prepayments 3,733 4,023 – – Other accrued income 953 721 – – Total 17,073 21,451 364 0 Note 22 Other current receivables Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Financial instruments are evaluated at fair value 0 769 – – Receivables are carried at amortized cost 33,805 24,976 183 613 Total 33,805 25,745 183 613 Note 23 Financial instruments by category The Group has no financial assets and liabilities held for trading or held to maturity. Financial instruments at 12-31-2011 Assets Loans and accounts Derivatives used for Total carrying Nominal SEK k receivable hedging purposes amount Fair value amount Financial fixed assets 11,301 – 11,301 11,301 11,301 Total long-term financial assets 11,301 0 11,301 11,301 11,301 Accounts receivable and other receivables 663,796 – 663,796 663,796 663,796 Cash and cash equivalents 108,417 – 108,417 108,417 108,417 Total current financial assets 772,213 0 772,213 772,213 772,213 Total financial assets 783,514 0 783,514 783,514 783,514 Liabilities Derivatives used for Total carrying Nominal SEK k Other liabilities hedging purposes amount Fair value amount Liabilities to credit institutions 889,779 – 889,779 889,779 889,779 Shareholder loans 1,311,250 – 1,311,250 1,311,250 1,311,250 Total long-term financial liabilities 2,201,029 0 2,201,029 2,201,029 2,201,029 Liabilities to credit institutions 169,161 – 169,161 169,161 169,161 Bank advances 42,025 – 42,025 42,025 42,025 Total current financial interestbearing liabilities 211,186 0 211,186 211,186 211,186 Accounts payable and other liabilities 516,059 4,206 520,265 520,265 520,265 Total current financial liabilities 516,059 4,206 520,265 520,265 520,265 Total financial liabilities 2,928,274 4,206 2,932,480 2,932,480 2,932,480 98 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes NOTE 23 | cont. Financial instruments at 12-31-2010 Assets Loans and accounts Derivatives used for Total carrying Nominal SEK k receivable hedging purposes amount Fair value amount Financial fixed assets 9,772 – 9,772 9,772 9,772 Total long-term financial assets 9,772 0 9,772 9,772 9,772 Accounts receivable and other receivables 618,210 769 618,979 618,979 618,979 Cash and cash equivalents 118,214 – 118,214 118,214 118,214 Total current financial assets 736,424 769 737,193 737,193 737,193 Total financial assets 746,196 769 746,965 746,965 746,965 Liabilities Derivatives used for Total carrying Nominal SEK k Other liabilities hedging purposes amount Fair value amount Liabilities to credit institutions 879,763 – 879,763 879,763 879,763 Shareholder loans 1,170,761 – 1,170,761 1,170,761 1,170,761 Total long-term financial liabilities 2,050,524 0 2,050,524 2,050,524 2,050,524 Liabilities to credit institutions 247,826 – 247,826 247,826 247,826 Bank advances 45,520 – 45,520 45,520 45,520 Total current financial interestbearing liabilities 293,346 0 293,346 293,346 293,346 Accounts payable and other liabilities 500,945 1,497 502,442 502,442 502,442 Total current financial liabilities 500,945 1,497 502,442 502,442 502,442 Total financial liabilities 2,844,815 1,497 2,846,312 2,846,312 2,846,312 Note 24 Number of shares The share capital consists of 6,465,874 shares divided among the following share classes: Ordinary shares 6,465,874 all shares have equal voting rights. Share capital SEK 272,190 Parent company Ordinary shares Total Face value per share Share capital, SEK k At 1 January 2011 6,465,874 6,465,874 0.04 272 At 31 December 2011 6,465,874 6,465,874 0.04 272 Share warrants Changes in share warrants and their weighted average strike In 2008, the owners, directors and management team for prices are as follows: the Nefab Holding Group were invited to buy share warrants in Nefab Holding AB. In 2010, the company repurchased all 2011 share warrants owned by Board members and the management team. In 2010, a new share warrant program in Nefab Average strike Holding AB was offered to Board members and the manprice per share Share agement team for the Nefab Holding Group. The strike price SEK k in SEK warrants for the awarded warrants was based on a commercial basis At 1 January 2011 7.29 1,153,517 and calculated by an independent party using the BlackAt 31 December 2011 7.29 1,153,517 Scholes valuation model. Nefab Annual Report 2011 99 notes NOTE 24 | cont. The strike price for outstanding share warrants from 2008 is is based on the subscription price for ordinary shares based on the subscription price for ordinary shares amountamounting to SEK 100 per subscription share. Warrant holding to SEK 100 per subscription share having increased by ers are entitled to subscribe to shares in Nefab Holding AB 20 percent per year from the implementation date. Warrant between 1 December 2017 and 31 December 2017. In the holders are entitled to subscribe to shares in Nefab Holding event of a sell-off by the principal shareholders earlier than AB between 16 May 2016 and 31 May 2016. In the event of a December 2017, the warrants holders will be entitled to subsell-off by the principal shareholders earlier than May 2016, scribe to shares at that time. the warrants holders will be entitled to subscribe to shares Upon redemption of all warrants, there will be some diluat that time. tive effect if the subscription price is below the market value The strike price for outstanding share warrants from 2010 at the time of subscription. Note 25 Translation differences Cumulative translation differences in equity Group Translation differences relating to investments in foreign operations shall be recognized as a separate item in other SEK k 2011 2010 comprehensive income, in accordance with IAS 21. When In operating profit 2,480 101 selling foreign operations, cumulative translation differences In financial items 1,449 -59,291 shall be recognized as part of the result of divestments. Total exchange rate differences in the income statement 3,929 -59,190 Cumulative translation differences are recognized through comprehensive income for the year in equity and amount to The Group hedges net flows in foreign currency, i.e. flows the following: resulting from sales and purchases in foreign currency. The Group Group hedges known flows and projected flows for the next 3 months. Longer forward cover exists but requires approval Attributable to parent by the Group management. For foreign exchange hedging, SEK k company shareholders forward agreements and currency option agreements are Opening balance at 1 January 2010 239,891 used. Translation difference for the year On the reporting date, hedging instruments are made of 2010 -40,002 forward agreements and currency option agreements, Closing balance at 31 December which expire within 12 months of the reporting date. 2010 199,889 In accordance with IAS 39, hedge accounting is applied for net investments in foreign currency by raising loans in Translation difference for the year 2011 16,906 each local currency. Exchange rate fluctuations on these loans are recognized in other comprehensive income. Hedge Closing balance at 31 December accounting is not applied to forward and option agreements 2011 216,795 that are periodically revalued at fair value via the income statement. Reporting at fair value occurs in operating profit Distribution of translation differences for the year in other with regards to the hedging of items in operation, and in the comprehensive income: items financial income or financial expenses in with regards to the hedging of financial items. Group At the reporting date, future sales in USD were hedged SEK k 2011 2010 corresponding to USD 3,100 k using option agreements, Translation difference attributaequivalent to SEK 21,463 k at the rate on the reporting date. ble to surplus values 19,297 -149,292 Nefab uses a zero cost option strategy, which means that there are both sales and purchase agreements for this Translation difference foreign option hedging. As a result, the option agreement at the currency loans (hedge accounting) -2,187 79,051 reporting date amounted to USD 3,100 k for sales agreements, and USD 450 k for purchase agreements. The fair Other translation differences -204 30,239 value for options amounted to SEK –183 k at the reporting 16,906 -40,002 date. Translation differences in the consolidated income statement Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated on the transaction date at the current rate or approximate standard rate. Translation differences arise upon payment or conversion at the rate on the reporting date. Such translation differences are included in the consolidated income statement as follows: Translation differences that arise in operations are recognized in the income statement and amount to: 100 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 26 Interest-bearing net debt Long-term liabilities Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Shareholder loans Maturity after 5 years from the reporting date 1) 1,311,250 1,170,761 1,311,250 1,170,761 Long-term liabilities to credit institutions Maturity earlier than 5 years from the reporting date 881,275 879,763 727,073 744,035 Maturity after 5 years from the reporting date 8,504 – – – Total 2,201,029 2,050,524 2,038,323 1,914,796 Current liabilities Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Current liabilities to credit institutions 169,161 247,826 80,000 150,000 Bank advances 42,025 45,520 – – Total 211,186 293,346 80,000 150,000 Total liabilities to credit institutions 1,092,461 1,173,109 807,073 894,035 1) Not-capitalized accrued interest of SEK 36,601 k (32,694) is included in shareholder loans. Bank advances Group SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Approved bank advances 255,000 231,171 Utilized bank advances 42,025 45,520 Unutilized bank advances 212,975 185,651 In addition to bank advances, Nefab has a revolver approved These covenants had been fulfilled at 12-31-2011. for SEK 265,000 k. SEK 105,000 k of this revolver had been Bank advances are shown as current, but will normally be utilized at 12-31-2011. Furthermore, Nefab has an expansion extended continuously. Among current liabilities to credit credit of SEK 200,000 k, which at 12-31-2011 was completely institutions there are also credits that will be extended. unutilized. Amortization of liabilities in 2011 is expected to amount to Security for bank loans consist of real estate mortgages about SEK 170,000 k. and chattel mortgages. Total amounts are shown in note 32. Fair values ​​for interest bearing assets and liabilities differ Other covenants exist that essentially mean the Group only marginally against the book value, as fixed-rate loans has undertaken to demonstrate a certain level of interest are relatively small. coverage, investments, cash flow relative to interest rates and amortization as well as net debt in relation to EBITDA. Interest-bearing net debt Group SEK k Interest terms 1) 2) Maturity date 2) 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Current liabilities to credit institutions 3.4% 2012 169,161 247,826 Bank advances 3.4% 2012 42,025 45,520 Long-term liabilities to credit institutions 3.4% 2013–2016 889,779 879,763 Shareholder loans 12.0% 2016– 1,274,649 1,138,067 Provisions for pensions 3.8% 2012– 7,025 5,797 Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,382,639 2,316,973 Cash and cash equivalents 108,417 118,214 Total interest-bearing net debt 2,274,222 2,198,759 Shareholder loans (subordinated other creditors) -1,274,649 -1,138,067 Total interest-bearing net debt, external creditors 999,573 1,060,692 1) Interest terms are calculated as weighted average effective interest rate. 2) Interest terms and maturity dates refer to amounts for 12-31-2011. Nefab Annual Report 2011 101 notes NOTE 26 | cont. Interest-bearing liabilities by currency Group 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 SEK 1) 1,347,516 1,410,410 EUR 645,244 517,319 USD 378,288 378,926 Other currencies 11,591 17,526 Total 2,382,639 2,324,181 1) Shareholder loans included totaling SEK 1,274,649 k (1,138,067). Note 27 Financial assets and liabilities Note 28 Provisions for pensions No significant conditions regarding the Group's financial Reconciliation of change in pension liability assets and liabilities are expected to have an impact on future cash flows. Group The book value of financial assets and liabilities is deemed SEK k 2011 2010 equivalent to fair value. Opening net debt 5,797 6,381 Net pension expenses 2,096 951 Pension payments -868 -1,535 Closing net debt 7,025 5,797 Provisions for pensions relate mostly to PRI pensions for salaried employees in Sweden. One of the Group's defined benefit pension plans contains plan assets. These consist primarily of bank deposits. Note 29 Other provisions Group Withheld and supplementary SEK k Claim provisions purchase prices Other items Total Carrying amount at start of year 13,305 7,285 19,445 40,035 New provisions 3,730 3,908 6,060 13,698 Reversed unutilized amount – – -5,228 -5,228 Amount released -379 -7,285 -188 -7,852 Amount at the year-end 16,656 3,908 20,089 40,653 Group SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Long-term share 31,168 27,100 Current share 9,485 12,935 Total 40,653 40,035 Note 30 Other current liabilities Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Financial instruments are evaluated at fair value 4,023 1,497 4,023 1,497 Other current liabilities 53,261 42,513 18 16 Total 57,284 44,010 4,041 1,513 102 Nefab Annual Report 2011 notes Note 31 Accrued expenses and deferred income Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Accrued payroll expenses and vacation pay 50,909 40,431 450 840 Accrued social security expenses 20,329 16,947 343 300 Other accrued personnel costs 8,136 5,844 – – Accrued sales commissions 2,302 3,067 – – Other accrued selling expenses 5,402 2,038 – – Accrued expenses for services 2,985 3,213 242 275 Accrued freight and material costs 1,074 431 – – Accrued interest expenses 4,866 2,345 4,235 1,761 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 35,139 26,064 – – Total 131,142 100,380 5,270 3,176 Note 32 Pledged assets per liability item All pledged assets comprise liabilities to credit institutions. Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Real estate mortgages 87,855 118,917 – – Chattel mortgages 94,206 164,248 – – Total mortgages 182,061 283,165 0 0 Financial assets pledged as security for liabilities 3,131,541 2,939,680 2,612,714 2,612,714 Total pledged assets 3,313,602 3,222,845 2,612,714 2,612,714 Note 33 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent company SEK k 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 12-31-2011 12-31-2010 Other contingent liabilities 17,428 3,673 – – Total contingent liabilities 17,428 3,673 0 0 The Group has contingent liabilities relating primarily to The parent company's loan terms to the bank (covenants) investment grants, liability to customs authorities, and conare described in note 26. versions. No material liabilities are expected to arise from these contingent liabilities. No financial assets are pledged as security for these contingent liabilities. No payments are expected at the date of these financial statements. The Group does not have any contingent assets. Note 34 Events after the reporting date In January 2012, a merger of the Group's companies took place in the US. The eight operating companies were merged together into Chick Packaging Group Inc., which was renamed following the merger to Nefab Packaging Inc. Five of the dormant companies were merged together into Chick Packaging of Texas Inc. The other two dormant companies have been liquidated. Nefab Annual Report 2011 103 notes Submission of the annual report The annual report and consolidated financial statements for Standards as adopted by the EU and give a true and fair Nefab Holding AB for 2011 were approved by the Board of view of the financial position and results. Directors on 30 March 2012. The annual report has been prepared in accordance with The consolidated income statement and statement of GAAP and gives a true and fair view of the parent compafinancial position and the parent company's income stateny's financial position and results. ment and statement of financial position will be presented to The Directors' report for the Group and parent company the 2012 Annual General Meeting for approval. provides a fair overview of the operations, position and The Board of Directors and the President certify that the results for the Group and parent company as well as describconsolidated financial statements have been prepared in ing the significant risks and uncertainties facing the parent accordance with International Financial Reporting company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 30 March 2012 Lars-Åke Rydh David Mörk Ulf Rosberg Chairman President Adam Samuelsson Ing-Marie Nordgren Jochum Pihl Sune Karlsson Ove Jonsson Per Östling My audit report was issued on 30 March 2012 Bertel Enlund Authorized public accountant Ernst & Young 104 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Auditors' report Auditors' report To the Annual General Meeting of Nefab Holding AB, corporate identification number 556734-6050 Report on the annual report and the consolidated financial Annual Accounts Act and, in all material respects, give a statements true and fair view of the group’s financial position as at 31 I have audited the annual report and consolidated financial December 2011 and of its financial performance and cash statements for Nefab Holding AB for the year 2011. The flow for the year in accordance with International Financial company’s annual report and consolidated financial stateReporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annuments are included in the printed version of this document al Accounts Act. A corporate governance report has been on pages 47–104. prepared. The annual report and the corporate governance report are consistent with other parts of the annual report The responsibility of the Board of Directors and the President and the consolidated financial statements. for the annual report and consolidated financial statements I therefore recommend to the Annual General Meeting The Board of Directors and the President are responsible that the income statement and the statement of financial for preparing an annual report which gives a true and fair position of the parent company and the group be adopted. view in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair Report on other statutory and regulatory requirements view in accordance with International Financial Reporting In addition to my audit of the annual report and consolidatStandards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual ed financial statements, I have also audited the proposed Accounts Act, and for the internal control that the Board of allocation of the company’s profit or loss as well as the Directors and the President deem necessary for the prepaadministration of Nefab Holding AB by the Board of Direcration of an annual report and consolidated financial statetors and President in 2011. ments that are free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The responsibility of the Board of Directors and the President The auditor’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposed My responsibility is to express an opinion on the annual allocation of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of report and the consolidated financial statements based on Directors and the President are responsible for the adminismy audit. I have conducted my audit in accordance with tration in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that The auditor’s responsibility I comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform My responsibility is to comment with reasonable certainty the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual on the proposed allocation of the company’s profit or loss report and the consolidated financial statements are free of and on the administration based on my audit. I have conmaterial misstatement. ducted my audit in accordance with generally accepted An audit includes taking various measures to obtain auauditing standards in Sweden. dit evidence supporting the amounts and other information As a basis for my opinion on the Board’s proposed aldisclosed in the annual report and the consolidated finanlocation of the company’s profit or loss, I have examined cial statements. The auditor selects the measures to be perwhether the proposal complies with the Swedish Compaformed, including assessing the risks of material misstatenies Act. ments in the annual report and the consolidated financial As a basis for my opinion concerning discharge from statements, whether these are due to fraud or error. In this liability I have, in addition to my audit of the annual report risk assessment, the auditor takes into account the parts and consolidated financial statement, examined significant of the internal control that are relevant to the way in which decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company the company prepares the annual report and the consoliin order to be able to determine the liability, if any, to the dated financial statements to give a true and fair view in company of any board member or the President. I have order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in also examined whether any board member or the President the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Swedan opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal ish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateof Association. ness of the accounting principles used and of the reasonI believe that the audit evidence I have obtained provides ableness of the Board of Directors’ estimates in the report, a sufficient and appropriate basis for my opinion. as well as assessing the overall presentation of the annual report and the consolidated financial statements. Opinion I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained provides I recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit a sufficient and appropriate basis for my opinion. be dealt with in accordance with the proposal in the administration report and that the Board of Directors and the Opinion President be discharged from liability for the financial year. In my opinion, the annual report has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, in all material Stockholm, 30 March 2012 respects, gives a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial position as at 31 December 2011 and of its financial Bertel Enlund performance and cash flow for the year in accordance with Authorized Public Accountant the Annual Accounts Act, and the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Nefab Annual Report 2011 105 Definitions Definitions Adjusted capital employed Interest-bearing net debt, external creditors Total capital minus goodwill and intangible Interest-bearing liabilities to external creditors assets from acquisitions, cash and cash equi(not shareholders), less cash and cash equivavalents and non interest-bearing liabilities lents. excluding deferred tax on intangible assets from acquisitions. Equity ratio Equity expressed as a percentage of total Gross margin capital. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. Adjusted equity ratio Operating margin Equity and shareholder loans expressed as a Operating profit as a percentage of net sales. percentage of total capital. EBITDA Adjusted debt/equity ratio Operating profit before items affecting comInterest-bearing liabilities excluding shareholparability plus depreciation of tangible and der loans divided by equity including shareintangible assets. holder loans. EBITA Quick ratio Operating profit before items affecting comCurrent assets excluding inventories expresparability plus depreciation of intangible sed as a percentage of current liabilities incluassets from acquisitions. ding proposed dividends. Return on equity Net investments Profit for the year expressed as a percentage Investments in financial, intangible and of average equity. tangible fixed assets, less completed divestments ​​and disposals. Return on total capital Profit after financial items expressed as a percentage of average total capital. Return on adjusted capital employed EBITA expressed as a percentage of average adjusted capital employed. 106 Nefab Annual Report 2011 GRI table GRI table Ref. page Reported Comments 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from Nefab's highest decision-makers. 4-5 Complete 2 Organization profile 2.1 Organization name. 46 Complete 2.2 The main brands, products and/or services. 8–15, 28–34 Complete 2.3 Nefab's organizational structure. 53-54, Complete 92-94 2.4 Location of the organization's headquarters. 48 Complete 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 18-27, Complete with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainabi92-94 lity issues covered in the report. 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form. 53 Complete 2.7 Markets that Nefab operates in. 20-27 Complete 2.8 The reporting organization's size. 47 Complete 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or 48-52 Complete ownership. 2.10 Distinctions and awards received during the reporting period. None Complete 3 Information about the financial statements 3.1 The reporting period for the information provided. 2011 Complete 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 35 Complete This is the first sustainability report. 3.3 Reporting (annual, biennial, etc.) 35 Complete 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report or its contents. Head of Corporate HR, Mattias Hörberg +46 771 590000, mattias.horberg @nefab.se 3.5 Process for defining the report content. 35 Complete 3.6 The report's limits. 35 Complete 3.7 Specific limitations on the report's scope. 35 Complete 3.8 Principles for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, out35 Complete sourced operations and other units that can materially affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any changes to information provided in earlier 35 Complete reports, and the reasons for such changes. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 35 Complete No changes as this is the first sustainability report. 3.12 Contents according to GRI. 107-108 Complete Nefab Annual Report 2011 107 GRI table Ref. page Reported Comments 4 Governance, commitments and stakeholder relations 4.1 Nefab's corporate governance report. 53-59 Complete 4.2 Specify whether the Chairman is also the President. 53 Complete 4.3 If Nefab has just one Board level, state the number of members and who is 53 Complete independent and/or not part of the executive management. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 42, 53 Complete The employee guidance to the Board or executive management. survey allows for open-ended answers. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups that the company has contact with. 38 Complete 4.15 Principles for identifying and selecting stakeholders. 38 Partially Performance indicators Economic effects EC1 Direct economic value, generated and distributed, including revenues, opera37 Complete ting costs, employee benefits, gifts and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. Environmental impact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 40 Complete EN8 Total water consumption. 40 Complete EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 40 Complete Working conditions and working terms. LA1 Total number of employees, by employment type and region. 42–43, 82 Complete LA2 Total number of employees and staff turnover by age group, gender and 43, 82 Partially region. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by union agreements. 43 Complete LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 43 Partially LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance evaluation and career 43 Complete development. LA13 Composition of the Board and management and breakdown of employees per 43, 60–61, Complete category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and 82 other indicators of diversity. Social – Society SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption practices. 43 Complete Product responsibility PR5 Procedures for customer satisfaction, including results from customer surveys. 16-17 Complete 108 Nefab Annual Report 2011 Nefab Holding AB Box 2184 SE-550 02 Jönköping, Sweden Telephone: +46 (0) 771 590 000 Fax: +46 (0) 36 150 444 www.nefab.com
