O1 O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Unlimited KORES UNLIMITED EARTH KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 Korea Resources Corporation (KORES) is committed to fulfilling the dream of becoming an advanced resources powerhouse through sustainable resources development. Vision W.I.T.H. KORES 2020 To become one of the world's top 20 mining companies by 2020 Worldwide Innovation Technology Human Self sufficiency Value-oriented Self-reliance in terms Customer satisfacrate: 42% management of core technolotion level: Excellent Asset size: KRW9 Financial indepengies and Advanced Environment-valued trillion dence technology level management Reporting principles and scope •This KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 is the fourth edition on our sustainable management activities in the economy, society and environment. We are opening various opportunities to communicate with stakeholders through the publication of the sustainability value report each year. •This report was drawn up based on the UN Global Compact's ten principles. •The reporting scope includes the performance of KORES' head office and branch offices within Korea; the records of some workplaces abroad are included in terms of some indicators •The reporting period is from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2011. For performance indicators, data from the past 3 years were used to help the readers understand the relevant trends. All data is as of Dec.31, 2011 unless otherwise noted. •This report contains some domestic mining statistics. This is due to the fact that KORES is fully aware of its considerable responsibility to the continuous growth in the domestic mining industry as a government owned corporation leading Korea's mining and resources development. Cover story 2 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 •Infinity symbol(∞) is used to embody 'Unlimited Earth', the concept of resources being an object which should co-exist with the Earth and mankind indefinitely. Core Values Creativity ! Change Competence Commitment Advanced technologies Creativity provides KORES Change is the source of enhance KORESs' global Customers are KORES' with infinite energy KORES' strong vitality. competitiveness invaluable assets We will explore untouched posWe will strive to stay up-to-date We will take the lead in the We will treat our customers with sibilities with a challenging spirit. with great passion. resources industry with the highest commitment and respect. level of technology. Business Philosophy To promote open To maintain a clear To respect customers To develop resources management by To nurture creative and organizational culture and fulfill social in an environmentallystimulating external/ professional talents through transparent responsibility friendly way internal communication management CONTENTS Unlimited KORES Unlimited Economy Unlimited Society Unlimited Earth 05 _ CEO Message 06 _ About  the Company & 11 _ Public Benefits 17 _ Ethical Management 26 _ Integrated Status of Business Environmental 13 _ Growth 18 _ Employees Managemnet System 08 _ Corporate Governance 15 _ Economic Efficiency 21 _ Customers 27 _ Eco-friendly Resources 09 _ Risk Management 22 _ Win-Win Management Development 10 _ Stakeholder 23 _ Health and Safety 30 _ Environmental Engagement Management 24 _ Social Contribution Achievements UNLIMITED EARTH CEO Message Korea Resources Corporation (KORES), as one of the government owned energy and resources corporation, has its roots in mining industry since it was established as the Korea Mining Promotion Corporation in 1967. In 2008, KORES was reborn with a vision to grow into global top 20 players in mining and resources sector by 2020. The ambitious transformation reflected the Korean government's strong commitments to meeting the ever growing natural resources needs of the Korean economies. Fostering the development of the Korean resources industry Korea had been one of the poorest countries in the world until a mere generation ago, but now as a member of the 20-50 club, Korea acquired competitive edge in manufacturing and trading sectors. In fact, Korea is world's fifth largest mineral resources consumer, mainly due to the demands from steel, electronics, automobile, shipbuilding and chemical industries. As such, it is time to turn a new leaf and haul the Korean mining and natural resources industries to keep abreast of the pace with globally competitive manufacturing sectors of Korea. Challenging the global market with our expertise and technology innovation KORES stands at the center of realization of Korean government's strong commitments to fostering resources industries. We are exerting our utmost efforts to upgrade our expertise and to achieve the technology innovation and professional excellence in the shortest period of time, so as to be on a par with major global companies in resources industries. What is more, we invite strategic partnerships and alliances with relevant entities and enterprises, both domestic and foreign, to represent Korea in international resources marketplace. Becoming a true friend of the communities that we work in KORES aims to create universal values for mankind through ecologically sound development. Therefore, we wish to become not only a good business partner and collaborator, but also a true friend of the governments of resources endowed countries and mining site communities around the world. For that, we are ready and willing to shoulder the load toward a common goal and to share the added value we will create together for a mutually beneficial co-existence. We ultimately want to be your one-stop resources business window in Korea, maximizing each other's forte and meeting each other's needs. We appreciate your interest in us and look forward to working with you. Thank you. 2012.11 President and CEO Jung-Sik Koh Unlimited KORES 5 About the Company & Status of Business KORES is a government owned resources development corporation. As a government owned resources development corporation established in 1967, KORES contributes to national development by promoting the stable supply and demand of mineral resources. All this can be done by efficiently carrying out the following: exploration and development of mineral resources at home and abroad, support in the form of technologies and funds to develop mineral resources, stocking of scarce metals to cope with national crises, mineral ores tests, and analyses and valued-added technology development and dissemination. The head office of KORES is located in Seoul, Korea. KORES operates 2 domestic branch offices and 10 overseas branch offices (as of the end of 2011). For the stable supply of the top 6 strategic minerals and new strategic ones, we are directly investing in 36 projects in 16 countries and maintaining a stable portfolio in 3 stages of exploration, development, and production. Domestic Investment Projects GMC Co., Ltd. Korea Alumina Co., Gwangyang Ferro KMC Co., Ltd. Zinc Ltd. Alloy Co., Ltd. Molybdenum Special Alumina Molybdenum 240 K tons KRW 860 million 51 K tons Refining KRW 3.1 billion Exploration Stage KRW 14.7 billion 6 K tons Production Stage 30% Development Stage KRW 15.5 billion 49% 49% Production Stage 45% Overseas Investment Projects Boutou Yongxin Zhangjiagang Bei Fang Tong Ye Xian Maxsun rare earth metals Limestone Copper REO Permanent magLimestone 460  uMetal 100 C Rare earth oxide net 15 K tons K tons K tons 1.3 K tons KRW 4.9 billion KRW 13 billion KRW 31.9 billion KRW 13.4 billion Development Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage Mongolia Stage 49% (100%) 6% (45%) 49% (49%) 29% (60%) Erdenet Kapuas Rapu-Rapu Copper Bituminous coal Copper, Zinc 2M tons CuMetal 1.1 K tons KRW 10.3 billion ZnMetal 1.3 K tons Exploration Stage Exploration Stage KRW 24.5 billion China Korea 25% (51%) 39% (39%) Production Stage 28% (70%) Niger Philippines Vlakplaatz Zandkopsdrift Tegida Ambatovy Bituminous Coal rare-earth maUranium Nickel terials 700 tons Ni metal of 60 K tons Indonesia KRW 18.7 billion KRW 17.1 billion KRW 957.7 billion Exploration Development Stage Development Stage Stage Exploration Stage 4% (4%) 17.5% (27.5%) 37% (37%) 10% (10%) South Africa Madagascar Australia Athena Taroborah White Cliff Marree Boulia Wyong Togara North Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Nickel Uranium Copper, Zinc Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal 6 M tons KRW 1.5 billion KRW 100 million KRW 1 billion KRW 2.8 billion KRW 21.9 billion KRW 48.4 billion KRW 13.6 billion Exploration Stage Exploration Stage Exploration Stage Exploration Stage Exploration Stage Development Stage Development Stage 4% (4%) 50% (100%) 25%(50%) 25% (50%) 33.33% (100%) 82.28% (95%) 8.33% (25%) Cockatoo Springvale Angus Place Moolarben Minerva Narrabri Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal 450 K tons 3.3 M tons 3 M tons 7 M tons 2.8 M tons 6 M tons KRW 12 billion KRW 23.8 billion KRW 24.9 billion KRW 47.3 billion KRW 7.1 billion KRW 61 billion Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage 4.1%(27.8%) 25% (50%) 25% (50%) 4% (10%) 4% (4%) 2.5% (7.5%) 6 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Unlimited KORES Headquarters & Offices at Home and Abroad Seoul Headquarters Indonesia Canada 606 Siheung-daero, Dongjak-gu, Seoul Gedung Bursa Elek Jakarta(Jakarta Stock Exchange Building) 366 Bay Street, Suite 801, Toronto, Ontario, M5H 4B2, Canada Tel. 82-2-840-5600 Tower 1, Suite 304, Jalan Jendral Sudiman Kac.53-53, Jakarta Tel. 1-416-929-8183 12190, Indonesia Human Resources Development Center Peru Tel. 62-21-5140-0311 750-1,Namdang-ri, Hamyeol-eup, Iksan-si, Jeollabuk-do Av. Principal 190, Piso 10, La Vioria, Lima, Peru Tel. 82-63-862-0041 China Tel. 51-1-226-6034 A-1706 LuoWa Tower, No.203 Wangjing Lize Zhongyuan 2 qu, Taebaek Branch Office Australia Chaoyang District, Beijing 100102, China 80-2 Hwangji-dong, Taebaek-si, Gangwon-do Kores Australia Pty Ltd, Suite11.01, 50 Berry St. North Sydney, Tel. 86-10-6439-8305 Tel. 82-33-552-1261 NSW 2060, Australia Chile Tel. 61-2-8907-3010 South Africa Badajoz 130(Alonso de Cordova 5495), Oficina 605, Lord Charles Office Park, Chr Charles and Brooklyn Street, BrookDR Congo Las Condes, Santiago lyn 0181, Pretoria, South Africa Crown Tower No.1503, Boulevard du 30 Juin, Avenue Batetela Tel. 56-2-951-9266 Tel. 27-12-460-5824 No.3098, Commune de la Gombe, Kinshasa, DRC Kazakhstan Tel. 243-81-820-1736 Mongolia 188, Dostyk Ave., Kulan-Biz center #302, Almaty 050059, 8th floor, The Landmark Tower chinggis avenue 13 Sukhbaatar Kazakhstan district, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia Tel. 7-7272-596-691 Tel. 976-1132-6875 Cree-East Shakespeare Capstone Rosemont Company name Korea Resources Corporation (KORES) Uranium Copper Copper Copper CU metal of 41K tons CU metal of 96K tons Establishment date June 5, 1967 KRW 5.1 billion KRW 2.5 billion KRW 196.1 billion KRW 39.3 billion Exploration Stage Development Stage Production Stage Development Stage Korea Mining Promotion Act No.1935 Grounds for 12.5% (50%) 4.7% (4.7%) 11% (11%) 10% (20%) (enacted on Mar. 30, 1967) establishment KORES Act No. 9182 (revised on Dec. 26, 2008) To contribute to national economic development by promoting the stable supply and demand of mineral Establishment resources through the nurturing of and support for purpose mineral resources development at home and abroad, Canada and the mineral resources industry No. of employees 444 3 Divisions, 10 Departments, 43 Teams, Organization 10 Overseas Branch Offices, 2 Branch Offices in Korea KRW1 trillion and 300 million Capital (Government: 99.7%; Korea Finance Corporation: 0.3%) USA Net profit KRW32.8 billion Boleo Cobre Panama Copper Copper Project Name CuMetal 3.8 billion CuMetal 25.5 billion Mexico Mineral Type tons tons Annual Production Volume 93.7 billion KRW 17.3 billion KRW Panama Investment Amount Development Stage Development Stage 10% (30%) 10% (20%) • Development Status Exploration Stage Development Stage Production Stage  ORES Stake (Korea’s Stake) K Peru Bolivia Celendin Marcona Corocoro Sal de Vida Copper Copper Copper Lithium CuMetal 11 billion Lithium carbonate tons KRW 5.9 billion 2.5 K tons Chile Exploration Stage KRW 21.4 billion Exploration Stage KRW 6 billion 40% (40%) Development Stage 23% (45%) Exploration Stage 15% (30%) 10% (30%) Argentina Santo Domingo NXSnow Copper,Iron Lithium CU metal of 65 K tons, Lithium carbonate 2 K tons Fe 26 M tons KRW 183.7 billion KRW 218.7 billion Development Stage Exploration Stage 12% (30%) 30% (30%) Unlimited KORES 7 Corporate Governance Composition and operation of the board of directors Assessment of the board of directors’performance and reward Composition The board of directors is the highest decision-making The operation of the board of directors is externally assessed by a govorganization; the appointed non-standing director assumes the chairernment each year. Internally, internal evaluation by board members manship of the board, and the ratio of non-standing directors is larger and operation performance evaluation by the leader of agenda-setting than the majority to enable them to fulfill their role faithfully in check team are carried out as well. Problems raised during these assessments and support. The president is selected at the recommendation of the are reflected on the following year’s operation plan establishment. The Office Recommendation Committee and by the Act on Public AgenKORES president presents specific management objectives to realize the cies' Operation, and standing directors are appointed by the president. corporate philosophy and visions, signs a management agreement with The non-standing directors are selected and appointed by the same the Knowledge Economy Minister, and receives performance-based pay Act mentioned above at the recommendation of the Officer Recomdifferentially depending on the management performance evaluation. mendation Committee among the candidates meeting the competence criteria in each job for rational decision making and expertise in Activation and consolidation of the board of directors the economic, social, and environmental sectors. In 2011, the board KORES has established a management system centering on the board meeting was held 15 times; 46 items on the agenda were handled of directors to enhance the expertise in and efficiency of management. including 34 cases of resolution and 12 cases of reporting. KORES has made efforts to activate the board of directors through the development of a system to use non-standing directors’ expertise and Operation of the Subcommittees KORES has three subcomsupport for their competence consolidation. In addition, KORES has mittees affiliated with the board of directors: Strategic Management strengthened the role of the board of directors by regularizing the Subcommittee, Investment Advisory Subcommittee, and Sustainability board meeting’s process, expanding the operation of subcommittees, Management Subcommittee to consolidate the expertise, enhance the and holding a pre-presentation on the items. KORES set five key perdecision-making efficiency, and fulfill the social responsibility as a govformance indicators (KPIs) and objectives for the evaluation of board ernment owned corporation. operation performances. Consolidation of board's role Category Main activities in 2011 Regularizing the board •Enhance the opinion presentation rate by establishing a regular process for questions and debates meeting’s process •Reflect the internal auditor’s opinions by offering the auditor an opportunity to present his/her opinions (100% of auditor’s attendance rate). Composition of balanced •Expanded operation of three subcommittees (7 sessions in 2010 10 sessions in 2011) subcommittees and •Strategic Mgt. Subcommittee (1 session), Investment Advisory Subcommittee (6 sessions), Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee (3 sessions) expanded operation •Regular board meetings to be held every fourth Thursday of the month and temporary board meetings to be held for the deliberation on pending issues Support for timely related to emergency management decision making •A special report is made at a non-standing director’s request on management conditions, resources environment and already decided items Regularizing non-standing •Joint presentation at outside venues 2 days before the board meeting directors’ pre-presentation -The direction for the supplementation / revision of items can be presented, and efficient debate is enabled in the board meeting on the items •Enhance the understanding of items and enrich the substance of decision making through the joint pre-presentation. Consolidation and use of non-standing directors’ expertise KPIs for the BOD operation •Orientation by field (3 sessions), offering management informaSupport for competion (3 fields), enhancement of understanding of social contributence consolidation 97.5 tion through direct participation in relevant activities (2 sessions) 95.0 89.4 •Presenting rational alternatives(Specialized opinions (50 cases), Role revised opinions (2 cases), policy suggestions (4 cases)) 75.6 consolidation •Consolidation of pre-deliberation thru subcommittee activation 69.2 •Checking thru revised opinions presentation on the items in the agenda 69.8 Attendance rate Non-standing directors stateStatus enhancement •Visit to the resources development site (5 times), participation in ment rate management activities (2 times) Revised opinion rate 19.5 21.2 No. of board meetings held No. of adequate item Development of a •Change in the governance of board of directors due to the increase in assets 16 16 15 handling cases system to use non-Chairmanship: appointed non-standing director 3 3 3 standing directors’ •Consolidation of pre-screening of investment business items 5.9 expertise -Evaluation of investment business team, risk check, and legal contract review 2009 2010 2011 8 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Unlimited KORES Risk Management Risk management system Risk management organization The Risk Management CommitRisk management strategy KORES has devised a system through tee is the supervising and deliberating organization on overall risks which clear role and policy establishment can be reflected on the busigenerated in management activities. The committee deliberates on the ness during normal times based on the management’s solid commitbasic enterprise risk policy, strategy and regulations, and risk management to manage risks efficiently. We have also been pushing ahead ment limit and comprehensive plan as well as risk-related items on the with a strategy to enhance corporate values and promote sustainabilagenda. The Risk Management Team carries out risk policy strategy ity management by implementing key businesses’ successful operation establishment, risk management system development, risk measuring and main functions without obstacles thru employees' voluntary parmodel improvement and risk reporting system operation. ticipation in education/training programs for risk management competence consolidation by developing such programs. Risk management and monitoring process KORES develops its own risk assessment method, assesses the risks, and reports the assessEnterprise risk management system (ERMS) KORES operates a ment results to the Risk Management Committee and routinely carries system to recognize, measure, evaluate, respond to, monitor, report, out enterprise management for efficient risk management. We also and feedback risks by building ERMS (Enterprise Risk Management Sysmonitor whether risk management is faithfully carried out in complitem) to cope proactively with new types of risks according to business ance with the defined strategies and regulations. We establish and opsector expansion. We completed the establishment of ERMS in 2011 erate a system through which the data created in the risk management and aim at operating the system efficiently and effectively in 2012. process are converted into useful information for decision making and reported. Through this, we can cope with potential risks in advance. Organization Status of 2011 Risk Management Committee meetings •Risk Mgt. Committee •Dept. in charge of risk Mgt. Meeting sequence Details •Work Unit to manage risks Pro Plan to manage exchange risks of 2011 assets and 1st ce ss liabilities denominated in foreign currency Process •Risk identification 2st Proposal to increase project investment limit on •ERMS establishment 3st Proposal to establish risk management regulations ati •Establishment of policy to respond to risks niz Enterprise risk 4st Proposal to plan project share sale ga Or management System •Establishment of risk reporting system System •Systematization of risk measurement and management •Accumulate risk DB MY PAGE DASHBOARD 시장리스크 신용리시크 유동성리스크 RCSA KRI관리 대응과제 시장정보 DASHBOARD세부 전체 세부 시장VaR세부구성 시장VaR한도비율 Establishment of risk management regulations KORES has tightened its previous risk management standards to establish the new risk management regulations in 10, 2011. The new regulations clarify the risk manageEaR세부 유동성GAP ment organization and its role, stipulate the risk management procedure and system utilization, and also contain more contents including the appointment of outside experts, to secure the expertise and objectivity of the Risk Management Committee. Risk Managemnet System Unlimited KORES 9 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder classification Stakeholder communication channels KORES is fully aware that sustainability management is truly attainable KORES operates communication channels in line with stakeholders' only when we correctly understand and effectively respond to stakecharacteristics, collects opinions and requirements, and continuously holders' demand. Accordingly, we divide the stakeholders that wield supplements and improves weaknesses through the feedback of stakehuge economic, social, and environmental influence on the organiholders. We built a system for immediately responding to the Voice of zation's management activities into customers, investment partners, Customer through the integrated management of all VOCs includpartner firms, government, communities, associations and research ing a customer consulting section on the homepage, civil petition via institutes, media, employees, and NGOs. This enables us to effectivetelephone or by visit, electronic Shinmungo (through which citizens ly respond to stakeholders' demand by identifying each stakeholder can lodge complaints), and customer suggestions. The accumulated group's main interests. customers' opinions are used as service improvement data by inputting them into a database. We will strive to achieve a higher level of sustainability management by maintaining a solid relationship on trust with stakeholders through more various communication channels. •Self sufficiency •Policy •Integrated •Community •M ining •Resources •Reduction of •Press social rate improveCommittee environmental social technology development greenhouse gathering ment •Resources management gathering development academy gas emissions •Press tour •Securing Cooperation •Trust •Social •Resources •Seminar/ •Mineral energy Committee consolidation contribution development Conference stockpiling resources •Monthly with activities specialist •Securing energy •Mineral meeting of communities fostering resources stockpiling the Ministry •PR among business of Knowledge citizens Economy Media Association Government Community and research Employee institute NGO •Sound labor•Labor-Mgt. KORES Mgt. relations Council Partner •Fringe benefits •Grievance Customer Committee firm •Internal staff satisfaction survey Investment partner •Environmental •Sustainability impact Mgt. Committee minimization •Company •Efficient newsletter energy use •Eco-products •Resources •Partner firm •Self sufficiency •Working-level •Treasury •Customer Satispurchase development social gathering rate improvecouncil for subsidies-effifaction Research experts •Briefing ment investment cient execution •Voice of fostering session on •Promoting •Seminar/ •Mine disaster customer •Technology support projects package-type Conference prevention collecting research and •Reporting resources •Customer campaign support system for development satisfaction •Integrated •Investment public benefits •Establishing Mgt customer Mgt. size expansion a win-win system partnership Main issues Communication channels 10 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Public Benefits Supporting resources development abroad analysis technology with regard to our 6 strategic minerals. Consolidation of exploration support and technology KORES supports overseas resources development projects through overseas Support for domestic resources development survey and exploration technology development. In 2011, through the Exploration support and exploration technology consolidation expansion of the overseas survey project and enhancement of supKORES supports the drilling investigation for new mine development port efficiency, we secured and provided 32 promising private overseas and existing mine redevelopment to secure essential minerals used for projects and 17 follow-up projects in the form of subsequent exploraindustrial raw materials. We have been carrying out a formal examination and investment which posted a year-on-year increase of 13% over tion on potential mining areas nationwide to secure 410 million tons the previous year. Meanwhile, thanks to the improvement of support of mineral reserves only in 2011. To sum up, by probing 530 mining system for mutual growth with overseas resources development SMEs, areas nationwide until 2011, we secured 16.26 billion tons of new the support for SMEs has increased by 76% compared to the previous reserves in total. Prospecting and drilling operations, with the purpose year. In the exploration technology field, KORES also strives to conof securing reserves of private mines with development potential, seek solidate its support function through exploration technology enhanceto determine the status of natural resources of ore body and enabled ment such as conducting its first airborne magnetic exploration. us to secure 51.7million tons of ore volume in 2011. Concerning direct exploration, we plan to secure domestic metal mines with redevelopSupport for overseas survey project ment potential. We actually performed direct exploration of 10 mines Category 2010 2011 Increase/decrease from 2004 to 2011 and developed a couple of them. And we are Secure/provide promising working hard to improve our exploration technological competence: 28 32 14 private projects addressing 5 key technology challenges based on a roadmap for trainFollow-up projects 36 39 8 ing exploration experts to enhance the exploration technology level to that of advanced countries. Fund and technology support KORES implements a policy financing project to come up with the funds required for resources deTotal results of formal examination velopment abroad so as to foster the continual growth base of the Category 2010 2011 overseas resources development project. KORES strives to achieve the No. of mining areas 480 530 target self sufficiency rate for 6 strategic minerals and rare metals and Reserves 15.84 billion ton 16.26 billion ton also induce more private corporations to participate in the overseas Total results of prospecting and drilling operations resources development. To that end, KORES provided financial support worth KRW68.4 billion in 15 projects for the development of strategic Category 2010 2011 minerals and rare metals in 2011, and also improved the credit asNo. of mines 8 10 sessment system and loan support system such as preferential loan treatment for SMEs. As a way to consolidate technical support, we esSupporting the enhancement of the domestic mining industablished a strategic roadmap for resources development technology, try’s competitiveness With the provision of comprehensive supbased on which we came up with world-class core technologies and port that covers from exploration, modernized development, safety set up guidelines for technology development. Currently, we are makfacilities, to funding, KORES established a stable supply base in the ing an effort to secure and share technological prowess by conducting limestone market through 'Selection and Concentration' for the indusresearch on the development of key technologies for rare-earth metals trialization of raw materials and supported the construction of facilities processing and seeking to receive more accreditation from KOLAS (Kofor high value-addition and in underground mines. Based on these rea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme) in order to secure global mineral support activities, we laid the foundation for sustainable growth and Support for overseas resources development SMEs Loans for overseas resources development (Unit : KRW 100 million) 60 684 684 34 Increase by 76% achievement of 100% 2010 2011 2011 2011 target achievement Unlimited Economy 11 recorded the mining productivity of 36.0 tons in 2011, exceeding the can be produced on a large scale for the coming 20 years. Looking at goal of 35.8 tons per capita. Moreover, we are pushing ahead with the the figures, the self sufficiency rate with regard to new strategic minerplan to build a mineral resources and materials center where we will als reached 12% in 2011. be able to promote domestic mineral materials (processing) businesses and secure relevant development technologies. We also completed a Strategic storing of scarce metals KORES is actively engaged in master plan for the development of mineral resources in North Korea the establishment of foundation for storing scarce metals, improvement to create a supply and demand chain of industrial raw materials and of purchase efficiency, and consolidation of storage site management. energy minerals needed for the inter-Korean economic development. As of the end of 2011, we stockpiled 6,941 tons of 9 metals including To prevent mine disasters, we are operating programs on mine security rare-earth, chrome, molybdenum, and tungsten, which is equivalent to and disaster prevention. In 2011, we conducted mine safety educa22.6 days of consumption of Korea. And we plan to strategically stock tion/training for 3,168 people and 490 cases of facility inspection. up 78,400 tons or 60 days of Korea’s consumption by 2016. Fund and technology support KORES disbursed support funds •Establishment of foundation for storage projects and imworth KRW80.1 billion in 2011 to raise domestic mining productivity provement of purchase efficiency KORES is pushing ahead with and enhance competitiveness. KORES increased the amount of mineral the expansion of storage projects by securing a continuous increase in processing funds by 138% compared to the original goal to promote the budget allocation for storage based on the enhanced communihigher value-addition in the materials industry while introducing a new cation with related organizations including the government and Nafund with special purpose for the diversification of financial products tional Assembly. To promote international cooperation on scarce metand support for higher value-added business promotion. In addition, als, we strive to expand our network on information exchange home we improved the loan underwriting guidelines so as to provide preferand abroad by participating in a number of international consultative ential treatment to SMEs and consolidate the support for mines with groups on information exchange. We are conducting the following development potential. Also, in order to consolidate technical support, activities for efficient purchase of mineral reserves: analyzing business we conducted research and development of key technologies needed environment, setting reasonable performance goals with the help of for domestic low grade uranium ore development, and built an ore consultative body, and enhancing the monitoring system with the dressing pilot plant which maintains consistency from comminution to publication of analysis reports on market trends. post-processing and is used as a venue for the demonstration of newly developed technologies and education/training of human resources. •Securing new storage sites and management consolidation KORES laid a solid foundation for storage projects by building the Securing scare metals world's first special storage only for rare-earth metals so as to preserve Securing scarce metals through direct resources development them intact for a long time and enable stockpiling without any probIn an effort to stably secure scarce metals which are necessary materilems thanks to its sufficient amount of space. als for green growth, KORES designated lithium and rare-earth metals as new strategic minerals and set the goal of achieving 31% of autonStorage capacity of scarce metals omous development rate by 2020. We are making various efforts to Category 2010 2011 discover promising projects on rare-earth metals, the key materials in Storage quantity 1,905tons 6,941tons the high-tech industry. And those efforts have recently led to securing Equivalent days of storing 15.1days 22.6days a project on rare-earth metals in the Republic of South Africa which 2011 Mining 2011 Loans for domestic resources Equivalent days of storing on Storage quantity of productivity (Unit : tons per capita) development (Unit : KRW 100 million) average (Unit : days) scarce metals (Unit : tons) 36.0 801 35.8 750 22.6 22.6 6,866 6,941 achievement achievement achievement achievement of 101% of 107% of 100% of 101% 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 target achievement target achievement target achievement target achievement 12 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Growth Pursuing enlargement to jump up to be identifying key challenges through case study on the enlargement a major global mining company of other companies/organizations, working with foreign consulting Currently, the global resources market is witnessing the creation of groups to come up with the reasons to support the necessity and justiseller's market owing to mineral prices hike as well as deepening mofication for enlargement, and forming an internal task force to secure nopoly and oligopoly of major mining companies. Under this circumdriving force and improve concentration on work. In addition, we are stance, we are having a difficult time discovering promising projects focusing our efforts on building an external consensus, such as produe to being less competitive than major companies in terms of capital moting cooperation with the government and National Assembly, with and technology. In this respect, 'Enlargement of KORES' is inevitable the help of an advisory group consisting of outside resources experts, in the resources market where size means competitiveness. For the while concentrating all our capabilities on enlargement through the enlargement of KORES, we are conducting a variety of activities as consolidation of external network. Based on such capabilities, we will follows: objectively analyzing the business capacity and environment, prepare a revised bill of Public Corporations Act and take a leap forward to become one of the major global resources companies. Plans for growth Formulate a plan for the enlargement of KORES to become one of the major global mining companies Reestablish the functions and roles of KORES & set a growth target Work with a foreign consulting company Set up a task force for the enlargement of KORES Form an outside advisory group •Analyze the global mineral resources market and •Establish a basic policy for the enlargement of KORES •CEOs in the resources industry, members of the business trends •Lay the foundation for the enlargement of KORES National Assembly, university professors, etc. •Conduct a comprehensive analysis of KORES' Seek to revise Public Corporations Act, prepare •Promote communication for the enlargement of capability and business environment measures to secure resources, etc. KORES •Provide reasons to support the enlargement of •Engage in outside activities based on the cooperation Maintain a harmonious relationship with the CEO KORES with the government and National Assembly of KORES → Suggest a direction for and form a •Identify challenges for the enlargement of KORES social consensus on the enlargement of KORES •Devise and implement PR strategies for the enlargement of KORES Consult on the master plan for the enlargement of KORES KORES's future role & how to accomplish •Future role Stably secure strategic minerals and actively engage in management, discover resources to foster new growth industries, create the resources development industry ecosystem, and encourage the private sector to collect their capabilities of resources development •How to accomplish  Short-term, 2012-2013 | Secure the capability to invest in and manage strategic minerals Mid-term, 2014-2016 | Increase the investment in strategic minerals and establish management infrastructure Long-term, 2017-2020 | Emerge as a public corporation specialized in resources development (asset size: KRW 15 trillion) How to use consultation results •Provide guidelines for future management and investment strategy to become a world class company •Use as objective data for evaluation of KORES' management capability and business environment and also as driving force for change •Suggest directions for the government's support policy planning and provide justification for the enlargement of KORES Unlimited Economy 13 Direct resources development expansion Consolidation in finding overseas projects and leading investNew investment strategy In 2011, KORES devised a short-term ment in domestic projects As part of the efforts to discover promstrategy, 'Big & Balanced' investment strategy, and a midand longising projects abroad, we expanded the copper belt in the Americas, term strategy, '2-Track' investment strategy until 2020, to lay the founincreased the number of strongholds in the African continent by securdation for balanced investment between new and existing projects. ing uranium in Tanzania, and diversified investment regions and supply Based on these strategies, we will expand our representative profitlines by securing the Indonesian bituminous coal project. By bolstering making businesses, concentrate on minerals with high profitability, leading investment to enhance the domestic self-reliance rate, we proand secure and manage strongholds in strategic regions. In 2012, moted mine redevelopment through direct exploration, redeveloped KORES will complete '2+2 plus a' strategy, set up measures to drastithe iron ore mine in Yangyang, and built a nickel smelting factory. cally increase the self sufficiency rate along with specific targets, and Through all these activities to stimulate the domestic mining industry, establish and promote the 'Active 2B' strategy to improve executive we laid the foundation for value chain expansion and actively induce ability. Although sticking to the existing '2B' strategy, we will modify private companies’ investment. the details and clarify the objectives so as to improve executive ability, consolidate financial soundness, and concentrate on increasing proImprovement of project management effectiveness through duction capacity. revaluation of investment projects We carried out the revaluation of investment projects to objectively analyze the performance Global resources network expansion To secure a stable source of overseas investment projects. As a result, it turns out that a value of supply in the highly competitive resources market, KORES makes coof approximately KRW1.2 trillion was created compared to 2007. This investment through the linkage with domestic agencies while focusing can be attributed to the increase in mineral prices, addition of reserves on the consolidation of networks between countries. In particular, for based on KORES' advanced technology, effective linking of developthe efficient implementation of the '2+2 strategy', we strive to build a ment stages, and acquisition of promising assets through investment network of high-ranking executives and expand the working-level netin new projects. KORES will make continuous efforts to stably secure work through cooperation with the government for the penetration of the mineral resources of Korea in the years ahead. the Africa and South America markets, along with securing uranium and copper, which are insufficient in terms of self sufficiency. Revaluation of overseas investment projects (Unit : KRW 100 million) 35,611 value creation: KRW1trillion and 15,871 226.8billion 6,056 19,740 3,603 Investment 2,462 Assessment Revaluation 2007 (December in 2011) Comparison of investment strategies 2012_Active 2B investment strategy <Maximize asset value through 2011_Existing 2B investment strategy <Secure promising assets> production networks> BIG strategy BALANCED strategy Enhance financial soundness by Visualize production by setting •Secure large-scale projects •Balanced investment between improving profitability connected targets for the next stage focusing on STAR project new and existing projects •Make investment mainly in •Reexamine the corporate structure and •Problem : Impair financial •Problem : Diversified investproduction businesses human resources for efficient soundness ment, less concentration of •Secure more large-scale explorabusiness management enterprise capability tion projects → growth engine •Concentrate capabilities to maximize asset value 14 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Economic Efficiency Self sufficiency rate improvement managed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. The self sufficiency Importance of self sufficiency Self sufficiency rate refers to the rate of strategic minerals refers to the ratio of autonomous developresources amount secured by domestic companies through overseas ment amount to the total national import amount. In 2011, it posted resources development, and acts as an indicator of the stability of se29.0%, up 2.0%, compared to the previous year, and KORES plans to curing resources in resources supply crisis situations. Actually, the imraise the rate to 42% by 2019. Toward this end, we have established portance of self sufficiency is very high in terms of national resources and have begun operating a strategy to achieve the target through security, coping with disturbing situations in the resources market such demand and supply analysis and outlook by mineral. as mineral price hikes, deepening monopoly and oligopoly of major mining companies, and using resources as a weapon stemming from •New strategic minerals Although demand for scarce metals such new resources nationalism. We recognize national economic stabilizaas lithium and rare-earth metals is rising due to the recent industrial tion through the stable procurement and supply of mineral resources advancement, their supply is unstable because of the increasing conas our economic responsibility and set a self sufficiency rate target to trol by countries with those resources. KORES continually expands the build a stable supply system of energy and mineral resources. To this investment in new strategic minerals to cope with demand pattern end, we concentrate all our capabilities on mineral resources developchange, and has achieved a self sufficiency rate of 12.0% in 2011. We ment abroad. will take the leading role in developing scare metals which will serve as a foundation for the development of new growth engine industry •Strategy to enhance the self sufficiency rate of Korea. KORES concentrates on ensuring internal stability through balanced investment in new and existing projects along with securing largeStatus of achievements and implementation The financial crisis scale profitable projects from the short-term perspective and on investin the Eurozone and increasing uncertainty of global economy caused ing in the development and production of strategic minerals from the the investment from the private sector to decrease while that from the mid-and long-term perspectives. Simultaneously, we are expanding public sector to increase in 2011. In particular, KORES accounts for the investment in scarce metals and large-scale exploration businesses 56% of Korea's total investment in overseas resources development to secure a growth engine. by making aggressive investments in large-scale development projects, such as Boleo and Ambatovy, and discovering 4 new projects including •Six strategic minerals Bituminous coal, uranium, iron, copper, Capstone and Santo Domingo. Moreover, we entered various other zinc, and nickel are six major strategic minerals selected according to regions by making intensive investments in minerals and regions of the basic plan for overseas resources development. Although the imlow investment. We have been working hard to secure 7 promising pact of these minerals on the national economy is high with more than projects in 7 countries since 2008 as part of the efforts to establish a USD 100 million of import size, they have an unstable supply structure stable supply base of copper, which suffers from low autonomous dewith more than 90% of import dependence, and thus are selected and velopment rate. As a result, we could expand and establish the copper Self sufficiency rate of strategic minerals (Unit : %) Copper belt in the Americas 29.0 The self sufficiency rate of copper is expected to reach 38% by 2019 by securing 7 projects 27.0 in 7 countries of the region with the world's largest copper reserves and production which is 25.1 created along with the western region of North and South Americas. 2009 2010 2011 Capstone Production Project, Canada 2011 Rosemont Development Project, USA 2010 Boleo Development Project, Mexico 2008 Self sufficiency rate of new strategic minerals (Unit : %) Panama's Cobre Development Project, Panama 2009 Marcona Development Project, Peru 2004 12 8.5 Corocoro Exploration Project, Bolivia 2008 Santo Domingo Exploration Project, Chile 2011 2009 2010 Unlimited Economy 15 belt in the Americas by making new investments in copper mines in Summarized 2009-2011 income statements (Unit : KRW1 million) Canada and Chile through our first M&A of FWM, a resources devel2011 based on IFRS consolidated financial statements opment company specialized in copper, and secured an opportunity (the 45th period) to dramatically raise the self sufficiency rate of copper. In addition, Sales 247,913 we completed the lithium triangle market in Latin America: Chile NX Cost of sales 191,660 Uno Development Project, Argentina Sal de Vida Exploration Project, Gross profit 56,253 and Bolivia Lithium Resources Co-development, by making diversified Other income 2,256 efforts to acquire lithium, which is a key raw material in rechargeable Selling and administrative expenses 18,302 battery. Other expenses 2,119 Once our lithium project gets off the ground and enters the producOther profit -3,287 tion stage, we are expecting to meet more than 70% of domestic demand for lithium by 2020. Additionally we established a stronghold Operating profit 34,801 to penetrate the African market by securing a new uranium project in Financial income 10,205 Tanzania and have launched a new bituminous coal project in IndoFinancial costs 4,485 nesia. In this way, we are making all-out efforts to stably secure and Gross income and loss 40,521 supply mineral resources. Income tax expense 7,739 Consolidated net income 32,782 Current status of the self sufficiency rate of each mineral Net income attributable to controlling interest 32,781 KORES establishes and implements customized strategies considering each mineral's features to achieve the target self sufficiency rate. Net income attributable to non-controlling interest 1 (Unit : %) Based on K-GAAP separate finan2010 2009 cial statements (the 44th period) (the 43th period) Category 2009 2010 2011 Sales 166,213 147,702 Bituminous Coal 43.7 48.3 52.2 Cost of sales 128,091 113,528 Uranium 1.1 3.4 6.6 Gross profit 38,122 34,174 Iron 14.2 16.5 15.3 Selling and administrative expenses 16,067 15,136 Copper 5.1 6.0 10.2 Operating profit 22,055 19,038 Zinc 33.8 32.3 24.7 Non-operating income 7,884 4,700 Nickel 32.6 36.8 30.5 Non-operating expense 3,725 2,453 Economic value creation and distribution Gross income and loss 26,213 21,284 Economic value creation KORES adopted IFRS (International FiIncome tax expense 3,176 nancial Reporting Standards) in 2011 and began to use consolidated Net income 23,038 21,284 financial statements as its main financial statements. KORES recorded *2011 income statement is separately presented due to the change of accounting standards sales of KRW 247.9 billion and net profit of KRW32.8 billion in 2011 (K-GAAP -> IFRS) based on consolidated financial statements Distribution for stakeholders KORES distributes the economic value created through business activities to stakeholders in various forms including tax payment, job creation, contribution to communities and win-win partnerships with partner firms. Increase rate of total Increase rate of assets (Unit : %) net income (Unit : %) Distribution to stakeholders Amount(KRW 1 million) Ratio(%) Capital expense 115,992 46.8% 45.2 Taxes 128 0.1% 42 39.3 Investment in communities 2,115 0.9% Dividends 2,350 0.9% 8 Wages and benefits 25,170 10.2% 2010 2010 2011 Economic value reserves 102,158 41.2% 2011 16 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Ethical Management KORES-unique ethical management model Civil Rights Commission of Korea (ACRC) regularly evaluate our ethical KORES strives to put ethical management into practice as a resources management system and integrity level, and we continually improve development company by establishing an ethical management model the internal systems and institutions based on the evaluation results. consisting of transparent & fair management, social responsibility, economic responsibility, and environmental responsibility. Anticorruption organization Organization Personnel Role Ethical management activities •Establish anticorruption and Integrity Our ethical management is based on ethical norms consisting of the 5 external members integrity policies Reform charter of ethics, the most significant norm, code of ethics, code of 3 internal members •Establish preventive measures Internal Committee for sectors prone to corruption conduct, executives’ job integrity regulations, and other standards of Compliance •Supervise law and regulation conduct. We also created an anticorruption organization composed of 7 internal members Officers compliance of employees insiders and outsiders to put ethical management into practice. •Audit contracts worth more than KRW50 million Integrity Ethical management monitoring Ombudsman 3 external members •Assess the audit investigaExtertion of projects receiving the KORES evaluates the ethical management activities of each departnal government subsidy ment through internal management evaluation to make sure that our Clean Monitor10 external private •Monitor and report corrupt ethical management is implemented with responsibility by each deing Group businessmen acts of employees partment. We link the hours to complete the program on integrity and ethics and the result of efforts to improve the anticorruption system with personal mileage points, team bonus, and performance ratings. Ethical Management Externally, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, Strategy and FiGRI nance Ministry/Knowledge Economy Ministry, and Anticorruption & 00 Gui 260 KORES 'Ethical deli ISO Management nes The KORES management's efforts to promote ethical management Transparency Society Transparent and fair management Promote social contribution External: the government, Internal: employees •Trusted company activities customers, communities • Fair society •Pursue mutual growth How to Economy Environment Secure mineral resources Eco-friendly mine development Concentrate capabilities to Establish channels for cooperation •Economic development •Green growth establish a culture of integrity through mutual understanding •Win-win cooperation •Promote change-oriented mind •Enhance mutual understanding •Increase communication channels •Improve service quality Strengthen ethics at the corporation level •Operate multiple channels •Fulfill social responsibilities •Special education on integrity and ethics for executives(June, July) Education •Cyber education on integrity and ethics for all employees (October) •Integrity meal coupons for customers who visit KORES(October) Main activities System •Code of conduct to be included in the promotion examination for level 3(November) •CEO's mentoring activities •Contribute columns on the management's integrity to news•All employees' oath of integrity and display of the written (strategy meeting and internal oath(September) notice board) papers (chief auditor: 4 times) Activity •Clean KORES notice board(throughout the year) •Special lectures by executives •Disclose the details of the manage•Integrity essay and slogan contest(November) (president: 2 times, chief auditor ment's entertainment expenses 1 time, vice-president 1 time) •Participate in social contribution •Publication and distribution of integrity essay collection(January) •Award from president for the proactivities (volunteer work for Examination •Publication of sustainability report(October) •Examine the performance of Environmental Safety and motion of anticorruption/integrity pneumoconiosis patients) Health(ESH) standards(December) Unlimited Society 17 Employees Status of employees underprivileged (granting additional points on document) including Policy of employees With emphasis on fair HR management, disabled people and patriots and veterans. As of the end of 2011, KORES strives to reduce discrimination between regular and irregular we employ 26 patriots and veterans, and the employment rate of the employees and improve the treatment of irregular employees. Discrimdisabled is 2.9%, and that of patriots and veterans is 5.9%. inatory treatment on the grounds of gender, religion, race, and age upon recruitment and promotion is banned in KOERS. We also make Industrial disaster rate KORES discloses the statistics on the emefforts to create a work environment where human rights are respectployee's industrial disaster rate as of the end of June each year and ed: banning child labor and coercive labor at all workplaces pursuant supports all labor union members in receiving compensation for various to ILO's Child Labor Prohibition Agreement and Pact on Coercive Work disasters. The industrial disaster rate from July in 2010 to June in 2011 Abolishment along with Korea's Labor Standards Act, and there has was 0.12%, and that from July in 2011 to June in 2012 is 0.11%. been no report of such violation so far. Nurturing talented people Personnel status The total number of employees at KORES as of KORES carries out education and training programs for the improvethe end of 2011 is 444, increasing by 75 compared to the previous ment of the employees’ expertise in resources development, global year. Of these, 442 are regular workers and 2 are contract ones. The competence, and change competency, aiming at nurturing personnel proportion of women is 22.75% (101 persons), which is on a sharp specialized in resources development and armed with global competirise compared to 19.5% (72 persons) as of the end of 2010. KORES tiveness. KORES has adopted 'KORES Man Power', a career developplans to continually increase the hiring of newcomers and expert emment index that improved the existing career development system in ployees, and forecasts the total number of employees in 2015 to reach order to analyze each individual's expertise and career development approximately 680. direction and support their growth as job experts. Employment of the socially underprivileged KORES operates Fair performance evaluation KORES fairly evaluates all employvarious programs to employ the socially underprivileged; thus promotees’ performances and gives benefits to high-performing people in ing an employment policy that respects diversity and shuns discriminathe HR rating such as promotion and reward. Among those who get tion. We also implement a recruitment policy considering the socially Personnel status Employment of the socially underprivileged 444 6.0 5.9 5.9 354 369 101 3.7 3.5 2.9 64 72 21 22 26 290 297 343 Patriots & veterans Women The disabled Men 13 13 13 Employment rate of patriots & veterans 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Employment rate of the disabled Talented people nurturing system Competence-oriented training system Education / training vision Model talent Education/training infrastructurea •Person armed with the best •KORES Man Power •Competence-based •KORES HCI Foster personnel specialized •Career development training •HR system-level expertise Education/training system in resources development index system •Job competencediagnosis •Person carrying out responsible •Common and equipped with global -M easure job based training Internal employcompetitiveness resources development competence training suitability S elect competence ees satisfaction •Person trusted by internal and •Leadership training -M  easure job by job -HR/training/ external customers •Job training expertise -C  urriculum by organization/ -P resent curriculum competence leadership-level direction -L ink with competenexamination ceassessment 18 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth 85 or higher points in the work assessment, KORES selects trainees at specialized general benefits package. We strive to increase each emgraduate schools at home and abroad and nurtures them as core perployee's satisfaction through health promotion and self-improvement sonnel. For those who are specially supervised after having garnered and also maximize their value and role at home and workplace through 60 points or less in the personnel assessment for two years in a row, family support and social contribution. their basic annual salary is reduced, and performance-based annual salary is not paid. Benefit system •Customized benefit system KORES operates a customized benEducation/training to enhance individual competence KORES efit system 'a la carte' wherein employees can select benefit items by maps each individual's competence factors and curriculums and registhemselves. We operate the home loan and Cheonsei (lease of home ters them in the education/training system so that employees can repaying key money) loan system for non-home-owning employees as ceive self-leading education/training by selecting the courses that can well as living expenses loan system. In addition, we provide various help them strengthen their weak points. benefit programs including annual physical examination, resort rentals, and club activities support. Benefits package for employees Benefits for WLB (Work-Life-Balance) To promote the productivRetirement preparation programs KORES provides an occupaity through employees' work-life-balance, KORES offers various and tional transfer support program targeting retirees who wish to change their occupation as well as re-employment training to help them de2011 education/training achievements sign their second life after retirement. Moreover, we pay allowances each month for up to 21 months to retirees from overseas construction sites until they get a job. Maternity protection activities KORES conducts a variety of maBasic course Intermediate course Language course •New recruits: 42 •Practical training: 12 •Learning English ternity protection activities for female employees’ working condition •Basic course: 25 over the phone: improvement: leave for infertility treatment such as in-vitro fertiliza•Overseas training on 65 tion, measures to protect health during pregnancy and leave for regumining: 12 lar medical check-up(once a month), money gift for child birth and adoption (KRW600,000), spouse’s paternity leave (paid leave for 3 days) and adoption leave(20 days), extension of criteria for miscarriage and stillbirth, and acknowledgement of breastfeeding time (an hour a Advanced course Professional course day). Over the past 3 years, 100% of female employees have returned •Resources development academy: 8 •Domestic M.S/Ph.D: 3 •Experts in overseas regions: 2 •Overseas M.S/Ph.D: 2 to work after their maternity and childcare leave, and we do not allow •Short-term overseas practical training: 5 •MBA: 4 any discrimination against them in terms of employment, salary, and career path. WLB(Work-Life-Balance) program for employees Work and Life/Individuals and organizations with competitiveness | Health improvement | Health improvement Family-oriented | Family support Volunteer work | Social contribution Self-improvement Self-improvement •Promote no-smoking programs •Publication of company •One company for one village •Improve educational/training system Support in the form of nicotine e-newsletter (Pine Tree) campaign Corps Analyze the actual conditions of replacement therapy and money gift New section 'Messenger of love' •KORES Volunteer Service education/training and identify tasks for for smoking cessation •Home delivery of newsletter •Participation in Beautiful Store improvement •Reselect health examination centers (Resources & Life) •Public benefit activities in •Operate online education contents and increase the number of exam items Feature articles titled 'Family' investment project sites -Operate the Mine-Edue credit system increase throughout the year •Support for elementary schools Selection of multiple examination •Invitation of retirees families close to mines centers •Promotion of annual leave use •Establish plans to continue daily business activities in case of swine flu outbreak Unlimited Society 19 Support for work-life balance KORES actively promotes the Active labor-management communication KORES pursues the work-life balance of employees through various methods as follows: common goal with the union based on mutual understanding and providing all employees with metabolic syndrome examination, granttrust and recognizes them as a partner by sharing management ining a leave for physical examination, guaranteeing flexibility of workformation and encouraging bottom-up communication. Also, KORESing hours through part-time and flexible work schedule, permitting unique mutually cooperative labor-management culture enables the child-care leave for children of older age, allowing leave of both parmanagement to resolve employees' complaints by themselves; to acents, and leave for family care cept employees' ideas from the field; to create an environment that encourages job commitment and; to foster the spirit of group sharing Sound industrial relations a common destiny. Establishment of partnership through mutual trust and respect While we conduct a joint-analysis of internal and external environLabor union status All KORES employees except grade 2 or higher, ments with the union and readjust the strategy for the advancement team leaders of grade 3, staff in charge of HR, labor, pay and audit, of industrial relations; we strive to create sound relations by complyand secretaries and drivers of the CEO and the chief auditor can freely ing with laws and principles through a customized and cooperative join and engage in labor union activities. Such an open labor-manageconflict management system. We are building up partnership with the ment culture allows the Corporation to record zero labor disputes for unionized employees by increasing the communication channels and 23 years from 1988 when the labor union was founded to 2011. establishing mid and long term plans to strengthen our capability to manage industrial relations. Strategy to build up partnership-based labor-management relations Partnership-based labor-management relations Readjust the strategy to advance labor-management relations Establish legitimate and cooperative labor-management relations •Revise strategic directions by analyzing environments Analyze internal and •Manage industrial relations in compliance with laws and principles Correct external environments and perspectives of labor and management irrational practices by conforming to Labor Law •Re-establish the strategy to advance industrial relations Collect opinions by •Resolve management issues through cooperative conflict management KORESoperating task forces and opening a debate on the strategy for advancement unique cooperative conflict management system •C  heck whether to carry out strategic tasks and action plans Hold ad-hoc meet•Achieve common goals by declaring cooperation for co-prosperity Declare ings to check the status of management (9th round) labor-management cooperation to overcome the economic crisis (3times) Strengthen the capability to manage HR communication and industrial Improve collective agreements in a reasonable way relations •Maximize collective bargaining power and promote productive negotia•Establish a variety of communication channels Make communication channels tions Execute joint-trainings for labor and management reach all types of workers •Overcome conflicting issues at negotiations Utilize communication channels/ •Increase work efficiency by listening to complaints of employees Listen to the labor-management joint organizations/meetings, etc. grievances of vulnerable workers such as irregular workers •Make a reasonable collective-bargaining agreement on wages Sign a collec•Strengthen the capability to manage labor-management relations in the mid tive bargaining agreement on wages according to laws and principles and long term Nurture internal experts/take more advantage of external experts Stimulate communication between labor and management Efforts to encourage job commitment Encourage group comShare management informunication by utilizing mation with all employees meetings 20 Win-win and cooperative Promote Skinship manImprove partnership 11 labor-management agement and make comthrough joint activities of culture 8 munication channels reach labor and management all types of employees 4.29 3.00 Grievance handling (case) 1.8 Create a culture where the Use the ideas of workers ● Turnover (%) management listens to the in the field thereby ingrievances of employees crease labor productivity 2009 2010 2011 proactively 20 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Customers Goals services. In 2011, a total of 228 Happy Calls were carried out and To maintain the excellent grade in Public-service Customer Satisfacrecorded an average 4.9 out of 5.0 points. Also, the VOC collected tion Index(PCSI), KORES sets strategic directions and identifies relevant through Happy Call were reflected upon to dramatically improve the challenges as follows: to create a customer-oriented corporate culture procedure of issuing mineral analysis reports: In the past, customers by implementing company-wide customer satisfaction management had to pay a visit to KORES and request for report issue. Nowadays, and systematizing customer activities, enhance the VOC management however, they may make a phone request, and once the report is issystem, and strengthen the CS capability at customer contact points. sued, notification service is provided to them known as Report Issue Reservation System. Activity to create customer-oriented corporate culture KORES promotes customer satisfaction management through CS Activity to strengthen the capability of CS at customer Management Committee and Open KORES Committee. We also host contact points CS social gatherings to strengthen communication between Customer KORES opened a customer reception called 'Haengbok Maroo' at the Contact Team and Support Team. We have monitored the telephone lobby of the head office to provide better services to visiting custometiquette of all employees three times a year to improve their commuers. Also, we published and distributed leaflets on our six representanication skills with customers. tive services of exploration, development, domestic and international loan, investigation and mineral test. We made strenuous efforts to Activity to enhance Voice of Customer (VOC) improve the quality of customer services by conducting CS '2+2 plus management system a campaign' in which employees think twice and explain twice when KORES manages the VOC in a systematic way through our Happy they respond to customers and collect their feedback. Call System which measures the level of customer satisfaction with Customer Satisfaction Management System Report Issue Reservation System Customer Customer Advancement of CS Management to maintain the excellent grade in Goal Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index Request Notification service Reserve Y/N for issue (1 day before) Create a corporate culture with emphasis on CS management and Objective improve customer satisfaction through the enhancement of VOC Phone call Contact Center Visit management system How to Create a customer-oriented corporate culture Maintain excellent grade in Public-service Customer Enhance the VOC management system Satisfaction Index(PCSI) for 2 consecutive years Strengthen the capability of CS at customer contact points Based on the result of 2010 Customer Satisfaction Analysis and a series of measures for improvement, KORES improved overseas investigation support system , such as simplification of the documents for submission, and also provided Major tasks customer-oriented services, such as preferential loan treatment for SMEs . As a result, in 2011, we acquired Excellent Grade in PCSI for 2 years in a row. •Strengthen •Diversify •Build more communication VOC collection infrastructure for Result of PCSI capability channels customer support •Consolidate •Improve services •Provide more and Category 2009 2010 2011 social contribution by reflecting better services at activities with VOC customer contact Grade Good Excellent Excellent customers points Unlimited Society 21 Win-Win Management Win-win growth with partner firms Therefore, KORES makes an effort to share its profits with such comKORES recognizes the importance of mutual growth with and stramunities, while developing and running a series of programs customtegic promotion of its partner firms through win-win cooperation, ized for each community so that damages occurring during our operathus supporting the enhancement of their capabilities. To be specific, tion can be minimized. We predict the impact on community members we have set an objective of preparing the measures to help SMEs in in terms of asset, income, living conditions and social relations and the resources industry to penetrate into international markets and of strive to support them in these terms: we provide aids to community strengthening the capability of the domestic resources industry. Also, members moving to other areas due to mine development and plant we established and have operated a 'Task Force team for Win-Win building, hire locals first through training, procure local resources, Growth' which consists of team leaders of each department. build more social infrastructure, and come up with the measures to help the locals to live better. In the case of Ambatovy, Madagascar, in Community development support particular, we provide the local workers with living expenses during As resources are developed for a long period of time, the neighboring their re-employment preparation period through Assistance Initiative communities naturally expect to have some part of business profits. for Demobilized Workers (AIDE). 2011 major achievements for win-win growth Support SMEs' advance into overseas market for resources Support the domestic resources industry to strengthen development their capability •Improve SMEs preferential support system •Introduce 'Home Doctor' system to resolve the difficulties that Extend the scope of support: preferential treatment regardless of SMEs have with mine management mineral type -M  ainly in four sectors: finance, mine technology, mine safety, Extra points at selection: grant extra point(0.5) to SMEs and resources information Increase the preferential rate of subsidy: 5% in 2010 → 10% in 2011 Provide advice while visiting the workplaces upon their request •Expand the size of overseas resources development investment support center •Establish preferential loan system for SMEs E xtra points at loan application: 5% given to SMEs, 5% given when working with domestic resources development SMEs Set  up loan limit(domestic KRW3 billion, overseas KRW 4.43 billion) to prevent heavy investment from big corporations 7 Centers 8 Centers -G  overnment subsidy: grant incentive(5% of estimated cost) when 95 cases consulted 110 cases consulted applying for domestic equipment made by SMEs 2010 2011 Communities and win-win management Assistance Initiative for Demobilized Workers Construction and operation (AIDE) Communities and win-win management •Make contracts with local companies to •Provide retirees at construction sites with build plants pension until they get a new job Contracts worth $2 billion in total Promote mutual and sustainable growth through (up to 21 months) Direct benefits to local companies win-win management with the priority on community values Employ the locals Support the locals •Provide 1,000 pieces of clothing to schools •Employ 77% of total personnel who located nearby mines and plants operate mines and plants from the locals Improve income level and life quality of the community 22 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Health and Safety EHS (Environment, Health, Safety) management the near future, the importance of health and safety management for KORES developed an EHS management system in 2010 for enterpriseemployees and community members is being ever more emphasized. wide sustainable management by controlling and eliminating potential At the workplaces in underdeveloped countries into which KORES is risk factors in the environment, health, and safety areas while promotset to advance, yellow fever, parasite infection, malaria, HIV/AIDS and ing resources development projects. other endemic diseases persist. In this regard, KORES plans to collect information as much as possible about the diseases that may break out EHS management guidelines KORES monitors and analyzes at those workplaces and carry out activities of education, consultation, the results of performance on a regular basis according to the EHS prevention, and treatment for deployed employees and their family management guidelines which are applied to both Head office and members, and members of the community. domestic and overseas workplaces. We added more regulations to improve the level of safety and health management for all employees: all Support for accident prevention workplaces are required to provide medical examination to employees KORES operates a variety of programs for mine security and accident working in the environments with high risks such as dealing with hazprevention by analyzing the types of accidents for sustainable develardous materials and to have equipment for emergency situations. opment. In 2011, the number of safety-related accidents at domestic mines decreased by 6 to 28 compared to the previous year, and we Strengthen safety management at overseas workplace As the will continuously execute prevention activities to reduce the mine acnumber of overseas workplaces is expected to continuously increase in cident rate. Inspection checklist Accident prevention program •Consumption of fuel, energy, and water Promotion of •Mine safety education/training: 3,168 persons •Amount of waste water and waste materials organized and safe •Technology training: 15 mines •Carried-in hazardous materials and their consumption operation Environment •Mine facility inspection: 490 cases •Emissions of green house gas (GHG) •Status of compliance with environmental laws and regulations •Prevent safety-related accidents by executing Diversified activities mine safety campaign •Regular check-ups for all employees to prevent mine •Emergency drill to cope with large-scale mine Health •Health improvement programs accidents accidents •Training/education on health •Construct shotcretes •Facility safety check Safety •Safety-related accidents •Field training at mine development sites •Education/training on accident prevention Training of mine (domestic/overseas) safety experts •Contents for mine special rescue skills •Participation in overseas mine safety trainings No. of domestic mine accidents •Participation in mine safety trainings held in 34 30 countries renowned for advanced mining 28 Advanced mine rescue skills •Benchmarking of advanced education/training ! programs and materials, and mine safety ! ! management systems Mine security and accident prevention 2009 2010 2011 Unlimited Society 23 Social Contribution Enterprise social contribution activities system Participation in social (Unit : Hours) Strategy KORES carries out a series of company-wide social conCategory 2009 2010 2011 tribution activities through the joint participation of labor and manAchievement 12.4 13.4 14.3 agement. We set up a cooperative system with communities and specialized NGOs and actively engage in volunteer services and social Contribution activities and its cost (Unit : KRW1 million) contribution activities mainly in four areas including social welfare, Category 2009 2010 2011 community, environmental conservation, and education & culture. Achievement 133 195 255 Organization KORES engages in a series of social contribution activities mainly led by KORES Volunteer Service Corps in which all emStatus of social contribution activities ployees participate. We established a Steering Committee which auKORES has carried out a variety of domestic social contribution actividits social contribution activities, evaluates relevant suggestions, and ties mostly led by KORES Volunteer Service Corps, and provided KRW provides ideas for better services so that more transparent voluntary 255 million in support of 672 people in four major areas in 2011. work can be done. As of 2011, there are 15 KORES Volunteer Service As for overseas activities, KORES established and has implemented Corps consisting of all employees at the head office and branch ofregion-specific plans for social contribution activities based on the fices, and the time of volunteer service per person records 14.3 hours, linkage with major overseas projects and office regions. In addition, 7% up from the previous year we strive to build partnerships with developing countries for win-win cooperation: in 2011, we set up a sisterhood relationship with Bolivia Status of social contribution activities We established basic on '1 global company 1 partnership' and conducted SOC support acplans for systematic social contribution activities in 2005 to strengthen tivities in nearby communities where we implement our projects. our social safety net function as a government owned corporation and to engage in various social contribution activities; and in 2006, we PR activities to announce the importance of securing resources launched KORES Volunteer Services Corps to more actively participate KORES is engaged in a series of PR activities through various media to in such activities. In 2011, we earmarked KRW 244 million to 18 social let people know about the importance of securing mineral resources contribution projects and executed the budget of KRW 255 million, and to improve the image of the resources industry. KORES abides approximately 31% up from the last year. Strategy for social contribution activities KORES Volunteer Service Corps Mission for social contribution activities Head | President Steering Committee To realize the vision of KORES to develope good public relations Chair | Management Division Manager Members | Each Division Management Manger Secretary | General Affairs Team Leader Vice President | Strategic ManageSelection & ment Division Manager concentration integrity 3 principles Secretariat Director | Business Management Department Manager sustainability Head Office Volunteer Branch Office Volunteer Service Corps Service Corps 24 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth by the 'Autonomous Deliberation Rules on Advertising' of the Korea Results of support for social contribution activities Advertising Review Board in relation to advertising, and there has been Support amount Category No. of beneficiaries no violation of the rules so far. Through various media, such as public (KRW million) TV network, newspapers, online, and SNS, we will strive to increase Social welfare 9,400 211 the public awareness of the importance of the resources industry while Community 6,700 348 carrying out PR activities to deal with some negative images of the Environment conservation 2,300 39 mining industry. Education & Culture 7,100 74 Social welfare Community Environment Education •Help pneumoconiosis-affected •One Mine One Village 'Campaign: •Support 'Beautiful Store': donate •One Company One School in Mine workers and underprivileged mine volunteer service in Jangchimi Village, unused items Areas' Campaign workers Jecheon •Environment conservation •Support outstanding university •Support projects on mine accident •Help meal-skipping households and the campaigns students living in mine areas and prevention elderly living alone within the district •Eco-campaigns with children's majoring in resources Domestic •Support welfare facilities for the •One Company One Village' Campaign: foundations •Provide a study room for disabled and the elderly provide a helping hand to Batdo Nae•Environmental projects on the theunderprivileged children •Support to recover from national maeul, Yeongwol, Gangwon-do and energy sector •Provide children's foundations with disasters open a farmer's market 'Happy Learning Place' •Free meals to multicultural migrant workers and the homeless •Coro Coro Project, Bolivia •Zhangjiagang Project, China •Warilla 2 Project, Australia •Zhangjiagang Project, China Construct access roads and Support for the elderly living P ublic hearings on the environment Scholarship support (3,000 yuan) reservoirs alone(15,000 yuan) with local residents Overseas •Panama Project, Cobre •Marcona Project, Peru •Ambatovy Project, Madagascar •Rapu-Rapu Project, Philippines Sign an agreement to support Support for natural disaster Deal with soil pollution, Free education for elementary, USD 5 million per year restoration middle, and high school students variety of social contribution activities Unlimited Society 25 04 Integrated Environmental Management System Environmental management system Environmental management direction Environmental management strategy and organization KORES Establishment of eco-resources development system KORES makes all-out efforts to respond to increasing environment-relevant has built an environment-friendly green mine base through technorisks and create new environmental values by establishing environment logical support for mine environments. We support an increase in the management systems and identifying environmental impacts during competitiveness of the mining industry based on mine environment the process of management and resources development, through consulting, commercialization of our patented technologies, support which development can be harmonized with the environment. We of environmental technologies for direct investment projects, and reactually consider the environment in business management. The Sussearch on the methods to deal with environmental risks. Through all tainability Management Subcommittee under the Board of Directors this, we seek to establish an eco-resources development system in the (BOD) discusses major environmental issues and the BOD deliberates domestic mining industry. and makes a decision on the issues. Sustainability Management Subcommittee inspects environmental achievements every year, sets up Securing eco-resources development technologies The producgoals based on the results, and monitors them on a regular basis. tivity of resources-related companies is constantly improving through technological advancement including resources development and Compliance with international certification system and guidehighly sophisticated screening techniques. As the public awareness lines Workplaces abroad comply with the IFC, EHS Guidelines and of the environment has increased, the adoption of eco-resources deEquator Principles and carry out environmental management activities. velopment methods is now inevitable. KORES aims at securing techIn 2008, the Xian Maxun rare-earth metals project in China acquired nological prowess that is on par with that of major mine companies ISO 14001 certification. KORES will strive to promote international enand independence with regard to core technologies, and thus pushes vironmental certification acquisition for each workplace. ahead with the plans to develop and acquire such technologies by sector. Through this, we wish to create added value and secure industrial competitiveness, not to mention the base for a sustainable resources development environment. Eco-friendly resources development system How to develop and secure technologies Increase the Strengthen Develop ore Enhance Enhance decapabildressing, Eco-friendly mine development exploration the capability velopment and ity to analyze smelting, and for feasibility environmental resources technology processing technologies information study technologies Consultation on mine environment •Monitoring of soil and water quality, and mining waste treatment •Technological support for the improvement of working environment in mines Enhance customer satisfaction through technological support Securing eco-resources development technologies (by 2020) •Self-reliance in terms of core technologies Technological support for direct investment projects and •Key technologies on a par with those of major mine companies mine environment •Review and trend analysis of environmental risk factors such as soil and mine drainage Environmental management system •Securing background value in major points of mines Enhance investment success rate via environmental risk analysis Plan Do Commercialization of patented mine technologies •Establishment of environmental •Establishment of action plans by sector management strategies and •Research on eco-technologies •Supply of apparatus for eliminating dust by wet in mine systems •Inspection of 5 mines after effects analysis Improve employees’ working conditions and productivity Act Check •Internal assessment of environmental Research on the methods to deal with environmental and •Stakeholder communication management achievements social risks •R evision and improvement of •Management evaluation by the government strategic direction •International certification system and •Risk management system in regard to environmental hazards guidelines •Analysis of support policies for overseas mining industry and dispute cases ISO 14001 Provide the guidelines for proactive response IFC EHS Guideline Berlin Guideline 26 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Eco-friendly Resources Development Mine development process experts of KORES evaluated environmental impacts from exploration, There exist a variety of factors that may affect the environment during development, production to end stages and proposed solutions in its resources development. KORES evaluates such environmental effects report on environmental effects evaluation. The report was approved in advance during the stage of exploration and proceeds resources deby the Madagascar government and KORES has implemented mine velopment in consideration of those effects. During the development development in the country since then. process, KORES makes strenuous efforts to mitigate environmental impacts: it protects biodiversity including habitat protection and miDevelopment gration; uses energy efficiently at the production stage; reduces emisBiodiversity protection KORES recognizes biodiversity as a core sions of GHG and air pollution materials and; controls waste water factor in coping with climate change, securing sustainable mineral and waste materials. Also, KORES performs environmental inspection resources, improving the quality of life for mankind, and realizing a to remove potential environmental risks by implementing environmengreen economy. We apply strict criteria to preserve biodiversity around tal analysis on mines which stopped resources development activities mines. We scientifically analyze the impacts on the surrounding ecoor finished development while developing technologies to restore the system of mine development sites from the planning stage, preserve environment as it was prior to such development. biodiversity as much as possible, and apply the design and construction methods that minimize topographic change and vegetation damExploration ages. Among various alternatives, we carry out an examination on Environmental impacts review KORES carries out an assessment environmental impacts prior to the launch of development so that we of future environmental impacts due to mine development along with can select an environmentally sound and sustainable alternative. After exploration of economically valuable minerals in the exploration stage. the launch, we monitor the changes in the surrounding region’s ecoKORES carefully reviews the factors that can affect the environment system through a follow-up investigation on environmental impacts. and seeks methods to prevent or minimize them. Toward this end, it In the case of our head office and domestic branch offices, there have manages the environment beyond the legal regulations by applying been no regions where environmental problems related to biodiversity mine industry-and environment-related international initiatives includoccurred. Concerning overseas projects, we make various efforts for ing ICMM, Berlin Guidelines, and World Bank Guidelines. In the case habitat preservation and migration in the project areas that may affect of the Ambotovy project in Madagascar, more than 50 environment biodiversity. Process of environmental impacts assessment Exploration •Environmental effects and review Assess environmental impacts Development Natural environment Living environment Social and economic •Weather •Land use •Air quality environment •Biodiversity protection •Topography, geology •Water quality •Soil •Population, residence •Minimization of environmental impacts •Fauna and flora •Waste •Noise •Transportation •Vibration•Entertainment •Cultural assets •Landscape Production •Energy-efficient mine operation •Reducing greenhouse gas emissions •Reducing exhaust gas and waste materials Come up with the measures to Establish a plan for follow-up investigareduce impacts on the environment tion on environmental impacts Restoration Select and assess alternatives •Environment restoration •Environment inspection into closed mines Conduct a comprehensive review and select the most suitable proposal Unlimited Earth 27 Biodiversity Protection Activities in the Ambatovy Nickel Project Site in Madagascar ` •Environmental damage risk avoidance •Offsetting program KORES re-designed the slurry pipeline to be laid underground Through a biodiversity offsetting program of the Ambatovy between the mine and plant so that the pipeline route detours project, KORES contributed to increasing the size of habitats forest protected areas. By doing so, we could protect regions for flora and fauna from 12,000 ha in 2010 to 18,000 ha in that were expected to see environmental damage thereby could 2011. KORES is leading environment-friendly mine development avoid negative environmental impacts. by offsetting the environmental impacts due to development with environmental conservation activities: the size of forest •Minimization of environmental impacts protected areas has grown bigger than that of damaged areas By using a directional clearing method, KORES helped fauna by development. living in forests during mine development to migrate to nearby habitats and secured time for endangered flora and fauna to be •Environmental compensation prepare a for migration to new habitats . KORES is running a comprehensive program to endangered species before and after mine development by cooperat•Ecology restoration ing with the communities and the Madagascar government. After ore mining, KORES created a nursery within the mine in A Prime example is: attaching GPS sensors to Lemur monkeys an effort to restore multi-functional forests by growing 100 and monitoring their migration routes due to logging so that kinds of regional saplings. Beginning with 134,000 saplings we can minimize ecological impacts and increase the population in 2011, KORES has run a long-term tree-planting program to of the monkeys. secure 723,000 saplings necessary for the first mine site to be restored by 2017. 28 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1 Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Production Restoration Development and application of eco-production technologies Environmental damage caused by mine development Mine In the production stage of resources development, using highly efdamage involves damaging nature and people due to ground subsidficient equipment and technologies is very important not only to deal ence, polluted water discharge, mine waste discharge, airborne dust, with cost effect but also to respond to climate change. To improve noise and vibration caused by land drilling (boring), destruction and the quality of the copper concentrates produced in the Rapu-Rapu crushing of rocks, transportation, and ore dressing in the process of Copper Mine in the Philippines funded and operated by KORES, the mine development. The extent of mine damages differs depending Corporation used NaCN, a toxic substance thereby exposing the copon the method of development, level of development, kinds of ores, per concentrates to environmental pollution risk. To solve the problem, geographical environment, and industries surrounding the mine. Mine the Corporation developed an ore dressing method that suppresses damage occurs persistently and on a long-term basis. Unless actions arsenic and instead uses eco-friendly SMES, and effectively cut off the on the environment are taken in a timely manner, chronic damage ocsource of environmental pollution by monitoring the acidity of surface curs in the natural and artificial environment in the area concerned. In water. As a result, KORES won the Mother Nature Award granted by this regard, KORES strives to minimize the impacts on the environment PCAPI in 2011. KORES pursues continuous growth through technology at all stages of mine development. development and applications suitable for the project’s characteristics with priority on the environment. In addition, KORES is doing its best Closed mine management When a mine, whose development to enhance business management efficiency as well as the economic was suspended owing to uneconomical reserves or economic ineffiefficiency of projects. ciency, is neglected, environmental problems such as soil pollution, water pollution, and ecosystem destruction may occur. KORES carried Discharged materials control out investigations to identify potential environmental impacts target•Greenhouse gas and air pollutants KORES supports the greening suspended or closed mines; at the same time, it develops technolohouse gas inventory establishment for Korean mines to reduce GHG gies related to environment restoration. Also, as a part of the efforts to emissions in the mine industry and minimize in advance any shock enhance the domestic self-sufficiency rate, we promote the redevelopfollowing Korea’s designation as a country for green growth base ment of closed mines through direct exploration of those closed metal establishment and mandatory GHG emissions reduction. We plan to mines in Korea. In 2011, we carried out a redevelopment review and implement the CDM project together with mines and create a new implemented projects involving the Gagok and Geumho mines (lead source of income so that we can build a foundation for sustainable and zinc), Pocheon and Yangyang mines (iron) and Daehwa and Donand eco-mine development. sahn mines (molybdenum). We plan to redevelop 22 mines through direct exploration of 50 mines involving 10 kinds of minerals by 2020. •Mine waste KORES carries out R&D to prevent environmental pollution due to mine waste, such as waste stone generated during mine development and ore remnants generated in the ore dressing and smelting processes. KORES also implements projects to purify soil polluted by heavy metal in line with technological development. We have been carrying out soil and underground water pollution treatment at Jinhae Naval Base for 17 months since June 2010 and Taereung shooting range for 34 months since January 2010. •Water for mine KORES regularly checks the mine’s water quality and provides technology support for wastewater treatment so that water pollution may not be caused by polluted water flowing from the mine tunnel as well as foul water and wastewater from the ore dressing area. In the Gagok mine, Gangwon province, Korea, the Corporation built up a water purification and drainage system for the water flowing from the old mine tunnel by using eco-friendly materials so that it can prevent nearby rivers from being polluted. Unlimited Earth 29 Environmental Management Achievements Energy conservation tion. We strive to reduce water use persistently through internal PR KORES set the annual energy use target for energy conservation and activities and adoption of more efficient equipment. devised the top 8 measures to eliminate energy waste factors and 10 Direct energy consumption (Unit : toe) major action plans to put into practice by department. To increase energy efficiency, the Corporation operates centralized cooling sys2009 2010 2011 tem (operated by hour) and strictly complies with cooling and heatKerosene 9.8 16.1 12.7 ing standards. Also, it reinforces and monitors in-house notification City gas 31.3 36.6 41.3 of renovating and fixing poor facilities, turning off lights automatically, Gasoline 18.9 23.7 23.0 and daily electricity consumption, etc. Total 60.0 76.4 77.0 Electricity consumption target and results (Unit : KWh) 2009 2010 2011 Strict control of discharged materials target 1,300,800 1,356,610 1,497,990 The waste volume discharged from KORES’ head office in 2011 was 85.7 tons, up 21% compared to 2010. All the waste was discharged achievement 1,327,990 1,431,203 1,434,644 by a designated waste processing company according to the Waste Management Laws. The amount of wastewater was 78 tons, 26% Green product purchase down compared to the previous year. Direct GHG emissions from the The government certifies products that reduce environmental polluuse of kerosene, city gas, and gasoline were 200.3tCO2eq, and indition and minimize the use of hazardous substances as green products. rect GHG emissions from electricity use were 613.7tCO2eq. Therefore, Thus, KORES purchases green products preferentially to put its green the total GHG emissions stood at 814tCO2eq, up 1.4% compared to management into practice. In 2011, the Corporation spent KRW398 2010. The Corporation strives to reduce GHG emissions by using enmillion or 75.8% of the total product purchase worth KRW525 million ergy more efficiently, installing highly efficient energy equipment, and on green products. replacing vehicles for business with light vehicles and hybrid cars. Green product purchase (Unit : KRW of a million,%) 2009 2010 2011 Discharged waste volume (Unit : tons) Purchase amount 179 434 398 2009 2010 2011 Purchase rate 75.4 75.4 75.8 42 71 85.7 Efficient resources use Discharged wastewater volume (Unit : tons) Direct energy consumption using kerosene, city gas, and gasoline at 2009 2010 2011 KORES’ head office in 2011 was 77.0 toe, only 0.8% up compared to 95 106 78 the previous year. We also used electricity of 308.5 toe (1,435 Mwh) or 0.3% more compared to the consumption in 2010. This can be atGHG emissions (Unit :tCO2eq) tributed to our energy conservation efforts such as flexible electricity operation during peak times and mass transportation use when our 2009 2010 2011 employees make business trips. The amount of water used recorded Direct GHG 156.5 195.9 200.3 11,895 m³, increasing by 2.33% compared to the previous year, which Indirect GHG 562.8 606.5 613.7 might have been caused by the increasing number of employees. The Total 719.3 802.4 814.0 used water flows out to the sewer treatment plant nearby for purificaIndirect energy consumption (Unit : toe) Water usage volume (Unit :m2) 307.6 308.5 11,895 285.3 10,733 11,626 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 30 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2011 O1Unlimited KORES O2 Unlimited Economy O3 Unlimited Society O4 Unlimited Earth Sustainability Initiatives UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact was established in 2000 by the UN to ensure that corporations fulfill their social responsibilities based on the principle of voluntary participation. In the four major areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, the UN Global Compact presents ten principal guidelines and promotes the continuous balanced development of the global economy. KORES joined the UN Global Compact in October 2007 and has incorporated ethical management into its corporate strategies. It has also tightened supervision to prevent human rights violations and corruption. ICMM(International Council on Mining &Metals) The ICMM is an alliance of mining industry corporations, aligned to improve their member’s management strategies and performances. The council has presented ten principal guidelines to achieve sustainable growth. Its principles are composed of details relating to corporate ethical management, stakeholder engagement, environmental protection and social contribution. KORES conducts business based on these guidelines as part of its commitment to achieve sustainable management. ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an international standard aimed at supporting organizations in contributing to sustainable development by carrying out the following: offering guidelines for social responsibility integration, implementation, and promotion based on the concept, terminology, background and trends, characteristics, principles and practices, core themes and disputes, and organizations of social responsibility for all types of organizations regardless of the organization’s size and location as well as for communications on the organization’s obligations and performance related to the identification and engagement of stakeholders and social responsibility. Berlin Guidelines The Berlin Guidelines are a collection of environment related guidelines for sustainable growth of the mining industry and presents principles pertaining to environmental management systems and environmental laws and regulations. It presents the basic guidelines for the mining industry to protect the environment. In order to fully comply with the environmental principles presented in the Berlin Guidelines, KORES has established an environmental management system through which its environment strategies are established and associated environmental risks are managed. World Bank General Environment Guideline World Bank Operational DirectiveInvoluntary Resettlement These guidelines are established and presented by the World Bank to minimize the environmental damage caused during the development process and to stabilize the relocation of residents in the event of an involuntary resettlement. KORES carries out its resource development at its overseas project sites in full compliance with this environmental guideline. In Ambatovy, the Corporation has implemented relocation procedures in accordance with the World Bank Operational Directive Involuntary Resettlement. As such, it is in full compliance with the World Bank guidelines in all of its overseas resource development processes. This report can be downloaded in the format of a PDF file from KORES website (http://eng.kores.or.kr). For inquiry or request for additional information, please contact us at below address. KORES Creative Management Team 606 Siheung-daero Dongjak-gu Seoul Tel _ 82-2-840-5600 Fax _ 82-2-833-0564 E-mail _ unlimited@kores.or.kr Unlimited Earth 31 Korea Resources Corporation 606 Siheung-daero, Dongjak-gu, Seoul, Korea 156-706 Tel _ 82-2-840-5600 E-mail _ unlimited@kores.or.kr
