United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Contents Ernst & Young............................................................................. 4 Human rights.............................................................................. 5 Labor.......................................................................................... 9 Environment............................................................................. 12 Anti-corruption ........................................................................ 16 The journey ahead.................................................................... 17 The Communication on Progress 2011 provides brief highlights of actions that Ernst & Young is taking on a global basis to address UNGC principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Throughout the report, examples of actions that address UNGC principles in specific countries will also be provided. For more details on our efforts in countries around the world and additional actions demonstrating how we act on the UNGC principles, please go to our website, www.ey.com 2 United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 We are committed to our people, our clients and our communities As an organization rooted in public accounting, we serve the public interest by bringing transparency, reliability and independence to the marketplace. We understand and encourage the positive impact our professionals have in communities around the world. Drawing on Ernst & Young’s financial strength, geographic reach and our people’s knowledge, experience and values, we focus our corporate responsibility efforts on three key areas that complement our business strategy: education, entrepreneurship and environmental sustainability. We place particular emphasis on contributing our most valuable resource, our people, to help communities thrive. We support our people in their individual efforts to do this through formal programs and by creating the right culture. Part of this culture includes our membership in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The 10 principles outlined by the UNGC align with our values and we are pleased to submit our Communication on Progress 2011, which highlights the progress we have made in the past year, as well as ongoing initiatives. Additional information can be found in our Global review 2011, our Global transparency report and our Global Code of Conduct. James S. Turley Chairman and CEO Ernst & Young Communication on Progress 2011 3 Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in professional services. Worldwide, our people in more than 140 countries are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. Globally, we provide services across four service lines — Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory — in 16 global industry sectors. Our combined global revenues were US$22.9 billion for the financial year ended 30 June 2011, compared with US$21.3 billion in 2010, a 7.6% increase. We’ve grown our headcount to 152,000. This is an increase of nearly 11,000 people over the course of the 2011 financial year. Read our Global review 2011 to learn more about our 2011 financial year performance and facts and figures about Ernst & Young. It can be found at www.ey.com/globalreview2011. At Ernst & Young, we have one strong global leadership team that sets one single global strategy and agenda. Our business units are grouped into four geographic Areas: Americas, Asia-Pacific, EMEIA (Europe, Middle East, India and Africa) and Japan. Our Global Executive brings together the leadership of Ernst & Young functions, services and geographies. It is chaired by our Chairman/Chief Executive Officer and includes: ►► The Chief Operating Officer ►► Four Area Managing Partners ►► Global functional leaders — the Global Managing Partners of People; Markets; Quality & Risk Management; and Operations & Finance ►► Global Service Line Vice Chairs — Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory Services ►► Global Vice Chair — Public Policy ►► A representative from the emerging markets practices Also, we have a Global Advisory Council (GAC) that meets quarterly and advises on strategic and policy matters. The members approve matters ranging from global budgets and plans to senior-level management appointments. GAC members are senior partners who do not hold management positions and who are elected by their peers. In 2011, they were joined by five Independent Non-Executives (INEs). These INEs are seasoned, senior-level professionals with wide-ranging experience. 4 United Nations Global Compact Human rights UNGC principles: Businesses should support and respect the Code of conduct protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of the standards and behaviors that guide our actions and business Our values define who we are and what we stand for, and conduct. It is organized into five categories containing our Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards principles, to be followed by everyone within for our business conduct. Together with our commitment to Ernst & Young, that help guide behavior across all areas of responsible and sustainable business, they guide our support activity: working with one another, working with clients and and respect for human rights. others, acting with professional integrity, maintaining our objectivity and independence and respecting intellectual Our values capital. Our values guide the actions and behaviors of each of us. In the section on working with others, the Global Code of They influence the way we work and interact with each other, Conduct clearly states that: as well as the way we serve our clients and engage with our ►► No client or external relationship is more important than wider communities. the ethics, integrity and reputation of Ernst & Young. ►► W e reject unethical or illegal business practices in all circumstances. Our values — who we are ►► W  e avoid working with clients and others whose standards ►► People who demonstrate integrity, respect are incompatible with our Global Code of Conduct. and teamwork. ►► W  e recognize our responsibility as an organization in playing an active and positive role in supporting a ►► People with energy, enthusiasm and the successful and sustainable society. courage to lead. The Global Code of Conduct is overseen by the Global ►► People who build relationships based on Executive and its delegates, who are responsible for doing the right thing. evaluating potential breaches, deciding on appropriate sanctions or remediation and monitoring consistent application. We strive to create an environment that encourages all personnel to act responsibly, including Every year, we celebrate the way we live our values through reporting misconduct without fear of retaliation. our annual Chairman’s Values Award. The Chairman’s Values Award is considered a high honor at Ernst & Young. It The Global Code of Conduct can be found at recognizes and celebrates our people around the world who www.ey.com/GL/EN/home/Global-Code-of-Conduct. best exemplify our values. In 2011, there were more than We also have EY/Ethics, a global ethics hotline, to provide 1,600 nominations. Ernst & Young people, clients and others outside of the organization with a confidential means to report activity that may involve unethical or improper behavior that may be in violation of professional standards or otherwise inconsistent with the Global Code of Conduct. EY/Ethics is operated by an independent external organization that provides confidential and, if so desired, anonymous, hotline reporting services for companies worldwide. Communication on Progress 2011 5 Our global approach to corporate college and university students whose families faced responsibility financial hardships caused by the floods, we awarded 2,500 merit scholarships to cover educational expenses. At Ernst & Young, we ask ourselves what we can do to make ►► In Belgium and the Netherlands, Ernst & Young is a difference n― ot just for the companies we serve and for our own business and profession, but also for our communities, recycling old BlackBerrys, iPhones and other mobile for the greater good of people everywhere and for the devices to raise money for FairPhone, an initiative that sustainability of our planet. builds awareness around the social and environmental challenges within the mobile phone industry. Mobile As an organization that embraces our communities, we think phones contain valuable metals and minerals, often mined carefully about how to invest in society today to make sure in Africa under difficult conditions. FairPhone will use the there will be a business context where both we and society funds to empower the mine workers in getting a fair price can thrive tomorrow and long into the future. We focus for the minerals. on three issues that lay the foundation for a better world ►► In the UK, Ernst & Young became a founding member of and reflect the strengths of our people and organization: entrepreneurship, environmental sustainability and Social Business Trust (SBT). SBT was founded to provide education. support to a number of social enterprises capable of scaling up their operations on a regional and national level Our emphasis on skills-based volunteering means we and has a clear and ambitious goal: to help transform the contribute our most valuable resource, our people, to help impact of social enterprises and thereby improve the lives communities achieve their potential. Through skills-based of over a million of the UK’s most disadvantaged people. volunteering, our people participate in activities that range ►► Ernst & Young India supports the Srinivasan Services from donating their accounting, finance and business advisory skills to develop high-potential entrepreneurs Trust (SST) to help scale up their village development in emerging markets, to coaching, mentoring and model. To begin with Ernst & Young is funding 11 villages. teaching young and underserved students, to promoting ►► Several offices in MENA provide pro bono services to environmental sustainability in our communities. local NGOs and our United Arab Emirates office mentored Around the globe, Ernst & Young teams work with Emirati entrepreneurs working on business plans at not-for-profit organizations and non-governmental the Dubai Men’s College, part of Higher Colleges of organizations (NGOs) to drive our community engagement Technology — the largest higher educational institution in efforts. Our relationships with highly respected organizations the UAE with a community of more than 19,000 students give us opportunities to advance leading-edge research and almost 2,000 staff based on 17 campuses. and participate in collaborative problem solving. While our ►► As part of a commitment to contribute AU$250k in flagship relationships span Ernst & Young worldwide, we pro bono work under the Australian Government’s also work with local organizations chosen by our individual Professional Partnership Project (Job Fund), practices. Ernst & Young teams were allocated to nine social enterprises that had received government funding and Engaging the community provided them with guidance, coaching and business skills Here are a few examples of how our people made a difference ranging from financial modeling to the development of in communities around the world in 2011: marketing and business plans to enable them to manage their operations in a more effective and sustainable ►► In Australia, Ernst & Young has joined 280 organizations manner. in developing a Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) to help close the gaps between the social and economic status of ►► I n the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and the First Australians, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander across the US, Ernst & Young people volunteer their time communities and other Australians. Our RAP focuses on as mentors, tutors and board members of Big Brothers education and entrepreneurship. Big Sisters, an NGO that helps children reach their potential through professionally supported, one-to-one ►► Our Middle East and North Africa (MENA) practice has relationships with mentors. continued to provide long-term support to those affected by devastating floods in Pakistan in July 2010. We have ►► One way our UK and Ireland practice enriches local reached 86,000 students by providing basic necessities communities is through its work with the Prince’s Trust. to allow low-income students to return to school, Ernst & Young is committed to raising at least £500,000 including uniforms, school bags and notebooks, as well for the charity by 2014, enabling at least 550 young as classroom materials such as whiteboards and basic people to secure education, employment or training. laboratory equipment. Additionally, for intermediate, 6 United Nations Global Compact Below we have some details of our entrepreneurship and education initiatives. The environmental initiatives are covered under the UNGC principle “Environment” on A MAP for success page 12. Our US-based initiative, College MAP (Mentoring for Broadening access to education Access and Persistence), encourages disadvantaged students who might not have considered applying As one of the world’s great global training organizations, we help our people realize their full potential. And through for college to do so. We then work with students to educational programs and outreach, we are able to help build the skills that will help them complete their young people in the communities around us realize their full four-year degree, including: potential as well. Some examples include: ►► Awareness of the lifelong benefits of getting a ►► In the US, we have collaborated with the PBS series higher education. Cyberchase to build math and problem-solving skills in children aged 8 to 11. The curriculum has been translated ►► Financial readiness to help students apply for into French, Hebrew, Portuguese and Spanish. In 2012, aid and pay for college. Cyberchase will be rolled out in Brazil, Canada, Chile, Israel and Mexico. To learn more about our work with ►► Persistence skills to help students complete a Cyberchase, please visit www.ey.com/us/cyberchase. degree and succeed in careers. ►► Across the UK, through our Education Partnerships To implement the program, we collaborate with Program, we are building long-term partnerships with high schools and a not-for-profit organization called state schools in underprivileged areas. We take a “whole College For Every Student (CFES). Together, we school” approach that supports administrators and teachers as well as students and offers the kind of help identify young people in 12 US cities who most need each particular school needs most. The initiative helped our support. College MAP benefits our communities us achieve a CommunityMark, a prestigious award that and our people: is the UK’s only national standard publicly recognizing excellence in community investment. ►► Our communities. Schools receive Ernst & Young’s professional experience and ►► I n Australia, we are represented on the boards of 60 support; a helping hand at a time when many primary and secondary schools or university boards and councils. We also provide mentors and leadership coaches school guidance counselors handle caseloads of for the Associates of “Teach for Australia.” more than 500 students. ►► In India, Ernst & Young will be working with the Dr. Reddy ►► Our people. College MAP lets our people Foundation (DRF) to fund 14 vocational centers. The create positive social change while developing vocational training centers target people at the bottom of and practicing their professional skills: the pyramid. We will also assist DRF with a process review demonstrating leadership, speaking in public, and help to convert some of their existing content into e-content. and negotiating and collaborating with people from diverse backgrounds. Communication on Progress 2011 7 Championing entrepreneurship Our Strategic Growth Markets practice has helped many Empowering entrepreneurs of the world’s most dynamic young companies grow into We sponsor Endeavor, a not-for-profit organization that industry leaders. The Ernst & Young Entrepreneur Of The identifies and supports entrepreneurs in 12 emerging Year® Award, which celebrates successful entrepreneurs economies. Endeavor connects entrepreneurs with a in 50 countries, is the most prestigious award of its kind. network of seasoned business leaders, who provide Google, IKEA and Infosys are all former Entrepreneur Of The mentoring, strategic advice and inspiration. Endeavor Year winners. entrepreneurs generate sustainable economic value We encourage our people to donate their skills to smaller and on average employ more than 200 workers and ventures that otherwise could not access such sophisticated pay 10 times the minimum wage, with 96% of the advice — but that still have the potential to contribute businesses surviving after 10 years. significantly to the economy of a household, a village or an Ernst & Young sponsors Endeavor’s global selection entire nation. panels for new entrepreneurs and provides one-onFor the past two years, Ernst & Young has served on the one mentoring and support to entrepreneurs. We have board of the Network For Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE), two programs in place through which Ernst & Young which began as a program to prevent children leaving school professionals use their professional skills to support before they graduated. NFTE aims to improve academic Endeavor entrepreneurs: the Corporate Responsibility performance among students who are at risk of failing or not Fellows program and the Intrapreneurship program finishing school. Working with students from disadvantaged Through the Corporate Responsibility Fellows program, backgrounds, NFTE helps them see the relevance of their Ernst & Young Fellows have supported studies as they learn skills in key subject areas alongside 55 entrepreneurs through seven-week assignments business and financial planning. The students create business in Central and South America. For example, an plans for their ideas and compete in classroom, city-wide and Ernst & Young senior manager supported Diagnostika, national competitions. a provider of surgical and oncology diagnostic services Ernst & Young has provided 16 scholarships to NFTE’s Youth to hospitals and clinics in Brazil, in reengineering Entrepreneur Award winners in the US. In 2011, we extended key business processes. Another manager helped our support by funding new scholarships in Belgium, China, GrupoMIA, a provider of low-cost housing solutions Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands and New in rural and semi-urban Mexico, identify major risk Zealand. We also aim to have an Ernst & Young partner on indicators and link them to key performance indicators every NFTE affiliate board around the world, and our people to provide a balanced scorecard to track GrupoMIA’s have the opportunity to volunteer their time to NFTE. progress. Additionally, we collaborate with the Schwab Foundation for Through our Intrapreneurship program, Social Entrepreneurship (an affiliate of the World Economic Ernst & Young financial services consultants help Forum) to highlight the Social Entrepreneur Of The Year Endeavor entrepreneurs in South Africa, Turkey, Egypt, Award to business leaders who successfully apply practical, Jordan and Lebanon tackle their challenges to growth, innovative and market-oriented approaches to benefit the such as international expansion, financial management marginalized and the poor. and operational efficiency. The Intrapreneurship program is a combination of overseas placements and a Fostering inclusive growth virtual network of Ernst & Young professionals donating The largely untapped economic potential of women around their time to work on critical business challenges faced the world is enormous and developing it is an economic and by entrepreneurs. social imperative. Additionally, Ernst & Young is developing a financial Our Entrepreneurial Winning Women™ Program identifies management curriculum for Endeavor entrepreneurs and celebrates high-potential female entrepreneurs and including topics such as assurance practices, tax issues provides them with personalized one-on-one business insights and effective risk management. as well as insider access to strategic networks of established entrepreneurs, executives, advisors and investors. The program supports women with existing enterprises to scale up and become market leaders. The program currently operates in the US, Indonesia and Australia and will launch in Brazil, Hungary and Ukraine in 2012. 8 United Nations Global Compact Labor UNGC Principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Working with the UNGC — an example collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and from Ernst & Young Australia compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and In June 2010, the UNGC established the Principles the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and for Social Investment Secretariat (PSIS) to develop occupation. a set of voluntary principles intended to guide We demonstrate our commitment to upholding UNGC private sector social investment activities. principles on labor through our approach to building the leading people culture in the profession. This includes our Annette Kimmitt, Ernst & Young Melbourne efforts to attract, include, engage and develop our people. Office Managing Partner, with the support of Ernst & Young’s Australian leadership, became a A relationship that lasts a lifetime founding member of the PSIS and drew upon her In today’s mobile and interconnected world, people are experience working in public policy to develop its looking for varied and rich careers, often spanning a range of mission, vision and strategic plan. roles, geographies and sectors. “I became involved in the PSIS because I realized We want the relationships that people make at how powerful corporate contributions could be Ernst & Young and the experiences they have — whether they when channeled in the right way,” said Annette. stay three months as an intern or 30 years as a partner — to last a lifetime. To achieve this, we are committed to building a “I saw an opportunity for sustainable economic leading people culture everywhere in the world by including, development, through the huge investments developing and engaging with our people at every stage of corporations were making in their corporate social their career. responsibility programs, which in some cases This “whole of life” relationship begins by recruiting dwarf government aid programs. people who are curious and entrepreneurial, who thrive in “We were able to start with a blank piece of paper international teams and who have a global mindset. and develop the architecture for the PSIS.” We give our people opportunities to develop diverse careers that can span different disciplines and countries, to work Moving forward, the PSIS will use this framework on complex issues and to develop the habits of inclusive and work with corporations, including UNGC leadership that will last them a lifetime. signatories, to help align their social investment If and when people choose to leave Ernst & Young, we don’t activities with community needs. see this as an end to the relationship, just the next stage. Whether people go on to work with a client, a competitor or start their own business, they will always remain a lifelong member of the Ernst & Young network. Our alumni represent a diverse global community, and our different alumni programs around the world are designed not only to keep this community connected to Ernst & Young and former colleagues, but also to share knowledge and industry expertise and keep people updated and informed about planned events and activities. We’re very proud that a high proportion of our people are what we call “boomerangs” — people who have left Ernst & Young to try out other employers, but who have subsequently returned to us. For example, between the 2009 and 2011 fiscal years, 5,537 people returned in our Americas Area alone. Communication on Progress 2011 9 Choices and flexibility Caring in a crisis We want our people to have balanced, well-rounded lives because people are at the center of how we deliver our At times of crisis, we rise to the need to care for services to our clients. We can’t decide for each individual others — not only our employees — but also our what that balance looks like because everyone has different clients and our wider communities. needs. However, what we can do is provide our people with the flexibility for those important decisions affecting their In 2011, there were a number of large-scale work life. natural disasters, but the biggest was perhaps To support this, growing from successful efforts in other the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. We were geographies, our MENA practice recently launched a new shocked by the scale of this disaster and the formal flexible working arrangement policy. It incorporates hardships it imposed, and our immediate reaction guidelines around reduced hours or part-time working, was to reach out and help. term-time working, career breaks and compressed working hours. The policy recognizes that flexibility goes beyond work As an organization, we responded with a US$2m practices; it’s also about adapting to individual styles and donation to support the Tohoku region. perspectives. Local management focused on the immediate In terms of our global policy on employee assistance, we are working toward an Employee Assistance Program (EAP), welfare of the 60 people working in our Sendai, which is global in concept but local in execution. We aim to Fukushima and Mito offices, establishing an create a menu of options for countries to choose from, emergency task force to account for our people, which allows countries to take account of local needs, culture identifying damage to our offices and responding and practices. to the situation as it developed. Simultaneously, We are always looking at leading practice, and innovative we issued guidance to our global people who and versatile ways to implement EAPs. So far, we have more were serving Japan-based clients and monitored than 30 countries with country-specific EAPs, 17 of which the situation closely in order to update our travel provide counseling and lifestyle support. advice and safeguard our teams. Diversity and inclusiveness Our clients also faced major challenges. It’s estimated that one-third of Japanese public We embrace diversity as a key strength of our global organization. Quality of service is enhanced when employees companies suffered damage and many had to stop of different cultures, backgrounds and experiences work all or some of their operations. Ernst & Young together and challenge each other to resolve business people in Japan who were able to work through issues. We respect one another and strive for an inclusive the disaster made great efforts to support our environment free from discrimination, intimidation and clients and assist with their recovery needs. harassment. An inclusive culture better enables Ernst & Young to deliver high-quality service to our clients, We also worked with the Financial Services create competitive advantage and drive market leadership. Authority, stock exchanges and the Japanese We achieve this through fostering inclusive leadership Institute of Certified Public Accountants to help throughout our global organization. Inclusive leadership is ensure the profession took appropriate action the ability to leverage the inherent strengths and individual to address issues that arose as a result of the talents of everyone on a team for better business outcomes. disaster, as local businesses approached their Read more about our views on inclusive leadership at year-end on 31 March 2011. www.ey.com/21century. Finally, a special page on our intranet site Our diversity data provided information on the Japan relief effort Data from our 2011 Global People Survey indicates that and the ways our people could contribute, as well 81% of respondents say the people on their team reflect a as our latest guidance on travel to Japan. diversity of backgrounds and experiences. Around the world, our culture is recognized by a number of external organizations. In 2011, examples include: ►► Fortune: 100 Best Companies to Work For, US, 2011 (for 13 consecutive years) ►► Great Place to Work Institute: Latin America’s Best Places to Work, Mexico, Peru, 2011 10 United Nations Global Compact ►► H ispanic Business: Diversity Elite Top 60 for Hispanics, UN Women and the UNGC. 2010; Best Companies for Diversity, US, 2011 We also participate in the US State Department’s Pathways to ►► Human Rights Campaign: Best Place to Work for Prosperity Program and the La Pietra Breakthrough Initiative Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Equality, Coalition. In addition, Beth Brooke, our Global Vice Chair US, 2011 — Public Policy, has previously been a US delegate to the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women and was ►► Working Mother: Working Mother Hall of Fame: 100 Best recently appointed to US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s Companies, US, 2011 International Women’s Business Leadership Council. ►► Stonewall Top 100 Employers: The Workplace Equality Index, UK, 2011 Development and empowerment ►► Equal Opportunity in the Workplace Agency: 2011 Our commitment to developing people helps build an Employer of Choice for Women, Australia, 2011 engaging and positive workplace that is stimulating and ►► Women in Business Third Annual Leadership Awards: rewarding. This way, we can build the skills and knowledge we Diversity and Inclusion Award, China, 2011 need to develop and retain the talented people who will drive our future success. ►► South African Department of Trade and Industry: Recognized Ernst & Young for our ongoing commitment to Empowering people is also about giving them the knowledge the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) and skills they need for a rewarding and stimulating career. initiative. How we do this centers around Ernst & Young and You (EYU), our global learning and development framework. No ►► Spanish Ministry of Health: Ernst & Young is one of matter where our people may be based, they have access to only 29 businesses to obtain the Corporate Equality formal learning via EYU in a format that suits them — videos, Distinction, a public certification governing equal webcasts, classroom lectures, case studies or simulations. opportunities, 2011. In our financial year 2011: ►► Ministry for Family, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Social Policy, Ukraine: Ranked Ernst & Young first ►► There are approximately 15,500 courses available on among companies employing 101 1000 employees for technical and non-technical topics. gender equality and family-friendliness, 2011. ►► Ernst & Young professionals attended approximately 1.55 We also publish various studies promoting diversity and million courses (955,000 classroom and 600,000 inclusiveness. Two recent examples: web-based courses), consisting of approximately 8.3 million learning hours. ►► Leading across borders: Inclusive thinking in an interconnected world, for a copy of the report, visit We encourage all of our people, using EYU and working www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/Leading_across_ with their counselors, to identify the experiences that will borders:_inclusive_thinking_in_an_interconnected_ help them grow, such as international assignments. While world/$FILE/Leading_across_borders.pdf. formal reviews of performance are undertaken annually, we also encourage timely and relevant coaching and feedback ►► Women of Africa: A powerful untapped force for the throughout the year. continent, for a copy of the report, visit www.ey.com/ Publication/vwLUAssets/Women_of_Africa/$FILE/ As part of our commitment to developing our people, we Women%20of%20Africa%20final.pdf. have a number of milestone events that mark key points in our people’s careers. In 2011, our New Manager and We are recognized for supporting inclusive leadership Assistant Director Program in the Netherlands was our outside of Ernst & Young, with many efforts to advance biggest milestone event to date in EMEIA, with more than underrepresented groups. In 2011, Ernst & Young US and our 2,000 newly promoted managers and assistant directors in internal network of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender attendance. The four-day program included workshops on (LGBT) professionals were honored with the Trevor management and client relationships, as well as networking 2020 award for our commitment to creating an inclusive opportunities. environment. We also piloted Global NextGen, our partner pipeline In 2011, Ernst & Young hosted a CEO Champions program at program. The goal of the two-year program is to help future the Women’s Forum for Economy and Society in Deauville, partners develop strong market leadership skills, a global France. This program focused on developing shared mindset, wider networks and a broad understanding of our commitments to women’s advancement among CEOs of business. global companies. We also work with Catalyst, the leading non-profit membership organization working globally Our 2011 Global People Survey results tell us that 76% of our with businesses to build inclusive workplaces and expand people have access to meaningful experiences that help them opportunities for women in business. Our Chairman and CEO, to grow and develop. We also know that 78% believe James S. Turley, has served on Catalyst’s board for several Ernst & Young provides them with opportunities to build the years and is the current Chairman. He has also signed the skills they need to be successful in their current role. Women’s Empowerment Principles, which were developed by Communication on Progress 2011 11 Environment UNGC Principles: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage A global commitment to make our the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly operations greener technologies. Our Operations Executive Committee (OEC) — led Awareness of climate change has moved steadily from by our Area CFOs and COOs — has committed to research and academia to government and policy circles and driving five global environmental initiatives: now to the boardroom. Business leaders around the world understand that they face the responsibility of measuring and 1. Measuring our own carbon footprint by reducing their organizations’ carbon footprints, energy use collecting and analyzing data on business and material waste. Whether driven by increased government travel and energy consumption in our offices restrictions, market-based incentives or customer demands, no business can afford to stay on the sidelines. 2. Setting operational goals and key performance indicators that measurably As a leading professional services organization, we have a reduce our environmental footprint and responsibility to consider changes in corporate reporting that properly reflect environmental, social and other impacts. promote sustainable business practices As part of this effort, we are a member of the International 3. Putting in place an environmentally Integrated Reporting Committee, which works to create a responsible travel policy globally accepted integrated reporting framework that brings together financial, environmental, social and governance 4. Establishing guidelines for waste management information in a clear, concise, consistent and comparable 5. Making our meetings more environmentally format. friendly At Ernst & Young, we believe we have a responsibility to our people, the companies we serve and our communities to reduce our impact on the environment. We are implementing Efforts around the world to reduce our measurable actions across all of our practices to reduce our carbon footprint waste, increase energy efficiency in our offices, reduce the impact of business travel and work in our communities to Ernst & Young practices across the world have taken various promote responsible treatment of the environment. steps to make us more environmentally friendly. Here are a few examples: Additionally, our Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) practice helps guide our clients through significant ►► The Real Estate & Facilities Management functions of challenges related to climate change, whether it’s by our UK offices have been certified to the ISO 14001 transforming business processes, changing purchasing environmental management standard. This achievement patterns, recognizing incentives for greater responsibility demonstrates an independently verified process in or responding to policy risk. Through our involvement in place for controlling and improving our environmental the World Business Council for Sustainable Development performance. (WBCSD) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), we are ►► O  ur practices conducted an office-wide survey to actively engaged in the climate change debate. understand current practices and perform a gap analysis For more information on our CCaSS practice, including to reduce our carbon footprint. the range of services we provide to clients to address ►► In Germany, Spain, CIS, the Netherlands and Sweden, we environmental challenges, and various Ernst & Young thought publish sustainability reports linked to GRI standards. leadership on today’s environmental challenges and their impact on business, visit www.ey.com/GL/en/Services/ ►► I n Belgium and the Netherlands, we introduced electric Specialty-Services/Climate-Change-and-Sustainabilitycars to our fleet of business cars. Services/Climate-Change-and-Sustainability-Services--►► Our UK operations have been awarded the internationally Overview. recognized Carbon Trust Standard (CTS) after taking action on climate change by measuring, managing and reducing our carbon emissions. ►► Our practices in Asia and Europe host an Environment Week to build internal and external environmental awareness. 12 United Nations Global Compact ►► In India, as part of our commitment to the environment Global procurement policy and in partnership with NGOs, we planted a total of 100,000 trees in the states of Uttarakhand and Tamil In 2011, Ernst & Young introduced a global Nadu. procurement policy. In addition to requirements Efforts to reduce our carbon footprint start in our offices. for compliance with the rules of doing business in Nearly all of our carbon output comes from two sources: a responsible way and ensuring our independence energy consumption and business travel. Across our when dealing with suppliers, our procurement practices, we have taken various activities to promote policy requires that we evaluate the environmental recycling and reduce waste. Here are a few examples of actions we’re taking: impacts of our procurement decisions and encourage suppliers to support our environmental ►► I nvesting in high-definition videoconferencing capabilities initiatives. to reduce business travel. ►► P  romoting more aggressive use of alternative Our procurement policy provides a supplier code workspaces, reducing the need for occupied office space of conduct for our suppliers that also applies to the and taking steps to make our remaining workspace more suppliers of our suppliers, including: environmentally responsible. ►► Obligatory compliance with legislative ►► I mplementing more energy-efficient cooling and heating requirements systems. ►► P  roviding our people with financial incentives to ►► Environmental risk management, including encourage carpooling, rail travel and bicycle usage. policy recommendations for minimizing resource and energy consumption, reducing ►► Replacing bottled water at events with water pitchers or moving from branded bottled water to locally sourced waste production and implementing ecomineral water in reusable bottles. friendlier technology ►► R  eplacing disposable cups with ceramic mugs. ►► Compliance with human rights, particularly ►► E  xpanding the number of locations with recycling bins compliance with employee rights, ensuring and introducing battery recycling schemes. a friendly working environment and zero tolerance to the exploitation of child workers We believe that lasting change comes when we adjust our daily habits to be more environmentally responsible and and representatives of vulnerable groups engage in the community to make the world a greener place. ►► Equal opportunities policy, particularly non►► In the US and UK, more than 1,000 employees participate discrimination of employees or counterparties as environment champions, getting involved in community for any reason and equal treatment of education efforts about the environment and leading suppliers based on transparent selection sustainability initiatives in our offices. criteria ►► I n Germany, our professionals work together with a local NGO to build environmental awareness in schools across ►► Occupational health and safety the country. ►► Highest ethical standards and zero tolerance to any types of corruption, extortion, bribery or embezzlement ►► Contractors’ control of compliance with the provision of the code The code also recommends that our suppliers increase their cooperation with local communities in order to promote these communities’ social and economic development. Communication on Progress 2011 13 An office in the forest? Since 2009, Ernst & Young has collaborated Coope Tarrazú, a coffee-farming cooperative with with the Earthwatch Institute on our Global 2,600 members. Participants collected data to Ambassadors Expeditions, sending our people determine how many pollinators (bees, wasps, etc.) were present in and around the forested areas to collect data for scientific research on climate on coffee plantations to help determine how their change and provide skills-based volunteering presence may bolster coffee crop yields. Volunteers to local entrepreneurs. Their projects help also assisted the cooperative with its overall Social organizations develop economically and Responsibility plan, including reporting processes, environmentally sustainable practices and help community engagement initiatives and a carbon our communities reduce their impact on the footprint assessment. environment. In 2011, our volunteers went to “It was great to learn from the CFO of Coope Tarrazú Brazil, Costa Rica and India. that they’d taken our recommendations on pricing strategies from last year’s expedition and that it had Brazil positively affected their bottom line. It motivated the team by showing that our work was truly valued,” said The expedition to the Atlantic Forest in Brazil Matthew Hammer, participant in the 2010 and leader enabled 10 volunteers to work alongside scientists to of the 2011 Costa Rica expedition. record and measure a variety of tree species, weigh stingless beehives and identify leaf samples. The India data will be used to make recommendations on how to best manage these forests in a changing climate. Sixteen volunteers traveled to the Earthwatch Climate Additionally, the volunteers worked closely with a Center in India to assess the effects of climate native bee breeders association, which comprises change on the Western Ghats forests. Participants 22 member families who sell their honey throughout collected data on the forests and learned about the the region. Beekeeping has emerged as an important local ecosystems and agriculture. The participants source of income for the members, and the volunteers worked closely with two local organizations using provided recommendations to the association about their professional skills to help address the business how to expand its business in the short and long term challenges affected by climate change on the forest: by making suggestions on cash flow, organizational Totgars’ Co-Operative Sales Society, a farmer’s structure and sales and marketing. cooperative, and Sahadri Parisara Vardhini, a grassroots NGO involved in promoting environmentally Melanie Steiner, who led the Ernst & Young team for friendly energy devices, such as fuel-efficient the 2011 Brazil expedition, said, “The Earthwatch woodstoves. program was a great experience for my team. It allows young leaders in our firm to get a more tangible sense “People in our industry often take their business skills of how to approach problem solving for environmental for granted and often don’t realize that they can use sustainability issues.” them to help communities and social enterprises. Volunteering projects like this one help show just how Costa Rica much our people can contribute and what a difference their enthusiasm and experience can make,” said In Costa Rica, 10 volunteers continued to build on the Melissa Blackford, participant on the 2011 work of past Ernst & Young teams, working with India expedition. Reducing our footprint — a spotlight on the In the Americas, when moving into new spaces, we ensure Americas that the interiors are fitted with efficient lighting, such as occupancy sensors and daylight responsiveness controls and We devised a strategy that looked at both where we were low-flow plumbing fixtures. And some of our existing offices leasing office space and how we could build out our interiors are being retrofitted with LED lighting to reduce energy to make them more energy and water efficient, as well consumption. as healthier places to work. Today, one-third of our US office space portfolio is LEED (Leadership in Energy and To reduce our footprint, the total amount of office space Environmental Design) certified, and we have an ambitious has been reduced by more than 10% per person from 2008 goal of 50% by the end of 2012. 14 United Nations Global Compact to 2011. This has been achieved through desk sharing and alternative workspace programs, including allowing employees to work from home. In addition: ►► In the New York (US headquarters) office, we have begun retrofitting 15,000 lighting fixtures to increase energy efficiency, purchased renewable energy credits (RECs) for 100% green energy and earned Green Restaurant® certification in our café. ►► In the US, we reduced paper purchases by 107 million sheets in two years and expanded recycling. Today, more than 70% of our offices recycle: cans, bottles, plastic, nonconfidential paper, cardboard and toner cartridges. ►► In the Toronto office, we implemented a “zero waste” pilot program, diverting 80% of trash from landfill. ►► I n South America, we have eliminated disposable cups in several offices and expanded involvement in recycling efforts and environment-oriented community engagement. ►► I n Mexico and Central America, we’ve switched to doublesided printing as the default setting for all printers and engaged employees in a reforestation project near Mexico City. Communication on Progress 2011 15 Anti-corruption UNGC Principle: Businesses should work against all forms of Raising awareness to fight corruption corruption, including extortion and bribery. Ernst & Young is a signatory to the World Economic Forum Our global approach strengthens our ability to establish and Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). execute on global policies and practices that raise the bar for service quality. Our range of global tools and processes PACI’s mission is to develop multi-industry principles and supports our people in evaluating, accepting and serving practices that will result in a competitive and level playing the right clients with the right services. These tools include field based on integrity, fairness and ethical conduct. It is a GTAC, our Global Tool for Client Acceptance and Continuance, platform for companies to commit themselves to develop, and SORT, our Service Offering Reference Tool, which allows implement and monitor their anti-corruption program people to assess quickly which services can be delivered to through peer network meetings and provision of private our audit and non-audit clients. sector-driven support tools. Our Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of standards Ernst & Young is one of approximately 170 companies that guide our member firms’ actions and business conduct. that have committed to strengthening efforts to counter Member firms comply with applicable laws and regulations, corruption and bribery through PACI. These companies and our values underpin our commitment to do the right have signed a statement supporting the PACI Principles for thing. This important commitment is supported by Countering Bribery. These principles call for a commitment Ernst & Young policies and procedures covering anti-bribery, to two fundamental actions: a zero-tolerance policy toward insider trading, data privacy and document retention. bribery and the development of a practical and effective implementation program. For more information, please visit Across the world, our member firms are complying with the www.weforum.org/paci. requirement of the EU 8th Directive that statutory auditors of EU public-interest entities publish an annual transparency Another example of Ernst & Young’s commitment to report. As strong advocates of transparency, we have anti-corruption is our ongoing relationship with Transparency extended this by publishing a global report that provides an International. Since 2006, Ernst & Young has been a overview of our global governance and quality standards. sponsor of some of Transparency International’s most widely distributed studies, including the Corruption Perceptions As a responsible employer, we encourage our people to Index, the Bribe Payers Index and the Global Corruption apply their workplace skills to create positive change in Barometer. For more information, visit www.transparency. communities close to home and around the world. And as org/. a global business leader, we join with organizations like the World Economic Forum and Transparency International to help find ways to address the social and economic challenges of our time. Additionally, our Fraud Investigation & Dispute Services professionals work with clients to investigate alleged misconduct, fraud and non-compliance with regulations, such as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our professionals develop strategies to pre-empt, manage and resolve the risks of business conflict that can emerge across organizations. 16 United Nations Global Compact The journey ahead We see responsible and sustainable business as part of This second communication on progress highlights our everything we do. Our efforts to promote transparency, longstanding commitment to the UNGC principles. In our next entrepreneurship, access to education and environmental Communication on Progress, we will aim to focus on specific sustainability allow us to make a real difference for our achievements and progress that build on the themes outlined communities. in this report. For more information on any of the content in this report, please contact Nicky Major, Ernst & Young Global Across the world, we have a network of community leaders Corporate Sustainability Leader, at nmajor@uk.ey.com. who manage our efforts at the local level. We also have a global corporate sustainability leader who is responsible for To learn more about our efforts in communities across the the overall execution of the global corporate responsibility world, visit www.ey.com/GL/CR. strategy. Looking ahead in 2012 Every year we aim to strengthen our commitment to Ernst & Young Entrepreneur Of the Year communities. Here’s a brief snapshot of some of our Alumni Fund plans for 2012. In the US, Ernst & Young will provide NFTE students with college scholarships through the Ernst & Young Women Leaders for Africa Academy Entrepreneur Of the Year Alumni Fund. The fund will also Ernst & Young and the African Leadership Academy have support NFTE’s adopt-a-class initiative, in which partnered to host a series of workshops in 2012 targeted Ernst & Young professionals volunteer as coaches and at teenage girls to develop Africa’s next generation of mentors to students. female leaders. The workshops are designed to encourage budding entrepreneurs to recognize their ability to change College MAP the world and the need for continual self-improvement. In 2012, we will be expanding our US program, College The curriculum develops connections between MAP from 330 scholars in 11 cities to 840 scholars in 14 participants and promotes confidence and self-awareness. cities. Working with high schools and College For Every Student (CFES), a not-for-profit committed to raising the Smart Futures academic aspirations and performance of underserved Smart Futures, a pilot program launching in Summer youth, we identify students who might not apply for 2012 in London, is a social mobility program targeting college and support them in both the application process 16and 17-year-olds from disadvantaged backgrounds and in building the skills that will help them complete their with the academic potential to succeed in professional four-year degree. services. It will provide in-depth insight into careers at Ernst & Young and is designed to provide a realistic Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition stepping stone toward employment. A group of Dutch multinationals, chaired by Accelerate Ernst & Young’s Netherlands practice, has launched the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition (DSGC) to Accelerate will initially run as a series of 14 workshops in jointly drive and promote sustainable growth business London over five months beginning in February 2012 to models. The group, which consists of Akzo Nobel, DSM, encourage the start up and growth of small and medium FrieslandCampina, Heineken, KLM, Philips, Shell and enterprises. The free workshops, led by Ernst & Young Unilever, is supported by the Dutch Employers Federation leaders, will be aimed at individuals with different levels VNO-NCW and facilitated by Ernst & Young. The DSGC was of business experience and will discuss issues from announced in January 2012 at the World Economic Forum planning and forecasting, to scaling-up a business, sales in Davos by Jan Peter Balkenende, chair of the DSGC, effectiveness and taxation. More than 300 places will partner at Ernst & Young and a former Prime Minister of be available, and participants will be identified through the Netherlands. a number of not-for-profit organizations, including The Prince’s Trust, UnLtd, Bright Ideas Trust, Social Business Trust and Teach First. Communication on Progress 2011 17 Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 152,000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients and our wider communities achieve their potential. Ernst & Young refers to the global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit www.ey.com. © 2012 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. DU0013 This publication contains information in summary form and is therefore intended for general guidance only. It is not intended to be a substitute for detailed research or the exercise of professional judgment. Neither EYGM Limited nor any other member of the global Ernst &amp; Young organization can accept any responsibility for loss occasioned to any person acting or refraining from action as a result of any material in this publication. On any specific matter, reference should be made to the appropriate advisor. 18 United Nations Global Compact
