Triacta Power Technologies Communication on Progress to The Global Compact for Calendar Year 2011 As a company Triacta Power has always been committed to the rights and well-­‐ being of our employees as well as fair and ethical business practices. To-­‐date we have affected these practices not as much by formal policies and procedures but by the character and experience of employees hired. As the CEO I am aligned with the 10 principles set forth in the Global Compact and see this initiative as an opportunity to enable within our company a systematic and collaborative approach to enshrining a culture of best business practices towards human rights, labour rights, ethics and the environment within Triacta Power. Wes Biggs P. Eng. President & CEO Triacta Power Technologies Inc. Background Triacta originally joined the Global Compact in 2008. Due to illness of the company’s founder and first CEO in 2009 there was a discontinuity on several initiatives as the company transitioned to a new management team. As a result the first Communication on Progress was never submitted. This document endeavors to provide an update on items relevant to the Global Compact through to the end of calendar 2011. It will outline areas that the corporation has implemented policies and procedures aligned to the Global Compact’s 10 principles through good business practice. It will state the planned activities in calendar 2012 to further embody and formalize these principles within the corporate culture. The company will submit an annual report in the first month of each year reporting on progress through the previous year. Triacta Power Technologies Communication on Progress Report January 6, 2012 Policies and Procedures Implemented Through 2011 with Relevance to the Global Compact The following is a list of current policies that have been put in place and are relevant to the Global Compact. Human Rights: Workplace Harassment and Discrimination -­‐ effective June 2010 and in compliance with the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act the company implemented a written policy on Workplace Harassment and Discrimination. Employees were informed on the contents and requirements of the Act. Triacta has adopted a “zero tolerance” policy to workplace harassment and discrimination. Workplace Violence – effective June 2010 the company implemented a written policy on workplace violence. Triacta has adopted a “zero tolerance” policy towards workplace violence. Employee Handbook – in October 2011 the company updated the employee handbook to make specific reference with respect workplace harassment, discrimination and violence and provide a formal procedure to report violations. Activities Targeted in Year 2012 As a young company with limited resources Triacta will initially focus it’s efforts on area’s of activity that are aligned to one or more of the Global Compact’s 10 Principles and bring near-­‐term operational and corporate culture benefit to the company. The company is not presently a multi-­‐national. As such it will focus on domestic policies and practices at this time. As it grows it will expand policies with respect to international trade & business activities. Activity 1 – Update of Company Mission Statement Update company mission statement to include corporate vision and goals with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. Activity 2 – Policy & Procedure Review and Update Review and update all written policies and procedures to ensure they adequately reflect the company’s position with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. Where applicable the company will create a new policy for areas not currently addressed. Activity 3 – Employee Awareness/Participation Program Create and maintain a tool or set of tools that educates new and existing employees on the company’s Policy’s with respect to Human Rights, Labour Rights, the Environment & Anti-­‐Corruption. This tool set will also provide i) escalation procedures for violations of corporate policy and ii) mechanism’s for employee input and/or participation in Global Compact initiatives. Triacta Power Technologies Communication on Progress Report January 6, 2012 Activity 4 – Industry Awareness Create awareness within Triacta’s business circles of the company’s membership and active support of the Global Compact. This will include publication on our company web-­‐site of our membership and support plus other hard-­‐copy initiatives still to be determined. Performance Metrics Included is a report card on the company’s initiatives and completeness in implementing policies and procedures that embody the 10 principles of the Global Compact. The company will score itself from 0-­‐10 on its operational procedures and policies for each principle. It will project a target score in each area for the next calendar year. It will not be the intention of the company to target improvements each year in each category but instead focus on specific areas that provide both near or mid-­‐term operational and/or corporate culture benefit and align with Global Compact Principles. Global Compact Compliance Report Card Principle 2008-­‐2011 2012 Target Comments Human Rights No formal policy or 1. Businesses should initiatives with respect to support and respect principle 1 as of 2011. the protection of 1 3 Plan for written formal internationally policy in 2012. proclaimed human rights 2. Businesses should No formal policy or make sure they are not initiatives with respect to complicit in human 1 3 principle 2 as of 2011. rights abuses. Plan for written formal policy in 2012. Labour No formal policy or 3. Businesses should initiatives with respect to uphold the freedom of principle 3 as of 2011. association and the 1 3 Plan for written formal effective recognition policy in 2012. of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should No formal policy or uphold the elimination initiatives with respect to Triacta Power Technologies Communication on Progress Report January 6, 2012 of all forms of forced 1 3 principle 4 as of 2011. and compulsory Plan for written formal labour. policy in 2012. 5. Businesses should No formal policy or uphold the effective initiatives with respect to abolition of child 1 3 principle 5 as of 2011. labour. Plan for written formal policy in 2012. 6. Businesses should Formal policies in place uphold the elimination and enforced for domestic of discrimination in 5 8 Workplace Violence and respect of Workplace Harassment employment and and Discrimination occupation. Environment No formal policy or 7. Businesses should initiatives with respect to support a 1 3 principle 7. precautionary Plan for written formal approach to policy in 2012. environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should No formal policy or undertake initiatives initiatives with respect to to promote greater 1 3 principle 8. environmental Plan for written formal responsibility. policy in 2012. 9. Businesses should No formal policy or encourage the initiatives with respect to development and 1 3 principle 9. diffusion of Plan for written formal environmentally policy in 2012. friendly technologies. Anti-­‐Corruption No formal policy or 10. Businesses should initiatives with respect to work against 1 3 principle 10. corruption in all its Plan for written formal forms, including policy in 2012. extortion and bribery Total 14 35 Triacta Power Technologies Communication on Progress Report January 6, 2012
