Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Aiming hig her Contents GRI Index Publication Date: August 2012 For us, Corporate Responsibility Our uncompromising pursuit of Our success is based upon the means going beyond compliance growth and efficiency creates unique talents, commitment and and striving to do what’s right for a ripple effect that benefits our professionalism of our team. That is our stakeholders, the environment stakeholders as well as our why we are dedicated to providing our and the community. tenants, consumers and society. people with the right environment and lywood, Florida, USA ius, Lithuan ia tools for success. e, Oakville , Ontario , Canada Plaza, Hol nas, Viln ket Plac Sheridan Mandari Olde Oak ville Mar Section 3. Section 1. Section 2. Labor Practices About Gazit-Globe Economic Performance & Human Rights In our quest for excellence, we are We have made environmentally As a global leader, we aim continually raising the bar to improve friendly principles a part of our for a higher CSR standard: our business practices, aiming for operational DNA. Doing What’s Right. higher levels of transparency, fairness and ethical conduct. d, Brazil , USA Long Islan ias do Sul, Georgia y Plaza, grino, Cax rs Town Square, at Westbur San Pele Governo The GalleryUSA , New York Section 5. Section 6. Section 4. Environmental Global Reporting Initative Social Performance Performance (GRI) Information Main Page 62 Table of CONTENTS From Our President About this Report Section 3 86 Section 5 Environmental 9 Labor Practices Performance & Human Rights Section 1 Green Building About Gazit-Globe Labor Practices Conservation & Recycling HR Programs 48 Energy Introduction Recruitment and Training Our Mission Water 74 Life Insurance Global Presence Shares/Options Emissions Sewage & Waste Binding Values Training and Education Biodiversity in Natural Habitats Code of Conduct & Ethics Performance and Career Environmental Reporting Green Building Development Reviews FTSE4GOOD Index Diversity and Equal Global Compact Opportunity Maala Termination Benefits Corporate Governance Board of Directors Human Rights Section 4 Directors Global Compact Social Performance 112 Executive Management Forced and Compensation of Senior Employees Compulsory Labor Stakeholders Section 2 Child Labor Benefiting the Community Shareholders Economic Performance Freedom of Association Customer Satisfaction Board of Directors Corporate Giving Programs Subsidiaries Employees Direct Economic Value Anti-Corruption Customers: Tenants and Consumers Indirect Economic Influence Anti-Competitive Behavior Suppliers Community – Charitable Investment Health and Safety Regulatory Authorities Financial Implications & Risks Risk Management Section 6 Analysts & Institutional Investors and Opportunities Due to Media Climate Change Global Reporting Community Initative (GRI) Environment Membership in Associations Information 2 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 3 From our PRESIDENT Dear Stakeholder, We are proud to present our Corporate Responsibility report for 2009-2010. In our view, Corporate Responsibility is all about achieving economic success while acting for the good of society and the environment. To reach this ideal, we have formulated ethical standards and Corporate Responsibility policies according to which we evaluate our actions, and comply with both the letter and the spirit of relevant laws and international norms. As a further demonstration of Our properties, located in high-density, With the conviction that good corporate process as an important element that dialogue requires not only transparency our commitment to Corporate urban growth regions, are destinations citizenship makes both ethical and keeps us focused on our goals and but consistent and reliable data. We Responsibility, in 2010 we adopted for millions of consumers fulfilling economic sense, we have expanded enables us to measure our steady welcome this aspect of the effort, and the principles of the United Nation’s their every day shopping needs. We our adoption of green building progress in these vital areas. We hope that this Corporate Responsibility Global Compact initiative and have therefore committed ourselves practices and increasingly conform are proud to detail our successes Report promotes stakeholder incorporated them as part of our to becoming the best and most our development and redevelopment thus far, and are also committed to involvement and feedback regarding business practices. The United responsible corporate citizens that we activities to LEED® (Leadership in transparent reporting in the future. important issues. Nations Global Compact is a strategic can be, whether measured in terms Energy and Design) certification This report further demonstrates our policy initiative for businesses that are of corporate, social or environmental standards. We also continue to acceptance of accountability for the With each step forward, we recommit committed to aligning their operations standards. As we make changes for introduce comprehensive programs to social, environmental and economic ourselves to the work at hand, and look and strategies with ten universally the better, we are benefiting in many reduce our energy consumption and to impact of our operations and our forward to additional achievements accepted principles in the areas of tangible as well as intangible ways, recycle materials. In parallel, we have commitment to the highest standards as our programs become further human rights, labor, environment and as our improved efficiency helps to scaled up our community programs of corporate governance, transparency established in our corporate culture. anti-corruption. Our commitment to increase our financial stability and to through our support of numerous and business ethics. We invite you to chart our progress in Global Compact permeates our ensure our long-term viability. educational and social initiatives. the years to come. strategies and management practices. A critical goal of our Corporate Taken as a whole, we view the Responsibility reporting is to encourage Corporate Responsibility reporting a dialogue with our stakeholders. This 4 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 5 About this The Global Human Rights Report Businesses should support and respect the Compact protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. This report covers our Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee Globe Israel. Their operations reflect The Global Compact is an initiative Responsibility activities during 2009comprising management and external our values and our commitment to developed by the UN aiming to mobilize Labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 2010 and follows our previous report advisors. This committee helped us promote and implement Corporate the international business community for and the effective recognition of the right to for the years 2007 and 2008. It is an to determine the appropriate content, Responsibility. All data compiled by the adoption in their business practices collective bargaining; important tool in our ongoing efforts scope and structure of this report. our subsidiaries regarding economic, of internationally accepted values which to increase our dialogue with the environmental, human resources are represented in 10 fundamental Company’s stakeholders, and reflects In producing this document, and other metrics was formulated principles in the areas of Human Rights, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory our policy of maintaining a high level management utilized the G3.1 Global in accordance with Best Practices. Labour Standards, Environment and labour; of transparency. In this report, we Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) reporting Anti-Corruption. Gazit Globe is signatory describe our business approach and standard, a widely-accepted and The data from the following reports of since 2010. operations, and how they affect the inclusive reporting framework that our subsidiaries were included in this the effective abolition of environment, those communities that has also been adopted by our Report: child labour; and we serve and in which we operate, as subsidiaries, to promote transparency First Capital Realty: 2010 well the economy, in general. and adherence to internationally Annual Report; 2011 Corporate accepted standards. We also highlight Responsibly and Sustainability the elimination of discrimination in respect This report also details our relationship our participation and leadership Report (GRI Application Level B+) of employment and occupation. with various stakeholder groups. We in broader initiatives that promote Citycon: 2010 Annual Report; identify these groups by determining Corporate Responsibility around the 2011 Annual and Sustainability who is impacted directly or indirectly globe. Report (assured by KPMG to Environment Businesses should by our business activities, or with correspond to GRI Application support a precautionary approach to environmental whom we have day-to-day interaction This report includes material Level B+) challenges; or a mutual dialogue, or wish to information relating to Gazit-Globe as Equity One: 2010 Annual Report; engage in one. well as data collected by several of the 2011 Corporate Responsibility Group’s subsidiaries abroad, including and Sustainability Report (GRI undertake initiatives to promote greater We aim to publish Corporate Equity One in the United States, First Application Level C) environmental responsibility; and Responsibility reports on a bi-annual Capital Realty in Canada, and Citycon basis. The report also includes in Northern Europe. These publicly All information contained in this information related to activities traded companies represent GazitReport was prepared by qualified encourage the development and diffusion following the reporting period which is Globe’s major holdings in which we professionals, and all calculations are of environmentally friendly technologies. noted accordingly. conduct a material portion of our based on widely-accepted standards. activities and are fully consolidated We have noted when specific As part of our emphasis on Corporate in our financial reports. The report calculation models have been used. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its Responsibility best practices, also includes information from our forms, including extortion and bribery. we established a Corporate Israeli privately held subsidiary, Gazit6 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 7 Main Page For us, Corporate Responsibility means going beyond compliance and striving to do what’s right for our stakeholders, the environment and the community. , USA , Florida laza, H ollywood Sh eridan P Section 1. About Gazit-Globe 8 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Introduction Our Mission Gazit-Globe (TASE: GLOB; NYSE: value of approximately NIS 57 billion, We view our mission as maximizing GZT), one of the world’s leading and a gross annualized income of multinational real estate companies, approximately NIS 5.6 billion. shareholder value by continually and engages in the acquisition, development and management We operate internationally through consistently growing our global real of income-producing properties. a number of publicly-traded and We focus on necessity-driven real privately-held subsidiaries whose estate platform, our cash flow and our estate primarily supermarketshares are listed on several major dividends, all while operating according anchored shopping centers in urban stock exchanges, including the New growth markets with high barriers York Stock Exchange, the Toronto to a commitment to full transparency to to entry and attractive demographic Stock Exchange, the Helsinki Stock trends. In addition, we are active in the Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and our shareholders. healthcare real estate sector in North the Vienna Stock Exchange. GazitAmerica. Globe’s shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (as of December To drive the growth and value of our Our Group operates in more than 20 2011), as well as on the Tel Aviv Stock countries. As of December 31, 2010, Exchange (TASE) where they are company, we believe in working only with we owned and operated over 660 included in the TA-25 and the Realproperties with a gross leasable area Estate-15 indices. the finest people in the industry, thereby of approximately 6.4 million square achieving excellence in execution and a meters, a consolidated total asset prudent level of leverage of our financial and intellectual property. 10 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 11 Introduction Global Presence Organization Chart As of December 31, 2010 Canada United States Europe Israel Brazil 48.8% 45.2%* 47.3% 75% 100% First Capital Realty(FCR) Equity One (EQY) Citycon (CTY) Gazit-Globe Israel Gazit Brazil (Development) 69.5% 60% 30.0% Gazit America (GGA) Royal Senior Care Atrium EuropeanReal Estate (ATR) 50% Acad Building & 100% 100% Investments Ltd. ProMed Properties Gazit Germany Gazit Development (Bulgaria & Macedonia) * Directly & Indirectly 12 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 13 A Global Real Estate Platform Helsinki Stockholm Talinn Edmonton Warsaw Vancouver Montreal Moscow Calgary Toronto Frankfurt Prague San Francisco Boston New York Atlanta Los Angeles Tel Aviv Miami Sao Paulo Rio Grande do Sul 14 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 15 Subsidiaries United States metropolitan areas of the US, most of shopping centers in growing EUROPE Stock Exchange (VSX: ATRS). As of owned 11 properties with a total GLA We operate in the US primarily through which are located in close proximity metropolitan areas. As of December December 31, 2010, Atrium owned of approximately 127,000 square In Northern Europe, Gazit-Globe our subsidiary Equity One (“EQY”), a to hospitals and university campuses. 31, 2010, FCR owned and operated 153 income-producing properties meters. operates through its subsidiary fully integrated real estate investment As of December 31, 2010, ProMed 175 income-producing properties with a total GLA of approximately 1.1 Citycon, an owner, developer and trust listed on the New York Stock owned and operated 12 medical with a total GLA of approximately two million square meters. operator of supermarket-anchored Exchange (NYSE: EQY). EQY engages office buildings with a total GLA of million square meters. Its shares are shopping centers and commercial In Germany, our Company’s fullyBRAZIL in the acquisition, management, approximately 98,000 square meters. listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange owned subsidiary, Gazit Germany, is Gazit Brazil, a fully-owned subsidiary properties. Listed on the Helsinki development and redevelopment of (TSX: FCR). active in the shopping center business, of Gazit-Globe, is active in the Stock Exchange (NASDAQ OMX: quality retail properties in strategic We also maintain operations in the US owning and operating six incomeacquisition, development and CTY1S), Citycon is the market leader metropolitan areas across the US. through Royal Senior Care (“RSC”), Gazit-Globe is also the majority holder producing properties with a total GLA management of shopping centers in Finland, has established a strong These properties are anchored a privately-held company active in of Gazit-America, a company that approximately 95,000 square meters in Brazil. As of December 31, 2010, position in Sweden and a firm foothold by necessity-driven businesses, the senior housing facilities sector in holds approximately 14% of Equity as of December 31, 2010. Gazit Brazil owned and operated four in the Baltic countries. As of December including leading supermarkets, country’s southeastern region. As of One (as of December 31, 2010). Gazitshopping centers with a total GLA of 31, 2010, Citycon owned 80 shopping pharmacies and retail store chains. As December 31, 2010, RSC owned and America is also active in the medical approximately 36,000 square meters. centers and retail properties, with a of December 31, 2010, EQY owned operated 15 properties with 1,650 office building sector in Canada, and total GLA of approximately 0.9 million ISRAEL 186 income-producing properties residential units. owned, as of December 31, 2010, Gazit-Globe’s headquarters are square meters. with a total GLA of approximately 1.9 three medical office buildings with a located in Israel. million square meters. total GLA of approximately 15,000 In Central and Eastern Europe, our Canada square meters. Its shares are listed Company operates through our In addition, we are active in the Gazit-Globe also operates in the In Canada, we operate primarily on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX: acquisition, development and subsidiary, Atrium European Real US through ProMed Properties, a through our subsidiary First Capital GAA). management of shopping centers Estate (“Atrium”), an owner, operator privately-owned subsidiary. ProMed Realty (“FCR”), Canada’s leading in Israel through Gazit Globe Israel and developer of shopping centers. is engaged in the acquisition and owner, developer and operator of (Development) Ltd. (“Gazit Israel”), The shares of Atrium are listed on management of medical and supermarket and drugstore-anchored which is 75% owned by our Company. the Euronext Amsterdam exchange research office buildings in growing neighborhood and community As of December 31, 2010, Gazit Israel (Euronext: ATRS) and the Vienna 16 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 17 Binding Values Our core values influence our global activities, inspire our performance and impact our daily decisions. Financial Business Social Professionalism Transparency Reliability Growth Discipline Responsibility 18 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 19 CODE OF fairly and creating a decent work We encourage all of our subsidiaries environment. This document serves to draft their own ethical codes of as a usable, authoritative reference for conduct. For subsidiaries with their BUSINESS our employees looking for guidance regarding decisions made in the own codes, including Citycon, Equity One and First Capital Reality, our CONDUCT course of everyday business behavior, Code acts as a complement to theirs. especially in the case of ethical dilemmas. The attitudes, values and behavior of our managers and employees Two members of our management Global Compact We believe that impact not only our tenants, suppliers team act as ethics supervisors and are conducting our and the consumers who shop in available to employees for guidance, or for reporting cases of behavior business ethically our shopping centers, but also their which may conflict with the principles fellow employees. We believe that In 2010, we adopted the principles of is a fundamental conducting our business ethically is dictated by the Code. the United Nation’s Global Compact value, and we work a fundamental value, and we work initiative and incorporated them as We also hold annual training sessions diligently to instill this diligently to instill this value in all of our part of our business practices. The employees. for employees and management in the value in all of our areas of ethics and proper business United Nations Global Compact is a employees. rgue, Cz ech Rep ublic As a guide for our actions, for a behavior. We also have an external strategic policy initiative for businesses ra, Pa Palac Flo compliance officer available to answer that are committed to aligning their number of years we have been using any questions about the Code and/ operations and strategies with ten and continuously refining a corporate or matters requiring clarification, universally accepted principles in Code of Business Conduct. It outlines the Company’s duties and attitudes including situations pertaining to the areas of human rights, labor, towards our stakeholders, including violations of the Code and/or laws and environment and anti-corruption. The our employees, suppliers, clients, regulations with which the Company following is a summary of the Global and shareholders, and includes moral is required to comply. Employees Compact principles and how we align principles, such as avoiding conflicts can contact the compliance office our business practices with them: of interests, conducting business anonymously. 20 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 21 Subject Global Compact Principle Gazit-Globe Position Subject Global Compact Principle Gazit-Globe Position Human GC #1 & #2: Protecting human rights is one of Environment GC #7, #8, #9: We are committed to setting new Rights Businesses should support and our core values. Our commitment to Businesses should: models for guidance and leadership respect the protection of internationally support and protect human rights is a) support a precautionary in environmental performance. Most proclaimed human rights and ensure an inherent part of our multinational approach to environmental of our subsidiaries observe green that a business is not complicit in business practices and extends to challenges; construction principles, strive to human rights abuses promoting equal opportunity for all, b) undertake initiatives to promote conform to green-building standards, providing fair wages and employment greater environmental such as LEED, and are committed to terms, offering training programs and responsibility; going to great lengths to manage their enrichment and fostering an open c) encourage the development and business in an environmentally friendly dialogue with all of our employees. diffusion of environmentally manner. friendly technologies GC #3: We highly respect the freedom of Labor Businesses should uphold the association of our employees and their freedom of association and the right to join a labor union as mandated effective recognition of the right to by the law and regulations. Currently, collective bargaining there are no labor unions at GazitGlobe. GC #4: Within our sphere of influence, we are Businesses should eliminate all forms against any and all forms of child labor of forced and compulsory labor and compulsory labor, encourage Anti GC #10: Our Code of Business Conduct states decent employment opportunities and Corruption Businesses should work against that the Company and its employees support employees rights at work. corruption in all its forms, including must maintain high ethical and extortion and bribery. professional standards in dealing with government officials and the private GC #5: We are strongly committed to the sector representatives. Gazit-Globe Businesses should uphold the effective effective abolition of child labor. Our property or services must not be abolition of child labor company doesn’t employee underage given, either directly or indirectly, to minors and we follow all rules and anyone in an improper effort to obtain regulations regarding this issue in the or retain business for Gazit-Globe or countries in which we operate. to obtain special or unusual treatment GC #6: Our policy is to conduct our in connection with any business Businesses should uphold the business, recruit employees, engage transaction.” elimination of discrimination in respect subcontractors, train, promote, of employment and occupation transfer, make redundant, recall or terminate employees, without regard to race, religion, gender, ethnic origin, See http://www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/12469-Gazit-Globe-Ltd for more information about our commitment to sexual orientation, age, disability or the Global Compact. In addition, examples of practical actions that we have taken to conform to Global Compact principles any other classification protected by as well as our measurement of outcomes related to them, can be found in this report marked by the symbols above. applicable law. 22 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 23 Maala FTSE4Good Our values are also expressed and refined through our association with As part of its program, Maala ranks its member corporations according In addition to recognition by Maala, we are gratified that our Corporate Index Maala, a non-profit organization to their performance using a Responsibility activities have earned Gazit-Globe is a constituent company whose membership includes over a variety of Corporate Responsibility us additional recognition, as follows: in the FTSE4Good Index Series, a hundred of Israel’s most prominent criteria, concerning business In 2010 the European Public global responsible investment index companies. It is a leading professional ethics, human rights policies, work Real Estate Association (EPRA), created by the FTSE Group, the global resource that assists Israeli companies environment, community involvement, a common interest group that index company, and designed to in developing and implementing environmental commitment and publishes ‘best practices’ in identify companies that meet globally Corporate Responsibility strategies corporate governance. In 2009 and accounting, financial reporting recognized corporate responsibility and that helps them integrate social, 2010, Gazit-Globe was awarded and corporate governance for standards. Companies in the environmental and ethical values into Maala’s Platinum ranking, its highest 80 European-listed real estate FTSE4Good Index are working towards their business strategies. Gazit-Globe ranking for corporate responsibility. companies, cited Citycon’s environmental sustainability, developing is a proud member of Maala and an Corporate Responsibility Report positive relationships with stakeholders active supporter of its activities. as one of the best in the real and upholding and supporting universal estate sector. human rights. Gazit-Globe is a Beyond Business, an Israeli constituent member of the FTSE4Good consulting firm that specializes in Index for the second consecutive year. social-environmental responsibility Green and sustainability, ranked GazitPlatinum Globe as one of Israel’s top-10 companies in 2011, after the reporting period of this Report, affording it its highest marks for transparency. Building We strive to build and maintain our properties in an environmentally friendly manner. Several of our subsidiaries conform their building activities to LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Design), the internationally recognized green building certification system. LEED® provides third-party verification that a building has been designed and built using strategies intended to improve performance in metrics such as energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions reduction, improved indoor environmental quality, and stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impacts. A LEED® certification demonstrates that a construction project is eco-friendly. 24 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 25 Corporate Governance Board of Directors We are committed to sound principles establish mechanisms and controls for according to the Israeli Securities Law of corporate governance. Our Board identifying, approving, and reporting (all of whom are males). of Directors (“Board”), which is the agreements between the Company supreme governing body of the and its controlling shareholders and Board members may serve for up Company, is responsible for overseeing their positions with the Company. The to three years, after which they are and monitoring the performance of provisions of these regulations are eligible for re-election (excluding our senior management team, the based, inter alia, on the provisions external directors whose terms of body which is charged with the daycontained in Israel’s Companies Law are determined according to Israel’s to-day conduct of our business. and Securities Law, and are designed Companies Law). The criteria which The fundamental responsibility of to provide additional oversight for the qualify candidates for the Board the Board is to exercise business Company. include, among other things, business judgment on matters of strategic and The Company also complies with knowledge; expertise; integrity; critical significance to the Company rules and regulations enacted by the experience related to the Company’s in furtherance of the best interests of NYSE and TASE on which markets core business activities; proven the Company and its shareholders. the Company’s shares are traded. leadership qualities; and proven ability The Board also ensures that the Our Board is comprised of nine to exercise sound judgment. Company’s actions conform with all members, two of whom were Following a screening process by the Iso Omena, Espoo, Finland statutory and regulatory requirements appointed in 2011. The Board Board and relevant professionals, for promoting the interests of the includes the Board’s Chairman, Chaim biographical information regarding the Company and its shareholders. Katzman; Deputy Chairman, Arie nominees is provided to shareholders, the Board at the end of 2011. Corporate Responsibility issues that about executive management The Board is committed to assuring Mientkavich; Executive Vice Chairman, and an approval process is followed. may affect our performance, business decisions related to CR. that the Company’s actions conform Dori Segal; three independent The Corporate Responsibility activities and reputation. Prior to to Israel’s Companies Law, as well directors and two external directors. Our general policy is that all major Committee is responsible for the establishment of the Corporate Shareholders, employees and other as all demands of authorities and The Chairman is not an executive decisions must be considered by the supervising Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Committee, the Board interested parties are invited to legislation regarding stakeholder officer of the Company. Board as a whole. During 2009 the activities of the Company, including assessed Corporate Responsibility contact Board members directly. conflicts of interest. Our Company’s Biographical information regarding Board conducted 21 meetings and in the establishment and implementation performance of the Company at least Written communications to Board Code of Business Conduct includes each Board member is provided 2010 the Board assembled 24 times. of our Corporate Responsibility once a year. members may be forwarded to Gazitprocedures to avoid conflict of on the following pages. Two of the The Board currently has five standing policies. Its mandate includes ethical Globe’s headquarters. interest at all levels of the Company. board members are considered committees: Audit, Investment, matters, fair employment issues, In addition to approving strategic In addition, the Company has to be external according to the Nominating and Corporate our relationship with our suppliers, CR policies and activities of the CR adopted internal regulations relating Israeli Securities Law (a male and a Governance, Compensation and social investment in the communities Committee, the Board takes an active to transactions with interested parties. female), and three are considered Corporate Responsibility. The three in which we operate, environmental interest in CR matters, including social The purpose of these regulations is to to be independent of the Company latter committees were established by matters and other important investment, and is regularly updated 26 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 27 Members of the Board Arie Mientkavich, Deputy Chairman Mr. Mientkavich is Deputy Chairman of the Board of Chaim Katzman, Chairman Directors of the Company and of Chairman of the Board Mr. Chaim Katzman is the founder, controlling shareholder and of Gazit-Globe Israel (Development) and of Dori Group. He Chairman of Gazit-Globe. Mr. Katzman is also the founder, is also Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors of IDB controlling shareholder and Chairman of Norstar Holdings Holdings Corporation, as well as Chairman of the Board of (formerly Gazit Inc.), the parent company of Gazit-Globe, Elron Electronic Industries and RDC Rafael Development the Chairman of Equity One, which he founded in 1992, and Corporation. He is also a member of the Board of Given Chairman First Capital Realty since 2000. In 2008, Mr. Katzman Imaging and NuLens. In addition, Mr. Mientkavich is on was appointed as Chairman of Atrium European Real Estate, the License Committee and a member of the Advisory and in 2010, as Chairman of Citycon. Mr. Katzman is a member Committee of the Bank of Israel, and a member of the of the International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC), the Advisory Board of the National Defense College of Israel. National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), Previously, Mr. Mientkavich was Chairman of the Israel the Urban Land Institute (ULI), the Real Estate Roundtable and Discount Bank and the Israel Securities Authority, member the Association of Foreign Investors in Real Estate (AFIRE). of the Israel CPA Advisory Council and a member of the He received an LL.B. from Tel Aviv University Law School. Advisory Board of the Bank of Israel. He was also General Mr. Katzman is a well-known civic leader, philanthropist and Counsel to the Israel Ministry of Finance. In the public sector, supporter of numerous organizations in the US and Israel. He Mr. Mientkavich is Chairman of the Academy of Quality of recently established the Gazit-Globe Real Estate Institute at Government Movement in Israel, and the Public Committee Israel’s Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya, Israel, for the of Yad Sarah, an NGO in the field of humanitarian support research and study of the field of real estate development and of public health. Mr. Mientkavich holds degrees in Law and management. Political Science from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and was admitted to the Israeli Bar in 1972. Dori Segal, Executive Vice Chairman Mr. Segal is Executive Vice-Chairman of Gazit-Globe, Vice Chairman, President and CEO of First Capital Realty; Deputy Chairman and Director of Equity One; Director of Citycon Oyj, Chairman of Gazit America and a director on the board of Norstar. Mr. Segal joined Gazit-Globe in 1993 both as a principal investor and a senior member of the management team. Since 1997, Mr. Segal has been active in the acquisition, development and redevelopment of shopping centers in Canada. He was primarily responsible for the purchase of Gazit-Globe’s initial portfolio in Canada and then played a key role in the acquisition of First Capital Realty Inc. (formerly known as Centrefund Realty Corporation) in August 2000. 28 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 29 Chaim Ben Dor, Director Mr. Ben Dor is a corporate consultant in the field of finance and investments. Mr. Ben Dor holds a degree in Accounting from the College of Management in Jerusalem and an auditors’ certificate from the Ministry of Justice. Noga Knaz, External Director Ms. Knaz is the CEO of Rosario Capital Ltd. She formerly served as CEO of Dash Underwriting Ltd. and Chief Investment Officer in Dash Securities and Investments Ltd. Previously, Ms. Knaz also held positions with Migdal Capital Markets, including Co-CEO of Madanes Financial Services Ltd. Ms. Knaz holds a B.A. in Economics and Business Administration from Haifa University. Yair Orgler, External Director Dr. Orgler was Chairman of the Board of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange until 2006, and Gery Epstein, Director* a Director of Bank Hapoalim until 2010. He is Professor Emeritus of the Faculty of Mr. Epstein chairs the Global Corporate and Securities Department, and is a member Management at Tel Aviv University. Dr. Orgler holds a B.S. in Industrial Engineering and of the Executive Committee and a Principal Shareholder at Greenberg Traurig, LLP, Management from the Technion; an M.S. in Industrial Engineering from the University an international law firm. Mr. Epstein has been with Greenberg Traurig since 1980. of Southern California; and a Ph.D. in Managementspecializing in Finance from the Mr. Epstein received a B.A. and B.H.L. in English and Jewish Studies at Yeshiva Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. University, an M.A. in English Literature from New York University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School. Douglas Sesler, Director* Shay Pilpel, Director Mr. Sesler is a private real estate investor. From January 2009 through February Dr. Pilpel is the CEO of Wexford Capital Israel Ltd. Mr. Pilpel holds a B.S. in Mathematics 2011, Mr. Sesler served as head of Global Real Estate Principal Investments of Bank and a B.A. in Philosophy from Tel-Aviv University, an M.Sc. in Mathematics from the of America, Merrill Lynch. From 2005 until December 2008, Mr. Sesler served as Hebrew University in Jerusalem, and an MBA from Columbia University, New York City. Managing Partner and later as Co-head of Real Estate Investment Banking at Merrill Dr. Pilpel also holds a Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of California, Berkeley. Lynch. Mr. Sesler received a B.A. in Government from Cornell University. *Appointed following the reporting period. 30 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 31 Executive Management Eran Ballan, Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Mr. Ballan serves as Senior Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary. Mr. Ballan joined Gazit-Globe in 2007. Prior to joining GazitOur executive management is responsible for the ongoing management Globe, Mr. Ballan was a Partner at Naschitz, Brandes & Co. in Tel Aviv, one of the largest law firms in Israel. Previously, Mr. Ballan was an Associate at Paul, Weiss, of the Company according to the Company’s vision and goals, and for Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, in New York. Mr. Ballan holds a LL.M. degree executing the strategic plans and policies established by our Board of from New York University and a LL.B. from Essex University in the U.K. Directors. Our executives cooperate with the management of our privately-held subsidiaries and support them in their activities. The Gadi Cunia, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief management of Gazit-Globe’s publicly-held subsidiaries is carried out by their independent management teams. GazitFinancial Officer Globe is involved in the activities of these public companies through representation on their respective boards. In general, Mr. Cunia has served as our CFO since April 2010 and as Senior Executive Vice our management team strives to maximize knowledge share, capabilities and synergies between all the members of the President since March 2011. Prior to joining Gazit-Globe, Mr. Cunia resided Gazit-Globe Group. in Lausanne, Switzerland where he was the CFO of “Eden Springs” Group. Mr. Cunia has more than 14 years of experience in managerial positions in the The members of our Executive Management include the following individuals: fields of finance, mergers and acquisitions, controlling, accounting, treasury and auditing. Mr. Cunia holds a degree in Business Management from the College of Management in Tel Aviv. Mr. Cunia is also a Certified Public Accountant. Rami Vaisenberger, Vice President and Controller Mr. Vaisenberger joined Gazit-Globe in July 2004 as Controller, and was appointed Vice President in 2011. From 2000 through 2004, Mr. Vaisenberger Roni Soffer, President served as an auditor at Ernst & Young. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Mr. Soffer serves as President of Gazit-Globe. Since joining our Company in 1997, Management from the College of Management in Tel-Aviv and is a certified public Mr. Soffer has held several senior executive roles and leadership positions. During accountant. his tenure at Gazit-Globe, Mr. Soffer has attained extensive expertise in both the retail and healthcare real estate sectors in public as well as private markets and has been involved in the Group’s worldwide M&A activity and the growth of its global platforms. From 2001 to 2009, Mr. Soffer was based at the Group’s Varda Zuntz, VP of Corporate Responsibility and Member offices in the US. More recently, Mr. Soffer led Gazit-Globe’s IPO in the US and of the Executive Committee the listing of its shares on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: GZT). Mr. Soffer Mrs. Zuntz has served as VP of Corporate Responsibility since March 2012. Most also serves as CEO of Gazit Group USA, a private subsidiary of the company; recently, Mrs. Zuntz served as our Company Secretary, a position she held since Vice Chairman of Gazit America (TSX: GAA); a Director of Atrium European Real December 1998. Mrs. Zuntz is also a director of several Gazit-Globe subsidiaries. Estate (VSX/Euronext: ATR); and Executive Chairman of ProMed Properties and Previously, she was Personal Assistant to Mr. Chaim Katzman. Gazit Senior Care, Gazit-Globe’s private subsidiaries. Mr. Soffer holds a B.A. in Economics and an LL.B from the College of Management, Academic Studies, in Israel. 32 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 33 Compensation of Senior Employees Rutherford Marketplace, Canada With the assistance of external The fairness and reasonability our Internal Control Manager or our consultants, we are taking steps to of compensation also takes into Compliance Officer of any material identify and finalize those indices and consideration any change of transaction or relationship which targets that will be incorporated into circumstances since the previous could give rise to a conflict of interest. the compensation plan. establishment of compensation terms, An executive or employee may be such as changes in market conditions required on occasion to disclose all Criteria taken into consideration by and scope of employment. Board of Directors activities by means In 2010, our Board outlined the general principles of a compensation the Board when reviewing the fairness of a Disclosure Statement regarding and reasonableness of compensation We have adopted a Code of Business conflicts of interest. We also comply policy for senior employees based, among other factors, on their include: the employee’s overall Conduct which includes procedures with rules established by the New reaching certain targets, such as reducing our rate of leverage, compensation package including salary, bonuses and long-term shareaimed at avoiding conflicts of interest at all levels of our Company’s activity. York Stock Exchange and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. achieving a higher return than those of major share indices in Israel based compensation; the Company’s In addition, we have adopted internal long-term policy and goals regarding regulations relating to “transactions and abroad and meeting profitability targets. The objective of the policy retention of existing management with interested parties”. All of our and recruitment of new managers; executives, employees, and directors is to create a direct link between the performance of the Company the employee’s duties; the complexity are expected to conduct their activities and the employee and the compensation to which he/she is entitled, and scope of the business of the in a manner that will not cause conflicts Company, as well as its performance. of interest. In addition, our executives, thereby raising motivation and increasing employee satisfaction. employees, and directors must notify 34 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 35 Stakeholders Stakeholder Shareholders, including Institutional Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Investors Board of Environment Directors Shareholders, We communicate with our shareholders through our Annual Meetings of Shareholders where decisions are taken by our shareholders through a voting including Institutional process that is mandated by the law. As a corporation registered under the laws Community Subsidiaries Investors of the State of Israel, we comply with the Israel Companies Law, as amended, which states that the following corporate issues must be discussed and approved at a general meeting of shareholders: Media Shareholders in the Company company regulations and jurisdiction of the board participate in the management of our Employees appointment, termination and work terms of the auditing accountant organization through their votes at appointment of external directors shareholder meetings. Shareholders’ approval of material actions and contracts Financial rights and duties are detailed in the Analysts increase of registered capital stock Company’s Articles of Association merger and acquisition activities Customers: and in corporate statutes. Tenants and Regulatory Consumers We also communicate with our shareholders through our website, as well as Authorities According to Company’s Article of through our annual, quarterly and other periodic financial reports. These reports Association and Israel Companies Law, include, among other things, information about our financial performance, our a shareholder holding 1% or more of Introduction corporate governance and other company activities. the Company’s voting rights is entitled Suppliers to suggest a topic for inclusion on the In addition, we hold quarterly conference calls in both Hebrew and English during agenda of our next General Meeting. which our CEO and CFO review financial and other events of the preceding In identifying our stakeholders and subsidiaries and employees. Our publish in print and or online containing Any shareholder holding 5% or more financial reporting period and allow for questions from participants on the call. parties who are impacted directly or ‘external’ stakeholders are our information related to our Corporate of the Company’s outstanding equity A press conference is also held following the publication of our annual financial indirectly by our business activities, customers, including tenants and Responsibility activities, this Report and 1% or more voting rights, or any results every year in March. In addition, we conduct investor days to provide we used the following parameters: consumers, as well as regulatory is meant to cultivate a transparent shareholder holding 5% or more of the information to institutional investors. authorities, our suppliers, the media, dialogue with our stakeholders. It also voting rights of the Company, can call groups with whom the Company financial analysts, the community and includes contact information to enable for a Special Meeting of Shareholders. Our contact information (telephone numbers and email addresses) is published has day-to-day interaction the environment. members of our stakeholder groups on our website, as well as on all of the written materials that we disseminate to groups with whom the Company The publication of this Corporate to reach out to us regarding issues The Company also counts numerous our shareholders and to the exchanges in which our securities are traded. holds a mutual dialogue, or Responsibility Report, which relates to that are important to them. institutional investors among its wishes to engage in one; and our Corporate Responsibility activities shareholder base. In addition, we are registered on a variety of public directories that provide our performance, in general, during 2009 and 2010, as well as our The following section further defines investors with detailed information about our Company, which we update on a and with respect to Corporate previous Corporate Responsibility our stakeholder groups and the regular basis. Responsibility, in particular, as it report for the years 2007-2008, methods by which we interact with may affect, or be affected by each serves as an important mechanism them: of the groups for informing our stakeholders of our Our ‘internal’ stakeholders include Corporate Responsibility activities. our shareholders, Board of Directors, Together with other materials that we 36 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 37 Stakeholder Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Board of Directors Employees Our Board of Directors dictates Our Board of Directors governs our Company by establishing broad policies and As of December 31, 2010, we Among the activities we engage in to interact with our employees are the following: Company policy and supervises its objectives; selecting, appointing, supporting and reviewing the performance of have 29 employees working at We conduct employee satisfaction surveys to obtain feedback on performance, business functions our executive team; ensuring the availability of adequate financial resources; our headquarters in Tel-Aviv. The management performance, employees’ overall satisfaction and the and operations. They accomplish approving annual budgets; setting the salaries and compensation of Company satisfaction of our employees with Company’s volunteer activities. The results of the surveys are distributed to this through regularly-scheduled and management; and accounting to our stakeholders for our Company’s their jobs, employment terms, work employees and serve as a basis for discussions at meetings attended by special meetings of the Board and performance. In addition to ensuring the Company’s prosperity by collectively conditions and balance between employees and management. its committees. (See page 28 above directing the Company’s affairs and meeting the appropriate interests of our their work and personal lives is very We engage in annual performance reviews of employees which are attended for biographical information on our shareholders and stakeholders, our Board deals with challenges and issues important to us. by each employee’s manager. We also engage in periodic discussions Board members.) During 2010, the relating to Corporate Responsibility. regarding performance, if required. Board held 24 meetings and the Audit Once a year, the CEO meets with each employee. Committee conducted 10 meetings. We maintain a Work–Life Balance policy to help employees achieve a In 2009, the Board met 21 times, the balance between their work and their personal lives. When possible, we Audit Committee met 11 times and make an effort to meet the needs of our employees by providing flexible the Investment committee assembled work hours and enabling them to work from home. We also host events 3 times during the year. for employees and their families, including family vacations and holiday gatherings. In addition, we encourage employees to continue their academic studies by adjusting their employment conditions to allow for study periods and unpaid leave. We maintain an “Open Door” policy thereby encouraging Stakeholder Interaction with our stakeholder our employees to communicate with our management. Once a year, our employees attend training sessions related to ethics and Subsidiaries sexual harassment designed to allow for dialogue between management and employees. Gazit-Globe is a major shareholder in We help guide the strategic direction of our privately-held subsidiaries through our We designate an external compliance officer to whom employees can ask six publicly-held companies and also dialogue with their management teams. We also contribute to the management questions or report ethics-related incidents. controls a number of privately-held of our publicly-held subsidiaries through our representation on their Boards of companies throughout the world. See Directors. In addition, we organize an annual management conference attended page 16 for a description of these by all of our subsidiaries which are hosted by a different subsidiary each year. These public-traded and private subsidiaries. conferences serve as an ideal opportunity for Company-wide brainstorming and Their operational and financial interaction. In addition to these annual gatherings, the Company holds weekly performance influence and determine and monthly conference calls with the management of our subsidiaries to discuss the performance of our Group. ongoing business issues and activities. 38 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 39 Stakeholder Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Customers: Tenants and Consumers Suppliers Our customers include tenants who rent space in our shopping centers and medical office buildings, and end-user Our suppliers include contractors, We negotiate agreements with potential suppliers in a fair and responsible manner consumers who shop for products and services in our shopping centers or visit our properties. appraisers, architects, engineers, and in accordance with accepted business norms and regulations. supervisors and suppliers of raw Tenants Our interaction with tenants in our centers is carried out on several levels, including, but not limited to negotiating agreements with them; conducting materials who provide us with the products and services necessary for With respect to our Corporate Responsibility activities, our goal is to incorporate Corporate Responsibility criteria into our background checks of major potential satisfaction surveys of our tenants to obtain feedback from them; and creating our construction, project development suppliers in which we plan to engage in long term relationships by requesting tenant focus groups to better understand their needs. In addition, managers of and maintenance activities. Their that they inform us of their level of activity in the area of Corporate Responsibility our shopping centers throughout the world maintain contact with their tenants to professionalism enables us to by completing a questionnaire that we send them. We have already adopted ensure smooth business dealings with them, and to respond to their queries and continuously improve the quality of this approach with our existing suppliers. During 2011, we obtained confirmation concerns. Many of our subsidiary companies retain an employee who is focused our properties in line with the needs from our top ten suppliers that they reviewed our Code of Business Conduct and on tenant relations. Responsibilities of these ‘tenant relations managers’ include: and desires of our tenants and endagree to follow the Code’s guidelines in the conduct of their businesses. developing relationships with tenants and acting as a one-point source of user customers. contact We are concerned that our subcontractors conduct their business activities We also work with a numerous according to accepted norms and regulations, especially with respect to facilitating meetings between tenants and our executives to coordinate professionals, including attorneys, employment. At our headquarters in Tel-Aviv, we conduct annual checks of our leasing, property management and asset management issues accountants, economists, marketing sub-contractors’ pay slips to confirm that they pay salaries and benefits to their maintaining retailer information and advertising professionals, employees as required by law. Because we are strongly committed to the abolition proactively assisting agents by providing them with leasing information public relations managers, human of child labor and don’t employ underage minors in any of our businesses, we resources compensation consultants, strongly encourage our suppliers and sub-contractors not to employ underage Leasing representatives also attend trade shows and conferences throughout the and research companies. These minors, as well. year, some of which are held in conjunction with local chambers of commerce, professionals assist us in their areas of where brokers and tenant representatives are invited to obtain information about expertise to ensure that we conform space available for lease in our shopping centers. Our subsidiaries’ websites to regulatory and other requirements. also provide information for potential tenants, including contact information. Consumers Many of our commercial centers, in conjunction with their tenants, conduct marketing and outreach activities by publishing and distributing brochures and newspapers targeted to shoppers at their centers, as well as to the surrounding communities. These efforts also serve to promote our tenants’ businesses. We also participate on social media sites. 40 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 41 Stakeholder Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Regulatory Authorities Financial Analysts We rely upon the approvals of a broad We interact with governmental authorities through the applications that we submit Many analysts representing different We communicate with analysts on a regular basis. We conduct an investor day range of governmental and municipal to them for approvals, periodic reports that we file with them on our activities, and financial institutions follow the to provide information to financial analysts and institutional investors. In addition, regulatory authorities to conduct our payments that we make to them in the form of taxes and fees. These authorities Company’s activities and progress. A management makes itself generally available to analysts to answer their queries business. These include development include the following: list of analysts covering our Company about the Company. The Company also proactively manages its relationship authorities and others that are Securities Authorities: We report financial and other information related to and their contact information is with analysts by offering to meet with them to enable them to better understand responsible for urban planning and our business activities to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the Tel available on Gazit-Globe’s website. the Company’s business in order to disseminate educated research on the zoning, as well as local building and Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE), on which Gazit-Globe’s shares are listed, as Company. Occasionally, we also organize property tours for analysts to visit our planning committees that approve required by these exchanges’ rules. In addition, we also maintain an ongoing shopping centers and personally observe our operations as well as meet with the architectural, engineering and dialogue with the security authorities of several jurisdictions as required of executives of our subsidiaries to gain a thorough understanding of our business. environmental protection plans. Many publicly traded companies. Our publicly traded subsidiaries, including First of these governmental bodies and Capital Realty, Citycon and Equity One, are also listed on various exchanges authorities also pass laws, regulations around the world and similarly comply with the securities authorities in their and directives which directly affect jurisdictions. how we conduct our businesses in Tax authorities: We submit regular filings to Israeli and other tax authorities, their jurisdictions. as required by those authorities’ laws and regulations. Local authorities: We cooperate fully with local authorities to obtain building licenses and to conduct our businesses according to municipal building Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder codes and other legislation. Environmental authorities: We cooperate fully with federal and local environmental agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and maintain Media continuous contact with environmental personnel to ensure compliance with environmental standards maintained by them. The economic press and media As part of our ongoing efforts to increase transparency and enable stakeholders organizations throughout the world to make informed decisions, we issue press releases for broad media distribution review our business activities and that contain information regarding material developments or financial results of financial results in their newspapers, the Company. An archive of these press releases can be found on the Company’s magazines, television shows, web website. As stated above, we also conduct an annual press conference sites, news blogs and other media, following the release of our annual financial statements and post information on thereby providing the general public our website. In addition, our management is regularly requested by traditional with objective information on our and online media, including business newspapers, magazines, websites and Company. television programs, to comment on various issues relating to our company and the commercial real estate industry. 42 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 43 Stakeholder Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Stakeholder Interaction with Stakeholder Community Environment We view the hundreds of communities To better understand the needs of the communities in which we operate, and We have made considerable In the development and operation of our commercial centers and other in which our shopping centers are to ensure that we create a proper mix of goods and services for each shopping progress in our efforts to incorporate business activities, we comply with rules and regulations mandated by Israel’s located throughout the world as center we operate, we often conduct surveys of the surrounding population to green building practices into our Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as the environmental ministries of stakeholders in our business because assess their shopping habits and to obtain feedback on their particular needs. development program. Green other countries in which we operate. We also interact with non-governmental these centers play a significant role in construction, or sustainable organizations (“NGO’s”) that are active in protecting the environment. In addition, their communities. They not only serve With respect to our philanthropic activities, our employees are encouraged to building, refers to an environmentally we hire consultants to assist us in assessing the environmental impact of our as shopping destinations, but also as volunteer their time to non-profit organizations and volunteer programs. responsible and resource-efficient activities and to advise us in the use of green construction methods and the secure places to obtain community progress throughout a building’s reduction of the environmental impact of our activities. Adopting these methods services, be entertained and to Our contributions to the community are determined by an internal charitable life-cycle: from ‘siting’ to design, benefit not only us, but our tenants as well, who are able to reduce their electricity socialize. As a result, we are mindful activities group that is comprised of members of our management. This group construction, operation, maintenance, and water costs. of the needs of consumers who establishes our corporate giving goals and identifies target areas in which we will renovation and demolition. Green reside in the communities in which our focus our charitable activities. buildings are designed to reduce the shopping centers are located. overall impact of the built environment For instance, to galvanize the community to support charitable causes, Gaziton human health and the natural Our relationship with the community Israel’s G malls sponsor events for various charities. They also maintain Facebook environment, They do so by efficiently is also effectuated through our pages on which they interact with members of the community, provide information using energy, water, and other Company’s philanthropy and regarding events held at their malls and provide members of the community resources, protecting occupant health volunteerism by our team members with access to managers of the malls. Such information is also presented in and improving employee productivity, to a broad variety of organizations the Company’s website. In addition the Company issues magazines and local and reducing waste, pollution and the and our participation in numerous brochures to potential visitors. Interaction is also made through municipal degrading of the environment. projects with social organizations. The magazines and Israeli newspapers. organizations and activities that we support are varied, and include those that educate, aid the poor, distribute food, support under-privileged children and youth, and others. 44 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 45 Membership in Associations Gazit-Globe and its subsidiaries maintains memberships in the following industry and other organizations: EPRA: European Public Real WBCSD: World Business Council for CaGEB: Canadian Real Building NAREIT: National Association of Real Estate Association Sustainable Development Council Estate Investment Trusts RAKLI: The Finnish Association of WRI: World Resources Institute CREW: Corporate Real Estate ULI: Urban Land Institute Building Owners and Construction Women Clients United Nations Global Compact FiGBC: Green Building Council Ontario Infrastructure and Land Finland 4.13 ICSC: The International Council of Corporation Shopping Centers Israel America Chamber of Commerce NCSC: The Nordic Council of Shopping Centers Israel Canada Chamber of Commerce GRI: Global Reporting Initiative REALpac: Real Property Association of Canada IEA: The International Energy Agency BOMA: Building Owners and Building Council of Canada UNEP: United Nations Environment Program 46 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 47 Main Page Our uncompromising pursuit of growth and efficiency creates a ripple effect that benefits our stakeholders as well as our tenants, consumers and society. ithuania nas, Vilnius, L Mandari Section 2. Economic Performance 48 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Introduction As a global real estate company managing and operating incomeWe act as a spur to the creation and chains, specialty shops, cafes and Our economic impact also extends growth of businesses, commercial restaurants, banks and service to our contributions to various nonproducing properties around the world, our operations have both a activity and jobs. We promote centers. Our development and profit organizations to support their substantial economic growth by redevelopment activities also have an activities in the community. strong direct and indirect economic impact on the communities in leasing space to tenants who employ economic impact by creating work tens of thousands of people in their opportunities for the construction which we operate. supermarkets, drug stores, clothing industry. Rocca Al Mare, Tallinn, Estonia 50 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 51 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE Our primary objective is to create value through long-term maximization Our rental revenues in 2010 were NIS The business model that we have Our geographic diversity provides 4,596 million, compared to NIS 4,084 developed and implemented over the us with flexibility in terms of capital of cash flow and capital appreciation and to increase our dividends million in 2009. Our net operating years, whereby we own and operate allocation and improves our resilience income (NOI) was NIS 3,058 million in our properties through our publiclyto changes in economic conditions over time. We do this through a differentiating focus on recession2010, compared to NIS 2,729 million traded and privately-held subsidiaries, and the cyclicality of markets, for 2009. has driven this substantial and enabling us to apply successful ideas resilient, necessity driven asset class, which has demonstrated an consistent growth. We leverage and proven market strategies in ability to generate strong and sustainable cash flow through different During the years 2000 to 2011 we grew our expertise to grow and improve multiple countries. Our global reach, an average of 27% annually in terms the operations of our subsidiaries, together with our local management economic cycles. of property rental income and NOI, maximize our profitability, mitigate our teams, enables us to make accretive and 16% annually in terms of Gross risk and create value for shareholders. acquisitions to expand our asset Leasable Area (GLA). Perhaps one of base, both in the countries in which the best indicators of our economic With the goal of achieving a leading we currently operate as well as in new performance is the consistent growth position in each of our markets, we ones. in our dividend by more than 11% work to expand our presence in the annually from 2000 to 2011 and our countries in which we operate while Please refer to our website for all total average annual return in excess also expanding into new markets. We financial disclosures, including our of 17%. We distributed NIS 204 million grow our business both organically 2010 Annual Report at: in dividends during 2010 and NIS 179 as well as through acquisitions and http://gazit-globe.com/financial-reports million during 2009. strategic partnerships with leading global institutions. 52 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 53 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE Key Figures (NIS million) December 31, 2011 2011 2010 2009 Total Assets 66,732 52,550 51,504 Investment Properties 59,311 47,814 46,631 Interest Bearing Liabilities 39,965 32,509 33,632 w, Polan d Cente r, Warsa Shareholder’s Equity Including Minority 19,384 15,169 13,266 ada S hopping Promen Shareholder’s Equity 7,136 5,915 5,189 Net Debt to Total Assets 58.0% 60.7% 63.7% Consistent Dividend Growth for Over a Decade Gross Leasable Area (GLA) NOI Rental Revenue (NIS per share) (Millions sqm) (NIS billions) (NIS billions) 12.9% 13.5% 13.8% CAGR CAGR CAGR 11.5% 1.60 6.77 CAGR (Compound Annual Growth Rate) 1.56 3.51 5.24 1.42 1.48 6.28 6.44 3.06 4.60 2.73 4.08 1.24 4.71 2.40 3.56 1.08 1.00 0.89 0.71 0.76 0.64 0.57 0.47 0.39 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12E 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 54 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 55 INDIRECT ECONOMIC INFLUENCE Our hundreds of income producing properties throughout the world also have a strong indirect economic influence. Our tenants include supermarkets, drug stores, banks, appliance stores, apparel shops, and other shops and service providers. They market and sell goods and services valued at hundreds of millions of dollars a year, employ thousands of people and pay taxes to the local jurisdictions in which our centers are located. To drive economic growth, we populations. We also strive to build surrounding medical centers and make our commercial centers easily and operate our shopping centers research institutions, thus easing the accessible, convenient and a pleasant in an environmentally friendly way, economic burden on these centers environment in which to shop. In by employing green construction and their communities. addition to leasing space to large methods and by employing department stores and supermarket conservation methods in an effort to Our indirect economic influence anchors, we also rent space to small create additional economic and other also extends to the taxes we and medium-sized businesses that benefits for the communities where pay in the jurisdictions in which benefit by being located adjacent we operate. we operate. These taxes help to to larger stores which attract strong finance government activity aimed at traffic. To best serve our consumers, Our senior housing and medical offices improving the welfare of citizens in the we also focus on creating a consumeralso generate economic and other countries in which we operate. friendly and safe environment, a benefits. Several of our medical offices diverse shopping experience, and share human resources, knowledge, easy accessibility for disadvantaged infrastructure and equipment with a c, Canad andie , Quebe Gale ries Norm 56 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 57 CHARITABLE INVESTMENT Above and beyond our business the Gazit-Globe Real Estate Institute by creating cheerful experiences and activities, Gazit-Globe believes that at Israel’s Interdisciplinary Center improving their medical treatment it is both a duty and a privilege to (IDC) Herzliya. The Institute will quality. In addition to our corporate contribute to the community. During house an academic and research support, our employees participate 2010 we donated NIS 3.83 million program focused on innovation and in the organization’s summer camp (compared to NIS 3.0 million in entrepreneurship in the real estate program and spend a full day with the 2009) to educational and charitable sector. By establishing and supporting children and their families as well as organizations that share our values the Institute we hope to strengthen join different holiday activities. which include promoting academic academic excellence and research in excellence, reducing societal real estate sector, promote real estate Gazit-Globe encourages its inequality and assisting young people. research in Israel, build academic employees to contribute their time Our corporate philanthropy extends programs and develop a cadre of and effort to advancing the work of to organizations and initiatives that professional real estate executives. worthwhile causes and charities. are involved in health, education, In addition, the Institute will work to welfare, arts and culture, primarily strengthen ties between academia In 2011, following the Reporting in Israel and the US. The primary and real estate professionals in the period of this Report, our Board focus of our communal investment field and will work to deepen the public decided to increase its communal is on education with a particular discourse about real estate. Company investment significantly and to focus emphasis on achievement, leadership management and its professionals its efforts on strengthening education and social responsibility. We believe will contribute their professional in Israel’s south, with an emphasis on that education is a fundamental and experience to the Institute to add mentoring, supporting and nurturing essential element in bringing about a practical dimension to academic students and youth. change in society and in reducing studies. societal and economic inequalty. During 2011, we also appointed a For over 10 years, we have been a manager of Corporate Responsibility 45% of our contributions in 2011 major supporter of “Larger Than Life” activities who is responsible for day(following the reporting period of (“Gedolim Mehachaim”), a non-profit to-day activities supported by other this Report) supported education organization whose goal is to improve Company employees. programs and institutes for advanced the quality of life and wellbeing of education. Recently, the Company children with cancer and their families made a contribution to establish and by escorting sick children and their maintain over a long-term period families from diagnosis to recovery n , Swede ria, S tockholm sto rget Galle Liljeholm 58 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 59 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS & RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES First Capital Realty: First Capital Realty participated in the Carbon Disclosure DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Project (CDP) in 2011, following the reporting period of this Report. As part of the report to the CDP, First Capital Realty identified several climate change risks and opportunities. Among them were: the possible rise of the mean temperature in Canada. This scenario Citycon: would result in lower heating expenditures and operating costs for First Capital Realty. Furthermore, Citycon employs a holistic enterprise risk management it could result in consumers having more discretionary (ERM) program to assess risks associated with climate income and spending it on products and services sold change and which have the potential to affect Citycon’s by First Capital Realty’s tenants. In addition, taxes and business over the long term. They include: regulatory reporting on carbon emissions in Canada Extreme Weather: Global warming, which will increase could expand beyond current jurisdictions and sectors. the frequency of extreme weather conditions such Fuel prices could also rise. These changes could as intense storms floods and snowfalls, will increase increase the market value of First Capital Realty mixedCitycon’s maintenance costs. used properties and properties heated and cooled by Energy: Increasing costs for energy will become a geothermal technology. Furthermore, these changes driving force towards using renewable alternatives. To could decrease consumers’ discretionary income. This date, renewable energy sources have not been actively scenario could lower demand for products and services deployed in the shopping center sector. This could from certain tenants. Conversely, because many be attributed to investment expense, long repayment transactions (e.g., food, banking, pharmaceuticals) periods and relatively new technological solutions at First Capital Realty’s shopping centers are nonfor which experience-based feedback is unavailable. discretionary, First Capital Realty’s tenants and business However, enhanced energy efficiency could increase would be less impacted than other types of retailers and Citycon’s competitiveness and improve its properties’ asset classes of real estate. Finally, taxes, regulatory market position. Water: Water scarcity in some areas of the EU may reporting and fuel prices could increase First Capital increase the price of water. Citycon’s use of improved Realty’s operational costs. measurement and reporting of water consumption could lead to reduced consumption. Opportunities to recycle grey water at specific properties could be investigated to achieve cost savings. GC8 Waste Management: Waste management, waste taxes and landfill fees will increase substantially in the short term. Higher costs will encourage sorting and a reduction in waste amounts. 60 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 61 Main Page Our success is based upon the unique talents, commitment and professionalism of our team. That is why we are dedicated to providing our people with the right environment and tools for success. ce, Oa kville, On tario, Ca nada kville M arket Pla Olde Oa Section 3. Labor Practices & Human Rights 62 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Introduction LABOR PRACTICES We recognize that our employees and Human rights is one of the core values The following table illustrates the number of employees working at Gazit-Globe corporate headquarters, as well as at several management are our most important at Gazit-Globe and the commitment of its major subsidiaries and holdings included in the scope of this report, as of December 31, 2010: asset. That is why we and our to support and protect human right subsidiaries are dedicated to recruiting is an inherent part of Gazit-Globe’s the best individuals to operate our multinational business. We and our Geographic %Full-Time % Permanent Company Employess Region employees contract businesses and to providing these subsidiaries respect and support individuals with competitive pay and the principles of the United Nations Gazit-Globe Headquarters Israel 29 100% 100% benefits, strong training, educational Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Gazit Israel Israel 93 99% 100% opportunities and opportunities which, in addition to equality, include FCR Canada 308 97% 98% for career advancement. We also civil and political rights, economic, regard the health and safety of our social and cultural rights. We highly EQY USA 172 98% 98% employees, tenants and customers respect the freedom of association of CTY Europe 129 100% 95% with the utmost importance and take our employees and their right to join measures to ensure conformity with labor unions as mandated by law. We industry standards. strongly oppose child labor and the One of the basic fundamentals of our employment of underage minors, as well as forced or compulsory labor. HR Programs Code of Business Conduct is to deal GC1 GC2 GC3 GC4 GC5 The primary focus of our HR programs fairly with our employees. We conduct is to influence employee commitment, our business without discrimination motivation and engagement through ns based on race, origin, religion, sex, ptio Saving Plans best practices, rewards, performance sexual preferences, age or disability. Our recruitment, employment, Our recruitment, employment, training, management and communication. ck O We strive to create a rewarding, training, promotion, transfer and promotion, transfer and termination nt Sto stimulating and fun place to work re ns termination of employees are based of employees are based solely on the Pa Loa where individuals are treated with al solely on the employee and his/her Vacation ability, achievements, experience, employee and his/her ability, achievements, respect and dignity. While we have Le av e a broad base of best practices, the Hol conduct and other reasonable experience, conduct and other reasonable Soc iday following are several benefits that we ial A Gift business considerations. GC6 business considerations. provide to our employees: ctiv ities s So cia lB Tuition ent Days l Developm en Professiona rag e efi ove ts Reimbursement ce C b ility wa n D isa llo sic lA Ba ve Tra 64 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 65 Recruitment Job Training and Career Development Our recruitment procedures are designed to ensure that we hire highly qualified personnel with a strong skill base. Our job training strategy focuses The following table illustrates the total number and rate of employee turnover by age, group, gender, and region: on enhancing skills, motivation and ethical behavior and we also work (Data For 2010) to encourage and develop employee Citycon: First Capital Realty: skill levels and positive attitudes to Citycon Days, held twice a year, Employees at First Capital Realty Geographic Total No. of maximize our operations. We also Company Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Women Men are an important tradition in their are encouraged to advance in their Region New Hires strive to increase the skill base of corporate calendar. A companycareers and to take professional our employees by supporting longGazit-Globe Israel 7 4 3 0 6 1 wide development event is held in development courses and seminars. term self-development, for instance, Gazit Israel Israel 22 10 10 2 16 6 the spring for all employees, and First Capital Realty also provides through further or advanced studies. additional local events are held in internal training when they change First Capital Realty Canada 71 13 49 9 49 22 the autumn in each country in which programs and processes (e.g., new To retain our valued employees Equity One USA 45 16 24 5 33 12 Citycon operates. At these meetings computer software, employee benefit and advance their careers, we offer information and experiences are programs). Because FCR has grown, Citycon Europe 29 7 20 2 17 12 career development opportunities, shared and presentations are given by many employees have enjoyed where possible. Due to the size and experts on topical issues. In addition, opportunities to expand their skills geographic scope of our operations, Citycon tailors training programs and expertise. First Capital Realty where appropriate we encourage our Total No. of for specific personnel groups. For offers a generous employee training Geographic Employees employees to move from one position Company Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Women Men instance, in 2010, its shopping center and assistance program to its fullRegion Who Terminated to another within our organization in Employment personnel attended specially tailored time permanent employees. They are order to advance their careers. safety, security and crisis management eligible to receive up to a maximum Gazit-Globe Israel 4 2 2 0 3 1 training sessions. Training is also of $1,500 annually towards tuition During 2009-2010, management Gazit Israel Israel 17 8 7 2 13 4 offered to maintain language skills reimbursement providing the area of spent an average of seven hours or to increase competence in using study is relevant to his/her current First Capital Realty Canada 60 10 41 9 39 21 annually engaged in training programs certain applications. In 2010, Citycon role or will develop new skills of and professional employees spent Equity One USA 34 4 23 7 22 12 employees completed 437 full-day mutual benefit to First Capital Realty an average of three hours of Citycon Europe 13 2 7 4 5 8 training sessions, or 3.6 days per and the individual. Costs eligible for training. Administrative staff spent employee. reimbursement include tuition for approximately an hour of training in-class, on-line/distance learning during 2010. This information relates courses, exams and books. In 2010, to staff at Gazit-Globe’s headquarters. the average number of training hours of First Capital Realty’s senior and middle management was 21 hours and 7 hours, respectively, and for professional and technical personnel was 9 hours and 3 hours, respectively. 66 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 67 Performance Transitioning Diversity and Equal Reviews to Retirement Opportunity Our managers are required to conduct Our recruitment, employment, training, While we and our subsidiaries do The following graph illustrates the annual performance appraisals of their promotion, transfer and termination everything possible to prevent cases composition of our governance bodies employees to ensure that expectations of employees are based solely on of discrimination in the workplace according to their gender, age group are understood, and performance the employee and his/her ability, we understand that there is a need and minority group membership (as of acknowledged and rewarded. First Capital Realty: First Capital Realty: achievements, experience, conduct to establish suitable mechanisms December 31, 2010): Appraisals are a key element in our and other reasonable business for handling them, if and when they strategy to analyze employee skill Performance reviews are given to First Capital Realty provides transition considerations. We conduct our occur. GC6 levels and performance on a regular senior managers and employees at assistance for retiring and terminated business without discrimination based basis and to encourage bilateral FCR in order to measure employee employees. Its HR department and on race, origin, religion, sex, sexual constructive communication and both activity and provide feedback service provider offer assistance preferences, age or disability. GC6 formal and informal feedback. They designed to encourage optimal work to employees with pre-retirement include providing the employee with behavior. During 2010, 100% of First planning. The service provider feedback for the previous period, Capital Realty’s senior management, supplies investment information, Sex Age Group 91% of its middle management, 97% regulatory expertise, and guidance Gazit-Globe % Women % Men Under 30 30-50 Over 50 establishing targets for the coming period and tailoring a personal shortof its professional technical personnel, to employees. When a decision is Board of Directors 13 87 0 25 75 and long term development plan. 88% of its administrative personnel made to terminate an employee, the Company uses a third party Management 20 80 0 60 40 At Gazit-Globe, the CEO personally and 83% of its employees in building support received performance provider to support the employee Professional Employees 38 62 10 90 0 meets with all employees on an annual basis. reviews. in this transition. Services include Administration 100 0 50 50 0 skills assessment and employment counseling. Individual contracts and Sex Age Group human resource expertise define the Gazit-Globe Israel % Women % Men Under 30 30-50 Over 50 basis of the severance pay. Board of Directors 0 100 0 50 50 Management 57 43 0 100 0 Citycon: Professional Employees 69 31 14 53 33 Administration 7 93 52 43 5 At Citycon, employee performance review is an essential tool for Sex Age Group managing target-oriented activity First Capital Reality % Women % Men Under 30 30-50 Over 50 and employee skills. In 2010, 92.6% Board of Directors 20 80 0 40 60 of employees were reviewed by their superiors at least once, while 48.4% Senior Management 25 75 0 42 58 were reviewed twice. Middle Management 51 49 1 52 46 Professional Employees 61 39 17 77 6 Administration 91 9 14 61 25 Maintenance 0 100 4 54 42 68 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 69 LABOR PRACTICES HUMAN RIGHTS Sex Age Group Upholding human rights is one of the core values at Gazit-Globe and our Citycon % Women % Men Under 30 30-50 Over 50 commitment to support and protect human rights is an inherent part of GazitBoard of Directors 10 90 0 30 70 Globe’s multinational business practices. Our respect for humanity is a top Management 20 80 0 40 60 priority. Employees working for the Company are granted basic rights as Professional Employees 42 58 5 69 26 mandated by law such as fair wages, rest times, annual leave, convalescence, etc., as well as additional benefits such as social activities, holiday gifts and Administration 71 29 7 79 14 families gatherings. GC1 GC2 Sex Age Group Equity One % Women % Men Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Global Forced and Child Labor Compact Compulsory Board of Directors 10 90 0 70 30 Management 17 83 0 67 33 Gazit-Globe is strongly committed Professional Employees Administration 66 87 34 13 17 19 65 57 18 24 In 2010, we adopted the principles of Labor to the effective abolition of child labor. The Company doesn’t employ the United Nation’s Global Compact underage minors and follows all rules initiative and incorporated them as part All of the companies in the Gazitand regulations regarding this issue of our business practices. The Global Globe Group strongly oppose the in the countries where it operates. We are proud that during 2009 and Managers oversee the implementation Compact is an initiative to motivate violation of basic human rights. The We have never been the subject of 2010 no incidences of harassment of these procedures, including issuing businesses to align their operations Group’s companies employ adults a complaint, investigation or action or discrimination against employees warnings to employees regarding and strategies with ten fundamental who work of their own free will and pertaining to child labor. GC5 were reported at Gazit-Globe possible sanctions. We employ all Citycon: principles in the areas of human rights, who receive appropriate pay and headquarters. GC6 measures required under Israel’s law as well as labor, environment and antidecent work conditions. In all of our for preventing sexual harassment. To prevent discrimination, Citycon corruption. A summary of the Global years of operations, there has never In addition to our Code of Business We hold an annual training session employs a proactive equal opportunity Compact principles, and how we align been a single complaint, investigation Conduct, our subsidiaries have focused on this subject, the statute scheme which mandates certain our business practices with them, can or action pertaining to forced labor. formulated procedures for is publicly displayed in our offices actions and provides guidance for be found on page 21. GC1 GC10 GC4 promoting equality and protecting and management officers of both identifying and dealing with potential their employees from insult and sexes are available in case of possible discrimination. Country-specific We also respect and support the harassment, including procedures harassment, or for filing complaints. action plans are updated annually principles of the United Nations’ for dealing with sexual harassment. in cooperation with employee Universal Declaration of Human representatives. Every other year, Rights, which, in addition to equality, Citycon also conducts a groupinclude civil and political rights as wide equality assessment, obtaining well as economic, social and cultural feedback on its efforts to promote rights. GC1 GC2 equal opportunity. 70 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 71 HUMAN RIGHTS Freedom of Association Citycon: Gazit-Globe highly respects the Citycon supports the ILO Declaration freedom of association of its on Fundamental Principles and employees and the right to join labor Rights at Work. The principles of unions as mandated by laws and this declaration include freedom of regulations. Currently, there are no association and recognition of the right labor unions at Gazit-Globe. GC3 to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. In 2010, Citycon did not employ anyone under the age of 18, even though this is permitted by law under certain conditions. In Finland, for instance, many companies give All of the companies in young people under the age of 18 an the Gazit-Globe Group opportunity to become acquainted strongly oppose basic with work as part of a nationwide human rights violations. training scheme. Citycon’s shopping centers provided some pupils with The Group’s companies one week training sessions as part of a , Canad employ adults who work ngueuil, Quebec the program. GC3 GC4 GC5 r St-H ubert, Lo of their own free will and Carrefou who receive appropriate pay and decent work conditions. 72 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 73 Main Page In our quest for excellence, we are continually raising the bar to improve our business practices, aiming for higher levels of transparency, fairness and ethical conduct. zil Sul, Bra rino, C axias do S an Peleg Section 4. Social Performance 74 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Introduction We firmly believe that our business activities of our employees, we can unfair business activities, antiof developing, managing and make a difference in the lives of atcompetitive behavior, or monopolistic operating shopping centers and risk populations, in educating future practices. During the reporting period, medical office buildings has a strong generations and in advancing culture. we were not subject to any legal positive effect on the communities action for anti-competitive behavior, in which our businesses operate. From an ethical perspective, our Code anti-trust, or monopoly practices. We also appreciate that through our of Business Conduct mandates that We are committed to acting as a model corporate citizen. We express this financial support and the volunteer we conduct our business to preclude through our daily business activities and by making substantial contributions to numerous charitable organizations and initiatives in the areas of education, health, welfare, the arts and culture. bENEFITING THE COMMUNITY Our shopping centers are predominantly anchored by supermarket or drug stores, and also include discount retailers, restaurants, banks, medical clinics as Citycon: well as smaller local businesses. They Citycon strives to support the local communities in which its shopping provide a variety of basic necessities, malls are located. Its malls include many non-commercial operations, products and services that are typically including public administration service points, libraries, health care required on a regular basis and offer a centers, home care units and even chapels. The sites or structures diversity of shopping experiences for of some of Citycon’s shopping centers possess a cultural history or consumers in one easily accessible ‘construction heritage’ which Citycon endeavors to preserve or record. location. Local partners and representatives are included in the planning and implementation phases of construction projects. Citycon carried out Our medical offices platform, a toy collection campaign in 17 shopping centers around Finland in which is engaged in acquiring and conjunction with the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare. More than managing medical office buildings 60,000 toys were collected and donated to day care centers, hospitals adjacent to best-in-class teaching and low-income families. Some of the toys were also sent to Eastern hospitals and research institutions in Europe. urban neighborhoods with growing populations, provide attractive, convenient premises for the medical profession and patient populations. 76 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 77 Customer Satisfaction Corporate Giving Programs We regard client satisfaction as a Above and beyond our business top priority. Clients of Gazit-Globe’s activities, we believe that it is both a subsidiaries can be divided into duty and a privilege to contribute to two groups: tenants, who rent the community. Several years ago, stores in our shopping centers, and Citycon: we formulated a Social Investment consumers who use the facilities Policy which outlines our Group’s and stores in the shopping centers. In 2010, Citycon conducted a survey involving in-depth interviews with commitment to contribute, invest We check the satisfaction level of various stakeholder groups’ representatives and their expectations and assist the community, as well these two client groups through towards Citycon. The results from the retailers’ surveys were used to as our philanthropic activities and surveys at our shopping centers. set targets in business plans, to monitor tenant-mix changes more opportunities for employees who These surveys enable management closely and to enhance CRM activities. A portal was also established wish to volunteer their time to various to understand the needs of our in Finland to facilitate greater communication between Citycon and organizations. SO1 clients and consumers and result its tenants in that country. Results from other independent surveys in improved service and greater revealed that Citycon’s Finnish shopping centers are among the best During 2010 we invested NIS 3.83 satisfaction on their part. In consumer known in Helsinki. million, compared to NIS 3.0 million surveys, participants are asked to in 2009, in educational and charitable rate their overall satisfaction with the In Sweden, six Citycon shopping centers were included in two organizations that share our values shopping center and specific issues independent surveys which measured retailers’ and consumers’ which include promoting academic such as store variety, their shopping satisfaction levels. According to the results of the consumer survey, excellence, reducing societal experience, and café and restaurant Citycon’s strengths included parking facilities, safety and accessibility. inequality and assisting young people. diversity. Tenants appreciated Citycon’s safety and security, the availability Our corporate philanthropy extends to of maintenance personnel, and waste recycling and environmental organizations and initiatives that are Our employees are also encouraged activities. involved in health, education, welfare, to volunteer their time to non-profit arts and culture, primarily in Israel and organizations and volunteer programs. All of Citycon’s shopping centers have websites which provide contact the US. details for submitting customer feedback to management. Several Our contributions to the community are shopping centers also have a presence on social media such as The primary focus of our communal determined by an internal charitable Facebook or Twitter. investment is on education with a activities group that is comprised of particular emphasis on achievement, members of management. This group leadership and social responsibility. establishes the Company’s goals for We believe that education is a giving and identifies those target areas fundamental and essential element in in which the Company will focus its bringing about change in society and charitable activities. in reducing societal and economic inequality. 78 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 79 Anti-Corruption Equity One: Equity One is committed to providing an ethical and strict corporate governance structure. Its Code of Conduct details its Our Code of Business Conduct states at our company and those of our value to foreign government officials anti-corruption policies. Equity One also that Gazit-Globe and its employees subsidiaries. The survey’s findings or employees (at any level), political employs an independent contractor must maintain high ethical and were examined and discussed by candidates, or political party officials, (Ethics Point, Inc.) to administer an professional standards in dealing the managements of our companies to obtain or retain business or to unbiased and confidential reporting with government officials and the and they also come under discussion secure an improper advantage. mechanism by which employees and private sector. In addition, Gazitby our Board’s Audit Committee. members of the public can report any ork, USA Globe property or services must not We are strictly implementing its The jurisdictional reach of the FCPA ite Plain s, New Y suspicious or potentially unethical al Cam pus, Wh be given, either directly or indirectly, to recommendations and decisions, and, can be broad and we require full ster Med ic dealings. This hotline is available 24/7, Westche anyone in an improper effort to obtain over time, examining its implementation compliance with the FCPA and all does not trace or record calls and or retain business or to obtain special according to the recommendations other applicable anti-corruption laws allows reporting individuals to remain or unusual treatment in connection and our discussions of the subject. by all of our employees, officers anonymous. GC10 with any business transaction. The Our Company implements work and representatives, regardless of Code also states that employees procedures and controls, as well citizenship or work location. Violations must not engage in unfair, deceptive as various internal control activities of such laws can carry severe civil and or misleading practices, and that including questionnaires and criminal penalties for the Company employees must always represent the disclosure committees, and also and its employees and representatives company in an honest and forthright established a reporting hot line in order personally. Violations of company First Capital Realty: manner. Employees must also not to minimize our exposure. We have policies can have severe employment take unfair advantage of any person also further strengthened our internal consequences, up to and including First Capital Realty has clearly defined expectations of Citycon: by manipulation, concealment, control systems by complying with termination. its employees, officers and directors which are set out in abuse of privileged information, provisions of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley its Code of Conduct and Ethics and in its Whistleblower Citycon has detected no signs of misrepresentation of material facts, Act which establishes standards, All employees are required to comply Policy. Employees, officers and directors are required to corruption in its customer relations or or any other unfair dealing practice. among other things, for the prevention with the policies and guidelines sign these documents before joining the organization partnerships, and has received no such We also retain an internal comptroller of embezzlement and fraud. set forth in our Anti-Corruption and annually thereafter. The Code includes instructions reports from external parties. Therefore it and external accountant to facilitate Compliance Policy. The Policy applies for dealing fairly and honestly with shareholders, tenants, has not considered it necessary to cover transparency, responsibility and antiFollowing our public offering of to our Company, our privately-held suppliers, competitors, and other employees; behaving in corruption risk in its risk management corruption throughout the Group. securities in the US in 2011 (following subsidiaries, as well as to those acting an ethical manner; not offering excessive or inappropriate program. Citycon has a zero-tolerance GC10 the publication of this Report), we are on behalf of the Company, including gifts or other benefits to persons, including public officials policy towards bribery and other forms also committed to complying with laws officers, directors, employees, and political parties that might influence or be perceived of corruption. It maintains travel and Most of our employees receive training and to the highest ethical standards in stockholders, dealers and other as influencing business decisions; not accepting representation guidelines, defining in our Code of Business Conduct, all of our business conduct, including agents of the Company. excessive or inappropriate gifts or other benefits from the rules for acceptable business which includes information about our strict compliance with the letter and persons conducting business with First Capital Realty, travel and representation. All travel anti-corruption policies. spirit of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt and a prohibition from soliciting, encouraging or receiving and representation expenses must be Practices Act of 1977, as amended bribes or other payment, contribution, gift or favor that approved by a superior and recorded in Within the framework of our multi-year (“FCPA”). The FCPA’s anti-bribery could influence any decision. GC10 Citycon’s travel and expense accounting audit plan, we carried out a survey provisions prohibit making payments, system. GC10 related to embezzlement and fraud promises or offers of anything of 80 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 81 Risk Management Anti-Competitive Behavior Risk Management includes our ability management applies to each and risk management (e.g. implementing to identify, assess and treat deliberate, every one from our Board of Directors activities to secure data and acquiring systematic and consistent risks that to management and down to the insurance policies), and managing threaten our achievement of goals last employee – everyone in their legal risks (for example, through the and objectives, as well as the ability area of responsibility and activity as use of enforcement programs). We to analyze events, draw conclusions a part of our organizational culture. also adopted the familiar and accepted and take actions to reduce damage COSO model to manage this subject. and prevent future recurrences. We engage in risk mapping, and it specifies specific activities for In addition, we implement a series Our approach is that risk assessment managing the material risks inherent of audit and internal control activities is not a separate process or operation, in our operations and in corporate that are aimed at strengthening our but an integral part of our routine control, including financial risk internal structures and systematic risk daily operations and management. management (such as making management of our various activities Hence, the responsibility for risk hedging transactions), operational and those of the companies we control. We also comply with Israel’s ‘Goshen’ Committee requirements, and subsequent to our IPO in the United States and the listing of our shares on the NYSE during 2011 (following the reporting period of this Report) we are further strengthening our internal control systems and our compliance with U.S. law (Sarbanes Oxley). We are working systematically The Company meets all statutory Our Code of Business Conduct states Company’s Compliance Officer. In and consistently to strengthen our requirements and avoids any that no executive or employee may addition, any executive or employee corporate governance as well as our practices intended to subvert or perform work or render services to any is prohibited from acting as a director, risk management. In 2011 (following eliminate competition and refrains competitor of Gazit-Globe or to any officer, or consultant of such an the reporting period of this Report), in from price-fixing contracts and price organization with which Gazit-Globe organization, and must not permit recognition of the importance of this discrimination. During the reporting conducts business or which seeks to his or her name to be used in any issue, we appointed a manager that period, the Company was not subject conduct business with Gazit-Globe, manner that may indicate or give specializes in this area, given that this to any legal action for anti-competitive outside of the normal course of his or the impression of the existence of is not a one-time project, but an area behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly her service or employment with Gazita business connection with such that requires professional oversight practices. Globe, without the prior approval of organization, without approval by the over the long term as an integral the Internal Control Manager or the Company’s Compliance Officer. part of our ongoing activities and management. 82 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 83 Health & Safety Equity One: Introduction Equity One has developed and We regard the health and safety of our instituted a Crisis Management employees, tenants and customers Citycon: protocol to ensure that proper training with the utmost importance and and instruction is provided to its staff take all possible measures to Training arranged in 2011 for to deal with all disaster situations ensure conformity with the strictest shopping center personnel covered as well as crisis events at its offices standards. Our subsidiaries arrange waste management, safety and and shopping centers. This is part of training for security personnel, security and first aid, as well as Equity One’s overall safety protocol develop crisis management protocols training on customer service skills within its operations to ensure the and implement comprehensive health and the promotion of well-being. safety of its employees, tenants and and safety policies for the optimal The content of training sessions other stakeholders that are present operation of their properties and the varied, depending on the country within its offices and operating safety of employees and customers. and shopping center. To ensure the properties. safety of shopping center personnel and customers, Citycon acquires the services of security guards and security officers from its partners. In all of Citycon’s operating countries, the security guards must complete First Capital Realty: a training program where issues such as risky situations and liaising First Capital Realty has a health and safety policy to foster a safe with minority groups are discussed. and healthy work environment. Employees must comply strictly with PR1 There were no incidents of the letter and spirit of applicable occupational, health and safety Citycon’s non-compliance with laws and the public policies they represent. They must not engage regulations and voluntary codes in illegal or dangerous behavior. FCR has zero tolerance for acts of concerning health and safety violence, threats of violence, acts of intimidation and hostility towards impacts of products and services another person or group of persons. Employees have a duty to during their life cycle. report promptly any accident, injury or unsafe equipment, practices or conditions or violent behavior. First Capital Realty has a joint health and safety committee (JHSC) that represents 3% of the workforce. It comprises management and non-management representatives from Property Management, Finance, Acquisitions and Development, and Administration. The JHSC completed an eight-hour training session focused on risk identification and assessment in 2010. 84 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 85 Main Page We have made environmentally friendly principles a part of our operational DNA. , USA Georgia Town Square, G overnors Section 5. Environmental Performance 86 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 87 Introduction Citycon: As a forward-thinking global real estate minimizing our environmental footprint Case S Follow-up and reporting During tudy company, we believe that protecting is to decrease our use of natural 2010, during a ‘Green Audit’, the environment is important from resources, energy and non-perishable the environmental results of both an environmental and a longmaterials, while increasing our use of Green Shopping Center each shopping center were term economic point of view. Our recycled materials. GC7 GC8 GC9 Management Program analyzed and an action plan was leadership in this area is evidenced developed to enable the centers through our use of innovative greenEnvironmental protection is a strong Citycon has developed a Green to fulfill their environmental construction principles and building focus of our entire organization. We Shopping Center management responsibility objectives. A standards in a growing number of strive to carry out the activities that Program, an environmental ‘Green Index’ was developed projects throughout the world. Our have an environmental impact, such management tool aimed at promoting to create comparable audits. aim is to minimize the environmental as the construction and maintenance sustainable development and On average, the Green Index damage associated with our activities, of our commercial buildings in an integrating environmental measures of the centers improved by to become more energy efficient and to environmentally responsible manner. into Citycon’s daily activities. GC8 26 per cent from the previous improve the day-to-day environmental GC7 Shopping centers are assessed year. Conservation actions footprint of our operations. GC7 GC8 annually with respect to their: that Citycon has taken include GC9 Energy consumption and energy specifying and implementing efficiency energy-saving measures for each We also recognize the vital importance Water consumption property, increasing tenant coof promoting the responsible use Waste management and recycling operation in generating energy and conservation of water in all of Refrigerants savings, and increasing the our operations. We are sensitive to Procurement and cooperation proportion of renewable energy protecting the biodiversity of species in agreements in electricity procurement. their natural habitats, and, as a result, Traffic we examine biodiversity issues in our Marketing and external efforts to obtain LEED certification communications for our projects, building permits and Training and internal zoning variances in order to avoid communications causing any possible harm to local biodiversity. Several of our subsidiaries have also implemented a variety of waste, emissions and sewage management policies. Furthermore, an integral part of our strategy for 88 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 89 GREEN BUILDING First Case S Over the past few years, we have made The energy used to heat and power Some of our achievements in green tudy First Capital Realty continues to major strides forward in our efforts to buildings accounts for a substantial building include: develop its properties to LEED® incorporate green building practices. amount of CO2 emissions and Capital Realty: standards. As of December 31, Citycon: Case S According to the US Environmental greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. tudy 2010, 15 projects at 9 properties Protection Agency, green building is Measures to reduce GHG emissions Taking the “LEED” in Canada were certified to LEED® with another defined as “the practice of creating from buildings fall into one of During 2010, Citycon was awarded 55 projects at 36 properties under When First Capital Realty committed structures and using processes three categories: reducing energy a Silver LEED ® certificate for the development, in the process of to ‘go green’ in 2006, it was already that are environmentally responsible consumption and embodied energy redevelopment and extension of its construction or awaiting LEED® in an advanced stage of the planning and resource-efficient throughout in buildings, switching to low-carbon Rocca al Mare shopping center in certification. Water conservation is and design work for its Morningside a building’s life-cycle from siting to fuels including a higher share of Tallinn, the first LEED® certificate ever another important focus of First Capital Crossing mall. The decision to bring design, construction, operation, renewable energy, or controlling the awarded in a Baltic country. Citycon’s Realty, and in 2010 a number of this large, complicated project into maintenance, renovation and emissions of non-CO2 GHG gases. Liljeholmstorget Galleria shopping initiatives were implemented, including conformance with LEED® standards deconstruction. This practice expands GC8 center in Stockholm was the first reduced irrigation and audits on water added another dimension to an already and complements the classical European shopping center to be use. Reducing energy consumption complex challenge. Environmentally building design concerns of economy, In 2010, we completed our first awarded the highest Platinum LEED ® is also key, and during the year First inspired objectives became a leading utility, durability, and comfort. shopping center development in certificate. GC8 Capital Realty implemented several consideration which required the Green building is also known as a Brazil. The 14,500 square meter energy conservation measures, such introduction of significant changes to ‘sustainable’ or ‘high performance San Pelegrino mall is located in the Case S as retrofitting interior and exterior tudy existing drawings and the use of new building’.” GC7 GC8 GC9 City of Caxias do Sul, the second lighting to more efficient technology. technologies to ensure greater water Gazit-Globe largest city in Brazil’s southern state First Capital Realty also has two and energy efficiency. For example, Green building often includes of Rio Grande do Sul, which has over properties under development that will white reflective roofs were installed Israel: taking measures to reduce energy 400,000 residents. The San Pelegrino use geothermal energy for heating and to combat the “heat island” effect, consumption – both the energy shopping mall was awarded the cooling. All of these initiatives enhance and systems were instituted for the required to extract, process, transport international LEED-certificate and is First Capital Realty’s environmental Gazit Globe Israel constructs its new collection of rainwater for landscape and install building materials, as well as the first ’green’ shopping center to be performance, many of which reduce shopping centers according to the irrigation. Many materials salvaged operating energy required to provide built in Brazil in line with the Group’s its operating costs, benefitting tenants Environmentally Friendly Buildings from the old mall were diverted from services such as heating and power overall development strategy and our and shareholders. GC8 Standard of the Israel Standards landfill and recycled or reused on site. for equipment. To reduce operating commitment to green construction. Institute (Green Construction Standard In short, LEED® certification became energy use, high-efficiency windows IS 5281). This standard ensures that a central theme that permeated all and insulation in walls, ceilings, and energy, land, water and proper waste business decisions and created a floors increase the efficiency of the management are factored into the template for sustainable practices. building envelope and solar water planning and construction processes; GC8 GC9 heating further reduces energy costs. that eco-friendly, sustainable methods GC7 GC8 GC9 are used during construction; and that all construction is supervised by Israel’s Ministry of Environmental Protection. GC8 90 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 91 CONSERVATION AND RECYCLING We and our subsidiaries use a variety of resources and materials in our Gazit-Globe Paper: we recycle an average of half a ton of paper per month. program has saved over $730,000 on the company’s waste removal commercial offices and shopping centers, ranging from energy and Headquarters, Computer equipment: we donate unused equipment for expenses, and has increased the recycling of its total waste stream from water to office equipment, paper, ink toner, bottles and packaging. Tel Aviv, charity. Plastic products: we collect 20% to 47%. This has saved over 12,000 cubic yards of landfill space. Israel: An integral part of our strategy for Case S plastic drink bottles and other GC9 tudy minimizing our environmental footprint recyclable plastic products and is to decrease our use of natural submit them for recycling Recycling and Reuse resources, energy and non-perishable Paper: we recycle an average of Programs materials, while increasing our use of recycled materials. We also strive to At our corporate headquarters in half a ton of paper per month Computer equipment: we send First Capital collect used products and materials for recycling and/or re-use. Israel, we have deployed a number of environmental practices aimed at obsolete equipment for recycling Plastic products: we collect Realty: Case S tudy increasing our recycling and reducing plastic drink bottles and other Paint Recycling In shopping centers, we employ our consumption of resources: recyclable plastic products and First Capital Realty participates in “La conservation measures wherever Electricity: we have installed an submit them for recycling Boîte Jaune/Yellow Box,” an initiative possible, ranging from the installation automatic air-conditioning shut-off aimed at the collection of unused paint of water-saving devices in restrooms system that operates after work and batteries. In its Beaconsfield, to the employment of ‘dry garden’ hours and on weekends. This has Case S tudy Côte St-Luc, Domaine and Wilderton principles in landscaping, the recycling resulted in a considerable energy shopping centers, customers were Equity One: of packaging materials and the use savings. invited to deposit unused paint and of low energy lighting and alternative Toners: we save resources by batteries at the program centers, energy sources. GC9 standardizing on recycled toners. Water: we have equipped our Recycling Activities resulting in the collection of over 14,000 liters of unused paint and restrooms with water saving Equity One has launched an extensive 891 kilograms of batteries. “La Boîte systems. recycling program across its entire Jaune/Yellow Box” recycles the paint Batteries: we battery-disposal portfolio of shopping centers and and paint cans through Peintures points for our tenants, and within its corporate offices. The Récupérées du Québec. GC9 dispose of batteries used in our program includes the recycling of offices properly. glass, plastic, metal, wood with the goal of decreasing the generation of solid waste, encouraging recycling and creating a positive impact on natural resources and the environment. To date, the implementation of this 92 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 93 Energy 2009 & 2010 Energy Consumption for The following graphs illustrate Citycon’s primary sources of energy and its total Gazit-Globe’s Headquarters: consumption of energy and heat for 2009 & 2010: 2009 2010 TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION TOTAL HEAT CONSUMPTION 1,000 MWh 1,000 MWh kWh 201,317 kWh 261,761 75.4 75.6 127.0 First Capital Realty’s 2010 Energy First Capital Realty’s 2010 Energy 104.5 Consumption and Costs by Energy Consumption and Costs by Energy Source in Open-Air Shopping Centers Source in enclosed Shopping Centers Source Consumption (kWh) Source Consumption (kWh) 25.7 26.0 38.1 31.3 Natural Gas 21,972,000 Natural Gas 13,910,000 5.8 6.0 5.1 5.6 Electricity 49,882,000 Electricity 37,542,000 2009 2010 2009 2010 Total 71,854,000 Total 51,452,000 Finland Sweden Baltic Countries Finland Sweden Baltic Countries First Capital Realty’s Energy First Capital Realty’s Energy Citycon PRIMARY ENERGY SOURCES (%) Consumption (kWh) in Open-Air Consumption (kWh) in enclosed Shopping Centers Shopping Centers 18.5 27% 36.8 31% 44.7 69% 73% Renewable energy Fossil fuels and peat Natural gas Natural gas Nuclear power Electricity Electricity Source: IEA Energy Statistics 94 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 95 Energy Energy Conservation Citycon: Case S Case S First tudy during 2010, whereas in Sweden it We consume significant amounts tudy To date, First Capital Realty has rose by 1% and in Baltic countries by of energy to light, heat and cool our replaced and/or installed over 1.1 Capital Realty: 4%. In addition, the exceptionally cold properties. As such, we are increasingly million square feet (approximately Energy temperatures at the beginning and the focused on the conservation of 102,000 square meters) of roofing In 2010, Citycon’s electricity end of the year resulted in a 21% rise consumption totaled 104.7 gigawatt energy in all of our operations, and Energy Conservation with white reflective roofing to reduce in heat consumption. Consumption hours and heating totaled 170.7 on the utilization of alternative energy Measures the ‘heat island’ effect, an area that is includes general lighting, ventilation, sources where possible to operate the equivalent of more than 10 football gigawatt hours. Total consumption of cooling, lifts and escalators and In 2010, working with suppliers, our shopping centers and other fields. It has also built 707,000 square primary energy used by Citycon was other technical systems in Citycon’s electricians and utility companies, First properties. This is an ongoing process feet (approximately 65,700 square 1,430 terajoules. All consumption buildings. Capital Realty retrofitted interior pot which has not yet been implemented meters) of white reflecting roofing on at Citycon’s properties was from and cove lights at one property with fully throughout our operations. GC7 new developments. GC8 GC9 indirect sources (i.e. there are no energy-efficient ballasts and lamps, GC8 GC9 Our Northern European heating plants located at Citycon’s resulting in the reduction of its annual subsidiary, Citycon, for instance, has During 2010, First Capital Realty’s properties).Those sources included energy consumption by 144,000 not switched to renewable energy IT Department completed a number renewable energy (36.8%), fossil kWh. Photocells were installed on sources because the cost of electricity of virtualization and thin client fuels and peat (44.7%) and nuclear exterior lighting at another property, in Citycon’s operating areas remains conversion projects, resulting in an fuel (18.5%). In 2010, energy reducing energy consumption and relatively low, compared to its cost in estimated annual energy saving of consumption figures were affected operating costs. At one mall, halogen other European countries, and current 217,000 kWh. by extended Sunday opening hours lighting was replaced with metal halide renewable energy alternatives require in Finland, which led to an increase in lamps to decrease annual energy expensive up-front investment that property usage hours. According to a consumption by 4,300 kWh. At can only be recovered over a long survey by Energiakolmio, the impact several other properties, the company period of time. Citycon expect to of the Sunday opening hour change installed motion sensors. GC8 GC9 accelerate its conversion to alternative was fairly low (~1.5%). Regardless energy sources as the price of of the extended opening hours, electricity increases and renewable consumption of energy at Citycon’s technologies become more reliable Finnish shopping centers fell by 4% and cost-effective. l‫ש‬ ion, Israe ity, Ris hon Lez C inema C 96 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 97 Energy Conservation Case S Case S Case S tudy tudy tudy Equity One: Citycon: Equity One: Solar Centers Increasing Energy Efficiency Lighting and Energy Equity One initiated its companyCitycon aims to increase its energyManagement wide solar program with an initiative exciency at each of its properties Equity One has deployed the pilot focused on its properties in using consumption data, energy phase of an energy management Massachusetts. In 2010, it completed audits and equipment life cycle system that it will use to control the installation of its first solar center analyses. During 2010, Citycon lighting in the parking lots of its at Webster Plaza. This deployment achieved its target of saving 1-2% of Westbury Plaza shopping center. The has a power generating capacity its electricity consumption compared system tailors the lighting schedules of 200kW, and currently generates to the previous year, despite the year’s for its parking areas to actual needs. 226,000 kWh per year for its tenants. exceptionally cold temperatures, a The system was fully commissioned From a sustainability perspective, phenomenon which necessitated a during 2011 (following the reporting this will reduce the center’s carbon 21% rise in heat consumption. GC8 period of this Report), and is expected emissions by 123 tons per year, a to result in a significant reduction quantity equivalent to the removing in Equity One’s consumption of of 50 automobiles from the road or electricity by eliminating lighting planting 70 acres of forest each year. that is not needed during off hours. GC8 This system will also enable EQY to accurately measure electricity usage for each of the parking lot’s light Equity One now plans to create solar fixtures. Equity One is analyzing the plants for additional Massachusetts data relative to kWH reduction and properties. After converting all of related cost reductions arising from its sites to solar power, Equity One the installation of the system. EQY anticipates that it will have reduced has also deployed this system on an its carbon emissions by 570 tons per additional 8 properties. GC8 year. This is in line with the stated goals of Equity One’s sustainability We are increasingly focused on the program, and also enables it to conservation of energy in all of our provide electricity at a discounted operations, and on the utilization of price to its tenants. GC8 alternative energy sources where possible to operate our shopping USA alifornia, ter, Da ly City, C centers and other properties. ping Cen nte Shop Serramo 98 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 99 Water Our properties use water to First The following graphs illustrate the water consumption Case S tudy support cleaning activities, supply of Gazit-Globe and several of its subsidiaries: landscape irrigation and to provide sewage conveyance, as well as for Capital Realty: consumption by our employees, One water meter is installed at tenants and their customers. In most each First Capital Realty property cases, municipal water treatment (with the exception of its Quebec Gazit Globe Headquarters water CityCon TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION plants provide our properties with properties where water consumption consumption (1,000 m3) potable water, and our wastewater 270.9 is not metered and water costs are (m ) 3 259.8 253.2 is sent to municipal treatment plants. included in the municipal property tax We recognize the vital importance of assessment.) Tenants at First Capital 240.2 promoting the responsible use and Realty’s open-air and enclosed 348 conservation of water in all of our shopping centers are not separately operations. GC7 metered for their water consumption. First Capital Realty charges back the 218 costs of water consumption to the tenants based on their square footage. As a result, water consumption and 44.9 32.6 costs associated with its tenants are included in this report. Openair shopping centers comprised 2009 2010 2009 2010 77% of First Capital Realty’s GLA and consumed 74% of First Capital Realty’s water consumption. Enclosed Finland Sweden Baltic Countries shopping centers comprised 23% of First Capital Realty’s GLA and consumed 26% of its total water consumption. First Capital Realty’s total water consumption for 2010 was 1,509,673,000 liters. To improve operational efficiencies and develop a cohesive data collection and reporting system for water consumption and costs, the Company awarded the management of water invoices to a third-party provider. 100 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 101 Water EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE Case S tudy Case S Case S Citycon: First Gazit-Globe tudy tudy The following charts illustrate Gazit Israel’s, FCR’s and CityCon’s GHG emissions for the reporting period: Water Consumption Capital Realty: Israel: GAZIT-GLOBE Emission CityCon EMISSION (CO2e) DISTRIBUTION Citycon’s aggregate water The G Shopping Complex in Kfar Saba, consumption totaled 569,021 Water Conservation (ton) Israel was designed to be eco-friendly. cubic meters in 2010, including all Measures Among the many green initiatives 491 Citycon-owned shopping centers First Capital Realty customizes included were the development of and other retail properties in which its water management strategies seep-holes to return rainwater to the 404 Citycon holds a 50% interest, which for its shopping centers, installing ground and decorative pools that use accounts for 96% of Citycon’s total technologies ranging from rain recycled water. In addition, in most gross leasable area. The reported sensor irrigation systems, to low-flow of the properties, all taps and toilets amount includes water consumed by plumbing fixtures, to the recycling of are directed dose taps to save water. real estate companies and tenants. rain water for landscaping needs. For GC8 GC9 Tenant water consumption is highest example, during 2010 it replaced the for grocery stores, restaurants and lawn at its Hunt Club Marketplace Our subsidiaries vary in their levels of cafés, hair salons, laundries and car with sedum plantings to reduce implementation of water conservation wash facilities. Citycon plans to install water consumption. It also repaired measures. For example, First Capital water meters to monitor user-specific ineffective sprinklers and irrigation Realty awarded a contract for the consumption. A property’s water systems at another property, resulting 2009 2010 2009 2010 management of water invoices to consumption includes water used in the savings of an estimated 443,500 a third-party provider in order to Electricity in District heating Other sources in public facilities such as customer liters of water per year. GC8 properties and cooling improve its operational efficiencies toilets, and water used for cleaning, and develop a cohesive data property maintenance and watering collection and reporting system for plants. An exceptionally warm summer water consumption and costs. GC8 caused a peak in water consumption between June and August. GC8 el aba, Isra G Kfar S 102 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 103 Case S EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE First tudy the Company’s GHG emissions. First Gazit-Globe Capital Realty’s total direct and indirect Capital Realty: Israel: greenhouse gas emissions in Canada Case S tudy were 6,600 tons and 28,500 tons of CO2, respectively, excluding GHG GHG Emissions emissions from regional office energy Gazit-Globe Israel åhas begun implementing a variety of responsible 2010 GHG Emissions from First Capital Realty Entire Portfolio GHG emissions result from the burning consumption and energy consumed by waste, emissions and sewage of fossil fuels to provide power, tenants. Also excludes GHG emissions SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS TOTAL management policies. All projects ENERGY SOURCE from other indirect scope 3 sources. (CO2e TONNES) (CO2e TONNES) (CO2e TONNES) heating and cooling to our properties. that have been developed in the Because tenants in our open-air past years by the company have Natural Gas 6,600 0 6,600 Electricity 0 28,500 28,500 retail shopping centers are separately metered for natural gas and electricity Citycon: Case S tudy been designed in accordance with requirements set by Israel’s Ministry consumption, they pay the utility for Environmental Protection and other Total 6,600 28,500 35,100 companies directly for their energy GHG Emissions authorities responsible for preventing consumption. Therefore, the GHG Citycon’s carbon footprint totaled pollutant emissions, waste disposal, emissions from these energy sources 64,129 tons of carbon dioxide etc. In Israel, the company conducts CityCon DISTRIBUTION OF EMISSIONS are not included in our report. Tenants equivalents as detailed on the enclosed its demolition operations according 2010 2009 in our enclosed shopping centers table. The majority of the emissions to Israeli regulatory standards, while are separately metered for power; (98.6%) originated from properties’ in projects outside of Israel, that tnCO2e % tnCO2e % however, they are not separately electricity and heat consumption. The are currently in planning stages, are Electricity in properties 20,191 31.5 20,424 35.9 metered for heating and cooling. As calculations also take into account governed by the more stringent of local a result, the GHG emissions from emissions generated by waste logistics, or Israeli standards. District heating and cooling in properties 43,035 67.1 35,845 62.9 the energy sources used to provide water consumption and Citycon’s heat and cooling in these properties In addition, the company has hand Electricity and heat in office premises 29 0.0 30 0.1 other functions. The carbon footprint are included in our report. Open-air drying facilities instead of paper towels grew by 12.6% from the previous year retail shopping centers comprised in the bathroom. Waste water in properties 212 0.3 210 0.4 due primarily to the increase in heating 77% of our GLA and emitted 43% of consumption caused by an extremely With respect to recycling, there is a Waste in properties 67 0.1 58 0.1 the Company’s total GHG emissions. cold winter. separation of organic waste cardboard, Enclosed shopping centers comprised cages and compressors cartons Business travel 475 0.7 271 0.5 23% of our GLA and emitted 57% of and recycling facilities in restaurants. Commuting 117 0.2 106 0.2 With respect to energy saving, the company uses energy saving lamps, Paper consumption and mail 2 0.0 3 0.0 and uses energy efficient methods Total 64,128 100.0 56,847 100.0 CO2 SF6 CH4 N2O HFCS PFCS to heat the centers during the winter and restricts energy usage during the summer. GC8 GC9 CityCon EMISSION SCOPES SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 3 2010 2009 INDIRECT DIRECT INDIRECT tnCO2e % tnCO2e % Business travel Scope 1, direct 0 0.0 0 0.0 Company owned vehicles Purchased electricity Commuting Scope 2, indirect 63,255 98.6 56,269 98.8 Paper consumption Scope 3, indirect 874 1.4 679 1.2 Fuel combustion Waste management and transport and waste water treatment 104 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 105 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE 2010 Waste Profile of Non-Hazardous Waste Generated in Ontario Case S tudy 7 First which is under First Capital Realty’s responsibility. However, First Capital First Capital Realty also collects all paper/mixed fibre, cardboard and 8 Capital Realty: Realty has not instituted a national waste program that includes all of its mixed glass/metal/plastic waste streams from its Ontario properties and 66 17 2 properties due to discrepancies in the sends them for recycling. It composts Waste Disposal options available for waste disposal in its organic waste and sends them to Paper/mixed fibre 8% First Capital Realty spent $2.9M on various markets, the different recycling/ landfill or waste-to-energy facilities. Cardboard 17% waste recycling/disposal costs during waste disposal methods deployed GC8 Organics 7% 2010. First Capital Realty maintains a Mixed glass/metal/plastic 2% in each market, the lack of recycling General waste 66% comprehensive waste reporting system channels available in certain markets, for its Ontario properties that identifies and the broad discrepancies in the its recycling/waste stream, the quantity capabilities of the waste management of recycling/waste generated and companies available to transport and the method of disposal or diversion. recycle/dispose of recycling/waste Included in the report is tenants’ waste streams. GC7 Case S tudy The following graph illustrates First Capital Realty’s various methods for disposing of non-hazardous waste in its Citycon: during 2010, of which 12,979 tons were collected from shopping property waste management and sorting in accordance with countryOntario, Canada centers during 2010: centers and 671 tons from other specific waste legislation and local Waste Disposal properties. The average recycling regulations. The reported waste Method of Disposal of Non-Hazardous Waste in Ontario in 2010 Citycon makes a conscious effort to rate of waste materials for Citycon’s quantities include all Citycon-owned recycle the waste generated by its shopping centers was 77.1% and shopping centers and other retail shopping centers. The waste recycled the proportion of landfill waste was properties in which Citycon holds at COMPOSTING RECYCLING WASTE TO ENERGY LANDFILL (TONNES) TOTAL (TONNES) includes the composting of biological (TONNES) (TONNES) (TONNES) 22.5%. Its recycling rate is calculated least 50% interest and accounts for waste (including food products); the as the share of treated waste types, 89% of Citycon’s total gross leasable 590 2,440 3,750 2,140 8,920 collection of combustible waste which recycled, incinerated or reused, of area. Properties whose tenants are can be converted into energy; and total waste volume. Landfill waste is responsible for waste management is the collection of glass, paper and excluded from recycled items. For not included as their waste quantities cardboard which can be recycled for 2009, its recycling rate was calculated are unknown. In its construction use as raw materials for industry. GC8 as the material recycling rate, which projects, Citycon calculates the total did not take into account the quantity recycling rate from waste generated Citycon is meeting its long term of incinerated waste. The calculation during the construction process. objectives for waste management. method and related targets were Properties managed by Citycon changed to meet the general practice generated 13,650 tons of waste of the industry. Citycon organizes 106 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 107 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE CITYCON RECYCLING RATE (%) 95.7 98.6 The following graphs show waste amounts collected at Citycon’s shopping centers, various methods its used to 69.6 71.4 dispose of waste during 2010, its recycling rate in various countries, it recycling rate for shopping centers during 2009 and 2010, and its recycling rate for it construction waste: Waste Collection in Citycon’s Shopping Centers 34.5 34.3 2010 2009 Type of Waste TONS % TONS % Landfill waste 2,917.0 22.5 2,892.3 25.7 2009 2010 Energy waste 3,540.2 27.3 2,597.6 23.0 Bio waste 1,556.5 12.0 1,356.7 12.0 Finland Sweden Baltic Countries Paper 444.5 3.4 445.8 4.0 Cardbord 3,679.2 28.3 3,303.5 29.3 Plastic 44.8 0.3 65.5 0.6 CITYCON TOTAL WASTE AMOUNT AND CityCon WASTE BY DISPOSAL ROUTES Glass 378.4 2.9 283.6 2.5 RECYCLING RATE IN LIKE-FOR-LIKE IN 2010 (%) Metal 128.4 1.0 123.1 1.1 SHOPPING CENTerS Hazardous waste 3.2 0.0 28.5 0.3 9.4 8.6 75.5% 73.1% Other reusable waste 236.5 1.8 124.6 1.1 69.6 Other unsorted waste 50.8 0.4 54.0 0.5 34.3 Total 12,979.4 100.0 11,275.2 100.0 Finland Sweden Baltic Countries 2009 2010 Reused Recycled Composted Total waste amount (1,000 Tn) Recyclingrate (%) Incinerated Landfilled 108 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 109 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE Case S Case S tudy tudy Equity One: First Capital Waste Data Realty: During 2010, Equity One extended its recycling program from 123 properties Reusable Shopping Bags & to 135 properties. In addition, it Paint Recycling initiated an audit of all its properties FCR has undertaken a number currently enrolled in the program to of initiatives to reduce the waste ensure all of the services were “right generated at its properties and sized,” and that recycling services communities. In 2010, the company were being maximized. As part of the distributed over 120,000 reusable auditing process, it reduced the overall shopping bags to its tenants and waste material hauled away from the customers to reduce the use of properties by 19,430 yards. During plastic bags. By using reusable the reporting period, the operating shopping bags, consumers are able properties, together with Equity to reduce the environmental impact of One’s corporate and satellite offices, their shopping, reducing the amount generated nearly 388,000 yards of of plastic disposed and the energy waste. 46.7% of the material was associated with the creation of singlemade of recyclable materials, while the use products.GC8 remainder was sent to waste disposal facilities. Equity One was unable to finalize a tracking system during the reporting period to analyze the waste facilities used (i.e. landfill or incinerator facilities), and expects to continue refining its reporting in this area in the future. Due to “right sizing” programs implemented in view of increased vacancies and a changed mix of tenants, Equity One’s percentage of recycled waste decreased to 46.7% during 2010.GC8 110 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 111 Main Page As a global leader, we aim for a higher CSR standard: Doing What’s Right. nd, Long Isla stbu ry Plaza, ry at We The Galle USA , New York Section 6. Global Reporting Initative (GRI) Information 112 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 113 Gazit-Globe GRI Declaration “The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide.” As part of our goal of creating a Corporate Responsibility report that Self Declared Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ meets transparency best practices, we determined that this second report Application G3 Profile Disclosures Report on: 1.1 Report on all criteria listed For Level C plus: Same as requirement for Level B will be according to the GRI Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines for the Level Output 2.1-2.10 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 1.2 3.9, 3.13 purpose of enhancing this report’s 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 technical quality, credibility and Gazit-Globe established a clear target relevance. of publishing a Second Application Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Not Required management Approach Same as requirement Standard Disclosures “B” level report. We proudly present G3 Management Disclosurces for each for Level B Approach Application this second report which reflects our Indicator Category commitment to our stakeholders, Disclosures Output Level including the communities in which we operate, the environment in which we live and our Company’s shareholders. In order to comply with the terms of Report on minimum Report on minimum Report on each core G3 G3 Perfprmance of 10 Performance of 10 Performance and Sector Supplement* GRI’s G3.1 guidelines, Gazit-Globe Indicators Indicators, including Indicators, including at Indicator with due regard was required to address the issue & Sector at least one from each least one from to the Materiality Principle of selecting the Application Level Supplement of: Economic, Social each of: Economic, by either a: reporting most suitable for the Company. Performance and Environmental. Environmental, Humen on the Indicator or b According to the GRI, CR Reports Indicators rights, Labor, explaining the reason for aiming to qualify for level C, C+, B, Output Society, Product its omission B+, A or A+ must contain each of Responsibility the criteria that are presented in the column for the relevant level. 114 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 115 Main Page GRI Index 3. Report Parameters Profile Disclosure Description Reported Reference/ Comments 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for √ Reported o Partly reported — Not reported information provided. √ 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). √ 6 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) √ 6 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. √ 128 3.5 Process for defining report content. √ 6 1. Strategy and Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Profile Disclosure Description Reported Reference/ Comments subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further √ 6 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. √ 4-5 guidance. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or √ 4-5 opportunities. boundary of the report (see completeness principle — N/A for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 2. Organizational Profile leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Profile Disclosure Description Reported Reference/ Comments entities that can significantly affect comparability — N/A from period to period and/or between 2.1 Name of the organization. √ 10 organizations. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. √ 10 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including calculations, including assumptions and techniques main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, √ 12-17 underlying estimations applied to the compilation and joint ventures. of the Indicators and other information in the √ 6 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or √ 17 to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Protocols. operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of √ 16-17 information provided in earlier reports, and the sustainability issues covered in the report. N/A reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature — There were no restatements from 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. of business, measurement methods). earlier reports √ 10 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ √ 16-17 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods beneficiaries). There were no significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods — in the scope of the report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. applied in the report. √ 10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period There were no significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard √ Disclosures in the report. √ 116-127 regarding size, structure, or ownership. during the reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. √ 24 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. — No external assurance provided 116 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 117 GRI Index √ Reported o Partly reported — Not reported 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Disclosure Description Reported Reference/ Comments Profile Disclosure Description Reported Reference/ Comments 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the √ 80 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including organization. committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting √ 26-27 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, strategy or organizational oversight. and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. √ 21, 24-25 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. √ 26 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board associations) and/or national/international structure, state the number and gender of √ 26 advocacy organizations in which the organization: * members of the highest governance body that are Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates independent and/or non-executive members. √ 21,24, 46-47 in projects or committees; * Provides substantive 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees funding beyond routine membership dues; or * to provide recommendations or direction to the Views membership as strategic. √ 21, 27, 37, 39 highest governance body. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of √ 36 organization. the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of √ 34-35 √ 36 and the organization’s performance (including stakeholders with whom to engage. social and environmental performance). 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by √ 37-45 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. √ 26, 35 stakeholder group. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised qualifications, and expertise of the members of through stakeholder engagement, and how the the highest governance body and its committees, organization has responded to those key topics √ 37-45 √ 26 including any consideration of gender and other and concerns, including through its reporting. indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance √ 21, 90-91 and the status of their implementation. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on management approach 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and G3.1 DMAs Description Reported Reference/ Comments management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and √ 27 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC √ 51 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN √ 88 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA √ 64 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR √ 64 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO √ 77 respect to economic, environmental, and social √ 26 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR √ 77 performance. 118 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 119 GRI Index √ Reported o Partly reported — Not reported Environmental STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments Indicator Materials Economic EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. — Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Indicator √ 92-93 input materials. Economic performance Energy EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy including revenues, operating costs, employee √ 94-96 53-55, 59, 79 source. compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to √ Annual Report 2010Note 33, p. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. — 144 or p.340 in pdf capital providers and governments. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. — EC2 Financial implications and other risks and EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable opportunities for the organization’s activities due to √ 61 energy based products and services, and climate change. √ 91,97-98 reductions in energy requirements as a result of EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan these initiatives. obligations. — EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. — EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. — Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. √ Market presence 100-102 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. — gender compared to local minimum wage at — significant locations of operation. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. — EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of — Biodiversity operation. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of — high biodiversity value outside protected areas. management hired from the local community at — EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, significant locations of operation. products, and services on biodiversity in protected Indirect economic impacts areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside — protected areas. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EN13 Habitats protected or restored. — public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro √ 56, 59 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for bono engagement. managing impacts on biodiversity. — EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. √ 56, 59 conservation list species with habitats in areas — affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 121 GRI Index √ Reported o Partly reported — Not reported Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicator Performance Emissions, effluents and waste Indicator Description Reported Reference/ Comments EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. √ 103-105 Employment EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment — 89,97-98 contract, and region, broken down by gender. √ 65 by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and √ employee turnover by age group, gender, and reductions achieved. √ 66 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by region. weight. — LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by not provided to temporary or part-time employees, √ 65, 67-68 type and weight. — by major operations. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Gazit’s waterhouse and rainwater LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental √ is let to the municipal sewer leave, by gender. — system EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. √ 106-107, 111 Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. — bargaining agreements. — EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, — operational changes, including whether it is — specified in collective agreements. and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Occupational health and safety EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s — formal joint management-worker health and safety — committees that help monitor and advise on discharges of water and runoff. occupational health and safety programs. Water LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact √ 98-99, 111 and absenteeism, and number of work-related — fatalities by region and by gender. mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and materials that are reclaimed by category. — risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members — Products and services regarding serious diseases. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance — LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal — with environmental laws and regulations. agreements with trade unions. Transport Training and education EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by products and other goods and materials used for gender, and by employee category. o 67 the organization’s operations, and transporting — LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong members of the workforce. learning that support the continued employability Overall of employees and assist them in managing career — EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and endings. investments by type. — 122 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 123 GRI Index √ Reported o Partly reported — Not reported Performance Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments Description Reported Reference/ Comments Indicator Indicator LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Forced and compulsory labor performance and career development reviews, by √ 68 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as gender. having significant risk for incidents of forced or Diversity and equal opportunity compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to √ 71 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory of employees per employee category according to labor. √ 69-70 gender, age group, minority group membership, Security practices and other indicators of diversity. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Equal remuneration for women and men organization’s policies or procedures concerning LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women aspects of human rights that are relevant to — to men by employee category, by significant — operations. locations of operation. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. — Social: Human Rights Assessment Performance HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that Description Reported Reference/ Comments Indicator have been subject to human rights reviews and/or — impact assessments. Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Remediation investment agreements and contracts that include HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or — addressed and resolved through formal — that have undergone human rights screening. grievance mechanisms. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone — Social: Society human rights screening, and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments procedures concerning aspects of human rights Indicator that are relevant to operations, including the — Local communities percentage of employees trained. SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Non-discrimination community engagement, impact assessments, and √ 77, 79 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and development programs. √ 70 actions taken. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. — Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented which the right to exercise freedom of association in operations with significant potential or actual — negative impacts on local communities. and collective bargaining may be violated or at — significant risk, and actions taken to support these Corruption rights. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units √ 81-82 Child labor analyzed for risks related to corruption. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s √ 80-81 having significant risk for incidents of child labor, anti-corruption policies and procedures. √ 71 and measures taken to contribute to the effective SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of abolition of child labor. corruption. — 124 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 125 GRI Index √ Reported o Partly reported — Not reported Performance Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments Description Reported Reference/ Comments Indicator Indicator Public policy Marketing communications SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, policy development and lobbying. — and voluntary codes related to marketing SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to communications, including advertising, promotion, — political parties, politicians, and related institutions — and sponsorship. by country. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Anti-competitive behavior marketing communications, including advertising, — SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and √ 83 their outcomes. Customer privacy Compliance PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number breaches of customer privacy and losses of — customer data. of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance — with laws and regulations. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning — Social: Product Responsibility the provision and use of products and services. Performance Description Reported Reference/ Comments Indicator Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant √ 84-85 products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health 84 √ and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information — requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by — type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including √ 78 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 126 > Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 Gazit-Globe Corporate Responsibility Report 2009-2010 < 127 Main Page For any inquires or comments regarding the report, please e-mail: Varda Zuntz VP of Corporate Responsibility and Member of the Executive Committee info@gazitgroup.com Gazit-Globe 1 HaShalom Rd. Tel-Aviv 67892, Israel Avishag Kichel International Investor Relations IR@gazitgroup.com Gazit-Globe 1 HaShalom Rd. Tel-Aviv 67892, Israel The information contained in this report is not, and should not be viewed as, a complete description of Gazit-Globe Ltd. (the “Company”) or its business, and is not intended to form the basis of any investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities or any other securities. The information contained in this folder does not constitute a prospectus or any other offering document, nor does it constitute or form part of any invitation or offer to purchase, sell or subscribe for, or any solicitation of any such offer to purchase, sell or subscribe for, any securities of the Company or any other securities nor shall such information be relied on in connection with any action relating to the securities of the Company or any other securities. No reliance may be placed, for any purposes whatsoever, on the information contained in this folder or on its completeness and it should not be considered a recommendation by the Company or anyany one acting on its behalf (such as any of its directors, partners, officers, employees, advisers or any other persons) in relation to any transaction relating to its securities or any other securities. No representation or warranty is given by or on behalf of the Company or anyone acting on its behalf (such as any of its directors, partners, officers, employees, advisers or any other persons) as to the accuracy, fairness or sufficiency of the information contained in this folder. No liability is accepted for any errors, omissions or inaccuracies in such information. Certain statements in the information contained in this folder are forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions which could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements. These include, among other factors, changing business or other market conditions and anticipated or assumed future prospects. Forward-looking statements contained in this folder regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any information set forth herein (including any forward-looking statements) whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Many thanks to everyone who contributed to the creation of this Report including FisherKahn Financial Communication for copywriting, Portnov Mishan for concept and design, and Deloitte Brightman Almagor Zohar for professional consultation. 1 HaShalom Rd. Tel Aviv 67892, Israel Tel: +972 3 694 8000, Fax: +972 3 696 1910 E-mail: info@gazitgroup.com www.gazit-globe.com
