SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company • First Health, Safety, • Development of energy Environmental and efficiency issues. Community Report. • Incorporation of • ISO 14001 certification biodiversity and fauna for the environmental protection issues. management of all the • Incorporation of company’s processes. stakeholder concepts, identification and ties. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Our Reports: Developing over Time • Incorporation of sustainable development approach. • First Sustainability Report prepared under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Reporte de Desarrollo Sustentable 2011 Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi • Report includes the key issues • Definition of strategic and aspects of the ISO 26000 sustainability commitments. Guidelines. • Audit of application of • Redefinition of Sustainable accountability principles. Development Policies. • Application of SEAT • Priorities focus on health, methodology. education, environment, • Adherence to principles of community social UN Global Compact. development, job creation and entrepreneurship and the arts, culture and heritage. • The Collahuasi Educational Foundation is created. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • First Report published • Survey of stakeholder annually including Financial expectations in accordance Statements. with AA1000 SES Guidelines. • Redefinition of Vision, Values • Double external assurance: and Strategic Objectives in all NGO Red Puentes and areas of the company. Deloitte. • Company headquarters • Creation of Supplier move to Iquique in sign of Development area. commitment to the Tarapacá • ESUSCON project in Region. Huatacondo, a pioneer in • External assurance and renewable energy. compliance with GRI Application Level A+. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Commitments 2011 and Objectives 2012 As part of the preparation of this Report, the commitments • Implement and promote a programme for the development entered into by Collahuasi in 2010 and 2011 were evaluated. of local suppliers that contributes both to the company’s Some of these correspond to regular company activities, such needs and the generation of sustainable enterprises in the as epidemiological tests, alcohol and drugs training and interregion. nal audits, while others are related to GRI indicators and their Development of Human Capital and Retention of Talent: year-by-year progress is reported in the corresponding chap• Improve work conditions and the work climate for both the ter of the Report. company’s own employees and those of contractors, helping This section, therefore, first explains a set of strategic to position Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi as a commitments that the company has defined as central for its preferred employer in the mining industry. organisational development, contribution to regional sustaiCare for the Environment: nability and social responsibility towards its stakeholders. Sub• Draw up and implement a biodiversity strategy that contribusequently, it sets out the specific undertakings through which tes to the protection and recovery of species of fauna and flothese strategic commitments are implemented and relevant ra, protects areas and ecosystems and avoids negative impacts company activities are reinforced. as a result of the company’s current operations and expansion STRATEGIC COMMITMENTS projects. Organisational Development and Sustainability: Efficiency in Use of Water Resources: • Implement a Sustainable Management and Risk system that • Implement projects and initiatives for technological change integrates the efforts of different areas of the company and that, in the case of fresh water consumption, permit the reumakes its day-to-day operations and expansion projects viable. se of process water, the operation of thickeners and gains in • Design and apply a stakeholder engagement model that faefficiency and the recovery of water resources. cilitates communications with stakeholders and consideraEnergy Efficiency: tion, collaboration and mutual benefit. • Implement programmes and initiatives that progressively Regional Contribution: reduce Collahuasi’s carbon footprint through the even more • Contribute to the development of the technical and profesefficient management of the energy used by the different sional capabilities of the Region’s workers for the developareas of the company and through the incorporation and ment of mining through investments and the strategic plan promotion of the use of Alternative Renewable Energy of the Collahuasi Educational Foundation. (ARE) sources. Sustainable Development 3 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Compliance Table Objective achieved Objective partially Objective partially Objective not achieved (100% compliance) achieved achieved (75% compliance) (50% compliance) Compliance Commitments 2011 What we did in 2011 level What we will do in 2012 Work not to receive sanctions or fines See page 44. Achieve a reduction compared to 2011 in the number of from relevant supervisory bodies. sanctions or fines from relevant labour, health and occupational health supervisory bodies. 1. Obtain approval of 20 management The process has required greater develoIncorporate the risk management and monitoring system in standards by EXCO. pment and, in 2011, progress was made all areas of the company, with performance targets for each 2. Present the project for the new System. in designing the risk management sysarea and evaluation of results. Conclude process of defining tem and definition of standards, planning and approving the 20 sustainability standards. 3. Start implementation of the new System. for the complete integration of the Sustainable Management System in 2013. Prepare Strategic Plan of the Collahuasi See page 94. Advance in implementation of the plan for Strengthening Educational Foundation for the deveof Technical Personnel for the Mining Industry as regards lopment of technical personnel for the collaboration agreements and accreditation of training instimining industry. tutions, the system of certification of technical skills and the engineering and conditions for the construction of a technological facility for advanced training. Design and development a model for In 2011, the results of the of the SocioValidate and implement the proposal for managing impacts measuring impact on the community. Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) on the community that arose from the application in 2011 methodology were presented and were of SEAT for evaluation of the positive and negative impacts considered for defining the main lines of of the company’s operations. community relations. Design a stakeholder engagement An audit of the AA1000 SES principles Complete and implement the engagement system with system under AA1000 SES. took place. the company’s principal stakeholders in order to consider their concerns, improve communication and achieve mutual collaboration. In the coastal biodiversity programme, Two partial reports were presented on An online information and follow-up system will be inclucontinue expanded monitoring of seal the extended monitoring of sea lions and ded in Collahuasi’s website for environmental management lions complementing this with other spea final report is being prepared by the indicators on protection of biodiversity (land and marine cies of ecological importance. In addition, University of Valparaíso for presentation flora and fauna), incidents, waste management and other an oceanographic monitoring system in 2012. No new species were incorpoaspects. In 2012, the book on salt flat monitoring results will will be implemented, including current rated and monitoring of the Humboldt be published. data and physical variables in the water penguin was postponed until 2012. column. For the Cordillera Worksite Biodiversity Programme, promote publiThe Queñoa Book was published (launcation of results obtained, starting with ched in March 2012). The book on salt the Queñoa Book and results of salt flat flat monitoring results is at the revision monitoring. In the case of fauna, a census stage. A preliminary count of vicuñas of vicuñas will be carried out. took place and a formal census will be implemented in 2012. Develop a biodiversity strategy that See page 142. Approve and implement the biodiversity strategy with speincludes the adaptation of future projects cific lines of work to incorporate protection of biodiversity in in its lines of action. the company’s operations and expansion projects. No environmental incidents of Category See page 147. No environmental incidents of Category 3 or higher. 3 or higher. No fine or sanction for environmental See page 44. No fine or sanction for environmental incidents. incidents. 4 Objective achieved Objective partially Objective partially Objective not achieved (100% compliance) achieved achieved (75% compliance) (50% compliance) Compliance Commitments 2011 What we did in 2011 level What we will do in 2012 Award the new contract for an integral See page 144. Award contract for Integral Waste Management Service waste management service (operation, and start implementation of integrated waste plans. road cleaning and yard administration) that will permit implementation of integrated waste plans. Carry out follow-up audits and Audit done. Carry out annual internal audit of the environmental manainternal audit gement system in accordance with ISO 14001. Carry out a Closure Plan Update study, See page 28. Complete the Closure Plan Update study started in the starting in the second half of the year. second half of 2011 and incorporate results in the Plan. Carry out tests of HCT/TTD high density See page 121. Based on the results of tests of HCT/TTD high density thicthickeners. keners, a target of an average annual consumption of raw water of or less than 571 litres per tonne of mineral treated Target 2011 = 580 litres/tonne. is expected to be achieved in 2012. Continue to increase reuse of process See page 118. Maintain or increase the 77.62% reuse of process water water in order to exceed the level achieachieved in 2011. ved in 2010. Install a second extraction tower in the tailings dam to improve water recovery. Target 2011 = 77 % Continue to implement water rights See page 115. Maintain the recovery of the Jachucoposa Spring, achieving relocation programme and reduce witha water flow of at least 37.6 L/s by December 2012. drawals from the Pabellón Fault to a maximum of 20 L/s. With these measures, the company expects to continue complying with its commitments as regards the spring’s recovery, achieving a water flow of 32.6 L/s by December 2011. Improve operation of the tailings thickeners In 2011, concentrations of solids of 52% Start operation of the first high compression thickener so as to meet the proposed target and also and 55.4% were achieved in the sma(OT22/SET thickener) that will permit thickening of taiexceed the percentages of solids achieved ller diameter thickeners and the HRT lings to a 68% concentration of solids. in 2010. thickener, respectively. The thickeners underwent different maintenance processes that affected their performance. Design a programme of collaboration See page 78. Start construction of the irrigation canal improvement prowith the Pica community to implement ject drawn up and put out to tender in 2011 for the benefit technology to reduce its fresh water conof the Pica and Matilla farmers. sumption. Continue strengthening the PASS and In 2011, the target of no fatalities was Review and reinforce application of fatality prevention stanVisible Leadership systems, implement achieved but 4 serious accidents occudards in those activities and aspects in which serious safety fatality prevention standards and consorred, affecting three company employees events occur and avoid new accidents. lidate management of operational risks. and one employee of a contractor. OHSAS 18001 audit. The audit took place and OHSAS 18001Obtain a good classification in OHSAS 18001 Safety and 2007 certification was obtained. Occupational Health Audit. Train over 50% of workers in health risks. In 2011, 98% of workers exposed to Reinforce and implement training on health risks for all new health risks received training with a workers. 45-minute induction per group. Sustainable Development 5 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Objective achieved Objective partially Objective partially Objective not achieved (100% compliance) achieved achieved (75% compliance) (50% compliance) Compliance Commitments 2011 What we did in 2011 level What we will do in 2012 Continue measuring carbon footprint Assurance was obtained from the Spanish Implement the improved methodology for carbon footprint and obtain assurance by independent Normalisation Association (AENOR). PAS measurement and study mitigation measures to be develothird party. 2050-2011; GHC Protocol and ISO 14064ped in the coming years. 006. Continue to reinforce the Energy EffiCompliance was judged to be 75% because Consolidate development of the Energy and Greenhouse ciency Programme, starting to transfer the company had undertaken to award the Gas Management System and its application in the learesponsibility for objectives to operatioARE contract in 2011. However, the tender ching area and define energy efficiency targets for other nal areas. Award contract for supply of was a large-scale task that was successfully areas of the company. Alternative Renewable Energy (ARE). completed in 2011, leaving award of the contract for the first half of 2012. Award the Alternative Renewable Energy (ARE) contract for 60,000 MWh/year for the company’s operations as from 2013. Certification of Labour Skills. Progress was made in certifying the Promote and supervise certification of operations company’s own employees but not those contractors. of contractors. Develop new Leadership for Supervisors In 2011, a preliminary programme was imComplete design of the Leadership for Supervisors Training training based on the company’s strategy. plemented and applied as pilot to 54 operaProgramme and apply to 20% of supervisors. tors and maintenance personnel. Continue to progress Tarapacá apprentiIn 2011, 77 people received certificaAchieve a higher percentage of incorporation of ces programmes. Reinforce professional tion under the apprentices programapprentices into the company than in 2011, increasing internships and student theses in the mes, complying with the target. Inthe intensity of pupils’ practical technical and labour company. corporation into the company’s lines skills training and increased integration with the Forof work was, however, low due to intecmin project. sufficient technical and labour skills. Define a strategy for being the preferred See pages 58, 68. Implement the first stage of the strategy for being employer in the mining industry. the mining industry’s preferred employer among the company’s own employees and those of contractors. Continue improving camp living conditions. See page 72. Continue improving camp living conditions by completing the projects underway and implementing those scheduled for 2012. Put contractors’ employees on same See page 108. Progress in applying the same quality requirements and terms as own employees with regard standards as regards personal safety equipment, work to personal safety equipment, work clothing and transport of contractors’ employees. clothing and quality of transport to the worksite. Continue implementing the Supplier See page 70. Deepen and expand supplier development programmes Development Programme (PDP) for regioamong suppliers of goods, direct contractors and transport nal transport and logistics companies. companies. 6 Sustainable Development 7 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Contents • Our Reports: Developing over Time Inside cover 2. Corporate Governance 52 • Commitments 2011 and Objectives 2012 2 3. Our Employees 56 Introduction 10 4. Our Suppliers and Contractors 66 1. Executive President’s Message 12 5. Our Community 74 2. Scope of the Report 16 Chapter 3: Our Commitment to Education: Collahuasi Educational Foundation 86 3. Preparation of the Report 17 1. Management Approach 88 4. Definition of Materiality 19 2. Primary School Educational Improvement Programme 90 Chapter 1: Our Company 22 1. Company Profile 24 3. Secondary Technical-Professional Education Improvement Programme 94 2. Sustainability Approach 33 Chapter 4: Health and Safety of Our People 98 3. Associations and Memberships 38 1. Management Approach 100 4. Awards and Recognitions 40 2. Our Commitment to the Health and Safety 5. Ethics and Transparency 41 of Our Workers, Their Families and the Community 102 3. Joint Management-Worker Committees 104 6. Regulatory Compliance 44 4. Key Figures 106 Chapter 2: Building Relations of Trust 46 5. Our Contractors’ Safety 108 1. Management Approach: Relations with Our Stakeholders 48 8 Chapter 5: Our Water Management 110 Chapter 7: Care for Our Surroundings 136 1. Management Approach 112 1. Management Approach 138 2. Protection of Water Resources 114 2. Protection of Biodiversity 139 3. Efficiency in Water Consumption 116 3. Waste Management 144 4. Pilot Thickened Tailings Plan 120 4. Effluent Management 146 Chapter 6: Our Energy Management: 5. Environmental Incidents 147 Climate Change and Efficiency in Use of Natural Resources 122 Appendices 148 1. Management Approach: 1. Complementary Information 150 Mitigation and Adaptation to Climate Change 124 2. GRI Content Index 166 2. Organisational Carbon Footprint 126 3. External Assurance Statement 180 3. Product Carbon Footprint 128 4. Evaluation and Assurance of Commitments Report 184 4. Energy Efficiency and Alternative Renewable Energies 130 5. Feedback Survey 187 5. Fuel Consumption at Collahuasi 132 6. Electricity Consumption at Collahuasi 134 Sustainable Development 9 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Executive President’s Message [1.1] Dear readers, impact of the political-economic context and also include education, community relations, safety, human capital and technoI am very pleased to be able to present our company’s sixth logical innovation. In this Report, we have set out what we are Sustainability Report. In this publication, you will find comprehendoing on each of these fronts with the ultimate aim of keeping sive information about the economic, environmental and social Collahuasi on the road to sustainability and doing so transparently performance of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi during with each of our stakeholders. 2011, prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators and the ISO 26000 and AA1000 SES standards. In one example of these activities, we are progressing in the implementation of a Sustainable Management System in order to One of our most important tasks in this period was to contistrengthen the way we address sustainability and risks. A first step nue building relations of trust with our stakeholders or, in other in this direction is the integrated management of risks as regards words, our employees, contractors, suppliers, the community safety and occupational health, the environment and communiand the authorities. We hired BSD Consulting, a consultancy ties as well as legal and financial risks. In this way, processes that company, to carry out an audit and give us their opinion about were previously managed in parallel are now managed in an inteour application of AccountAbility criteria, detect opportunities grated fashion in accordance with the company’s standards and for management improvements and optimise the information principles and best industry practices. gathered for this Report. In addition, a study by the Casa de la Paz Foundation provided an integral analysis of the social, economic Given that people are Collahuasi’s principal asset and their and environmental impacts of our mining operations, using the commitment and collaboration are vital for our company’s sustaiSEAT methodology of one of our shareholders. nability, we are constantly developing initiatives that contribute to the wellbeing and progress of our employees and their families. We know that mining is one of the economic sectors with the These initiatives include our training programme through which highest short, medium and long-term growth prospects. That imwe provided an average 108 hours of training per capita in 2011 plies great challenges which we must manage correctly in order as well as our pension, healthcare, educational, housing and other to transform them into opportunities for our company’s growth benefits. and the development of our collaborators and a better future for the Tarapacá Region and our country. These challenges are on very different fronts, ranging from environmental issues to the 12 In 2011, 7,571 contractors’ workers were employed in our we have been implementing a Supplier Development Programoperations and projects, participating in our production process me, co-financed by the Chilean government’s Economic Develoand specific projects, and we consider them a key element of our pment Agency (CORFO). In 2011, this programme focused on operations. We, therefore, seek to ensure that their working conthree groups suppliers of goods, suppliers of transport services ditions are similar to those of our own employees of whom there and suppliers for direct contractors. were 2,635 in 2011. In addition to our contractual policy, which In the case of community relations, Collahuasi has assumed a allows us to ensure that our contractors fulfil their obligations to commitment to the development of the communities of the Taemployees, we signed an agreement in 2011 with the National rapacá Region which is reflected in different initiatives that seek Industrial Assembly Workers Union (SINAMI) that set a new preto improve quality of life in the following strategic areas: entreprecedent in Chile’s mining industry as regards its relations with conneurship and job creation, health, education, social development, tractors. We also made important infrastructure improvements the environment, sports and culture and heritage. In 2011, our at our worksites, principally as regards living conditions, canteens investment in community relations projects reached over US$13 and recreation facilities. million. Along these same lines, the Eco Project we are developing will It is important to note that the company has established “woroptimise contracts and the development of contract administraking groups” with the community. These serve as a vehicle for tors. To this end, we are identifying good contract administrators dialogue through which to become familiar with the community’s and evaluating technical and functional skills as well as working interests in an open and participative way and to respond accoron the training of contractors’ personnel. We also updated our dingly. contractual policy, essentially establishing three points a minimum net wage, a life insurance policy and minimum standards In our relation with the Tarapacá Region and as part of our for safety, work clothing, meals and living conditions as well as an undertaking to contribute to educational improvement, we conincentive for compliance with Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). tinue to work through the Collahuasi Educational Foundation. We know that better education is one of the great aspirations of Another important challenge for the mining industry is to obthe people of the Tarapacá Region and, indeed, of all Chileans. tain the qualified suppliers required for its increasing needs. This Through the Foundation, we can help to improve the quality of challenge, together with the importance we attach to contribulife of children and young people and we continue to see progress ting to the Tarapacá Region’s progress, means that, since 2010, Sustainable Development 13 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company in the attainment of pupils at the 18 schools that form part of our Carbon Footprint with the process and results assured by a third programmes. party. For the first time, it also calculated its greenhouse gas emissions broken down by unit of product. In another important milestone in 2011, we also made a commitment to contribute to the quality of technical education by We also supported the diversification of Chile’s energy matrix supporting and improving technical-professional teaching in six into Alternative Renewable Energy (ARE). In 2011, we launched secondary schools in Iquique, Pica and Alto Hospicio and by maa first tender for the supply of 30,000 MWh/year of electricity naging the Liceo Juan Pablo II, one of the Bicentennial Secondary generated from ARE sources, ideally located in the Tarapacá and Schools, which seeks to produce technical staff of excellence for Arica and Parinacota Regions. the mining industry. We are aware that any productive activity can affect its In the case of water, we have achieved further gains in efficient surroundings directly or indirectly and it is, therefore, our policy use and sustainable extraction of this resource. We remain comto recognise biodiversity and the cultural-historical systems that mitted to recovery of the natural water flow in the Jachucoposa exist in the areas where we have our operations. We currently Spring, the principal water source affected by our operations. The have in place biodiversity management plans covering 42.9% of measures we have already implemented have meant a recovery the total area affected by our activities. from 12.6 litres/second in 2007 to 39.2 litres/second in DecemWe have also developed strategies and plans to guard against ber 2011. contamination produced by waste, seeking to facilitate and enIn 2011, as part of our Energy Efficiency Programme, we courage its use, reuse, recycling and responsible disposal. Simiworked to develop and implement a transparent and auditable larly, we have undertaken not to discharge liquid waste into any management system based on Chilean and international norms, surface, underground, land or marine water body or course. encompassing our installations’ different sources and possible Growing sustainably uses of energy. In addition, the measurement of our 2011 carbon footprint was assured under the PAS 2050, GHG Protocol and In view of our expansion projects, we increased our exploitation ISO 14064 norms. As a result, Collahuasi became the first miconcessions by 15.6%. We also announced the prefeasibility stage ning company in Chile to calculate its Product and Organisational of the so-called Phase III expansion which seeks to install one or 14 two milling lines. Through this project, we expect to increase our I would like to invite you to read our sixth Sustainability Report output to 800,000 or 1 million tonnes of copper content by 2017. in which we have made a conscientious effort to provide a transThis expansion will also mark a number of milestones as regards parent picture of our performance. I would, in addition, ask you to water efficiency such as the implementation of tailings thickereply to the Feedback Survey included at the end of the Report as ning, increased water recycling and the use of desalinated water. this would be of great value in helping us to continue improving in the future. In 2011, Collahuasi’s copper output was down by 10% on the previous year due to a number of factors that included principally Yours sincerely, climatic difficulties. In contrast, production of molybdenum rose by 48.8%. At Collahuasi, we seek to maintain our competitiveness compared to the rest of the industry by controlling costs and making efficient use of resources. Direct sales to our shareholders Xstrata Copper, Anglo American and Mitsui account for most of Giancarlo Bruno our copper output, all of which will gradually be made over to the shareholders for its marketing. Total sales were also down by 7% in the period covered by this Report, reflecting principally a 7% drop in the volume of copper concentrate sold. The Chilean market accounted for 99% of the molybdenum produced by Collahuasi while the other 1% went to Thailand. In the case of copper concentrate and cathodes, 34% went to the Chilean market, 25% to Japan, 19% to China and 12% to India, with the remainder corresponding to South Korea, Spain, Germany, Brazil and the Philippines. Sustainable Development 15 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2. Scope of [3.1] This Report sets out the highlights of the economic, environmental and social performance of all Collahuasi’s operations between 1 January and 31 December 2011. It also rethe Report fers to the undertakings made by the company in 2010 and its challenges for 2012 in areas related to sustainability, defined in accordance with its policies. [3.8] The Report includes a chapter on the Collahuasi Educational Foundation, highlighting the company’s work and social contribution in this field, one of the most critical for the Tara[3.2 · 3.3] This is pacá Region and the mining industry. Collahuasi’s sixth Sustainability [3.7 · 3.10 · 3.11] The Report was prepared in accordance with the Report and its protocols of the G3.1 version of the Global Reporting Initiatipublication reflects ve (GRI), the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement and the the company’s principles of the International Council on Mining and Metals commitment to (ICMM) and does not have any limitations of scope or bouncommunicating dary. Although Collahuasi adheres to the principles of the its activities Global Compact, this Report is not presented as a Commutransparently to the nication on Progress (COP) but does include a table relating society on which it the GRI indicators to these ten principles. Changes introduhas an impact and, ced in the new G3.1 version may affect the comparability of particularly, to its data since some of its new requirements were not addressed main stakeholders. by Collahuasi in previous periods. When this is the case, it is indicated in the Report. 16 3. Preparation of the Report [3.5] The process of defining the Report’s content and planning its preparation was led by Collahuasi’s Vice-Presidency for Legal and Corporate Affairs and Communities through its Corporate 2. Definition of 1. Planning Affairs area. All the information contained in the Report was, in materiality addition, documented and validated by the different areas of the company which collaborated in the process of gathering the data and its subsequent verification. Preparation of the Report involved the following stages: 3. Gathering of primary 4. Writing and secondary information 5. Verification 6. Publication and validation Sustainable Development 17 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company [3.9] Information was gathered in accordance with the definiwith reference to the principles of the AA1000 standards tion of material issues, following the G3.1 protocols including on stakeholders as well as GRI principles. As in the previous the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement indicators. As a reyear, the views of civil society were incorporated through the sult, the data measurement methods and baselines used in calReport’s review and assurance by Red Puentes, an NGO, with culations are in line with GRI recommendations and protocols, particular emphasis on the company’s level of compliance with without limitations of scope or boundary, and include all their its undertakings. principal and additional indicators. [3.13] For the third consecutive year, the Report was externally assured and validated as complying with GRI Application Level A+. The assurance was carried out by BSD Consulting 18 Stakeholder Company Viewpoint Industry Viewpoint Viewpoint 4. Definition of Materiality [3.5] Information gathered from primary and secondary sou4.1. COMPANY VIEWPOINT rces was used to define materiality and obtain three broad In order to obtain this viewpoint, internal company docuviewpoints as the basis for identifying the most important isments were reviewed and senior management and the heads sues to be covered by the Report. of strategic areas were consulted: A quantitative methodology was used, involving the rea.Company documents reviewed: view of secondary documents and the classification of issues through percentage quantification, ordinal measurement Internal policies (high, medium and low) and a matrix of the three different viewpoints. These three viewpoints were obtained as follows: 2010 Sustainability Report Collahuasi website (www.collahuasi.cl) Collahuasi risk matrix Sustainable Development 19 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company b. Interviews Juan Carlos Palma, Vice-President for Legal and Corporate Semi-structured interviews were carried out to identify the Affairs and Communities most important issues for the Report. The people interviewed were. Bernardita Fernández, Manager for Corporate Affairs 4.2. INDUSTRY VIEWPOINT Rodrigo Catalán, Manager for Personnel and Organisational This analysis sought to identify the issues relevant for the Development mining industry in Chile and internationally as well as best Sebastián González, Manager for Risks practices as regards sustainability. It involved the review of external documents and analysis of the media, benchmarks and Héctor Lagunas, Manager for the Environment best sustainability reporting practices: Luis Muñoz, Manager for Procurement and Contracts a. External documents: Eduardo González, Manager for Contracts • UNDP Human Development Report 2011, Chapter 1, Why Sustainability and Equity?, UNDP, 2011. Orlando Acosta, Manager for Water Resources • Visiones de Desarrollo Sustentable: Hacia un Chile 2050, Acción RSE, 2011. Leonardo Canales, Manager for Safety and Occupational Health • Tracking the Trends 2012, Deloitte, 2011. Jaime Arenas, Manager of Collahuasi Educational Foundation Luciano Malhue, Manager for Community Relations 20 • Magazines 2011: Nueva Minería, Minería Chilena and Área Minera. The company viewpoint was subsequently analysed and, as • Corporate Reputation Business Monitor (MERCO) Report 2011, for the industry and stakeholder viewpoints, the issues identiMERCO, 2011. fied were classified according to a quantitative methodology and the number of mentions they received in the different stab. Media analysed: ges of the process. • Diario Financiero Once the most important issues for each viewpoint had • La Tercera been identified, the material issues for the Report were defined, considering the external viewpoint (industry and stake• Iquique TV holders) as a block and the internal viewpoint (company) as • Diario21.cl another block. • Estrellaiquique.cl Taking these two blocks, the issues were crossed according to their levels of importance, leading to the materiality that • NortTV explains the structure of the Report. The results are shown in the matrix: c. Benchmarks and best sustainability practices: • International mining companies: Grupo Mexico, Matrix of External and Internal Viewpoints Rio Tinto and Vale. • Chilean mining companies: Minera Los Pelambres, External viewpoint Minera El Tesoro and Codelco. • Region’s social • Care for • Water resources • Leading Chilean companies on CSR: Banco de Crédito problems surroundings • Relations of trust e Inversiones (BCI). • Economic • Safety and occupational performance health • Community relations 4.3. STAKEHOLDER VIEWPOINT High The viewpoint of the company’s stakeholders was obtained from studies carried out in 2011 using both qualitative methodologies (focus groups, interviews and ethnographic analysis) and quantitative methodologies (surveys): • Working and living conditions • Study of stakeholder expectations, AxisRSE, 2011 • Energy • Education • Audit Report on 2010 Collahuasi Sustainability Report, BSD, 2011 Medium • SEAT Report, Casa de la Paz, 2011 • Report on ISO 26000 Approach, Red Puentes, 2011 • Perceptions Study, Feedback, 2011 • Supplier development • Relations with authorities • Corporate Reputation Business Monitor (MERCO) Report, • Compliance with regulation MERCO, 2011 • Transparency Low • Climate change • Survey of Perceptions of Collahuasi’s Environmental Management, • Environmental Ipsos, 2012. management • Attraction and retention of talent 4.4. MATERIAL ISSUES [4.17] In identifying material issues, the viewpoints of the industry Low Medium High Internal and the company’s stakeholders were considered first since they viewpoint are external to the company. Sustainable Development 21 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Our Company 1.1. Company Profile [2.3 · 2.5] Collahuasi is a mining contractual company that operates solely in Chile and does not, at present, have joint Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM ventures with other local or international companies. It exproduces copper concentrate, copper cathodes ploits three open-pit mineral deposits in the Pica municipal and molybdenum concentrate. It is currently the district of northern Chile’s Tarapacá Region. world’s third largest copper deposit. [2.1 · 2.2] Its industrial installations and its Rosario, Ujina and Huinquintipa deposits, located in the Pica municipal district, are referred to as the “Cordillera Area”. From the concentrator plant in Ujina, a 203-kilometre slurry pipeline transports cop24 Colchane Camiña Cariquima Pisagua Tarapacá Region TARAPACÁ Lirima Cancosa Huara Mamiña Pacific Ocean Iquique Pozo Almonte Huasco Salt Flat Pica PINTADOS Coposa Salt Flat Chanavayita Slurry pipeline PUERTO PATACHE Huatacondo Río Seco Grande Salt Flat Ollagüe San Marcos Regional border National border per concentrate down to the filter plant and port facilities in [MM1] In 2011, due to its expansion projects, Collahuasi Punta Patache in the Iquique municipal district. The molybdeincreased its mining exploitation concessions by 15.6%. num plant is also located in Punta Patache, along with the port COLLAHUASI’S CONCESSIONS: terminal from which the processed products are shipped to international markets, in the company’s “Port Area”. Owner of 546 groups of mining concessions, totalling 143,008 hectares. [2.4] The company’s headquarters are located at Baquedano 902, Iquique, Tarapacá Region, and it also has administrative Holder of 371 mining exploitation concessions, totalling offices at Avenida Andrés Bello 2687, 11th floor, Las Condes, 143,300 hectares. Santiago, Metropolitan Region. Holder of concessions on 22,820 hectares through Sociedad Contractual Minera Michincha. Owner of 15,294 hectares of surface land. An area of 13,108 hectares with mining-industrial infrastructure (10,562 hectares belonging to Collahuasi and 2,546 hectares corresponding to easement authorisations). Sustainable Development 25 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 100% Ownership Structure 44% Anglo American plc 44% Xstrata Copper 12% Japan Collahuasi Resources B.V. Expansion Project Collahuasi has begun development of its expansion project which envisages an investment of US$6,500 million and is due to start operations in 2017. The project is currently at the prefeasibility stage, due to be completed in mid-2012, during which a concept engineering study is being carried out in a bid to determine whether one or two milling lines will be used. It expects to produce over one million tonnes s of copper content from 2017, consolidating Collahuasi’s position as one of Chile’s largest mining projects. By creating jobs and requiring suppliers and contractors, this project represents a contribution to the economic development of the Tarapacá Region and the quality of life of its inhabitants. 26 EXECUTIVE Collahuasi Management Team PRESIDENT Giancarlo Bruno ENVIRONMENT SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL MANAGER HEALTH MANAGER Héctor Lagunas Leonardo Canales V-P FINANCE AND V-P V-P LEGAL AND CORPORATE V-P V-P HUMAN SALES DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION RESOURCES AFFAIRS AND (INTERIM) COMMUNITIES AND SERVICES (INTERIM) Michael Farrelly Mario Quiñones Juan Carlos Palma John Coldham Gastón Hormazábal V-P MINE V-P PLANT V-P EXPANSION V-P ASSET SENIOR PROJECT OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PROJECTS MANAGEMENT MANAGER Fernando Saavedra Ana Salazar Deepak Bhasin Brett Harries César Retamal LEFT TO RIGHT Gastón Hormazábal, V-P Human Resources (i) · Ana Salazar, V-P Plant Operations · Fernando Saavedra, V-P Mine Operations Juan Carlos Palma, V-P Legal and Corporate Affairs and Communities · Giancarlo Bruno, Executive Presidency · John Coldham, V-P Administration and Services Brett Harries, V-P Asset Management · Michael Farrelly, V-P Finance and Sales · Mario Quiñones, V-P Development (i) · Deepak Bhasin, V-P Expansion Proyects Our Production Process Rosario Mine 1 3 2 Ujina Mine 4 9 11 Huinquintipa Mine 10 12 Main Organisational Changes 1.2. CLOSURE PLAN [2.9] [MM10] In the period covered by this Report, the following organisatioThe objectives established for the closure plan are to nal changes took place in the company’s management: minimise Collahuasi’s future legal and environmental risks and to reduce the costs of closure activities. 1. Edwin Ugarte resigned as Vice-President for Human Resources to take on a new post for his employer, Anglo American. In 2011, Collahuasi worked on an update of its closure plan 2. Jorge Betzhold left his job as Vice-President for Developand this will continue in 2012. The main aim of this new updament and was temporarily replaced by Mario Quiñones. te is to ensure compliance with the environmental regulation 3. Three new Vice-Presidents were hired: Ana Salazar in Plant in force (including new requirements introduced by Law Nº Operations, Deepak Bhasin in Expansion Projects, and Brett Ha20.551 on Closure of Mining Sites and Installations) as well as rries in Asset Management. to analyse and assess existing closure criteria in the light of the results of the latest studies and the experience of recent years, in order to introduce changes in Collahuasi’s operations and mining plan. 28 Sulphides Line 1 Surge Pile 2 Stock Pile 3 Milling & classification 4 Flotation 5 Transport in 190-km slurry pipeline. 6 Molybdenum plant 7 Filter plant 8 Storage & dispatch of copper concentrate. Oxides Line 9 Primary oxides crusher 10 Silo 11 Secondary & tertiary crushers 12 Stock Pile 13 Stacking 14 Transport and cell formation 15 Leaching 16 Solvent extraction 17 Electrowinning 18 Dispatch of copper cathodes. 5 6 7 8 18 14 15 16 13 17 In addition to the update of the company’s base condition, a conceptual closure plan was drawn up for the new installations and/or modifications arising from the implementation of its Phase III Expansion Project. An additional budget of US$68,000 has been allocated for this study. 2013 2033 2045 2058 2058 Processing of leachable End of operations at End of operations at End of processing of Definitive closure of minerals Rosario Pit Ujina Pit stocks of marginal Collahuasi minerals Sustainable Development 29 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1.3. OUTPUT In 2011, Collahuasi produced 453,284 tonnes of copper, down by 10.1% on the previous year. Molybdenum output, however, rose by 48.8% compared to 2010. Total Copper and Molibdenum Output at Collahuasi (tonnes) Output (tonnes) Product 2009 2010 2011 700,000 7,000 600,000 6,000 Concentrate 492,727 465,207 417,282 500,000 5,000 Cathodes 43,126 38,836 36,002 400,000 4,000 Total copper output 535,853 504,043 453,284 300,000 3,000 Molybdenum 2,541 4,476 6,659 200,000 2,000 100,000 1,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 Total copper output Molybdenum Output 30 Collahuasi’s Copper Concentrate Markets (DMTs*) * DMT = Dry metric tonne. 34% Chile 25% Japan 19% China 12% India 3% South Korea 3% Spain 2% Germany 1% Brazil 1% Philippines Collahuasi’s Copper Cathode Markets (tonnes) * DMT = Dry metric tonne. 72% China 13% United States 8% Taiwan 3% South Korea 2% Holland 1% Italy 1% Japan 1.4. SALES AND MARKETS SERVED shareholders. It should be noted that all Collahuasi’s output In the period covered by this Report, Collahuasi’s total copper will gradually be transferred to the company’s shareholders for sales showed a 7% drop in volume as compared to 2010. This its sale. reflected principally a 7% drop in the volume of sales of copper In the case of the molybdenum produced by Collahuasi, 99% concentrate. is sold within Chile while the remaining 1% goes to Thailand. [2.7] Information about sales includes customers who The company’s markets for copper concentrate and cathodes have a contract with the company as well as direct sales to are shown in the graphs above: SALES AND MARKETS SERVED Sales (tonnes) 2009 2010 2011 Concentrate 488,217 462,293 428,960 Cathodes 42,450 38,485 36,159 Total copper sales 530,667 500,778 465,119 Molybdenum 2,467 4,567 6,687 Sustainable Development 31 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company [EC6] 1.5. LOCAL PROCUREMENT In 2011, Collahuasi acquired goods and services for US$1,731,363,427, up by 3% on the previous year. Type of expenditure 2009 2010 2011 (US$) Own stock 272,950,281 273,773,777 266,154,824 Direct charge 212,623,782 303,523,950 145,085,128 Contracts 852,645,361 1,071,085,869 1,054,140,020 Project (*) 29,091,689 265,983,455 Total 1,338,219,424 1,677,475,285 1,731,363,427 (*) Includes Project and Project Contracts. Purchases of goods reached U$439,907,659 of which 81%, equivalent to U$354,355,268, were acquired in Chile. Their breakdown by region of Chile is shown in the graph below: 66.92% RM 18.26% I 11.54% II 1.64% VI 1.07% V 0.45% XV 0.06% III 0.03% VIII 0.01% IX 0.00% VII Purchases of goods in the Tarapacá Region Collahuasi’s direct area of influence totalled US$64,712,000, representing 18.3% of the amount acquired in Chile during 2011. 32 2. Sustainability Approach Our Strategic Objectives 1. A safe and healthy work environment 2. The sustainable performance of our operations Sustainable development is a key pillar of Collahuasi’s business 3. Use of capacity strategy, guiding its approach to its production process and rela4. Cost competitiveness tions with its surroundings. This is why, since starting commercial 5. Efficient use of capital operations on 7 April 1999, Collahuasi has sought to develop its 6. Efficient management of the business activities on the basis of policies and practices that contribute to 7. To be the preferred employer in the mining sector the wellbeing of society, the economy and the environment, ta8. Growth (Development and Projects) king into account the needs of its stakeholders. 9. Maximisation of value for shareholders. Our Values Collahuasi is characterised by conduct in accordance with the following values: Our Vision • Safety To be a company acknowledged as a preferred employer • Respect with committed people working as one team to achieve • Honesty maximum performance and leadership in copper production, • Passion maximising the potential of our assets whilst also demons• Recognition trating total commitment to safety, the community, the en• Responsibility vironment and sustainable development. Responsibility is a new value that was incorporated in 2011 and is defined as “compliance with targets and promises, adhering to the company’s norms, procedures and values and assuming the consequences of our actions”. 2.1. OUR STRATEGY AND CULTURE [4.8] Complementing our values and strategic objectives, the poCollahuasi’s values, strategic objectives and policies allow it to licies that Collahuasi defined in 2009 reinforce the company’s develop its business in accordance with its Vision. culture and style of leadership. These policies are grouped into three areas, each with their respective scope and principles, and are the basis on which decisions are taken. Our Policies (*) People Business Sustainable Development Human Resources Risk Management Safety and Occupational Health Business Ethics and Conflicts Quality Environment of Interest Contracts Community Relations and Corporate Affairs Water Resources Energy (*) For further information, see www.collahuasi.cl. 34 • Stakeholder analysis • Communications plan Risk Management Process (ISO 31000) Communication • Participation of all interested parties Survey of Risks Definition of Risk Risk Analysis Risk Risk Context Identification Assessment Treatment • Objectives • What could happen? • Review of controls • Assessment • Identification • Stakeholders • What could it lead to? • Consequences criteria of options • Criteria • What makes it happen? • Probability • Order of priority • Cost-benefit • Key elements • Level of risk • Filtering of minor • Development risks of plans Monitoring and Review • Risk monitoring • Controls • Lessons learned 2.2. RISK MANAGEMENT [4.11 · 1.2 · 4.9 · SO3] 1. Formal identification of the risks of all the areas of the comRisk management at Collahuasi refers to risks related to the pany, including those related to the business, the environment business, the environment, safety and occupational health and and safety and occupational health. As a result, the company was legal risks. It covers risks arising from planned or unplanned able to implement the CURA software which it had been develochanges so they can be identified, analysed, assessed and treated ping since 2010 and which includes all its risks. properly and then monitored and reviewed. The company’s Risk 2. Start of training through presentations and workshops for Management Policy establishes the principles for detecting the the company’s managers and supervisors about its risk policy and existence of risks, duly evaluating them and implementing mitiobligations and roles under the system. gation measures to reduce them to an acceptable level. 3. An agreement that, as from 2011, all managers make a preThe principal advances achieved in the Risk Managesentation about their area’s risks at monthly meetings. ment System during 2011 were: All risks are measured according to their impact on Each manager is responsible for the risks present in his or the organisation in financial, safety and occupational her area, for monitoring them and constantly updating health, environmental, legal, community relations and the related information in the CURA software. Progress, reputational terms. possible problems and opportunities for improvement are reviewed at monthly meetings. Risk Analyst: Staff Area and CURA System Administrator Risk Risk Analyst: Manager Projects Risk Analyst: Operations 4. Design of a governance structure for the system, including 7. Twenty standards were designed and written in order to internal support, an analyst to administer the CURA software and homogenise criteria and policies across the company and guarantwo other analysts for the risks of projects and operations, restee the quality of risk management. These standards are related pectively. The resulting structure is shown above: to each different risk and take into account aspects that include safety and occupational health, the environment, operations and 5. In accordance with the importance given to risk managefinance. As of completion of this Report, the standards had been ment, the number of reports presented to the Board of Directors approved and a guide for their implementation will be prepared increased and this became one of the principal topics addressed in 2012 at its meetings. The Audit Committee meets on the day before the Board and, in general, the importance of the issues raised theThese advances represent a formalisation of Collahuasi’s re means that they are again discussed at its meeting. It should be efforts to progress in the management of risks and establish the noted that the Audit Committee is a formal part of the Board and foundation for the Sustainable Management System it plans to is formed by directors and representatives of Collahuasi. implement in the near future. 6. Risk analysis was carried out for the project’s prefeasibility At the beginning of 2010, Collahuasi’s Executive President restage and the results were presented to the company’s shareholquested that the company create an integrated system for the ders for the definition of business cases. management of norms and standards, including those required 36 Role of the Audit Committee To define risk criteria To provide guidelines for risk management (risk policy and compliance with its targets) To draw up an annual audit plan To enforce internal and external (KPMG) audit plans To review strategic issues related to fraud To monitor Open Line cases To establish the company’s insurance policy strategy. by current regulation and those to which the company has decided or may in future decide to adhere. The purpose of this system By defining standards, risk management can be homogenised, is to integrate the management of related and complementary thereby providing the Risk Management System with the areas for the company’s sustainable development. foundations for a future Sustainable Management System. Although it was decided in 20211 to postpone implementation of the Sustainable and Risk Management System and its formalisation in the company’s organisational structure, significant progress was achieved towards introducing it in a robust and consisThe objective of the Sustainable Management System project tent way during 2013. is to create a single risk-based management system under which risks are managed in an integrated way according to certain standards and principles. Sustainable Development 37 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 5. Se logró mayor reportabilidad al directorio, gracias a que como seguridad y salud ocupacional, medio ambiente, operacioellos le dieron una mayor importancia a la gestión de riesgos, de nes, finanzas, entre otros. Al cierre de este reporte, los estándares esta forma la presentación de riesgos es uno de los temas prinestán aprobados y el próximo año se elaborará una guía para su cipales que se tratan en las reuniones de directorio. El comité de implementación. auditoría sesiona el día anterior al Board y generalmente los teTodos estos avances formalizan el trabajo de gestión de riesmas tratados en el comité por su relevancia pueden ser tratados gos que se ha trabajado de forma implícita dentro de la Companuevamente en el board. ñía. Esta estructura sienta las bases del futuro Sistema de Gestión 6. Cabe destacar además que se hizo análisis de riesgos para Sustentable, el cual se encuentra a nivel de proyecto y se espera fase de prefactibilidad de proyecto, el cual fue presentado a los acsu próxima implementación. A comienzos de 2010, el Presidente cionistas para definición de caso de negocio, sobre disponer una o Ejecutivo de Collahuasi solicitó que se iniciara el trabajo tendos líneas de molienda. diente a establecer un sistema integrado de gestión normativa y 3. Associations 7. Diseño y redacción de 20 estándares para homogenizar de estándares, tanto de aquellos que le son exigibles como de los criterios y políticas en forma transversal de la Compañía, para que la Compañía haya decidido o decida en el futuro adscribir. El garantizar la calidad de la gestión de riesgos. Estos estándares propósito de este sistema es el de integrar las gestiones de áreas son transversales y se asocian a cada riesgo, consideran aspectos afines y complementarias para el desarrollo sustentable de and Memberships 1. IQUIQUE INDUSTRIALISTS’ ASSOCIATION A.G. (AII) Associations and Memberships 2. GOVERNING BOARD OF THE ARTURO PRAT UNIVERSITY (UNAP) 3. INCUBA BUSINESS INCUBATOR (UNAP) 4. SALTPETRE MUSEUM CORPORATION 5. JIWASA ORAGE INDIGENOUS DEVELOPMENT AREA 6. CONAMA REGIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL 7. TAMARUGAL EMPRENDE Organisations in the National 8. CENTRE FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN WATER RESOURCES (CIDERH) Tarapacá Region organisations: 9. NATIONAL MINING SOCIETY (SONAMI) 10. CHILEAN MINING COUNCIL A.G. including its Energy Efficiency in Mining Roundtable and Climate Change Committee 11. CHILEAN-NORTH AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (AmCham Chile) 12. CHILEAN-BRITISH CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (Britcham Chile) 13. NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL 14. ACCIoNRSE 15. CENTRO DE ESTUDIOS PARA EL DESARROLLO (CED) 16. NATIONAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY COMMISSION (CNE) Cooperation 17. CHILEAN CHAPTER OF TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL agreements International and alliances: 18. GLOBAL COMPACT organisations: 19. INTERNATIONAL COPPER ASSOCIATION (ICA) 20. CASA DE LA PAZ FOUNDATION 21. UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND 22. UNIVERSITY OF CHILE 23. FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN’S PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT (PRODEMU) 24. MINISTRY FOR WOMEN’S AFFAIRS (SERNAM) 25. CIVIL REGISTRY SERVICE 26. NATIONAL FORESTRY SERVICE (CONAF) [4.12] Collahuasi adheres to the principles of the R A M S A R Convention on Wetlands, the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and has obtained certification for its copper cathodes under European REACH norms. Addressing Violence Against Women In June 2011, Collahuasi became a member of the in the Media Global Compact, adhering to its ten principles, and In November, the United Nations also signed an agreement with the Chilean Chapter Population Fund (UNFPA) and Collahuasi of Transparency International, undertaking to held a workshop La Violencia tiene Mil comply with its code of conduct. Caras (Violence has a Thousand Faces) for journalists and communications [4.13] Collahuasi participates in different regional, national and professionals in the city of Iquique. The international organisations in line with its sustainable develoactivity, carried out under an alliance pment approach and its interest in boosting its contribution to between the Ministry for Women’s Affairs community development. (SERNAM), UNFPA and the private sector represented by Collahuasi, sought to [SO5] Collahuasi participates in public policy through its membersincrease awareness of gender-related hip of different organisations and business associations, focusing on violence in the Chilean media. issues related to the mining industry’s main challenges or, in other words, energy and water efficiency and human capital. In the case of industry regulation, it keeps abreast of developments and makes known its views through its membership of organisations such as the Chilean Mining Council and the National Mining Society (SONAMI) Sustainable Development 39 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Awards and Recognitions [2.10] In 2011, Collahuasi received the following prizes, reflecting its commitment to the context in which it operates: Prize Awarded by Date Prize for the Best Carbon Footprint 2011 in Large Company category Climate Change Committee, British-Chilean Chamber of Commerce October 2011 Best Corporate Citizen Prize in Innovation category Chilean-North American Chamber of Commerce October 2011 2nd place in Best Company in Regional Development for launch of Diario Financiero business newspaper (vote by readers) December 2011 the Corbeta Esmeralda Museum in Iquique Prize for the Best Annual Report in Non-Listed Companies category Estrategia business newspaper and PricewaterhouseCoopers December 2011 País Digital and El Boyaldía for promotion of entrepreneurship. Recognitions Prison Guard Service for cooperation Chilean Police Service for commitment and collaboration. and support for prison management Iquique municipal government for constant support for the through the creation of the radio Municipal Theatre’s Chamber and Voces Blancas choirs. of the Centro Cumplimiento Penitenciario de Mujeres. January February March April May June July August September October November December Club Body Board for Corporación Conservación Iquique Chamber of Huatacondo community Corporación de Ayuda National Training and collaboration with its y Difusión del Patrimonio Commerce and Corporación for support for the al Niño Quemado Employment Service championship. Histórico Militar for support del Patrimonio Marítimo reconstruction of its (COANIQUEM) for (SENCE) for training for the organisation’s work. for the Corbeta Esmeralda Nuestra Señora de la solidarity with the of workers (5,400 Museum. Asunción Church. organisation. beneficiaries) and training of young people (2,418 participants). 40 5. Ethics and Transparency Seminar on Transparency In August 2011, Collahuasi and Chile Transparente, the Chilean chapter of Transparency International, organised a seminar on transparency that was open to the community. The event in Iquique Transparencia: ¿Donde está el Norte? No te quedes atrás, con transparencia todo se sabe (Transparency: Where is Northern Chile? Don’t get left behind; with transparency, all is known) sought to foster combat of corruption and increase awareness of the benefits of transparency for any organisation, whether public or private. Leading speakers at the seminar included the Undersecretary at the Ministry for the President’s Office, Claudio Alvarado, and the National Director of the Chile’s Consumer Protection Service (SERNAC), Juan Antonio Peribonio, as well as Juan Pablo Olmedo of the Chile’s Council for Transparency and Luz Ebensperger, Governor of the Tarapacá Region. The seminar, held in the Gavina Hotel, was attended by leaders of neighbourhood associations, public officials, teachers and representatives of the private sector and served as an opportunity to debate the importance of transparency and the economic and social costs of corruption as well as practical exercises for attendees’ internalisation of their related duties and rights. [4.4] [SO4] 5.1. OPEN LINE In 2011, nine reports were made to the Open Line, all of All Collahuasi’s employees have access to a confidential telewhich received a reply and, in the corresponding cases, inforphone line which any person can use to report misconduct of mation was provided about measures taken as a result of the different types such as ill treatment, abuse, non-compliance with investigation or, once all the information had been obtained, social security laws, fraud or bribery. the complaint was dismissed. The reports related principally to supervision, conflicts of interest or incompatible negotiation and The Open Line is a confidential telephone line which any referred to both the company’s own employees and contractors. employee or contractor can use to report to senior management As of completion of this Report, response to seven of the nine unethical or illegal business practice or behaviour at Collahuasi. cases had been concluded while, in the other two cases, over 90% Its objective is to serve as an additional and secure means of comof the resulting action plans had been implemented. munication which does not, however, seek to replace existing [HR4] channels. In 2011, no complaints about discrimination at Collahuasi were presented to the Open Line. Sustainable Development 41 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Terms of Law Nº 20.393 In its essence, Law Nº 20.393 establishes companies’ responsibility for the crimes of money laundering, financing of terrorism and the bribery of any public official, either in Chile or overseas, when they are committed for the direct benefit of the company, its owners, controllers, principal executives, representatives or any person carrying out management or supervisory activities, providing the crime was committed as a result of the company’s failure to comply with its duties as regards leadership and supervision. Similarly, the company is criminally liable if these crimes are committed by individuals under the direct supervision of any of the persons indicated above. The company’s duties as regards leadership and supervision are understood to have been fulfilled when, prior to the crime, it has adopted and implemented the Crime Prevention System required under Law Nº 20.393. For further information, see www.collahuasi.cl. 5.2. HOW WE ADDRESS CORRUPTION [SO2 · SO3 · SO4] implementation of the Crime Prevention Model required under Law Nº 20.393. This Model involves identification of the procedu[SO2] Collahuasi’s Human Resources Policy expressly menres for administering and auditing financial resources that allow tions business ethics and conflicts of interest, stating that: the organisation to prevent their use in the crimes indicated un“We demand compliance with our integrity rules at all times der Law Nº 20.393. and at all levels of the organisation as well as among the external collaborators that participate in the company’s operations Law Nº 20.393 by providing goods and services”. In 2010, in response to this law which came into force in late As a member of Chile Transparente, the Chilean Chapter 2009, Collahuasi implemented a Crime Prevention Model which of Transparency International, Collahuasi also adheres to its comprises the following elements: Code of Conduct which states that: “We reject corruption in • Appointment of a Crime Prevention Officer. all its forms because it causes poverty, creates social inequali• Provision of sufficient means and powers to the Crime ty, damages the environment and undermines democracy”. It Prevention Officer. is, in addition, important to note that all Collahuasi’s business • Creation of a Crime Prevention System (identification, evaluaunits are analysed for organisational risks related to corruption. tion, response, monitoring and reporting). [SO3] All Collahuasi’s supervisory personnel have been informed • Supervision of the Crime Prevention System. about and trained in the company’s Business Ethics and Conflict • Option of certifying the Crime Prevention System. of Interest Policy. In 2011, an audit took place of Collahuasi’s 42 The law refers to the crimes of money laundering, financing of terrorism and the bribery of any public official, either in Chile or overseas, and any Collahuasi employee aware of any of these crimes must report them through the company’s permanent channels of communication or by contacting the Crime Prevention Officer directly. 5.3. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM GOVERNMENT [EC4] [EC4] The total financial assistance received from the government over the past four years is shown in the table to the left: Variations in 2011 as compared to 2010 were a result of the following factors: 1. SENCE credit. The significant increase in the company’s own workforce in 2011 directly affected the upper limit of this tax credit for training which increases with the company’s payroll. 2. Credit for donations. The drop in this item was explained Total 2011 Total 2010 Total 2009 Total 2008 principally by the type of donations made during 2011 since each US$ US$ US$ US$ vehicle for donations has independent upper limits as regards thousand thousand thousand thousand the amount that can be used as a tax credit and as expenditure VAT export recovery -145,097 -20,932 128,920 50,667 for tax purposes. As a result, the significant use of one particular Tax credits and vehicle means that the upper limit for the tax credit (14,000 unireduction: dades tributarias mensuales ) is used up and, subsequently, the SENCE 843 613 294 235 differential is normally considered only as expenditure. * Credit for donations 1,141 2,255 1,600 742 2% royalty 0 0 3. Mining licences. This benefit corresponds to the part of a Mining licences 107 1,053 100 75 mining licence that can be imputed to provisional monthly tax 6% fixed asset credit 38 40 47 38 payments (PPMs) as mining exploitation licences in use. In 2011, Total -142,968 -16,970 130,961 51,757 the amount activated corresponds to that reported. Sustainable Development 43 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 6. Regulatory Compliance [SO8] [EN28] 6.1. MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Non-compliance Fine (Unidades Tributarias Environmental incidents described below were reported in the Mensuales) 2010 Report and the end of 2011 still remain as unsolved cases, Resolution N° 149 Section 3.2.2 500 which remain valid. Resolution N° 149 Section 4 100 In the case of the incident of outcrops and the efficiency of the Resolution N° 19 Section 3.1 (3.1.3) 500 system for final disposal of effluents at Patache and the procedure initiated by the Environmental Evaluation Service (SEA) to determiResolution N° 19 Section 4.2 100 ne and establish responsibilities and possible sanctions in relation to Resolution N° 167 Chapter 7, Point 7.3.7 100 the implementation of the following projects: (i) recovery of molybResolution N° 100 Section 4.3 Compliance ordered. denum from copper concentrates approved under Environmental The unidad tributaria mensual (UTM) varies monthly in line with inflation and, as of June 2012, was worth Permit (RCA) N°149/2004, (ii) nanofiltration plant approved under approximately US$80. These penalties were applied in 2010, and reported again in 2011 because the processes have not been closed. Environmental Permit (RCA) N°19/2008, and (iii) expansion to 110 During 2011 there were no environmental fines or penalties. ktpd approved under Environmental Permit (RCA) N°167/2001, In addition, the SEA ruled that: the SEA notified Collahuasi of the following fines and sanctions: • The effluent disposal system be restricted to the evaporation ponds and irrigation of the tree plantation, excluding all grass areas; • All interception trenches be closed, including that located at the northern edge of the tree plantation which dates back to 2000. 44 On 1 October 2010, the company filed the following admiinfractions within the stipulated period. The result of this appeal nistrative appeals: (i) an appeal to the SEA for reconsideration was pending at the date of completing this Report. and (ii) a supplementary administrative appeal to the Executive 4. In April 2011, during an inspection, the government’s SuperDirector’s Office of the SEA. As of completing this Report, rulings intendency of Electricity and Fuels (SEC) found that the expanon these appeals were still pending. sion area of the Pabellón del Inca Camp was receiving energy and In 2011, Collahuasi was subject to the following investigation by the in use without having complied with the obligation to report the health authorities: project at least 15 days beforehand. As a result, it imposed a fine of 50 unidades tributarias mensuales against which Collahuasi fiIn addition, in 2011 ended the health summary 271/2010 of the led an appeal for reconsideration to the SEC, the result of which Health Seremi Tarapacá Region, started in 2010, by the finding was pending at the time of completing this Report. of poor coverage of the landfill and odor emissions in plant wastewater treatment Coposa . By Resolution No. 108, November 5. The company was subject to an investigation by the health 2011, the Environmental Assessment Service declared the limiauthorities for declining to give Health Service inspectors access tation of actions to the medical records of employee Daniel Rojas Collao (R.I.P.). The Health Service imposed a fine of 10 unidades tributarias 6.2. LABOUR INCIDENTS AND INSPECTIONS mensuales against which the company filed an appeal (Rol 17941. In May 2011, a Collahuasi employee asked the government’s 2011) before the Second Civil Court of Iquique. As of completion Labour Inspection Service to determine whether the deductions of this Report, the parties had yet to be summoned to be informade by the company for advances on sick leave benefit were med of the result. legally correct or not. The company presented its defence but the Labour Inspection Service ruled that the deductions were not 6. An inspection visit as a result of the death of Rolando Culegally correct and, in response, Collahuasi filed a writ of amparo. billos (R.I.P.), an employee of Salfa Corp., led to an investigation by the Health Service, still underway, without a clear identifica2. In May 2010, as a result of site inspections, the Labour Instion of the charges. As well as presenting its defence, Collahuasi pection Service found that it had not been opportunely informed requested that the Council for Transparency oblige the Health of the (serious) accident that, on 26 April 2010, affected Iván Service to make the charges public, a request that was accepted Castillo, a Collahuasi employee, when a front loader tuck overby the Council. turned on the Phase 4 Ramp of the Rosario Pit. Under Resolution N° 4460/10/47, two fines of 50 unidades tributarias mensuales 7. In an inspection carried out on 18 and 19 August 2011, the each were imposed against which the company presented an adLabour Inspection Service found that the company’s attendance ministrative appeal whose result was pending at the date of comregister did not fulfil legal requirements and, under Resolution N° pleting this Report. 3493-11-26, imposed a fine. Collahuasi filed an appeal for reconsideration but this was rejected by the Labour Inspection Service 3. Following an inspection of the Pioneros Camp by the Labour and the company then filed an appeal (Rit I-36-2011) before the Inspection Service, the Health Service, the National Geology and First Civil Court of Iquique. Mining Service (SERNAGEOMIN) and the Mining Ministry’s Tarapacá Regional Office on 19 May 2010, the Labour Inspection Service issued Resolution Nº 6183/10/1 imposing eight fines of 40 unidades tributarias mensuales each. Collahuasi was notified on 25 May 2010 and presented an administrative appeal, requesting a reduction of the fine on the grounds that it had remedied the Sustainable Development 45 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Management Approach: Relations with Our Stakeholders [4.14 · 4.15 · 4.16] 1.1. AA1000 AUDIT • Suppliers For Collahuasi, relations with our different stakeholders are of • Shareholders crucial importance since they are what ensure the sustainability of our business over time. The company, therefore, hired BSD • Community Consulting to carry out an audit of their perceptions of the following aspects: • Authorities • Assurance of the three accountAbility criteria: Materiality, Through a process of dialogue, information was gathered from Inclusivity and Responsiveness these stakeholders in both Iquique and Santiago, with the exception of representatives of the unions of the company’s own em• Detection of opportunities for management improvements ployees and those of contractors with whom it was not possible to talk. • Optimisation of information gathered for the 2011 Sustainability Report. 1.2. SEAT STUDY [SO9 · SO10] Given Collahuasi’s interest in integral analysis of the social, The priority stakeholders considered in the audit were: economic and environmental impacts of its mining operations, • Employees a study was carried out using the Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) in order to identify these impacts on the basis 50 of information provided by the company and from other primary tory and development. This research included four communities and secondary sources. This study was carried out by the Casa de in the Andean Plateau of the Tarapacá Region Collacagua, Lirila Paz Foundation. ma, Salar del Huasco and Salar de Coposa and three fishing communities and/or villages Caleta Río Seco, Caleta Chanavaya and The SEAT study examined three types of impacts: environCaleta Caramucho located to the south of the city of Iquique. mental, economic and social. In order to gather information, interviews were carried out with over 130 representatives of social 1.3. SUSTAINABILITY WORKSHOP organisations, public institutions and other stakeholders in 22 In December 2011, Collahuasi launched a course designed to towns and villages in the Tarapacá Region. In addition, 11 comenhance the incorporation of sustainability and corporate social respany executives were interviewed. ponsibility (CSR) principles, policies and practices into its culture and Complementing the SEAT study, research was also carried out the day-to-day running of its business. during September and October 2011 in order to build a cultural The course used a Blended E-Learning methodology and lasprofile of communities in the Andean Plateau and on the coast ted for 35 hours, divided into three modules between December and understand the socio-cultural processes involved in their his2011 and January 2012. What is SEAT? The Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) seeks to improve a company’s understanding of the positive and negative impacts of its operations, contribute to more structured dialogue with the players that form part of the context for these operations and enhance the company’s ability to manage social issues and be at the forefront of transparency and accountability at the local level. This first SEAT study in Collahuasi’s area of influence gathered social information on the ground, compiling data about environmental impacts and systematising the economic information available. The course’s importance lies in the transfer of Collahuasi’s Sustainability and CSR Policy and its concepts to key personnel such as executives and supervisors. Knowledge of these issues and their relevance is key for fostering an organisational culture that contributes to sustainability and the integration of CSR principles and practices into each area of its operations. Representatives of the company’s different areas participated in the course: • Collahuasi Educational Foundation • Procurement • Community Relations • Water Resources • Human Resources • Shipment and Logistics • Strategic Inputs and Energy • Finance • Safety and Occupational Health • Legal Affairs • Contracts • Environment The first day of the course consisted in participative exercises during which the participants identified critical issues for Chile’s mining industry which also coincided with the material issues identified in the process of preparing this Report. Sustainable Development 51 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Seminar on Transparency in Iquique 2. Corporate Governance Board of Directors Chairman * Charlie Sartain xstrata copper Anglo american japan collahuasi resources B.v. Directors Deputy Directors Deputy Director Deputy Directors Directors Director Charlie Sartain Peter Forrestal Miguel Ángel Durán Vergara Felipe Purcell Douds Naotaka Hayashi Koji Kawamura (Australian) Marcelo Jo López (Chilean) Barry Murphy (Japanese) Louis Irvine Alberto Olivero John Fraser Mackenzie Alejandro Mena Frau (Australian) (South African) Roberto Darouiche James Edward Beams (Argentine) (South African) Note: The Chairman of the Board changes each year, alternating between a representative of Xstrata Copper and Anglo American. As of 31 December 2011, Charlie Sartain occupied this position. Decision-Making System of Directors’ Committees All organisations have in place processes and structures for taking Extended Executive Executive Committee decisions. As part of its organisational Committee (EXCO) governance, Collahuasi has the following system of committees: Sustainability Committee Collahuasi Major Projects Committee Risk Review Process Human Resources Committee Committee [4.1] [4.3 · 4.5] As described in the Our Company chapter of this Report, Collahuasi’s directors do not receive remuneration Collahuasi is a contractual mining company owned by Anglo from the company. They do not, therefore, have an economic American plc, Xstrata Copper and Japan Collahuasi Resources interest in the company or other potential benefits from it and B.V. Its Board of Directors is formed by representatives of these this independence protects them from conflicts of interest. In three companies: addition, they are not subject to evaluation by Collahuasi. [4.2] [4.6] The role of the directors is principally to lead the business, The company’s bylaws and Shareholders Agreement reapplying principles that are in accordance with the guidelines and gulate relations among shareholders and between Collahuasi standards agreed and adopted by Collahuasi’s shareholders. The and its shareholders, setting out the corresponding guidelines. directors are senior executives of the shareholder companies and do not hold executive posts in Collahuasi. Sustainable Development 55 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. Our Employees Workforce Turnover 2,784 8.3% 579 people left the workforce growth direct employees in 2011 company in 2011. In 2011, the company’s workforce (excluding apprentices) inCollahuasi’s people are its principal asset and their commitment creased by 8.3% on the previous year, equivalent to 219 additioand collaboration are essential for the development of a sustainanal employees. ble mining operation. For this reason, the company implements Turnover initiatives that contribute to the wellbeing and progress of its em[LA2] In 2011, 579 people left the company, up by 492 people ployees and their families. on 2010. As a result, the rolling turnover rate increased to 11.5%. Collahuasi’s vision identifies people as a priority, establishing that Classification the company seeks to be a “preferred employer” that offers them [LA13] Out of the company’s 2,638 direct employees, 89 were the opportunity to develop their skills, with flexibility and leaderswomen, representing 3.37% of the workforce. Among the hip, in order to address the challenges of the future. company’s executives, there were four women, equivalent to 3.1. Principales Cifras 4.17% of this category. Women’s participation was highest at the professional level where it reached 13.28%. It should be noted Workforce that the participation of women showed no significant change [LA1] As of the end of 2011, Collahuasi had 2,638 direct emploon 2010. However, the incorporation of a woman vice-president yees, including those with indefinite and fixed-term contracts. As of Ana Salazar as V-P for Plant Operations marked an important December, 146 apprentices were also employed at the company. In milestone. addition, 7,571 contractors’ employees were working at Collahuasi, either in operations or projects.. 58 Classification 11.5% 89 women were turnover rate in 2011 employed directly by Collahuasi in 2011. Origin of Collahuasi’s employees 51% Tarapacá Region 18% Other regions 13% Antofagasta Region 11% Arica and Parinacota Region 7% Santiago Region Sustainable Development 59 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Origin of new hires 2009 2010 2011 Arica and Parinacota Region 11% 7% 7% Tarapacá Region 58% 42% 44% Antofagasta Region 11% 19% 22% Santiago Region 5% 11% 8% Other regions 15% 21% 19% 3.2. LOCAL HIRING [EC7] Since the start of its operations, Collahuasi has sought to contribute to the development of the Tarapacá Region and neighbouring regions by giving priority to hiring people from these areas. In 2011, it hired 131 new employees of whom 44% were from the Tarapacá Region. In addition, the company seeks to promote local employment through a number of other initiatives such as the Apprentices Programme and the scholarships it provides for students at the Mining Technological Centre (CTM). Apprentices Programme The Apprentices Programme is a government plan for the training of young people that seeks to provide them with the skills required for their insertion into the labour market. Collahuasi views the Programme as a concrete opportunity to contribute to the development of young people from the Tarapacá Region and the far north of Chile in general and, at the same time, to prepare professionals for the company’s own future. In 2011, 77 young people received certification and came from the following communities: • Camiña · 1 • Pica · 11 • Calama · 11 • Colchane · 2 • Pozo Almonte · 18 • La Serena · 1 • Huara Pisagua · 4 • Alto Hospicio · 12 • Tierra Amarilla · 1 • Iquique · 11 • Chañaral · 1 • Total · 77 • Ollagüe · 1 • Copiapó · 3 60 3.3 Benefits and quality of life[LA3] Benefits 2011 • Scholarships for dependent children, administered by CCAF de Los Andes • Severance pay based on years of service (with no upper limit on years or income, starting from the second year) • Contribution to employee’s pension savings (2% of base wage from the company and 1% from the employee) • Inflation-indexed base wage (100% of consumer price index) • Soft loans • Life insurance (24 and 48 SB) • Medical and dental insurance (company pays 100% of premium) Benefits for supervisors with • School accident insurance indefinite contract • Housing assistance • Academic Excellence Scholarships for employees’ children • Academic Excellence Scholarships for employees • Complementary benefits • Performance bonus • Holiday bonus • Scholarships for studying English abroad for employees’ children • Optional talks, courses and/or seminars related to the business • Preventive medical examination. • Contribution to employee’s pension savings (2% of base wage from the company and 1% from the employee) • Inflation-indexed base wage (100% of consumer price index) • Life insurance (24 and 48 SB) Benefits for supervisors with • Hospitalisation insurance (company pays 100% of premium) fixed-term contract • School accident insurance • Holiday bonus. • Severance pay based on years of service (with no upper limit on years or income, starting from the second year) • Contribution to employee’s pension savings (2% of base wage from the company and 1% from the employee) • Life insurance (24 and 48 SB) • Medical and dental insurance (company pays 100% of premium) • School accident insurance • Housing assistance • Educational scholarships: preschool, primary, secondary and university Benefits for operators and • Assistance for purchase of school materials maintenance and administrative • Preventive medical examination personnel • Leave of absence in excess of legal rights • Academic Excellence Scholarships for employees’ children • Higher education scholarships for employees • Higher education scholarships for spouse or partner • Mortgages • Replacement bonus • Emergency or force majeure bonus. [EC3] The Collective Agreement signed in December 2010 (for 42 months) includes benefits in terms of contributions to the pension funds (Voluntary Saving Fund or Defined Contribution Fund) of different employee categories (Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement). In 2011, a programmed exit plan, also established in the Collective Agreement, was implemented at the agreed rate of ten employees per year in addition to some exceptional cases. Sustainable Development 61 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Labour relations 1,416 40% of contractors’ direct employees are union members. employees belong to a union. Type of agreement 2010 2011 Union 1 Agreement 1,239 1,416 Without agreement 642 815 2010 individual agreement, union 310 0 members 2010 individual agreement 195 15 Union 1 similar extensions 33 389 Total 2,419 2,635 3.4. Labour relations [LA4] Out of Collahuasi’s total workforce, 54% is covered by a co[HR5] The company’s Labour Relations area has a unit responllective agreement. This far exceeds Chile’s average rate of union sible for ensuring compliance with the regulation in force and membership which, according to the International Labour Orgawhich also promotes the implementation of best labour practices nization (ILO), reached 11.7% in 2010. by the company’s contractors as well as respect for workers’ freedom of association and expression. For Collahuasi, the right to 3.5. EDUCATION AND TRAINING [LA10] freedom of association is a core value as expressed in Article Nº In 2011, Collahuasi’s employees received 302,102 hours 52 of its Internal Order, Health and Safety Norms: “The most abof training, representing an average of 108.5 hours per capita. solute autonomy of trade unions in relation to the company and, Average hours of training for different employee categories are if more than one exist, each other will be safeguarded; similarly, shown in the table on the next page: the free exercise of the right to trade union affiliation and disaffi[LA11] liation and workers’ welfare, whether union members or not, will In 2011, training focused on the following topics: be protected”. Internal training courses: [MM4] Nonetheless, Collahuasi suffered two partial stoppages of • Career Development Programme, based on skills. its operations by groups of workers in 2011. Lasting 24 hours, they occurred on 30 July and 28 November and, given that they • Courses on specific mine/plant equipment. did not form part of a collective bargaining process, were illegal. 62 Training 108.5 average hours of training were received by Collahuasi employees in 2011. • Work Post Training Programme (apprentices in plant main• Free-choice course benefit. tenance, mine maintenance, leaching maintenance and mine • Seminars and congresses. operations). • Language courses. • Diploma in Management Skills. • Equipment driving licence courses. • Diploma in Contract Administration. [LA12] In 2011, Collahuasi evaluated the performance of most of its • Emergency Brigade Training Programme. executives and supervisors, representing a total of 648 employees. It • Courses for reinforcement of basic skills. should be noted that new hires are not considered here since, under their contracts, they receive their first evaluation after six months • Courses on critical equipment. with the company. Financing of external training or education: • Higher education scholarships for employees. • Postgraduate funding benefit. Training by employee Employees Hours Average hours category 2009 2010 2011 *2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Total employees 2,221 2,503 2,784 252,871 294,532 302,102 113.9 117.7 108.5 Executives 82 91 96 4,318 2,455 72.6 47.5 25.5 Supervisors 469 530 674 34,956 34,223 63.4 66.0 50.7 Operators / maintenance 1,670 1,882 2,014 255.258 265,424 130.3 135.6 131.7 personnel *In 2009, only average hours were reported. Sustainable Development 63 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Evaluation Women Men Total % Nº % Nº % Nº Supervisors 11.2% 62 88.8% 492 85.5% 554 Executives 3.2% 3 96.8% 91 14.5% 94 TOTAL 10% 65 90% 583 100% 648 3.6. WAGE RATIO while, among operators, there was virtually no difference. Data for 2011 is set out in the table below: Men-women wage ratio [EC5] The lowest wage received by a Collahuasi apprentice in [LA14] In order to determine the ratio of men’s wages to those of 2011 was twice Chile’s legal minimum wage (set annually for women, each wage range was separated and the average wage rethe period from 1 July to 30 June). This underlines the company’s ceived by each group was calculated. This enabled wages to be comcommitment to developing competent and motivated personnel. pared at the same level of responsibility or for the same functions. The largest difference was among supervisors where it reached 36% Wage differences by employee category and gender Average base wage Nº of employees Difference % 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Women 5,047,264 5,392,137 5,958,639 3 3 4 Executives 2% 11% 15% Men 5,175,869 5,994,844 6,875,527 88 81 87 Women 2,761,973 2,198,946 2,182,086 54 63 79 Supervisors -2% 25% 36% Men 2,711,393 2,745,688 2,974,969 417 498 589 Operators and Women 1,044,954 913,840 1,152,269 9 6 6 -2% 18% 1% administrative Men 1,028,597 1,081,831 1,159,560 1.650 1.777 1.862 personnel 64 Legal Minimum Monthly Wage (MMW): 172,000 pesos 2009 2010 2011 Standard Difference with Standard Difference with Standard Difference with entry-level MMW entry-level MMW entry-level MMW wage wage wage Apprentices 330,00 100% plus 330,000 92% plus 364,000 100% plus Trainees 644,508 291% plus 693,136 303% plus 718,525 295% plus Operators (entry-level) 784,446 375% plus 835,072 386% plus 865,660 376% plus Sustainable Development 65 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Our Suppliers and Contractors 100% As of end-2011, Collahuasi had 7,571 operations and projects contractors as well as 1,089 staff contractors, distributed 34% Development and 33% Operations and staff 21% Operations 12% Staff areas among the different areas of its projects Vice-Presidency operations as shown below: 4.1. GUIDELINES FOR RELATIONS WITH SUPPLIERS The bases for Collahuasi’s relations with its suppliers are esta[HR1 · HR2] In line with this, the company establishes contractual reblished in the company’s Contractual Policy. This defines the role quirements for its suppliers which come into force as from the tender of contractors, the norms on commercial relations and the principrocess. The contracts signed by the company explicitly state that pal criteria governing the process for hiring services. the services supplied must always comply with all the applicable laws and regulation. In line with the corresponding laws and regulation, contractors are Purpose of the Contractual Policy also required to maintain a complete statistical record of workplaTo establish the principles regulating commercial ce accidents and professional illnesses and to make this information relations with suppliers of tangible and intangible available to the relevant authorities and to Collahuasi whenever it is goods, including those suppliers who provide services requested. or carry out work under a service contract or, in other words, contractors, in order to make efficient use of the company’s own resources and those available in the The External Services Department of the company’s Human market that are required for its operations. Resources area carries out a monthly review of contractors’ compliance with their labour obligations towards employees. It also verifies the existence of work contracts and ensures that these comply with the legislation in force. 68 4.2. JOINT INITIATIVES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL gion, the Mining Ministry, the Regional Government (GORE), the SUPPLIERS government’s Economic Development Agency (CORFO) and the 1. Joint initiatives with the Iquique Industrialists’ Association and Iquique Industrialists’ Association for the joint implementation of the other mining companies in the Tarapacá Region Programme for the Development of Local Capabilities with the aim In 2011, Collahuasi worked together with the Iquique Industrialists’ of improving the management of suppliers with headquarters in the Association (AII) and four other mining companies in the Region to Region and increasing the business they do with mining companies. design a joint project for the development of local suppliers, enhancing 2. Participation in ExpoMinera del Pacífico the quality of their goods, services and compliance and, therefore, their Collahuasi has participated in every version of ExpoMinera del ability to enter into commercial relations with Collahuasi and the rest of Pacífico, a Tarapacá Region mining fair that is a key marketing the Region. It should be noted that Collahuasi participates actively in the platform for the industry in northern Chile. The Company will Iquique Industrialists’ Association of which the company’s Community participate in the fourth version. Relations Manager, Luciano Malhue, is a director. Objective Objective • To generate an opportunity for the Tarapacá Region’s mining • To increase the number of suppliers with headquarters in the industry to do business, build networks and exchange informaregion that are in a position to form commercial relations with Cotion and knowledge, working in collaboration with Collahuasi’s llahuasi through competitive processes and compliance with the regional allies and projecting the mining industry into the Asiacompany’s requirements. Pacific region. Results 2011 For further information, see www.expomineradelpacifico.com. • As of completion of this Report, an agreement had been signed by Collahuasi, other mining companies in the Tarapacá ReSustainable Development 69 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. Abastecimiento Minero meeting with suppliers from a more strategic standpoint. It has, therefore, The latest Abastecimiento Minero (Mining Supply) meeting, created a Supplier Development area whose principal function held in 2011, was supported by the System for Qualification of will be to strengthen the company’s relations with its suppliers Suppliers of Goods and Services (SICEP) and the Programme for of goods and services, generating an improvement in the busiImproving Mining Competitiveness (PMC). The meeting proviness to the benefit of all the parties and thereby contributing to des an opportunity for each company to set out its standards for the development of communities in the region where Collahuasi supplier development and continuous improvement. has its radius of action. The aim is to progress through different stages in the quest for integration of the value chain, seeking a Objectives change of paradigm from the traditional type of relations bet• To generate opportunities for suppliers to meet ween companies to ways of relating that create value added. Collahuasi and other mining companies in the Tarapacá Region. Collahuasi launched its Supplier Development Programme • To report innovations in the SICEP for the Tarapacá and (PDP) in 2008, with co-financing from the Chilean government’s Arica and Parinacota Regions, to update procurement policy Economic Development Agency (CORFO), and over 30 compaprocedures and to present the investment and growth plans nies have participated. In 2011, three specific programmes were of mining companies. developed with the participation of over 40 companies: • Development Programme for Suppliers of Goods. 4.3. SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT In view of its current production challenges and investment • Development Programme for Direct Contractors. projects, Collahuasi understands that it must intensify its work • Development Programme for Transport Suppliers. 70 Development Programme for Development Programme for Development Programme for Suppliers of Goods Direct Contractors Transport Suppliers The objective of this programme, which This programme, which is under This project, which was completed in December is under implementation, is to improve implementation, seeks to improve the 2011, focused on the development of 8 local management of the supply cycle and its management capabilities of contractors and suppliers of transport services (small and Description and quality in 15 regional Collahuasi suppliers the quality of their services to Collahuasi. It has mid-sized enterprises). It sought to strengthen participants in order to strengthen and maintain a regional scope and involves 18 suppliers of strategic, commercial and sustainability aspects commercial relations. different sizes from different sectors. of the businesses, with a particular emphasis on safety. To strengthen the suppliers’ business To strengthen the suppliers’ management, To strategically develop the transport management, generate a business model coordinate opportunities for immediatecompanies participating in the project; for them and achieve immediate-impact impact improvements in the service or to develop the companies’ vision Expected improvements in aspects of coordination contract and generate in the suppliers a of the sustainability of the business results and commercial relations within the supply Service Management Model, enabling them and to strengthen their commercial cycle. to internalise measurement practices using management, allowing them to provide a Key Performance Indicators that allow them high-quality service. to understand the way the service is being provided and its dynamics. Progress 6.5% progress in activities which are 56.1% progress; completion scheduled for The project was completed in December scheduled to conclude in February 2013. September 2012. 2011. The programme has a total budget of The programme has a total budget of The project had a budget of 53,499,889 Budget 60,799,800 pesos of which half was co94,981,317 pesos of which 30.55% is copesos of which half was co-financed by financed by CORFO. financed by CORFO. CORFO. Regional Agreement for the Development of World-Class Suppliers In 2011, Collahuasi and four other mining companies signed a regional agreement under which they undertook to strengthen and support the Programme for the Development of World-Class Suppliers launched by Chile’s Mining Ministry. The aim of the agreement is to permit more suppliers from the Tarapacá Region to participate in the programme and also allow them to consider international expansion. The agreement stipulates that: • The signatory companies undertake to participate in the Programme for the Development of World-Class Suppliers launched by the Mining Ministry. • Each mining company will take on a number of suppliers from the Region each year in a bid to ensure that, by 2020, Chile has 250 world-class suppliers. • As this Report was being completed, a new agreement was signed by the Region’s mining companies, the Mining Ministry, the Regional Government (GORE), the government’s Economic Development Agency (CORFO) and the Iquique Industrialists’ Association (AII) with the aim of identifying a methodology suited to each company for the implementation of this type of worldclass supplier projects. The project seeks to resolve the specific challenges seen at mine sites and in new projects, the solution of which would have significant value for Collahuasi’s business, doing so in collaboration with suppliers that want and have the potential to become “world-class” companies, including universities and technological centres. General objective In 2011, the above progress was achieved by the company’s The Supplier Development Programme seeks to support Supplier Development Programmes: suppliers in the Tarapacá Region so that they improve their management capabilities, the quality of their services and management of the supply cycle, putting them in a better position to address the company’s challenges. These programmes are aligned with Collahuasi’s strategic objectives. Sustainable Development 71 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Summary of Supplier Development Programme (PDP) Collahuasi External Nº of participant Total cost % invested % financed investment as investment as companies (pesos) by externally of December of December Collahuasi 2011 (pesos) 2011 (pesos) Goods Suppliers 15 60,799,800 50 50 0 0 Programme Transport Suppliers 8 53,499,889 50 50 15,973,755 15,973,755 Programme Direct Contractors 18 94,761,500 69.45 30.55 15,402,274 6,775,227 Programme 4.4. IMPROVEMENTS FOR OUR CONTRACTORS As part of the improvements in conditions for worksite conCollahuasi employs contractors in its production process and in tractors implemented in 2011, Collahuasi signed an agreement specific projects and, due to their work in these processes, consiwith the National Industrial Assembly Workers Union (SINAMI) ders them key collaborators in the company’s operations. that set a new precedent in Chile’s mining industry. Given the importance of the roles played by its contractors, In addition, improvements were made in infrastructure, with Collahuasi seeks to ensure that working conditions for their ema favourable impact on conditions for contractors’ employees, ployees are similar to those of its own workforce. To this end, it including accommodation, meals and recreation facilities. These not only fosters opportunities for contact with its collaborators infrastructure projects were managed by Collahuasi’s Services for but also permanently monitors the contracts of contractors in People area and were as follows: order to ensure compliance with the regulation in force. Collahuasi and the National Industrial Assembly Workers Union (SINAMI), as a union that represents employees of contractors that provide services to Collahuasi, declared their will and intention to maintain permanent dialogue within a framework of respect between the parties in order to generate and maintain a proper work climate and treatment for contractors’ employees at the company’s sites. Under the terms of the agreement: • Collahuasi will pay a variable incentive to contractors’ employees tied to compliance with certain Key Performance Indicators or milestones, depending on the project. This will be paid once the project has been completed and will apply to work with a duration of at least six months. • At Collahuasi’s sites, exceptional work and rest systems may be established depending on the type of service, the place it is provided, legal regulation and authorisation from the corresponding labour authorities. • As a general reference, priority will be given to the exceptional 10 x 10 system (with 12 hours of work) at all construction sites located at more than 3,000 metres above sea level. However, depending on the nature and/or particular conditions of projects, a different system may be agreed upon. • At sites at less than 3,000 metres above sea level, the exceptional working day will continue to be regulated according to the procedures established by the corresponding authorities. 72 Project Status and m2 built Industrial Neighbourhood (for suppliers and contractors) Completed. Construction of 15,000 m2. Expansion and remodelling of 1000 Canteen, Ujina sector Completed and in operation. Remodelling of 1,200 m2. Expansion and remodelling of Pioneros Canteen, Coposa Completed and in operation. sector Remodelling of 1,250 m2. Expansion and remodelling of Leaching Canteen Completed and in operation. Remodelling of 100 m2. Expansion of Puerto Patache Canteen, Patache sector Completed and in operation. Expansion of 150 m2. Construction of new pavilions, Pioneros Camp Completed and in operation. Construction of 12 S-type buildings and 5 W-type buildings. Total area built of 26,860 m2. Construction of Recreation Room Completed and in operation. Construction of 512 m2. Construction of covered walkways Completed. Construction of 900 linear metres of walkways. Expansion and remodelling of Pioneros Gym Completed. Remodelling of 340 m2. Construction of Multimedia Room Completed. Remodelling of 130 m2. Construction of Pioneros Pub Completed. Remodelling of 200 m2. Construction of Wing G Building, Pabellón del Inca Completed. Construction of 8,100 m2. Construction of multi-purpose rooms, Pabellón del Inca Completed. Construction of 528 m2. Construction of Wing F Building, Pabellón del Inca Under implementation. Construction of 7,300 m2. Sustainable Development 73 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 5. Our Community Investment by Location 2010 2011 Municipal District (US$) (US$) Iquique $ 5,393,727 $ 3,331,158 Alto Hospicio $ 453,145 $ 106,542 Pica $ 1,526,133 $ 1,737,831 Pozo Almonte $ 268,694 $ 157,436 Huara, Pisagua and $ 121,636 $ 98,018 Tarapacá Colchane and Camiña $ 74,788 Cancosa and Lirima $ 19,041 Huatacondo $ 597,265 $ 272,771 Laguna del Huasco $ 163,522 Fishing villages $ 278,613 $ 367,155 Santiago $ 315,278 $ 475,284 Tarapacá Region $ 4,150,716 $ 7,212,257 TOTAL $ 13,362,558 $ 13,758,453 Investment by Location (US$) Note: Does not include small donations, community programmes or sponsorships. 52% Tarapacá Region 24% Iquique 13% Pica 3% Santiago 3% Fishing villages 2% Huatacondo 1% Alto Hospicio 1% Pozo Almonte 1% Huara, Pisagua and Tarapacá [SO9] [SO10] 5.1.COMMUNITY RELATIONS POLICY AND APPROACH 5.2. SOCIAL INVESTMENT Collahuasi’s approach to community relations is defined in the Under the company’s Community Relations and Corporate Affairs company’s Community Relations and Corporate Affairs Policy, which is Policy and in compliance with one of its strategic objectives which one of its five Sustainable Development Policies. calls for “the sustainable performance of our operations”, the following strategic objectives have also been defined: Collahuasi is committed to the development and empowerment of the communities of the Tarapacá Region and has put this commitment 1. To project the business over the length of its useful life. into practice through initiatives that seek to improve the quality of life of 2. To make sustainable contributions to the Tarapacá Region. their inhabitants. 3. To strengthen intangible assets such as reputation, credibility, Collahuasi recognises its position as the Region’s leading ecotrust and transparency. nomic player and takes an active role in relations with communities close to its operations through the implementation of sustainable development projects. In 2011, Collahuasi modified its mechanism for assigning funds for entrepreneurship, giving priority to community investment funds. Collahuasi has defined its areas of direct influence as those that form part of its The activities of the working groups were also logistics corridors, that are close to its mining deposits and that are subject to strengthened in order to increase the number potential economic impact. The logistics corridors are those areas used by vehicles of initiatives they generate. These modifications related to its operations and include the coastal area, the Pica municipal district and followed the application of the SEAT methodoall the communities within this district as well as the cities of Iquique, Alto Hospicio logy in 2010 and the presentation of its results and Pozo Almonte. in 2011. Investment by Strategic Product 2010 2011 Product (US$) (US$) Arts, culture and heritage $ 6,252,979 $ 3.694,000 Entrepreneurship and job $ 115,445 $ 429,167 creation Sports and health $ 219,779 $ 1,930,523 Education $ 2,481,809 $ 4,194,701 Social development $ 1,592,930 $ 3,242,336 Environment $ 350,626 $ 267,126 Sports * $ 2,348,990 Total $ 13,362,558 $ 13,758,453 * In 2011, donations in the area of sports were included under health. Investment by Strategic Product, 2011 (US$) 30% Education 27% Arts, culture and heritage 24% Social development 14% Sports and health 3% Entrepreneurship and job creation 2% Environment The following strategic areas were defined for the pursuit of 5.3. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT [SO1 · EC8] these objectives: In 2011, a protocol was drawn up for the implementation of the programmes, projects and funds that Collahuasi makes avai• Arts, culture and heritage lable for the development of different communities or stakehol• Entrepreneurship and job creation ders. This protocol seeks to facilitate the development of the • Education initiatives envisaged in the different strategic areas as defined by • Social development the Community Relations area and, in this way, comply with the • Environment company’s social responsibility programme. • Sports • Health In future, activities will be generated through the following mechanisms that form part of the protocol which stipulates that they The company’s investment in community relations projects in must be projects of a community nature or benefit, not those of indithese areas reaches over US$13 million. viduals (see table on the next page). Collahuasi defines a stakeholder as those individuals and/or public or private institutions whose physical surroundings are or may be In 2011, the focus of the company’s direct social investment affected by its activities. The company’s Community Relations area in the community changed, with educational initiatives is responsible for ensuring that projects are aligned with its strategy, accounting for 30% of the total, up from 18% in 2010. the views of the communities and the development of the Tarapacá Region. Sustainable Development 77 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM At the request of communities, At the request of or under agreeAs the result of a request from within As a result of an award by one stakeholders or the company’s ments reached in working groups or the company; in this case, the activity of the company’s Social Invesstrategic partners. community meetings. In some special will be considered as part of corporate tment Funds. This mechanism Mechanism cases and in view of the characterisvolunteer activities and must also be was modified in 2011. In this tics of some communities, projects previously evaluated and approved by case, the award must be made in may benefit a community that conthe Human Resources Vice-Presidenaccordance with the procedure sists of a family group whose initiative cy. Initiatives may not take the form of each particular fund. These seeks to foster ties of collaboration of handouts. funds support initiatives devewith other communities or organisaloped by individuals but that will tions. have an impact on the community where they are implemented. All the projects implemented form part of a Five-Year Plan improvement of agricultural irrigation canals in order to increase which is reviewed and updated annually as part of the company’s the efficiency of water use in both Pica and Matilla. Springs in budgeting process. the area had not been measured and the sectors where water was withdrawn were in poor condition. In response, work began The requests and needs of communities are identified through with the National Hydraulics Institute to implement a system to the working groups that Collahuasi has established in different measure and control the flow of water in the area’s main sources towns and villages in the Tarapacá Region. These serve as a vehiin a bid to facilitate water management for the development of cle for working with the community to draw up programmes and agriculture. The main points selected for monitoring were: initiatives that benefit the local economy, promoting the Region’s development in line with the company’s own growth. • Miraflores Spring The most important projects implemented in 2011 are shown • Resbaladero Spring on the next page. • Matilla Outcrop • Concova Spring Project for improvement of the Pica and Matilla irrigation canals • Las Ánimas Spring. In the working group established by Collahuasi with farmers This project was designed jointly with the National Hydraulics Insin Pica and Matilla, the Pica Farmers’ Association requested titute. In 2011, studies for the project were carried out and water the company’s technical support to design a project for the 78 Most Important Projects Community Issue Programmes and Initiatives • Improvement in marketing of products of the Course on negotiation and marketing. Chanavayita Fishermen’s Union. Support for work to certify the areas exploited by the Chanavayita Fishermen’s Union. Coastal area • Certification of fishing area. Definition of a portfolio of short, medium and long-term projects • Technical advice on preparation of productive and their implementation. projects. • Electricity generation. Maintenance and technical support from the University of Chile Huatacondo for the ESUSCON system • Improvement of irrigation canals. Legal regularisation of the Canal Resbaladero, Alto Grande, Altillo Chico and Miraflores Water User Communities. • Mitigation of white fly plague. Preparation of four projects to improve irrigation infrastructure: • Productive projects. • Installation of meteorological stations. • Improvement of irrigation canals. • Work Post Training Programme of practical • Installation of instruments to measure the Resbaladero, experience and courses. Pica-Matilla-Huasco Miraflores, Las Ánimas, Concova and Matilla Springs farmers • Repair and improvement of the Miraflores Subsidence structure. Start of construction of irrigation improvement infrastructure Implementation of second year of the white fly plague mitigation programme. Professional work experience for technical training graduates Selection process for Work Post Training course. flow measurement equipment was installed with, in the latter case, Relations with indigenous communities an investment of 36,391,625 pesos. The studies implemented incluAs stated in the one of the principles of its Community Reladed the gathering of topographical information, the legal regularisations and Corporate Affairs Policy, Collahuasi is particularly contion of the water user communities and the preparation of projects cerned for neighbouring communities and indigenous peoples. for presentation to the National Irrigation Commission. Another initiative proposed through this working group involved [MM5] Within its area of influence, Collahuathe repair and improvement of the Miraflores Subsidence structure, si maintains relations with the communities which is now in the third stage of its construction. This project to of Pica, Huara, Pisagua, Colchane, Camiña, strengthen and stabilise the internal walls of the subsidence means Cancosa, Lirima and Huatacondo which inthat it has been possible to protect and maintain the flow of water clude members of indigenous peoples. to the agricultural sector of Miraflores. By using local labour, the initiative also provides a new source of jobs for Pica, adding value as a construction project as well as through its impact in improving agricultural irrigation. Sustainable Development 79 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Courtesy of La Estrella de Iquique In the context of Chile’s implementation of the International LaIn 2011, Collahuasi also worked directly with the Cancosa combour Organization’s Convention 169, Collahuasi has undertaken to munity in the implementation of two initiatives. The first, a joint contribute to improving the quality of life of communities and indiproject for the construction of a community centre of which the genous peoples in the area around its operations. company financed 50%, arose from dialogue with the community in which its needs and preferences were identified. The second project In a bid to contribute to the sustainable development of the Tainvolved the implementation of working groups for the developrapacá Region, Collahuasi works permanently with different NGOs ment of a tourism project in the area. Collahuasi has hired an external in order to address different aspects of community development. company to carry out accounting, financial and technical audits of These NGOs include the Corporación Norte Grande and the Frathese projects to ensure their optimum implementation. ternidad Ecológica Universitaria. In 2011, the former collaborated with Collahuasi in working with and gathering information about 5.4. ARTS, CULTURE AND HERITAGE [EC8] communities on the coast and indigenous communities while, with Collahuasi implements different programmes that seek to inFraternidad Ecológica Universitaria, an organisation that focuses crease the community’s access to the arts and promote the culon issues related to anti-personnel mines in the area, it worked to tural identity of the Tarapacá Region. Key initiatives in this field provide information and support for the community while also coinclude: llaborating with institutions such as the Foreign Ministry, municipal Inauguration of the Corbeta Esmeralda Museum governments and the Chilean Army. In May 2011, the Corbeta Esmeralda Museum was officially opened 80 in a ceremony attended by Minister of Defence Andrés Allamand and This is the largest cultural project to be developed in the Tarapacá Minister of Culture Luciano Cruz-Coke along with Giancarlo Bruno, Region with private participation and the first museum of its type in Executive President of Collahuasi, Admiral Rodolfo Codina, President Chile. It is managed by the Chilean Maritime Heritage Corporation of the Chilean Maritime Heritage Corporation, other civilian and miliwith support from Collahuasi for its maintenance. tary authorities and Collahuasi directors and executives. La Tirana Anthropological Museum The Museum, housed in a scale replica of the ship commanded by Collahuasi’s commitment to promoting culture and access to it Arturo Prat, was proposed by the company’s employees as a contriin the Tarapacá Region is also reflected in the construction of the bution from Collahuasi to celebration of the bicentenary of Chile’s La Tirana Anthropological Museum. This project seeks to preserindependence. ve the region’s culture and identity from a perspective of social and cultural dynamics that extends beyond popular religiosity. Implemented jointly with the Chilean Navy through the Chilean Located within the grounds of the La Tirana church, the muMaritime Heritage Corporation, the project seeks to contribute to seum has an area of 342 m2 and the walls of its main access will the education of future generations as well as to tourism in the Tabe painted with murals representing the Aymara culture and the rapacá Region and its economic development, helping to keep alive traditional activities of the area’s inhabitants. memory of the values represented by Chile’s national heroes. Sustainable Development 81 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Designed to form part of a heritage, religious and tourist cirAt the reopening and consecration of the San Andrés de Pica cuit, the museum contains clothing and other objects used in church, the Executive President of Collahuasi, Giancarlo Bruno, prereligious rituals, unique pieces brought to Chile by the Spaniards. sented its keys to Monsignor Marco Antonio Ordenes, highlighting Special sectors will also be created to display objects of value, the special importance the church has for the community and the with a system for reproducing the music of the La Tirana religious Tarapacá Region as part of its cultural and religious heritage. festival. The initiative also includes training for guides. • Investment in Pica Church: 402,400,000 pesos. • Investment in Huatacondo Church: 270,820,000 pesos. Restoration of the Pica and Huatacondo Churches In 2011, the churches of San Andrés de Pica and Huatacondo Murals in Iquique Airport were restored, repairing the important damage caused by different In 2011, Collahuasi, together with the Ministry of Public earthquakes as well as the passage of time. Works, the Sociedad Concesionaria Aerotas and the Saltpetre This project forms part of the company’s commitment to promoMuseum Corporation, implemented a project under which Ayting and conserving the area’s culture and reflects the great impormar Yuthawi, a leading local artist, and a group of young people, tance the churches have for the community from the cultural and painted three large murals in Iquique’s Diego Aracena Airport. religious points of view. The murals, which represent the region’s identity, decorate the In both cases, the company’s contribution was channelled through entrances to the airport which receives around 1 million visitors the Jofré Foundation, which drew up the plans for the churches’ resannually. toration and took charge of their implementation. 82 Collahuasi Launches Book on the Company’s History Published in 2011, Una Historia de Esfuerzo (A History of Effort) recounts the history of the Collahuasi deposit from its discovery and exploitation by the Incas through to its role today as the world’s largest copper deposit. The book was presented to the community at the company’s offices in Iquique. The launch was attended by regional authorities, members of the community, company employees and its Executive President, Giancarlo Bruno. Roberto Arancibia Clavel, a historian, and co-author Isabel Jara led the research which focused on the efforts made by thousands of people who, at different stages of Chile’s history, ventured out in a quest to discover the riches of the land. The initiative forms part of the third stage of the Murales para • Workshop 1: Basic Drawing II (continuation of Landscape I, 2010) Tarapacá (Murals for Tarapacá) project, which was launched in 2009 with murals on Avenida Arturo Prat in Iquique. • Workshop 2: Painting II (continuation of Painting I, 2010) • Workshop 3: Landscape Painting (development of techniques taught in Painting, with specialisation in Landscape). Pica Art Gallery This art gallery, which was inaugurated in 2010, reflects the interest expressed by different members of the Pica community in having a place to facilitate the development and promotion of local artists. In response, Collahuasi coordinated the creation of the Pica Art Gallery which serves not only as a place for the community to meet but also for training. In collaboration with the Art School of the Catholic University of Chile, three workshops for local artists took place in the gallery during 2011, building on the workshops implemented in 2010, with 15 pupils per workshop. The workshops held in 2011 were: Sustainable Development 83 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 5.5. COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENT Principal results: Site Visits • Donation of 2,000 trees, principally to neighbourhood In 2011, 27 guided visits took place to the company’s Cordillera associations and educational establishments. In addition, Site, with the participation of 447 people from the Pablo Neruda 1,500 plants were donated to the Pampa del Tamarugal Secondary School, the William Taylor Secondary School, the National Reserve. Luis Cruz Martínez Secondary School, the Arturo Part University • Community environmental education through: (UNAP), the INACAP technical training institute, the Santo Tomás University and the Chilean Navy as well as teachers from • 1st environmental seminar for secondary schoolchilschools that work with the Collahuasi Educational Foundation. dren and their teachers The main objective of these visits is to increase understanding of the company’s mining processes and the measures it has in • 3rd environmental fair at which different types of soplace to protect and care for the environment. lar cookers and ovens were shown to the community as well as touring educational establishments. Environmental education workshops for wetland conservation • Talks and/or workshops at educational establishments and institutions benefitting from the project, including As part of its efforts to increase public understanding and different workshops on reuse that were very popular with awareness of the environmental and heritage value of the area’s the community and in which 905 people participated. wetlands, the Centre for Wetland Research, an institution supported by Collahuasi, held a workshop on Citizen Education and • Improvements in educational establishments and instituAwareness for the Conservation and Rational Use of the Tarapacá tions through: Region’s Wetlands. This activity targeted representatives of private companies and was also attended by members of the media, • Implementation of systems for reusing grey water civil society in general, government institutions and educational at the Academia Santa Laura, the Camino Al Sol Nursery establishments. School and the Karitani Nursery School. Agreement with CONAF for environmental improvement in • Installation of plant nurseries and/or ecological Alto Hospicio rooms at the COANIL Foundation, the Monte Sion School An agreement signed three years ago by Collahuasi and Chile’s and the Espisant Language School. National Forestry Service (CONAF) seeks to promote the sustai5.6. SPORTS AND HEALTH [EC8] nability and development of the Alto Hospicio municipal district Collahuasi has undertaken to promote sports and contribute through training to increase the environmental awareness of its to the health of the Tarapacá Region’s inhabitants as a way of inhabitants and students. Since its launch, the project has provienhancing their quality of life. ded the community with over 8,000 plants but its most important contribution is the education it has provided through activiIn 2011, the company contributed to the repair of six all-purpose ties targeting different age groups. pitches of the following Neighbourhood Associations: 84 • Puquios 1 • Gómez Carreño • Dolores • Tamarugal 3 • Cariquima • Rubén Godoy This project, implemented in conjunction with the respective municipal governments, sought to promote local sports and to bring the community together around attractive facilities suitable for different activities. Together with the Pozo Almonte municipal government, Collahuasi also inaugurated a synthetic-grass football pitch in Huatacondo. At the end of 2011, construction of another football pitch with synthetic grass began in Iquique, a project that corresponds to 2010 funding for investment in sports and is expected to be completed in 2012. Infrastructure improvements in health centres Chile’s Health Ministry has allocated funds for different infrastructure improvements to health centres in the Tarapacá Region and, under an agreement with the Regional Government, Collahuasi undertook to contribute US$1 million for the design stage of these projects. This contribution will be used in: • Iquique Hospital • Alto Hospicio Hospital • Primary healthcare centres • Family healthcare centres • Local low-complexity hospitals Alliance with School of Medicine In a bid to attract health professionals to the Iquique Hospital, Collahuasi signed an agreement with the Catholic University of Chile under which it will finance a postgraduate scholarship for a student at the university’s School of Medicine. After completing his or her studies, the winner of the scholarship must work for the Iquique Health Service in a bid to ensure that, in the medium term, the community is provided with a specialist in internal medicine. • JJ.VV. Puquios 1 Sustainable Development 85 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Management Approach The Collahuasi Educational Foundation (FEC) is a non-profit With the aim of promoting social development, Collahuasi has institution, created by Compañía Minera Doña Inés de undertaken to contribute to improving education in the Tarapacá Collahuasi in 2008, whose mission is to make a sustained longRegion through the Collahuasi Educational Foundation (FEC). term contribution to improving education in the Tarapacá For the implementation of its programmes, the Foundation Region. In line with the company’s interest in supporting the uses a model under which it accompanies educational establishsustainable development of communities in the area close ments. This model is based on best practices in Chile as identified to its operations, its work focuses on technical-professional through research into the effectiveness of schools catering for education. pupils in a situation of vulnerability. As part of its strategy, the Foundation applies educational The diagram opposite illustrates the way in which the different practices of excellence and seeks to transmit its knowledge educational players and key variables are harnessed to enhance and experience to other primary and secondary schools pupils’ attainment: throughout the Region. It seeks primarily to serve the educational needs of the children of the most vulnerable sectors of the Region’s population and to foster their social integration. 88 Collahuasi Educational Foundation Model Collahuasi Educational Foundation School management Pupil learning Teachers (Quality) (Professionalisation) Family (Engagement) * For additional information about programmes and projects, see www.fundacioncollahuasi.cl. Sustainable Development 89 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2. Primary School Educational Improvement Programme [EC8] This programme seeks to improve the results of schools partiIn addition to these programmes, the Collahuasi Educational cipating in it through the gradual implementation of institutional Foundation also monitors schools and provides on-the-ground and learning management processes. It has so far been applied in support in the form of planning and follow-up meetings with 18 schools in the Iquique and Del Tamarugal Provinces. their owners and directors. In 2010, as a result of this follow-up process, it incorporated standardised measurement by indepenIt provides integral technical assistance on school managedent third parties and two strategies the UNICEF Involving Fament, with support for school directors and their teams, as well milies in Learning programme and the Entre Niños (Among Chilas teacher training designed to improve classroom strategies, dren) programme to engage families in their children’s school. class planning and educational evaluation. This process is also supported with an international-standard library donated by the 2.1. BOOSTING SCHOOLS PROGRAMME, APTUS CHILE. Foundation with a reading plan based on the school syllabus. The aim of this programme is to transfer school and learning management strategies, using methodologies based on the exThis technical assistance is provided by two institutions with tensive experience of the Sociedad de Instrucción Primaria (SIP), an established track record: Fundación Chile in the Del Tamaruand to develop capabilities that will allow the schools to maintain gal Province and Aptus Chile in the Iquique Province. They have their organisational change once the advisory process has been introduced a predictive measurement system that allows the completed. The programme is implemented by Aptus Chile, a schools to manage their pupils’ learning through tests of syllabus non-profit organisation that helps the country’s most vulneracoverage that are correlated with the results of the SIMCE natioble schools to improve the quality of the education they provide. nal pupil attainment testing system. 90 Activities in 2011 • Pedagogical advice for teachers from nursery school through to 4th year of primary school . • Targeting of efforts in the science sub-sector. • Follow-up in mathematics, language and communications. • Advice on school management, reinforcing the director’s leadership in the framework of the SIP Culture Model. en el marco del “Modelo de Cultura SIP”. In 2011, the programme had been in operation for three years, 2.2. BEST SCHOOL PROGRAMME IN THE TARAPACÁ REGION, achieving an important impact in: FUNDACIÓN CHILE This programme, designed to enhance educational attainment, is implemented by Fundación Chile in ten schools in Cami5 ña, Huara, Pica, Pozo Almonte and Colchane, towns and villages schools managed by the Municipal located in the Del Tamarugal Province. Education Corporation of Iquique (CORMUDESI). In 2011, it focused on teaching strategies in key subjects such as mathematics and language, the implementation of different measures tailored to the needs of each individual school and coordination with the Entre Niños programme, with an emphasis 3 on strategies that are reflected in pupil attainment. schools managed by the Alto Hospicio Municipal Government (MAHO). Although pupils’ results remain below their expected level in tests of syllabus coverage (adequate = over 60%), important progress had been achieved by 2011 as compared to 2008. Sustainable Development 91 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Involving Families in Learning UNICEF 2011 Objectives: • To increase the engagement of parents and guardians in children’s learning by improving institutional conditions and teachers’ skills. Entre Niños Programme, 2011 • To improve the attainment of pupils attending these Objective: schools. • To boost pupils personal and social development in accordance with their age, creating propitious conditions for learning. Progress: Result: • Municipal schools in Iquique and Alto Hospicio. • Development of teachers socio-emotional skills or use in class • Creation of institutional conditions and development management of the professional capabilities of teachers and school directors. • Facilitation of family-school relations and prevention of problems such as bullying. • Provision of methodologies and practical guidelines in parents’ and guardians’ areas of concern about children’s educational process. • Activity to improve parents’ meetings and boost the role of head teachers as a way of strengthening ties with pupils’ families. 2.3. IMPLEMENTATION OF SCHOOL LIBRARIES IN THE The plan of work designed for the second half of the year could DEL TAMARUGAL PROVINCE be implemented only partially since the airplane accident that occuThis initiative seeks both to produce children who are critical rred in the Juan Fernández Archipelago (September 2011) meant and thoughtful readers as well as to increase interest in reading in that access to the islands was closed for several months. In response, the community in general. In 2011, the second phase of the ProFundación Chile drew up a plan of work to restart the Programme. yecto Lector (Reader Project) initiative was implemented and li2.5. ENGAGING FAMILIES braries were provided for eight schools participating in the educaIn 2011, work continued on two programmes designed to tional improvement programme in the Del Tamarugal Province. engage families as a key factor in children’s learning processes. 2.4. BEST SCHOOL PROGRAMMES IN JUAN FERNÁNDEZ These are the UNICEF Involving Families in Learning programme AND NAVIDAD and the Entre Niños (Among Children) programme. In 2011, implementation of Fundación Chile’s Best Primary School and Secondary School Programme continued in the Juan 2.6. SEPA AND SIMCE RESULTS, 2011 Fernández Archipelago and the town of Navidad, respectively. An external and independent evaluation carried out in 2011 by This initiative builds on Collahuasi Educational Foundation’s work the Measurement Centre of the Catholic University of Chile (MIDE in the wake of the 2010 earthquake when it financed reconstrucUC), using its School Learning Assessment System (SEPA), provided tion of the two schools. valid and reliable information about pupils’ progress in language and mathematics. In 2011, the Best School Programme continued its implementation in the Robinson Crusoe Island School, involving both technical assistance and the deployment of improvement measures. 92 Results 2011 Language Mathematics School RBD Average VA Difference VA Difference Escuela Caleta Chanavayita 10916 10 10.6 0.6 10.6 0.6 Colegio Simón Bolívar 12632 10 6.1 -3.9 6.3 -3.7 Escuela Gabriela Mistral 111 10 9.8 -0.2 10.2 0.2 Escuela Placido Villarroel 114 10 5.3 -4.7 8.4 -1.6 Escuela Almirante Patricio Lynch 113 10 9.1 -0.9 10.7 0.7 Escuela Básica Estrella del Sur 12617 10 4.8 -5.2 7 -3 Escuela Básica Fronteriza de Colchane 178 10 10.3 0.3 10.3 0.3 Escuela Básica La Tirana 195 10 8.3 -1.7 9.3 -0.7 Escuela Básica de Pozo Almonte 193 10 9.4 -0.6 8.8 -1.2 Escuela Básica de Camiña 167 10 12 2 11.6 1.6 Escuela Matilla de Nueva Extremadura 188 10 7.3 -2.7 8.3 -1.7 Escuela San Andrés de Pica 12623 10 14.1 4.1 12.6 2.6 Liceo Huara 161 10 8 -2 6.4 -3.6 Escuela Vertiente del Saber 187 10 8.2 -1.8 9.6 -0.4 INTERPRETATION OF RESULTS: Less than 8 = insufficient and over 12 = outstanding while 10 indicates that value is being added but only at an average level. For the results of schools in the Tarapacá Region in the SIMCE national tests, see Appendix 1.3. Education. It measured value added (VA), an index obtained through statisWhat key players say after three years tical analysis that reflects a school’s contribution to its pupils’ attain“Thanks to the processes introduced by the Collahuasi Educational ment between two successive measurements. Foundation, the self-esteem of our teachers has increased; now they believe in themselves, that they can do many things and achieve a In order to calculate the value added, the methodology isolates great deal with their pupils. Planning is one example of that and factors related to pupils’ context (their socioeconomic level), leaving has enabled us to reorganise and improve syllabus coverage. Thanks only those factors that reflect the work of the school. Results of betto all this, we have been able to improve our SIMCE results in both ween eight and twelve points in the value added index are within the language and mathematics.” expected range, indicating that the school makes a contribution to Héctor Cuevas, Primary School Director, San Andrés de Pica. its pupils’ learning that is similar to those of other schools assessed using SEPA. “We have learned how to work with diversity because we are a municipal school and so do not select our pupils. The work of the Collahuasi Educational Foundation is very positive and replicable; first, it targets vulnerable schools and, second, it teaches how to work with diversity.” Ximena Sepúlveda, Director, Gabriela Mistral School, Iquique. “In the four years we have worked together, we have also begun to grow together; this public-private relationship is reflected in improved results and, as a result, a change of paradigm, with teachers approaching their work with greater professionalism, and the concept of planning and systematisation has produced a new process of growth.” Manuel Castillo, Head of the Municipal Education Department, Alto Hospicio. Sustainable Development 93 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. Secondary Technical-Professional Education Improvement Programme The technical-professional education improvement programme tennial Secondary Schools project, the Collahuasi Educational aims to create effective ties between the education sector and Foundation designed the country’s first Mining Technical-Proindustry in order to enhance pupils’ employability, particularly in fessional Bicentennial Secondary School project with the aim of the mining sector. providing education of excellence for vulnerable pupils from Alto Hospicio, teaching special courses related to mining. In its first five-year stage, the initiative is working with six technical-professional schools in the Tarapacá Region. In July 2011, the Foundation, together with the municipal government, presented the Juan Pablo II Secondary School to the Implemented by two consultants who are experts in the field, Education Ministry’s Bicentennial Secondary School competition. it seeks to improve the schools’ results through two specific It was judged the best project out of 94 schools from around Chile. programmes the Best Technical-Professional (TP) Secondary School and Technical-Professional Talent. The Collahuasi Educational Foundation has undertaken to see In 2011, the evaluation and diagnosis phase of both programmes began in six schools in preparation for the launch of the imAs from 2012, the school will be known as the Liceo provement plans themselves as from 2012. Bicentenario Minero S.S. Juan Pablo II. Proyecto Liceo Bicentenario S.S. Juan Pablo II Its distinguishing feature is its quest for excellence in In response to an invitation from the Education Ministry and training technicians suited to the mining industry. the Governor of the Tarapacá Region to participate in the Bicen94 Collaborators Programme Schools Municipal District Fundación Chile Best TP Secondary School Instituto del Mar Almirante Carlos Condell Iquique Liceo Padre Alberto Hurtado Cruchaga Pica Conexium Technical-Professional Colegio Inglés Iquique Talent Liceo Luis Cruz Martínez Alto Hospicio Colegio Metodista William Taylor Alto Hospicio Colegio Metodista Robert Johnson Objectives To support and advise school directors and technical and teaching staff at technical-professional secondary schools in the Tarapacá Region in order to develop capabilities that improve pupils’ results, strengthen the relation between education and employability and encourage pupils to pursue further technical-professional studies related to mining. that the school achieves mining technical-professional excellence Preparado Programme through the implementation of: In 2011, the Preparado (Prepared) skills model was implemented as a pilot programme in the Luis Cruz Martínez Secondary • Management of quality through its inclusion in the SNA School. It is designed to equip pupils from schools participating EDUCA network of schools. in the Educational Improvement Programme with skills for their • Infrastructure improvements. employability. • Acquisition of an international-standard library. Educational Improvement Programme in Pica • Ties for employability in Collahuasi and other mining companies. This is a special fund designed to strengthen education in the • Pupils’ preparation for further studies. Pica municipal district in three areas: • Creation of new special courses related to mining. • In-service staff training: The Technical Course for Senior Teaching Assistants is being offered in Pica by the Arturo Prat University. Preparado Skills Model Tailored to the sectoral needs, this develops the skills and knowledge that allow people to achieve access, permanence and development in the labour market in general and the mining sector in particular. Objective To facilitate young people transition from education to work by developing employability skills. Sustainable Development 95 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company • Strengthening of Pica Secondary School: In 2011, measures Incorporating Technology in Education in the Tarapacá Region were implemented to improve the schoolís infrastructure and its atLaunched in 2010, this programme seeks to contribute to the traction of pupils. incorporation of information and communications technologies • Improvement of municipal management: Under this program(ICTs) in the 18 schools participating in the Best School and me, designed to improve management of education by the Pica muBoosting Schools educational improvement programmes. nicipal government, progress was achieved in presenting the improvement plan to the work team and in its implementation. Huatacondo project Objectives In October 2011, the Todos Aprenden (Everyone Learns) la• To provide training for the schools that joined the proboratory was donated to the school community in Huatacondo. gramme in 2011. It is designed to facilitate inclusive work on language and mathe• To encourage update of the websites developed in ormatics through experimentation and activities in small groups, der to publicise the schools activities. allowing the contents to be tailored to local needs. The laboraResults tory is scheduled to be inaugurated and the programme’s coordi16 schools in the Mitigation Programme posted their nator trained for the start of the 2012 school year. websites on a free platform managed by the schools themselves. 96 Participation in the commission for the Gabriela Mistral Prize for cerAwards tification of schools and school management Awards for processes of improvement in Gabriela Mistral EduThis prize for a Culture of Educational Quality represents an effort cational Quality were received by the following schools in the by public and private organisations to promote a culture of quaTarapacá Region: lity among teachers, pupils and parents in order to strengthen the school’s outreach to the community as an effective contribution to • Colegio Academia Tarapacá de Iquique. the development of education. • Colegio Academia Iquique Bulnes. • Liceo Polivalente Sagrado Corazón de Alto Hospicio. Objectives • To promote improvements in institutional culture that Seminars foster educational quality and innovation In 2011, three seminars took place and were attended by a to• To highlight the culture of quality of establishments with tal of over 800 people from the education sector of the Tarapacá school management certification Region. 1. International Seminar on Current Educational Improvement • To draw attention to original experiences and processes and Leadership Policies, held in January and attended by 320 peoof innovation in the management of learning ple including teachers, school directors and university lecturers. • To publicise best educational practices. 2. National seminar on The New Institutional Framework for Education: Are We Prepared?, held during May in the framework of the Gabriela Mistral Culture of Educational Quality Prize and attended Since 2010, the Collahuasi Educational Foundation has been a by 250 teachers, school directors and university lecturers from the member of this initiative, launched in 2007 by Fundación Chile and Region. the National Certification Council. Its objective is to promote school 3. National seminar on Teaching Professionalisation, Innovamanagement in the Tarapacá Region and foster a culture of quality tion and Educational Quality, held in October and attended by in schools. 250 teachers, school directors and university lecturers. Sustainable Development 97 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Management Approach 100 Collahuasi’s Vision establishes safety as a non-negotiable priority that defines the way we live and work. We constantly control risks, striving to ensure the health and wellbeing of people and care for assets, our surroundings and the community. For Collahuasi, safety is a value that must prevail in our workplaces and also extends beyond them, involving our employees’ families. The three principles that underpin Collahuasi’s conduct as regards safety are: • Culture: Safety as one of the outcomes of work well done. • Learning: Avoidance of recurrences. • Discipline: Simple and non-negotiable standards. The company focuses on strengthening its safety and occupational health management programme. It facilitates the identification, evaluation and control of risks at all levels of the organisation and in its contractors through motivation, training and constant communication of the policies, procedures, norms and regulation established by the company. In this way, it strives to achieve its strategic objectives of which the first is a “safe and healthy work environment”. (For further details, see Sustainable Development Policies Safety and Occupational Health). Sustainable Development 101 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2. Our Commitment to the Health and Safety of our Workers, their Families and the Community 2.1.PROGRESS IN TRAINING ON SAFETY AND 2.2. INITIATIVES IN EDUCATION AND PREVENTIOn [LA8] OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH During 2011, as part of its commitment to the health and In order to develop and boost the potential of its workers, safety of its employees, collaborators and their families, CollahuaCollahuasi has in place a system that establishes training requiresi implemented a number of programmes and initiatives aligned ments in accordance with needs. with its Safety and Occupational Health Policy. In 2011, the company implemented a programme for the conInitiatives for the training and education of the company’s emtrol of operational risks in order to provide its own employees ployees, collaborators and their families: and those of contractors with training in safety and occupatio• Safety monitor training for members of the Worksite Joint nal health. The topics covered were of common interest, some Management-Worker Health and Safety Committee (CPHS) and of which were obligatory while others were of an individual and the Committees of contractors . collective nature, including standards for the prevention of fatali• Visible Leadership. ties, analysis of work risks, occupational health and emergencies. Programme for Control of Operational Risks (PCRO) This programme’s implementation permitted monthly control of the different business units, including the contractors working in these units. Through the CURA software, control was exercised over each unit’s most significant risks, with monthly monitoring of compliance. 102 • Measures for control of exposure to free crystalline silica, ionising radiation and ergonomics. In addition, a total of 65 brigade members were trained in: • Hazardous materials • Vehicle rescue • Industrial fires • Rescue at altitude • Rescue in confined spaces • Rescue brigade. In 2011, at weekly meetings in the different areas of the company through open and closed courses, 94.4% of personnel also received training in its Manual on Emergencies and 14 of the 15 local emergency plans for the company’s different operational areas were implemented. A total of 17 emergency drills, rather than the 15 initially planned, took place in order to evaluate local emergency plans. In order to involve employees’ families in safety and health issues, talks were given on nutrition, alcohol and drugs. The company also offers a health phone line for employees’ families and, through the Employee Support Programme (PAE), offers employees and their families advice on legal, psychological and other matters. This initial service is free-of-charge and is provided by lawyers, psychologists or social assistants who attend general needs. If more specialised assistance is required, the person is referred to a professional whose cost must be covered by the employee or the employee’s health insurer. These services are confidential and employees access them directly. • Training of mine safety monitors. • Positive Attitude Safety System (PASS), with training for own In 2011, the company again implemented an inand contractors’ employees. fluenza vaccination programme, attending a total of • Training on different technical subjects for contractors’ safe5,000 people including its own and contractors’ emty and health advisors. ployees and family members. The programme was • Analysis of work risks and work permits. extended from the Cordillera and Patache worksites • Safety and occupational health management system. to include cities such as Arica, Iquique, Antofagasta, La Serena and Santiago. • “5S” Order and Cleaning System. • Implementation of the Change Management methodology. • Standard for prevention of fatalities. For issues related to the health and safety of the community, • Investigation of incidents. Collahuasi has implemented a programme of medical attention • Safety Risks Management Process: Level A3 (for senior maprovided by healthcare professionals who travel from Santiago nagement) and A2 (for supervisors). to Iquique. In this way, Collahuasi helps to alleviate the shortage • Creation of a joint training programme with workplace safety of healthcare professionals that is one of the Tarapacá Region’s and health insurers for all own worksite employees and those of principal problems. contractors. • Training on occupational health risks. Sustainable Development 103 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. Joint Management-Worker Committees [LA6] The contribution made by the Joint Management-Worker As required under Supreme Decrees 54 and 76, all the Health and Safety Committees (CPHSs) is an integral part of company’s employees and collaborators are represented Collahuasi’s overall safety management. Advising and instructing by the Joint Worksite Management-Worker Health and workers in the proper use of personal protection equipment, suSafety Committees (Cordillera and Puerto Patache). In pervising compliance with health and safety norms and investigaaddition, all contractors with more than 25 employees ting the causes of accidents resulting in disabling injuries or other working at Collahuasi comply with the legal requirement high potential incidents that may occur are tasks that are crucial to establish a Joint Committee. These are coordinated and in positioning safety as a core value at Collahuasi. audited by the Worksite Committee. In addition to the Joint Committees required by law, Collahuasi also has the following three committees: 104 Executive Sustainability President Committee • Monthly review of performance and compliance with the Safety and Occupational Health Management established in order to achieve the company’s strategic objectives. • Management review of the different systems of norms that the company has decided to certify. Vice-Presidents Extended Executive Committee • The EXCO is also responsible for ap(EXCO) proving structural procedures as well as Safety and Occupational Health Management. Managers Integrated Management • Control of Safety and Occupational System (SIGEI) Health Management in their respectiLeaders SIGEI Leaders ve business units. Sustainable Development 105 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Key Figures 106 Absenteeism Absenteeism Rate Occupational Injury Accident N° of Disease Rate Downtime Rate Rate Fatalities 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Men 327.6 366.1 726.5 0.18 0.12 0 40.83 16.03 14.33 0.14 0.37 0.26 0 0 0 Women 84.58 21.97 107.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Accident Rate Nº of Fatalities Total LTI* 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Collahuasi 0 0 0 3 9 7 Contractors 0 3 0 20 19 18 Projects 0 0 0 13 1 4 * LTI = Lost Time Incidents [LA7] In the period covered by this Report, no cases of workrelated illnesses were diagnosed, giving an occupational disease rate (ODR) of 0 while the absenteeism rate (AR) was 726.53 for men and 107.75 for women. In 2011, Collahuasi experienced a total of seven disabling accidents and 390 lost days, giving an Injury Downtime Rate (IDR) of 14.33. Sustainable Development 107 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 5. Our Contractors’ Safety Incentives for contractors In line with the permanent commitment to its contractors and their employees established in the company’s Contracts Policy, Collahuasi reached an agreement with the National Industrial Assembly Workers Union (SINAMI) under which it undertook to pay contractors’ employees a variable incentive based on compliance with certain key performance indicators (KPIs) or, depending on the project in question, milestones. This bonus, which applies in tasks with a duration of at least six months and is received once the project has been completed, reaches a gross annual amount of 1,300,000 pesos per worker, tied to the number of days actually worked. It is paid quarterly through the contractor. 5.1. POLICY ON CONTRACTORS the contractor is involved and the number of workers it employs. An Some of most important risks in a mining operation have to do average of 200 experts in this field are employed by the company’s with the management of hydraulic, electrical, potential, mechanical contractors and participate together with its Safety and Occupaand other forms of energy as well as with lifting operations and work tional Health area in the prevention of accidents and occupational at altitude. At Collahuasi, some of these tasks are carried out by conillnesses. tractors. Collahuasi has a development programme for these experts The company has, therefore, established standards such as the which starts with a diagnosis of their technical skills, the relevant Standards for the Prevention of Fatalities which, when correctly imlegislation and their knowledge of Collahuasi’s procedures and stanplemented, significantly reduce the probability of undesired events dards as well as their personal characteristics. in these high-risk activities. Monthly alignment meetings take place with the participation In order to provide the necessary support for implementation of of all contractors’ and subcontractors’ safety and health advisors, these standards, prevention systems and compliance with legal rereinforcing their role in the application of the different systems the quirements for the prevention of risks, the company has also deficompany has in place. ned standards for Experts in Safety and Occupational Health under The principal activities that took place in 2011 in relation to the which all contractors must employ a risk prevention advisor or have a company’s contractors and subcontractors were: risk prevention department. The characteristics of these advisors are • Update and reinforcement of the company’s regulation on defined in accordance with the criticality of the processes in which contractors and subcontractors 108 • Implementation of a monthly self-evaluation system in each each company to assess compliance with norms, identifying the company to assess compliance with the legislation in force, legal requirements with which they must comply including the including the requirements established by the principal company requirements of the principal company. • Sponsorship of a national course for safety experts in the extractive mining industry, given in collaboration with the 5.2. CONTRACTOR INDICATORS [LA6] National Geology and Mining Service (SERNAGEOMIN), in In 2011, contractors working for Collahuasi had a total of order to increase the number of contractors’ advisors with 36 Joint Management-Worker Health and Safety Committees, recertification presenting 100% of their employees as required under Supreme • Update and reinforcement of the company’s policy on Decrees 54 and 76. contractors, partly in a bid to create closer ties • Implementation of a monthly self-evaluation system in Absenteeism [LA7] Accident Rate [LA7] Injury Downtime Rate Accident Rate Fatalities Total LTI 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Contractors 29.22 17.53 19.19 0.69 0.36 0.29 Collahuasi 0 0 0 3 9 7 Contractors 0 3 0 20 19 18 Projects 0 0 0 13 1 4 LTIFR and TRIFR Contractors [LA7] DISR Contractors [LA7] 9 8 160 7 140 6 120 5 100 4 80 3 60 2 40 1 20 0 11 0 jan fe m 1 ap b ar r11 11 fe m 1 ap b ar r111 1 11 m 1 ay jun 11 m 1 ay jun 11 jan au se oc no jul g p t1 v1 11 11 11 11 1 au se oc no jul g p t1 v1 11 11 11 11 1 de c1 1 1 de c1 1 1 LTIFR Contractors TRIFR Contractors DISR Contractors LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate DISR: Disabling Injury Severity Rate TRIFR: Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Sustainable Development 109 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Management Approach 112 Efficient use of the water we withdraw from primary sources is a Optimisation of water management is an important part of key objective of Collahuasi’s sustainable development strategy and Collahuasi’s mining planning cycle whose long production horizon this is reflected in the high water management standards applied in calls for long-term vision and commitment. The company’s exthe company’s different processes. One example of this is the devepansion plans, therefore, include important studies of future water lopment of an integrated strategy for the sustainable extraction of needs. In all the scenarios envisaged, demand for water would inunderground water which has fostered its effective use by rationalicrease and the company is evaluating alternatives that range from sing extraction and water quality in accordance with the needs of the rational and sustainable use of ground water to the use of seawater. particular type of activity or task. Like any other large-scale open pit operation, Collahuasi also has These principles are crucial in order to ensure both the long-term to carry out complex tasks to pre-drain and drain the sides of the pits security of water supply and the conservation of the related biodiin a key safety measure for controlling their stability and reducing versity. risks to people and equipment. Water Resource Research Centre (CIDERH) In view of the key importance of water resources at both the local and national level, the Tarapacá Regional Government invited Collahuasi to participate in this initiative and it has provided solid and sustained support for the CIDERH. In the second year of the initiative, the CIDERH’s implementation was concluded with the incorporation of new professionals to complete its research team, and research work began. Under the Centre’s Strategic Plan, this is aligned with both the project approved by the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) and with regional interests. Progress was achieved on Lines 1 and 2 of its research and work began to identify new areas of research that would be of interest to different sectors in the Tarapacá Region. In 2011, the Centre signed three new cooperation agreements with the National Water Board (DGA), the University of Concepción and the De La Frontera University complementing its existing six agreements. Sustainable Development 113 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2. Protection of Water Resources 780 L/s is the average monthly withdrawal 2.1. JACHUCOPOSA SPRING rate with which [EN9] The Jachucoposa Wetland and Spring are the main water Collahuasi must source affected by withdrawals for Collahuasi’s operations. The comply in Coposa company has, therefore, undertaken to contribute to the restoration of the natural water flow so that it evolves in line with its commitments with the authorities. Water Management Strategy in Coposa: Withdrawal Plan Collahuasi took the view that, in order to achieve a rapid and effective recovery of the Jachucoposa Spring, an even more proactive management strategy was required than that envisaged under the obligations imposed by the authority. This implies the gradual relocation of extraction wells from the Pabellón Fault sector, the area with direct influence over the Spring, to the Coposa Norte and Coposa Sur sectors where withdrawals have much less impact. 114 Since 2008, Collahuasi has completed a programme for relocating withdrawal points from the Pabellón Fault to other sectors as shown below: Water harvesting from Pabellon Fault 2007 2009 2010 2011 750 L/s 150 L/s 50 L/s 33 L/s As well as illustrating the best water practices in place at Thanks to these measures, the natural water flow of the JachuCollahuasi, the Jachucoposa Spring’s rapid recovery is also coposa Spring has shown a sustained increase from 12.6 L/s in a tangible example of the way in which the company asDecember 2007 to 39.2 L/s in December 2011 and has, in other sumes responsibility for its impacts and seeks to mitigate words, tripled in four years. The successful recovery of this water them, permanently monitoring the effects of its operations course, which supports the Jachucoposa Wetland, is a matter of on water resources and their influence on ecosystems. In particular pride for Collahuasi which has worked intensely to hothis way, the company demonstrates its commitment to nour its environmental commitments. the maintenance over time of the water matrix’s production capacity, developing it in accordance with principles of sustainability1. Monthly Water Flow, Jachucoposa Spring (L/S) Source: Collahuasi Water Resource Area. 38 34 30 26 22 18 14 10 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 1 For additional information about water flow recovery, see the Appendices of this Report. Sustainable Development 115 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. Efficiency in Water Consumption [EN8] The basin of the Coposa Salt Flat is Collahuasi’s main souThe company’s total water withdrawals are shown in the rce of water supply. It is located in the region’s Andean plateau table below: and is an endorheic (closed) basin surrounded by mountains and volcanoes that reach heights of over 5,000 metres. Total Withdrawals Type of Units 2011 2010 2009 by Source Water In 2011, the company extracted a total of 36,637,000 m3 of Coposa basin Underground Thousand 20,858 23,523 23,123 water of which only 57% came from the Coposa basin. This rem3 flected the company’s strategy of developing a balanced water Michincha basin Thousand supply matrix that seeks to limit impacts on the natural environ(including tailings dam) m3 8,917 8,864 8,351 Underground * ment, particularly in the Jachucoposa sector. Mine drainage Underground Thousand 6,862 4,505 1,566 m3 Total año Thousand 36,637 36,893 33,039 m3 * Except for water from infiltration wells which corresponds to recovered water. 116 1,041 L/s of underground water rights are held by Collahuasi in the Coposa basin 93 L/s of water rights are 263.5 L/s of water rights are used by Collahuasi in held by Collahuasi in the Blanca Ravine Michincha basin 19% Mine drainage 24% Michincha basin (including tailings dam) 57% Coposa basin 100% Sustainable Development 117 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3.1. 3.1. WATER RECOVERY AND REUSE [EN10] Collahuasi’s consumption of raw and reused water from 2009 to 2011 is shown below: Consumption of Raw and Reused Water Annual Total Units 2011 2010 2009 Total raw water Thousand m3 33,457 33,743 30,105 consumption by Collahuasi Total raw water Thousand m3 27,272 29,235 27,790 consumption by concentrator plant Water reused from tailings Thousand m3 111,988 110,677 101,452 dam and thickeners Unit water consumption at (L/tonne) 571 595 613 concentrator plant It is important to note that this was the fourth consecutive year in which the concentrator plant’s unit consumption of raw water dropped. This not only implies greater efficiency but also positions Collahuasi as an industry leader in this field. The company has achieved a positive performance on water reuse in the concentrator plant, with rates of around 78% over the past three years. Water Reuse 80 70 79 77 76 60 50 % 40 30 20 10 0 2009 2010 2011 In 2011, the water recirculation rate at the worksites reached 77% and this is expected to increase in 2012 due to operational improvements being made in the thickener units. 118 CLARIFYING MYTHS • Collahuasi DOES NOT extract water from the Huasco Salt Flat. The company does not have water rights in the Huasco Salt Flat nor has it built installations to extract water from this area. Over ten years ago, it merely established wells for the purpose of studying the basin as a basis for submitting applications for water rights which are, moreover, not located in the Salt Flat or in the RAMSAR zone that protects it. The conservation and protection of biodiversity in the Huasco Salt Flat is, and will always be, a priority for Collahuasi. • A large amount of water DOES NOT go down Collahuasi’s slurry pipeline to be lost at sea. The slurry pipeline consists of two tubes, one of seven inches and the other of eight inches. The water that accompanies the concentrate does not exceed 40 L/s and, in other words, represents less than 4% of the water used by the company. • Collahuasi DOES NOT extract large quantities of “fresh water” from the Andean plateau which could be used for other purposes. Almost half the water Collahuasi extracts is practically “brine” with such a high content of salts that it is comparable to the salinity of sea water. This salt water could not be used for agriculture and certainly not as drinking water. Sustainable Development 119 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Pilot Thickened Tailings Plan 120 What are thickened tailings? These are tailings from which a large part of the water has been removed by using thickeners to obtain a concentration of solids of 65% or 75%, forming a homogeneous high-density paste that is deposited in the tailings dam. This technology has become ever more attractive for the mining industry, reflecting advantages that include low leakage into the subsoil, a reduction in evaporation losses, low dust emissions, increased water recovery and lower consumption of raw water. In 2011, thickening tests were carried out in pilot plants with a 1-metre diameter, operating as high compression thickeners (HCTs) in order to demonstrate the feasibility of reaching a 68% concentration of solids. Between January and April, parallel pilot tests were carried out with two suppliers (FLSmidth and Outotec) according to a strict protocol prepared by Collahuasi and reviewed by SNC Lavalin as an external auditor. The aim of these tests was to obtain data indicating tailings with characteristics similar to those envisaged in the future and they showed the feasibility of reaching the expected concentrations of solids with the required feeding rate. The tests will serve as the basis for a large-scale design that, in the future, will allow Collahuasi to achieve an important leap forward in the continuous improvement of its water efficiency. Sustainable Development 121 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Management Approach: Mitigation and Adaptation to Climate Change 124 Energy is a critical aspect of the mining industry since, in addition to the issue of its availability, it also has a very significant impact on production costs and company results. The important energy resources that Collahuasi requires for its production process include oil, 95-octane petrol, LPG, Nº 6 fuel oil and electricity. The company seeks to establish principles that allow it to ensure supply of the different forms of energy it requires in a way that is environmentally and economically sustainable, achieving continuous and sustainable improvements in its environmental performance through innovation, management and efficient energy use. It also promotes the measurement and reduction of emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as a result of the use of energy resources in its operations and by its contractors and suppliers. Energy and Greenhouse Gas Management System [EN18] In 2010, Collahuasi defined the implementation of an Energy and Greenhouse Gas Management System as one of its strategic objectives. This was seen as a natural development of the company’s Energy Efficiency Programme, representing an important leap forward in the optimisation of its processes. In 2011, work took place to develop and implement a transparent and auditable Management System based on Chilean and international norms (ISO 50001) that covers the company’s different sources and possible uses of energy. Steps taken to reinforce this System included an internal familiarisation campaign and an increase in the responsibilities of the company’s executives as regards controlling energy consumption. In 2011, the System’s implementation was completed in the leaching area with positive results. Sustainable Development 125 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2. Organisational Carbon Footprint 2 [EC2] For all companies whose productive processes seek to but Collahuasi has nonetheless adopted a proactive and stramaintain a harmonious relationship with the environment and tegic approach to this issue, measuring and monitoring its carstakeholders, carbon footprint measurement has become imbon footprint monthly prior to the mitigation measures it will perative. In 2011, building on the work it had undertaken in analyse and implement in the coming years. previous years, Collahuasi measured its 2011 carbon footprint A carbon footprint is the total set of greenhouse gas (GHG) for products in accordance with the PAS 2050 international emissions caused directly and indirectly by an individual, organorms and its organisational footprint in accordance with the nisation, event or product. It is an internationally recognised GHG Protocol and ISO 14064 standards. The measurement, indicator through which an activity’s total impacts on the encarried out by the Spanish Normalisation Association (AEvironment can be dimensioned and managed. NOR), complied with a reasonable assurance level, the highest level of accuracy that it is possible to achieve in measurements of this type. In 2011, the mining sector was not directly affected by inCollahuasi became the first mining company in Chile to ternational agreements or protocols related to climate change An operational measure its Product criterion was used toCarbon and Organisational determine Footthe print with the process and results assured in accordance with international norms by a third party. 126 2 For further details, see the Report on Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Cía. Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi 2011. organisation’s boundary and all the operation’s activities that generate GHG emissions were included in the inventory. Emissions throughout the company’s value chain were taken into account from mining exploration through to the arrival of copper concentrate or cathodes at their port of destination. Carbon Footprint Further details can be found in Consumption of fuel for trucks, equipment and light vehithe Report on Greenhouse Gas cles controlled by the organisation as well as fuel for opeEmissions at Cía. Minera Doña ration of the cogeneration plant. Also includes emissions Inés de Collahuasi 2011 and in Scope I resulting from the activities of contractors who provide the Appendices of this Report. services related to fragmentation and overland transport of mineral and products since Collahuasi determines the operating parameters of these services. Direct CO2 emissions [EN16]3 Emissions as a result of the consumption of electricity Carbon Footprint Scope II acquired from generators. Indirect CO2 emissions [EN17]4 The strategic inputs considered in calculation of the company’s carbon footprint are those that have a significant Scope III impact on Collahuasi’s production cycle of which the most important are crusher and mill linings, mill balls, lime, sulphuric acid, tyres and lubricants. 2010 2011 Emissions generated by transport of personnel (tCO2e) Source: 2009 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. By air 1,466 2,256 [EN29] Indirect emissions are also generated as a result By land * 2,124 2,998 of the movement of personnel, including air travel and overland transport to and from the worksite. Total 3,590 5,254 * Emissions within and outside the worksite (buses). The company’s total estimated CO2 emissions by scope are shown in the table below: Annual Emissions by Scope (tCO2e) 56% Direct emissions Scope 2009 2010 2011 (Scope 1) Direct emissions 305,588 354,468 477,130 (Scope 1) Indirect emissions 1,026,451 1,047,653 930,531 (Scope 2) Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) 199,265 179,454 247,577 29% Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Total 1,531,304 1,581,575 1,665,238 15% Other indirect emissions 100% (Scope 3) 3. Product Carbon Footprint 5 3.1. CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCTION INITIATIVES 2011 became the base year for calculating the carbon [EN18] Abatement Curves footprint of Collahuasi’s products. The identification, evaluation, comparison and implementation of initiatives to increase energy efficiency and mitigate GHG emissions will help to support the work carried out by the In 2011, Collahuasi for the first time calculated its emissions company’s different areas in a bid to reduce the operation’s broken down by product (copper cathodes, copper concentraimpact in terms of GHG emissions. To this end, the company te and molybdenum) in accordance with and assurance under launched an initiative in 2010 to develop GHG abatement curthe British PAS 2050 standards. ves on the basis of which to calculate the cost-effectiveness of different proposals for mitigation. The carbon footprint of Collahuasi’s products is shown on page 136. In 2011, Collahuasi worked on the GHG abatement curve of the leaching area, analysing and comparing different propoIt is important to note that Collahuasi has published two sals for reducing specific emissions generated by this area of its comprehensive reports on its product and organisational caroperations. This showed a potential to reduce emissions by over bon footprints, which can be downloaded from its website 5,800 [tCO2e], equivalent to a reduction of 3.8% in the area’s (www.collahuasi.cl). GHG emissions in 2010. 128 5 For further information, see Huella de Carbono de Productos de Collahuasi desde un enfoque Creadle to Gate 2011. Product Carbon Footprint Carbon footprint Carbon Carbon footprint Carbon footprint footprint copper molybdenum copper cathodes concentrate concentrate 0.3405 tCO2e/t Cu cathodes 0.9543 tCO2e/t Cu concentrate 0.971 tCO2e/t Mo concentrate 175,148 tCO2e/year 1,465,587 tCO2e/year 14,504 tCO2e/year Recognitions received Carbon Footprint In recognition of Collahuasi’s work in management of its GHG inventory, the Climate Change Committee of the British-Chilean Chamber of Commerce awarded Carbon the company its 2010 Best Carbon Footprint Prize in the large company category. Footprint This prize gives the company an even greater incentive to maintain its work on issues related to climate change and sustainability. Recognitions received Collahuasi took 17th place in the National Ranking of Companies Climate Change with Best Climate Change Management awarded by Fundación Chile Management and the Capital business magazine. Sustainable Development 129 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Energy Efficiency and Alternative Renewable Energies Collahuasi’s implementation of its Energy and Greenhouse Gas to the energy efficiency of its processes. The main opporManagement System is also a reflection of its commitment to tunities detected include: caring for the environment and maintaining the sustainability of • Autonomous efficient lighting for the new access to its operations. This obliges the company to manage the energy Puerto Patache resources used by its operations and their consequences for its • Implementation of efficient lighting in the EW plant surroundings. • Reduction in the temperature of air extracted by EX/SX An increasing interest in the use of alternative renewable compressors energy (ARE) sources and other technologies related to energy • Use of solar energy to heat raffinate in the bioleaching plant efficiency means that the company has evaluated their potential • Efficient lighting in the Rosario shelter adoption either directly or through its suppliers and contractors. • Energy recovery in the slurry pipeline • Cleaning of the HX403 heat exchanger [EN6] In addition to the implementation of the Energy and • Implementation of biodigester Greenhouse Gas Management System and the development • Use of solar energy to heat water for HPI bathrooms. of abatement curves for the different areas of the company’s operations, Collahuasi has continued with work which began in 2010 to gather information about potential opportunities for improvements throughout the company, related principally 130 Alternative Renewable Energies [EN6] A first tender for the supply of energy from ARE sources was issued for 30,000 MWh/year ARE incorporation generated by clean energy projects, ideally located in the Tarapacá or Arica and Parinacota Regions. The results will be announced in the first half of 2012. In December 2011, a research contract was signed with the University of Chile in order to give continuity to this project. Cóndor Sustainable Energy This project in Huatacondo was consolidated during 2011. It is progressing on schedule and (ESUSCON) Project has a collaboration agreement with the Energy Centre of the University of Chile’s Physical and Mathematical Sciences Faculty for periodic improvements. Information obtained in previous years was validated in 2011 in order to strengthen the Collahuasi Geothermal Project project’s methodology and generate a solid body of knowledge about the possible resource. Collahuasi holds three geothermal exploration concessions, known as Irruputuncu and Olca, all of which are located in the Tarapacá and Antofagasta Regions. ESUSCON project receives Innovation Prize from Chilean-North American Chamber of Commerce Huatacondo is the first town in Chile to have its own electricity micro-network using renewable sources such as the sun and the wind. The project includes the community’s involvement in efficient energy use and the system’s operation. Participation in a project of this nature is important for Collahuasi Recognitions ESUSCON because of its significance not only at a regional level, but also at the national and even international received project level, since it will provide Huatacondo with 24-hour electricity in an autonomous and sustainable manner through the coordination of small generating units. The project was recognised as a pioneer in Chile in the generation of electricity from renewable sources and as the best innovation project in an award by the Chilean-North American Chamber of Commerce. Energy Efficiency [EN5] The efforts made by Collahuasi to increase the energy efficiency of its processes are reflected in a reduction in energy consumption per tonne input in the plant and leaching process. In 2011, figures were below the average for the last three years. Unit Energy Consumption by Area Area Units 2009 2010 2011 Mine GJ/tonne moved 0.0201 0.0178 0.0180 Sulphides GJ/tonne input 0.0825 0.0789 0.0801 Oxides GJ/tonne input 0.1029 0.0985 0.0888 Sustainable Development 131 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 5. Fuel Consumption at Collahuasi 132 Fuel Consumption Oil 95-Octane Nº 6 Fuel LPG 2009 3,652,970 Petrol 10,106 Oil 0 74,421 2010 3,961,485 11,714 290,244 67,119 2011 4,698,300 9,539 441,948 76,089 Source: Energy and Greenhouse Gas Management System. [EN3] The table above shows the historic fuel consumption related to the company’s direct emissions: Diesel consumption is rising due to an increase in the number of trucks and the distances they travel due to pit growth and natural expansion. This obliges Collahuasi to implement measures related to energy efficiency and control so as to improve its global management of energy resources. 5.1. COGENERATION PLANT The cogeneration plant is located at the worksite and, for the purpose of carbon footprint calculation, the fuel used to produce energy is considered, rather than the energy generated, since this is the transformation of the primary fuel. Output of Cogeneration Plant (GJ) 2010 2011 170,168 190,056 Sustainable Development 133 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 6. Electricity Consumption at Collahuasi 134 [EN4] The electricity consumed by Collahuasi’s production processes and for the company’s administration is shown in the table below: Electricity Consumption 2009 2010 2011 MWh 1,294,919 1,303,753 1,282,656 GJ* 4,661,707 4,693,511 4,617,560 * 1MWh = 3.6 GJ Collahuasi’s share of demand for electricity in the Northern Interconnected Grid (SING) has evolved as follows: 2009 2010 2011 9% 9% 8% Sustainable Development 135 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Care for our Surroundings In the different strategies and measures it has implemen[EN11] Collahuasi recognises that productive activities can ted, Collahuasi has focused on compensation and mitigation affect biodiversity directly or indirectly through their use of of environmental impacts as well as on regular monitoring of land and water and the transport of inputs and products. It, physical-chemical and biological variables in vulnerable sectherefore, seeks to protect the area around its operations bators and habitats. sed on recognition and respect for biodiversity and culturalhistorical systems. It is important to note that the company’s only installations in priority biodiversity conservation sites are its well fields in the Coposa Salt Flats7. 138 7 For further details, see the Appendices of this Report. 2. Protection of Biodiversity [MM2] Collahuasi has in place biodiversity management plans In the case of the Irruputuncu Volcano, the plan is a compencovering 42.9% of the total area affected as shown in the table sation measure that the company undertook to implement in the below. Environmental Impact Study carried out in 1995 in response to the impact of part of its waste rock dump on 149.2 hectares of In the case of the Coposa Salt Flat and the Jachucoposa Wetland the Ujina sector with queñoa trees. So far, approximately 6,030 as well as the Chiclla Wetland, the management plan was established trees have been planted in an area of 60 hectares, representing in response to a direct impact as described in the section below on 40% completion of the programme. Interaction with Biodiversity. Sector Results Work with Authorities Management Plan Coposa Salt Flat and Favourable measurement by authority, Working meetings to implement Redefinition of activities by A-E Jachucoposa Wetland implies focalising management modifications in activities Polygons Recovery of area, management of No joint actions Construction of terraces to reduce Chiclla Wetland water resources speed of water flow Irruputuncu Volcano Improvements in plantation and its No joint actions Identification of new sectors for establishment reforestation, follow-up plan and new technologies for establishing the plantation Sustainable Development 139 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2.1. INTERACTION WITH BIODIVERSITY historical averages. The company takes the measures necesCollahuasi has in place systems for monitoring fauna in sary to conserve biodiversity, identifying the most significant the areas close to its operations and maintains a register of impacts and deploying mitigation and/or compensation sightings. In general, census results indicate seasonal variameasures as shown in the table on Strategies for Managing tions in the population of the different species that are within Environmental Impacts. Habitats Intervened State Habitat Species close to operations. [EN13] [EN15] Jachucoposa Wetland Restored Flamencos Michincha Salt Flat Restored Vicuñas Ujina Carcanal Vizcachas Chiclla Wetland Restored Wetland Irruputuncu Volcano Reforested Queñoas Studies of Fauna Together with the Cooperation agreement National Forestry with the Agricultural Service (CONAF), 400 Inspection Service specimens ringed in the (SAG) for studies of Surire Salt Flat. vicuñas and tarucas. 140 Book on the Queñoa, the Tree of Altitudes The queñoa (polylepis tarapacana) is a tree that grows at more than 4,000 metres above sea level and its leaves have traditionally been used by local communities for medicinal purposes. It can reach heights of up to seven metres and, considered vulnerable, is on the red list of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). In conjunction with Chile’s National Forestry Service (CONAF), Collahuasi is implementing a project for the restoration of its habitat in order to ensure the preservation of this native species. The results of this public-private initiative were published in a book that recounts the work undertaken to reforest the slopes of the Irruputuncu Volcano, above the Coposa Salt Flat in the Tarapacá Region, with over 10,000 queñoas. The book, prepared by the company’s Environment area with the support of CONAF, was shared with the community in 2012 The success of this experience opens the way to the possibility of similar initiatives for the recovery of other species. Sustainable Development 141 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 2.2. STRATEGIES FOR MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Strategies or Sector Impacts [EN12] Measures [EN14] Description of Strategy Coposa Salt Flat Loss of vegetation Seasonal monitoring, seasonal The strategy’s objective is to understand the behaviour of the ecosystem and Jachucoposa cover due to drop in irrigation and replanting in some and strengthen the company’s Mitigation and Compensation Programme Wetland water table polygons which is subject to permanent follow-up in order to assess its effectiveness and carry out annual planning that meets the authorities’ requirements. Michincha Salt Loss of vegetation Seasonal monitoring and This activity seeks to strengthen the company’s Mitigation and Flat cover due to drop in application of water Compensation Programme. water table Ujina Carcanal Loss of queñoas Annual monitoring, plantation Progress on this activity reaches 57% and it is embarking on the stage due to installation and irrigation in Irruputuncu of testing the establishment of the queñoas by eliminating irrigation of Ujina waste rock Volcano compensation area in some areas and applying technologies for efficient water use by the dump plant. Capella Wetland Reduction in size of Twice-yearly monitoring in In 2011, priority was given to improving water supply in the area as well as wetland Chiclla Ravine compensation to the elimination of dead vegetable material and its incorporation into the area and area of transplanting of area’s subsoil in an area of 1.8 hectares. wetland species Punta Patache No impacts in the Twice-yearly monitoring of Under these programmes, a register is kept of the number of examples of area have so far abiotic and biotic variables in each species and changes in natural systems are identified that could affect been identified. areas near the port and/or pose a risk to these and other species in coastal ecosystems. The following monitoring programmes are applied in the coastal area: Bird and Marine Mammal Monitoring in Puerto Patache’s area of influence, Study of the Chungungo in Punta Patache’s area of influence and Monitoring of Environmental Conditions in the Coastal Ecosystem in Patache. 142 Sustainable Development 143 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. Waste Management 285 m3 [EN2] of mining oil was reused to make explosives. 3. Gestión de Residuos In order to minimise the environmental impacts of its opeCollahuasi. It, therefore, applies strict controls in all its producrations, Collahuasi has developed a number of different stration areas in order to comply with environmental regulation as tegies and plans to prevent possible impacts arising from the well as its own Environmental Policy. Resiter, a company that waste generated by its operations and consumption of mining handles and treats waste, is responsible for management of inputs. It is, therefore, committed to waste management, faciwaste generated at the company’s worksites, cleaning roads litating and encouraging the use, reuse, recycling and responand administering yards. sible disposal of waste. The increase in the amount of waste generated by the company [EN1] For the extraction of copper and molybdenum, the in 2011 was a result of the larger number of workers employed and company uses materials that are handled carefully and in an of the start of new projects with the resulting assembly and consenvironmentally safe way in compliance with the regulation truction work. in force. The materials used are sulphuric acid, petrol, diesel, The most important solid hazardous waste generated by the LPG, NaSH, flocculants, tyres, steel balls and mining oil8. company’s operations comprises: 3.1. SOLID AND LIQUID WASTE [EN22] Given the company’s commitment to minimising its impacts on the environment, management of the waste generated by its processes and contractors is a constant concern for 144 8 For details of consumption, see the Appendices of this Report. The waste generated by Collahuasi’s copper and molybdenum production processes comprises: 67 units Type of Waste Solid industrial waste Units Tonnes 2009 4,472 2010 5,126 2011 5,609 Treatment/Disposal Method Authorised industrial landfill [EN2] copper filtering plates were reused by Solid domestic waste Tonnes 983 1,931 1,485 Authorised industrial landfill Collahuasi in 2011. Solid organic waste Tonnes 763 571 1,246 Authorised organic landfill Solid hazardous waste Tonnes 2,262 2,851 3,305 External companies with health service authorisation for final disposal • Recycling of scrap. This reduces GHG emissions and the Solid Hazardous Waste % of total consumption of water and energy that would otherwise be Used oil 46.9 needed to produce the same amount of steel. These maWater used for washing equipment and trucks 14.1 terials are sold to two companies, Neptuno and Recmetal. Contaminated rags, cloth and EPP 9.9 Level of reduction: 9.27 tonnes. Plastics contaminated with HC and AC 5.7 • Disposal of hospital waste. The risk of soil contamination by the hazardous substances contained in this waste is avoided [MM11 · EN26] Integrated Waste Management Plan as well as the risk of infection from the biological remains that Since the second half of 2011, Collahuasi has been impleit also contains. Level of reduction: 1 tonn. menting an Integrated Waste Management Plan which consists in the development of a long-term strategy that includes • Ecological brigades and cleaning of internal and external recycling programmes (bottles, paper, wood and scrap) and roads. Paper, plastic bags, wood, etc., which produce visual the reuse of materials. pollution of the ecosystems where Collahuasi’s worksites are located, are removed. Level of reduction: 31 tonnes. • Recycling of plastic bottles. Reduces the consumption of materials as well as the space used in the landfill. Level of • Increase in amount of hazardous waste transported for final reduction: 140,970 units. disposal by each truck. This reduces the number of journeys required to the place of final disposal, thereby reducing CO2 • Recycling of electronic waste. Plastics, glass, copper and emissions. Level of reduction: The amount transported per precious materials are obtained from these recycled protruck increased from 7 tonnes in 2010 to 8.5 tonnes in 2011. ducts which correspond to 203 CPUs, 96 monitors, 100 printers and 314 mobile phones. The risk of soil contamination is also avoided. Level of reduction: 6.6 tonnes. • Recycling of oil. The risk of soil and water contamination by the hydrocarbons contained in these materials is avoided. Level of reduction: 1,551 tonnes. Sustainable Development 145 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Effluent Management [EN21] In its Environmental Impact Studies and Declarations, reject water are produced. Permeate water is used for irrigaCollahuasi undertook not to discharge liquid waste into any tion of the forest plantation and in the recovery of molybdesurface, underground, land or marine water body or course. num while reject water, after treatment in the dissolved air flotation plant, is stored in the evaporation ponds located in The total volume of waste water generated by Collahuasi is the forestation area. shown in the table below: After treatment, sewage is also sent to the evaporation ponds. Total Volume (m3/year) Treatment Effluent Destination Method 2009 2010 2011 Treated sewage Evaporation ponds, Treated sewage 237,077 369,109 371,655 Activated sludges Cordillera worksite Waste water 778,647 872,322 754,051 Evaporation ponds, Dissolved air Water used for irrigation 445,822 178,786 273,031 Waste water Puerto Patache flotation plant Water used for Irrigation of Patache Nanofiltration irrigation forest plantation The liquid industrial waste generated in the recovery of molybdenum and filtration of copper concentrate at Puerto Patache goes to the nanofiltration plant where permeate and 146 5. Environmental Incidents 5.1. SIGNIFICANT SPILLAGES caused by the overturning of a truck transporting concentra[EN23] In 2011, out of a total of 21 significant environmental te from Puerto Patache to the Altonorte smelter. In the third incidents, only three corresponded to spillages affecting the spillage, in Ujina at the Cordillera worksite, six llareta plants ground or water courses. No Category 3, 4 or 5 environmental were affected. incidents were reported in 2011. It is important to note that the ground is one of the resouThe spillage that occurred at Puerto Patache in 2011 was rces most affected, accounting for 77% of environmental considered significant due mainly to the area of ground affecincidents (significant and not very significant). ted while the second spillage, at Km 191 of Road A-1, was Significant Spillages Volume (m3) Location Impacts Spillage of concentrate 180 Inside Puerto Patache 1 hectare of ground affected Spillage of concentrate 12 Km 191 Road A-1 Spillage on public road Spillage of tailings 50 Cordillera worksite (Ujina) Protected flora Total 242 9 Collahuasi classifies Category 3, 4 and 5 incidents as moderate, serious and disastrous, respectively. Sustainable Development 147 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 1. Complementary information 1.1. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE [2.8] Dimensions of Collahuasi 2009 2010 2011 Workforce (Nº) DIRECT EMPLOYEES Annual average 2,015 2,295 2,695 Year-end 2,127 2,419 2,784 CONTRACTORS’ EMPLOYEES Annual average 5,076 5,813 7,820 Year-end 5,103 5,086 7,571 Total annual average 7,091 8,108 10,515 Total year-end 7,230 7,505 10,355 Financial data (US$ thousand) Net sales or net income 3,208,318 3,928,862 3,837,146 TOTAL CAPITALISATION (broken down into debt and net equity) Fixed assets and intangibles 2,653,206 3,225,604 4,069,943 Liabilities to banks * 183,146 91,59 0 Net worth 3,027,247 3,475,150 3,992,559 * The company’s liabilities to third parties were paid down in 2011. Value Generated and Distributed (US$ thousand) [EC1] 2009 2010 2011 Income Gross sales 3,208,318 3,928,862 3,837,146 Income from financial investments 479 1,196 1,222 Income from sales of fixed assets and others 80,720 40,188 3,495 Economic Value Generated 3,289,517 3,970,246 3,834,873 Operating costs 967,032 1,073,047 1,298,523 Employee wages and benefits 116,838 152,084 209,518 Payments to providers of capital 208.94 1,604,033 1,167,267 150 Payments to government * 272,057 455,369 903,892 Investment in community 11,577 13,363 14,825 Economic Value Distributed 1,576,444 3,297,896 2,691,037 Economic Value Retained 1,713,073 672,350 1,143,835 * The significant increase in payments to the government reflects three main factors: Net VAT payments: In 2010, the company received a net reimbursement due to its recovery of VAT as an exporter whereas, in 2011, VAT payments exceeded the reimbursement, resulting in a payment to the government higher than (US$146 million) the tax reimbursements obtained in the period. Difference between tax paid in April 2011 and provisional monthly payments (PPMs) in 2010: In 2010, corporate income tax payments were completely covered by PPMs made in 2009 whereas, in 2011, these fell US$137 million short of the total amount to be paid. Increase in PPM rate in 2011: This reflected the increase in the rate of corporate income tax (first category) from 17% to 20% as a result of which PPMs in 2011 were up by US$166 million on 2010. [EC9] Economic impact of our operations The global economic volume of Collahuasi’s business was estimated using operating and investment purchases (business), remunerations (personnel) and tax payments (government) as well as their multiplier or indirect impact. This indicator shows the relative weight of the company’s operations in Chile’s and the Tarapacá Region’s main macroeconomic variables. Understanding the scope of these impacts is important for improving performance in all aspects of the company’s management. These indirect impacts include the additional effects generated by the circulation of money in the economy. Collahuasi’s direct and indirect economic impact in 2011 was equivalent to US$6,327.9 million. In a continuation of the upward trend seen over the last three years, this represented an increase of 46.79% on 2010. Out of this total, 53.84% was related to operating and investment purchases (business impact), 8.68% to remunerations (personal income) and 37.48% to taxes and royalties paid to the central and local governments (government). In Chile, the company’s direct economic impact reached US$2,411.92 million (up by 43.6% on the previous year) while its indirect impact reached US$3,915.97 million (up by 48.9%). Collahuasi’s Economic Impact, 2011 DIRECT IMPACT (US$ million) 2009 2010 2011 Remunerations 116.84 152.08 209.51 Direct business 967.03 1,072.04 1,298.52 Payments to government 272.06 455.37 903.89 Total 1,355.93 1,697.49 2,411.92 INDIRECT IMPACT (US$ million) Remunerations 184.61 204.29 331.01 Sustainable Development 151 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Direct business 1,431.20 1,588.10 1,921.78 Payments to government 500.59 837.88 1,663.18 Total 2,116.40 2,630.27 3,915.97 TOTAL IMPACT (US$ million) Remunerations 301.45 365.37 540.52 Direct business 2,398.23 2,661.14 3,220.30 Payments to government 772.65 1,293.25 2,567.07 Total impact 3,472.33 4,310.76 6,327.89 Source: Calculated by Excelencia & Gestión using the input-output matrix of the Central Bank of Chile. Economic Impact 2011 51% Direct business 100% 41% Payments to government 8% Remunerations The multipliers estimated for Collahuasi’s direct effects in Chile show that each US$1 spent directly generates an additional US$1.62. Similarly, the multiplier for direct expenditure related to personal income (remunerations) is 1.58 and for business income and payments to the government, 1.48 and 1.84, respectively According to the results for Collahuasi’s direct and indirect impact, it accounted for an estimated 2.5% of Chile’s GDP in 2011, up from 2.1% in 2010. 152 Collahuasi’s impacts and share in mining industry Output (thousand FMT) 2009 2010 2011 Collahuasi 535,853 504,043 453,284 Chile 5,394,400 5,418,900 5,262,800 Source: Cochilco Given the drop in Collahuasi’s output in 2011, it accounted for 8.6% of total copper production in Chile, down from 9.3% in 2010 and 9.9% in 2009. Share in Chile’s Exports (US$ million) Exports Share 2009 Exports Share 2010 Exports Share 2011 2009 (%) 2010 (%) 2011 (%) Collahuasi 1,667 2,299 1,574 Total Chilean exports 55,463 3.01 70,897 3.24 81,411 1.93 Chilean mining exports 31,877 5.23 44,360 5.18 48,865 3.22 Chilean copper exports 29,695 5.61 41,170 5.58 44,438 3.54 Sources: Central Bank of Chile and ProChile. Collahuasi’s share in Chile’s total exports and its mining and copper exports was mainly a result of lower output and sales in 2011. 1.2 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Consumption of materials [EN1] The materials used by Collahuasi are as follows: Materials Used Unit 2009 2010 2011 Sulphuric acid (tonnes) 219,05 179,477 121,424 Petrol (m3) 308 326 276 Diesel (m3) 104,681 101,969 113,258 LPG (m3) 2,914 2,628 2,979 NaSH (tonnes) 3,410 2,906 1,626 Flocculants (tonnes) 801 751 739 Tyres (number) 317 622 635 Steel balls (tonnes) 48,948 46,470 39,868 Mining oil (m3) 2,412 3,253 3,408 Sustainable Development 153 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company A reduction in consumption of sulphuric acid in the leaching process during 2011 was due principally to a change in the characteristics of the mineral processed, with a shift away from Capella Exotic Oxides, whose chemical composition implies greater acid consumption, to a higher percentage of Rosario mixes and marginal sulphides which call for less acid. As a result, estimated acid consumption dropped to 16 kg/tone of mineral, down from 26 kg/tonne. The lower consumption of steel balls in 2011 was mainly the result of a change of supplier from Molycop to Elecmetal, improved control of mill filling levels, better quality control of the balls acquired and the installation of retaining rings in the secondary mill. The reduction of consumption of NaSH was explained largely by control of the residual reagent to reduce this to the lowest possible level, thereby obtaining good metallurgical yields, controlling emission of odours and increasing the use of the liquid industrial waste plant. [EN2] In 2011, initiatives were implemented for the reuse of materials and inputs. In the mine area, out of the total of 3,408 m3 of oil used in equipment, 285 m3 was reused to produce explosives (ANFO) for the blasting process. This implied a saving of 30.6% in diesel consumption, equivalent to US$205,700 and a 36.2% increase in reuse of this input as compared to 2010. Unit 2009 2010 2011 Mining oil Litres 84,759 209,515 284,940 Materials Reused Copper filtering plates Number 398 67 The drop in the number of copper filtering plates reused in 2011 was a result of the acquisition of 52 new plates which were installed in press filters, increasing the frequency of replacement and reducing the number of plates being rotated for repair. In addition, a more efficient quality of concentrate was received, reducing the level of insoluble content and, therefore, premature deterioration of the plates and the factors that had contributed to wear and tear of the filters in 2010. WATER Recovery of water sources [EN9] Collahuasi has commitments regarding water flow in a number of sources such as Michincha and Huinquintipa. All water sources and average values in 2011 are shown in the table below: Promedio anual Variable Unit 2011 2010 2009 Average flow of Jachucoposa Spring (na(L/s) 33.4 24.5 21.0 tural) Average flow at Jachucoposa measure(L/s) 60.3 66.3 65.6 ment station (natural + mitigation) Average flow at Michincha measurement (L/s) 4.8 4.7 4.7 station (mitigation) Average flow at Huinquintipa measure(L/s) 17.3 7.5 13.5 ment station 154 It should be noted that the Coposa and Huinquintipa basins correspond to sources where Collahuasi is the only current user. Michincha, on the other hand, is a shared basin from which water was extracted before the company began withdrawals. Nonetheless, since 2005, the company has undertaken to restore the total water flow of the old Michincha Spring. To this end, a mitigation flow of close to 5 L/s is maintained in the Spring as established in Environmental Permit (RCA N° 167/2001). Puerto Patache outcrops In the case of the outcrops that appeared in the sector of the evaporation ponds at Puerto Patache in 2008, the company continued to intensify the management of effluents from the copper concentrate filtering process in 2011, increasing the operational security of the system for dissipation by evaporation, increasing the area of the ponds by 67% and making a total of 64.3 hectares available for direct evaporation. In 2011, it also built the second phase of Pond 3 (17.5 hectares) and all of Pond 4 (8.3 hectares). Total Area of 70 Evaporation Ponds 60 64.3 50 Ha 40 30 38.5 20 23 10 0 2009 2010 2011 Thanks to the increase in the ponds’ evaporation area, control of possible outcrops has improved and, in 2011, no new events occurred. Together with the forestation area, these ponds are a key part of the system for dissipating waters and have allowed Collahuasi to comply with its commitment not to discharge liquid waste into the environment. ENERGY Energy efficiency initiatives [EN5] The ageing of mines as an operation advances means that the extraction and production of copper is ever more energy-intensive and the resulting increase in energy consumption per tonne of copper output poses an important management challenge. Energy consumption per tonne of copper content produced 2009 2010 2011 [GJ/tonne Cu] (Cu sulphide + Cu oxide) 15.96 17.57 20.29 [EN7] Reduction of indirect energy consumption is shown in the case of the use of videoconferences as an alternative to business travel. In 2011, the number of videoconferences held by the company again increased significantly, reducing travel for face-to-face meetings. Sustainable Development 155 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Videoconferences 2.000 1,774 Videoconferences 1,376 1.000 213 0 2009 2010 2011 EMISSION, DISCHARGES AND WASTE Direct CO2 emissions [EN16] Collahuasi’s direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are the result of consumption of fuel by trucks and pick-ups and by the cogeneration plant. The energy used in the processes of the company’s different areas takes the form of petrol, diesel, explosives, residual fuel oil and LPG. The emissions factors used are those recommended by the International Carbon Bank & Exchange and the adaptation of the Revised 1996 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories: Reference Manual for indirect emissions generated by the Northern Interconnected Grid (SING). Annual Direct Emissions Scope 1 (tCO2e) Emissions by Area 2009 2010 2011 Mine 274,813 292,138 359,804 Sulphides 5,549 5,088 44,813 Leaching 21,496 21,440 23,119 Cogeneration plant -31,917 39,199 Others 3,730 3,886 10,195 Total Emissions: Scope 1 305,588 354,468 477,130 Source: Collahuasi Energy Efficiency Programme (EEP) Report, consolidated December 2009. Includes the emissions of all the company’s installations and equipment. * Source: For the calculation of the GHG inventory, the methodology used was that proposed by the GHG Protocol (WRI/WBCSD). ** Source: IPCC 2006. IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Vol 2. Table 1.2: Net calorific values. *** Source: GHG Protocol: Tool for stationary combustion. In the case of Scope 2 emissions, analysis of the primary energy source used to generate electricity shows that, in 2011, coal played an important role in the Northern Interconnected Grid (SING), leading to an increase in the emissions factor of the power generated. 156 Annual Indirect Emissions Scope 2 (tCO2e) Emissions by Area 2009 2010 2011 Mine 35,557 42,993 47,284 Sulphides 807,573 822,940 723,713 Leaching 101,630 91,545 80,875 Others 81,691 90,175 78,695 Total Emissions: Scope 2 1,026,450 1,047,653 930,531 Source: Collahuasi Energy Efficiency Programme (EEP) Report, consolidated December 2009. Includes the emissions of all the company’s installations and equipment. * Source: For the calculation of the GHG inventory, the methodology used was that proposed by the GHG Protocol (WRI/WBCSD). ** Source: IPCC 2006. IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Vol 2. Table 1.2: Net calorific values. *** Source: GHG Protocol: Tool for stationary combustion. Indirect CO2 emissions [EN17] The strategic inputs considered in the calculation of the carbon footprint which form part of Scope 3 are those that significantly impact Collahuasi’s production cycle. The most important are linings of crushers and mills, mill balls, lime, sulphuric acid, tyres, lubricants and fuels. The CO2 emissions of these strategic inputs are shown below: Other Indirect Emissions Scope 3 (tCO2e) Emissions by Area 2009 2010 2011 Mine 39,816 26,302 13,314 Sulphides 33,112 35,240 11,678 Leaching 51,058 36,826 23,538 Others 75,279 81,085 199,055 Total Emissions: Scope 3 (tCO2e) 199,265 179,454 247,577 Source: GHG Inventory, Collahuasi, 2010 and 2011. Source: 2009 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. Source: IPCC 2006. IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Net calorific values. Fugitive emissions [EN19] In the case of fugitive emissions, 22.3% of the refrigerants used by the company in 2011 corresponded to R-407C (Genetron), an ecological refrigerant. This was in line with the company’s undertaking to minimise the impact of its air emissions. The only refrigerant used by Collahuasi that is subject to control under the Montreal Protocol and, by default, under Chile’s Supreme Decree (DS) 37 is R-22 (a non-ecological refrigerant). At 272 kg in 2011, its use was down by 24.4% on 2010. 476.6 kg of refrigerants were used by Collahuasi in 2011. Sustainable Development 157 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Air emissions [EN20] In 2011, Collahuasi improved the quality of information about its carbon footprint as a result of the continuous improvement established under the norms governing its GHG inventory. The international GHG Protocol requires independent reporting of Scope 1 GHG emissions and these are shown below: Summary of GHG Emissions, 2011 Año CO2 CH4 N2O tCO2e 2009 1,488,930 120 129 1,531,304 2010 1,539,333 122 128 1,581,575 2011 440,153 23 122 477,130 This breakdown improves the quality of the quantification of gases emitted by the company. BIODIVERSITY [EN11] The installations of Collahuasi that are within priority sites for the conservation of biodiversity are the well fields in the Coposa and Michincha Salt Flats, which are near the following areas of environmental value: Location of Installations Value of Adjacent Operational Type of Sector in relation to Protected Protected Installations Operation Area Area Coposa Salt Flat Priority Water and Jachucoposa Coposa Norte well field 17 km to north conservation withdrawal Wetland site Water Conservation Michincha Salt Flat Michincha well field 5 km to north withdrawal of biodiversity Oxides plant, leach pads Conservation Ujina Carcanal 35 m to south Production and Ujina waste rock dump of biodiversity Site protected Jachu Ujina and by National Concentrator plant 2.7 km to southwest Production Represa Wetlands Water Board (DGA) Wetland Perforations, installations Chiclla Wetland 6.43 km to northwest Exploration compensation of Dulcinea-La Borracha pit area * Queñoa tree Irruputuncu Coposa Norte and Portezuelo 6 km to south and Water compensation Volcano Portezuelo well fields Coposa Norte 20 km to north withdrawal area ** Shipment Priority port and Punta Patache Puerto Patache 1 km to northeast conservation molybdenum site plant (*)Important for the conservation of fauna and Andean birdlife. (**) Species with conservation problems. 158 Environmental investment and expenditure [EN30] Environmental Expenditure (US$) Project Cost Waste treatment and disposal 6,218,853 Treatment of emissions 413,874 Remediation 1,676,189 External certification of management systems 117,166 R&D 3,485,324 Other environmental management costs 2,372,665 Total 14,284,071 Environmental Investment (US$) Project Cost Air quality monitoring station 128,036 Permanent oceanographic monitoring equipment 216,282 Meteorological station 5,260 Permanent water level and quality monitoring equipment 40,170 Oil filter compactor 7,200 Bottle recycling bins 10,400 Total 407,348 1.3 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction practices [PR5] In response to the logistics contingency faced in the first half of 2011 as a consequence of the tragic accident which occurred at Puerto Patache when the copper concentrate shiploader collapsed, Collahuasi implemented a mitigation plan which involved transporting concentrate by road to the ports of Antofagasta, Arica and Iquique in order to be able to comply with its export contracts. Although it met all its commitments for this period, the need to use public ports had an impact on the programming and timing of shipments. Despite the company’s efforts during the logistics contingency, the customer satisfaction survey that was carried out in September 2011 showed a drop in perceptions of the timing of shipments. This was immediately corrected once shipments were resumed from Puerto Patache in July 2011. Sustainable Development 159 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company EMPLOYEES [LA1] Workforce by category Executives Supervisors Operators / By Type of Maintenance Personnel TOTAL Contract 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Apprentice 0 0 0 0 0 0 55 84 146 146 Indefinite 82 91 96 463 520 665 1,595 1,777 1,811 2,572 Fixed-term 0 0 0 6 10 9 20 21 57 66 Total* 82 91 96 469 530 674 1,670 1,882 2,014 2,784 * Includes apprentices although they are not considered in other indicators. [LA1] Direct employees by level and gender Women Men Level Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 President and vice-presidents 0 1 7 6 7 Managers and superintendents 3 3 81 86 89 Professionals 58 79 472 595 674 Operators and administrative and other similar 8 6 1,790 1,862 1,868 personnel Total 69 89 2,350 2,549 2,638 [LA2] Employees leaving the company by age and gender Age range 18-19 20-29 30-49 40-49 50-59 Over 60 Total Men 0 5 20 25 17 2 69 2009 Women 0 3 0 1 0 0 4 Men 0 1 4 0 1 0 6 2010 Women 0 10 39 21 10 1 81 Men 7 173 182 135 47 12 556 2011 Women 1 11 7 4 0 0 23 Total by age 2011 8 184 189 139 47 12 160 [LA2] 12-month rolling turnover rate 2009 2010 2011 Total SPS 8.6% 11.3% 15.9% Total OAS 2.3% 1.2% 10% Total 3.9% 3.8% 11.5% * Turnover: Number of employees leaving the company/total employees. [LA2] Hirings by age, gender and region of Chile, 2011 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 Over 60 Total M W M W M W M W M W Region 1 54 5 38 4 23 2 5 131 Region 2 20 1 48 25 1 4 99 Region 3 3 12 3 18 Region 4 11 19 14 4 48 Region 5 2 6 11 4 23 Region 6 1 1 Region 7 1 1 1 1 4 Region 8 3 3 3 2 11 Region 9 0 Region 10 1 1 Region 11 0 Region 12 1 1 2 Santiago Metropolitan 7 1 17 1 8 1 8 1 1 45 Region Region 14 0 Region 15 9 13 10 32 Total by age 112 7 157 5 99 4 29 1 1 0 [LA13] Employees by level and age range, 2011 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 Over 60 President and Men 1 4 1 1 vice-presidents Women 1 Managers and Men 26 48 15 4 superintendents Women 1 1 1 Sustainable Development 161 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Men 87 234 184 70 13 Professionals Women 17 32 8 4 Operators and Men 254 751 672 174 11 administrative and similar personnel Women 2 7 6 4 1 [LA4] Union membership N° Union Members % Union Membership 2009 1,595 67% 2010 1,239 64% 2011 1,416 54% HUMAN RIGHTS “Human rights are the basic rights to which all human beings are entitled because, as human beings, they have an intrinsic desire for liberty, peace, health and happiness.” ISO 26000 Training [HR3] In 2011, the following human rights training was provided by Collahuasi: CEO Six-Monthly CSR and Sustainability WorkTraining Communications Management shop * Workshop Meeting/ Nº of participants 23 1,311 1,548 Nº of hours 8 1 1 (monthly) Vice-Presidencies: Legal & Community Relations, Administration & Services, Areas participating Finance & Sales, Projects and the All All Safety & Occupational Health and Environment areas. * This workshop included analysis of the ISO 26000 diagnosis in Collahuasi which refers to aspects of human rights. Security personnel [HR8] Collahuasi has two security employees of its own who work as private industrial security guards. They have received human rights training and, in 2011, participated in meetings with the company’s CEO. Security personnel supplied by contractors are, like all other contractors’ employees, subject to all the norms in force as set out in the general terms of contracts. 162 SOCIETY [HR11 · MM7] Complaints procedure Under the principles governing the company’s relations with communities in the area where it operates, a complaints procedure was established in 2011 through which to channel suggestions and respond to concerns expressed by communities included in the company’s action plan. This procedure establishes parameters for receiving, following up, managing and responding to any type of complaint presented by the communities. It applies to any situation resulting from the company’s activities that may eventually result in social harm, of whatever nature, to the inhabitants of communities in the areas around the company’s worksites and is also considered a risk for the company. In 2011, no complaints relating to human rights were presented through this mechanism. EDUCATION Social Scholarships Programme N° of Beneficiaries N° of Beneficiaries Locality 2010 2011 Pica 90 0 Chanavayita 45 30 Los Verdes 30 0 San Marcos 45 0 Iquique -60 Caramucho -23 Total 210 113 University Scholarships Programme 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Indigenous Peoples 1 1 1* 1* 1 1 1 1 1 Scholarship Pica Scholarship 2* 2* 2* 2* 2 2 2 2 1 *Not in force in 2011. So far, one student has graduated from the Arturo Prat University in English-Spanish-English Translation and three students have completed their courses but have yet to take final exams: one in Civil Electrical Engineering at the University of Antofagasta, one in Kinesiology and Rehabilitation at the Tarapacá University of Arica and the third in Computer Engineering at the INACAP technical training institute and university. Sustainable Development 163 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Primary and Secondary Schooling Completion Programme N° of Beneficiaries N° of Beneficiaries Locality 2010 2011 Iquique 120 -Chanavayita 33 16 Pica 34 30 Huara -35 San Marcos -15 Total 187 96 SIMCE Results Mitigation Programme The graphs below show how the schools with which the Collahuasi Educational Foundation has been working for the past four years have performed in the national SIMCE pupil attainment testing system. Care is required in comparing results due to the heterogeneity of schools in terms of the number of pupils per class and their cultural situation (for example, differences in native language and access to other centres of education). The graphs, therefore, show the results of the same school in the tests carried out in 2008, when work with the schools was beginning, and in 2011. In many cases, it can be inferred that the changes in a school’s results reflect factors such as a massive influx of pupils in the last year and changes in teachers and directors that negatively affect continuity in the implementation of programmes. These factors have a very important impact on results. The colour red indicates schools where there was an important drop in results between the two tests while green shows those schools with a significant improvement and orange indicates that there was no statistically significant change. Schools in Iquique Province Evolution of Fourth-Year SIMCE Language Results, 2008 and 2011 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 Colegio Escuela Básica Escuela Plácido Escuela Gabriela Escuela Caleta Simón Bolívar Patricio Lynch Villarroel Mistral Chanavayita Difference -10 8 8 43 75 Pupils 29 75 30 32 8 Significance 0 0 0 1 1 164 Evolution of Fourth-Year SIMCE Maths Results, 2008 and 2011 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 Escuela Básica Colegio Escuela Plácido Escuela Gabriela Escuela Caleta Patricio Lynch Simón Bolívar Villarroel Mistral Chanavayita Difference 8 11 13 31 105 Pupils 75 29 30 32 8 Significance 0 0 0 1 1 Schools in Del Tamarugal Province Evolution of Fourth-Year SIMCE Language Results, 2008 and 2011 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 -60 Matilla Colchane Vertiente Estrella Liceo Básica La Tirana San Andrés Camiña del Saber del Sur Huara de Pozo Almonte Difference -54 -44 -31 -13 -1 8 9 19 31 Pupils 13 11 29 65 18 44 16 17 10 Significance -1 -1 -1 -1 0 0 0 1 1 Evolution of Fourth-Year SIMCE Maths Results, 2008 and 2011 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 -60 Vertiente Liceo Matilla La Tirana Estrella Básica Colchane San Andrés Camiña del Saber Huara del Sur de Pozo Almonte Difference -34 -33 -27 -8 -6 10 11 16 45 Pupils 30 17 13 16 66 45 11 17 10 Significance -1 -1 -1 0 0 0 0 0 1 Sustainable Development 165 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company [3.12] 2. GRI Content Index Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles PROFILE 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organisation (director general, 1.1 chairman or equivalent post) about the P2 6.2 12 importance of sustainability for the organisation and its strategy. Description of key impacts, risks and oppor1.2 tunities. P10 6.2 35 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. 24 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 24 Operational structure of the organisation in2.3 cluding main divisions, operating companies, 6.2 24 subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. 25 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically re24 levant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 26 Markets served (including geographic break2.7 down, sectors served and types of custo31 mers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organisation including: • Number of employees • Number of operations • Net sales (for private sector organisations) or 2.8 150 net income (for public sector organisations) • Capitalisation broken down by debt and net equity • Quantity of products or services provided Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, structure or ownership 28 of the organisation. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 40 166 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles 3. Report Parameters 3.1. Report Profile Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) 3.1 P1 16 for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). P1 16 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.). P1 16 Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 P1 On cover report or its contents. Process for defining report content including • Determining materiality 3.5 • Prioritising topics within the report P1 17,19 • Identifying the stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. 3.2. Scope and Boundary All the company’s operations are included: Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, dithe Ujina, Rosario and visions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Huinquintipa deposits, 3.6 P1 installations in Coposa ventures, suppliers). See the Boundary Proand Puerto Patache tocol of GRI report 25 for further information. and the activities of its Iquique, Pica and Santiago offices. State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 P1 16 boundary of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced opera3.8 tions and other entities that can significantly 16 affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations including assumptions and 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to 18 the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier re3.10 ports and the reasons for such re-statement 16 (e.g. mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods). Explanation of the effect of any changes with respect to previous periods in the scope, boun3.11 16 dary or measurement methods used in the report. Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Identify the page numbers or links where the following information can be found: 3.12 • Strategy and analysis, 1.1–1.2 166 • Organisational profile, 2.1–2.8 • Parameters. Sustainable Development 167 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles 3.3. Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying 3.13 the sustainability report, explain the scope P2 7.5.3 18, 180, 184 and basis of any external assurance provided. Explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1. Governance Governance structure of the organisation including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for specific 6.2 55 tasks such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 4.2 6.2 55 (and, if so, the Chair’s function in leading the organisation and the grounds that justify it). For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body 6.2 55 that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to 6.2 41 the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure 4.5 6.2 55 arrangements) and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body 4.6 6.2 55 to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, Directors have qualifications and expertise of the memexperience in the 4.7 bers of the highest governance body and 6.2 sustainable management of their own its committees including any consideration companies. of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental and 6.2 33 social performance and the status of their implementation. 168 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation's identification and management of economic, environ4.9 mental and social performance including re6.2 35 levant risks and opportunities and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest goverCollahuasi does not carry out evaluations nance body's own performance, particularly of this type; the di4.10 6.2 rectors are evaluated with respect to economic, environmental and by the companies to social performance. which they belong. 4.2. Commitment to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 4.11 Article 15 of the Rio Principles introduced the 35 precautionary approach. Response to this indicator may include the organisation’s approach to environmental issues. Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other 4.12 6.2 39 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as indus4.13 try associations) and/or national/internatio6.2 39 nal advocacy organisations. 4.2. Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14 organisation (including local communities as P10 6.2 49, 50, 51 well as communities in general). Basis for identification and selection of stake4.15 P10 6.2 49, 50, 51 holders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement 4.16 including frequency of engagement by type P10 6.2 49, 50, 51 and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and 4.17 how the organisation has responded to those P10 6.2 21 key topics and concerns including through its reporting. Sustainable Development 169 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DMA Economic management approach 6.2.6.8 151 1. Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed including revenues, operating costs, 6.8 employee compensation, donations and 6.8.3 P9 150 other community investments, retained ear6.8.7 nings and payments to capital providers and 6.8.9 governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities 7 6.5.5 126 due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit 61 plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received P9 43 from government. 2. Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage 6.4.4 EC5 compared to local minimum wage by gender 6 64 6.8 at significant locations of operation. 6.6.6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending 6.8 EC6 on locally-based suppliers at significant locaP9 32 6.8.5 tions of operation. 6.8.7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of 6.8 EC7 senior management hired from the local com6.8.5 60 munity at significant locations of operation. 6.8.7 3. Indirect Economic Impacts 6.3.9 6.8 Development and impact of infrastructure 6.8.3 investments and services provided primarily 6.8.4 EC8 77, 80, 84, 90 for public benefit through commercial, in6.8.5 kind or pro bono engagement. 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 Understanding and describing significant in6.7.8 EC9 direct economic impacts including the extent 6.8 151 of impacts. 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 170 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 6.2 DMA Environmental management approach 113, 125, 138 6.5 1. Materials 6.5 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. P6 144, 153 6.5.4 Percentage of materials used that are recy6.5 EN2 7-8 P6 144, 154 cled input materials. 6.5.4 2. Energy Direct energy consumption by primary ener6.5 EN3 P6 133 gy source. 6.5.4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 6.5 EN4 P6 135 energy source. 6.5.4 Energy saved due to conservation and effi6.5 EN5 7-8 131, 155 ciency improvements. 6.5.4 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services 6.5 EN6 7-8-9 130, 131 and reductions in energy requirements as a 6.5.4 result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy con6.5 EN7 156 sumption and reductions achieved. 6.5.4 3. Water 6.5 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 116 6.5.4 Water sources significantly affected by with6.5 EN9 114, 154 drawal of water. 6.5.4 Percentage and total volume of water recy6.5 EN10 7-8 118 cled and reused. 6.5.4 4. Biodiversity Description of land in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Location and 6.5 EN11 7-8 P7 138, 158 size of land owned, leased or managed in or 6.5.6 adjacent to areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Sustainable Development 171 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles Description of significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas as 6.5 EN12 a result of activities, products and services in 6.5.6 142 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Amount of land (owned or leased and managed MM1 for production activities or extractive use) distur25 bed or rehabilitated. 6.5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 7-8 140 6.5.6 Strategies, current actions and future 6.5 EN14 plans for managing impacts on biodiver7-8 P7 142 6.5.6 sity. The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity manageMM2 139 ment plans and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 6.5 EN15 7-8 140 in areas affected by operations by level of 6.5.6 extinction risk. 5. Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total, direct and indirect greenhouse gas 6.5 EN16 7-8 P6 127, 156 emissions by weight. 6.5.5 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emis6.5 EN17 7-8 P6 127, 157 sions by weight. 6.5.5 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 6.5 EN18 7-8 P6 125, 128 and reductions achieved. 6.5.5 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by 6.5 EN19 7-8 P6 157 weight. 6.5.3 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 6.5 EN20 by type and weight. 7-8 P6 6.5.3 158 Total water discharge by quality and desti6.5 EN21 7-8 146 nation. 6.5.3 Total weight of waste managed by type and 6.5 EN22 7-8 144 disposal method. 6.5.3 No movements repreTotal amounts of overburden, rock, tailings senting potential risks MM3 took place during the and sludges and their associated risks. reporting period. 6.5 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 7-8 P6 147 6.5.3 172 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles No waste of any Weight of transported, imported, exported or type is imported or shipped overseas by treated waste deemed hazardous under the Collahuasi. Hazardous 6.5 EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III 7-8 6.5.3 waste is collected by external companies and VIII, and percentage of transported waste in the Antofagasta shipped internationally. Region for its final disposal. In its Environmental Impact Studies and Declarations, Collahuasi undertook not to discharge any Identity, size, protected status and biodiliquid waste. It geneversity value of water bodies and related 6.5 rates liquid industrial waste only in the EN25 habitats significantly affected by the repor7-8 6.5.4 recovery of molybdeting organisation’s discharges of water and 6.5.6 num and the filtering of copper concentrarunoff. te in Puerto Patache and this is sent to the nanofiltration plant, producing permeate and reject water. 6. Products and Services 6.5 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 6.5.4 EN26 of products and services and extent of im7-8 145 6.6.6 pact mitigation. 6.7.5 Collahuasi does not Percentage of products sold and their packa6.5 generate packaging EN27 ging materials that are reclaimed by category 7-8 6.5.4 materials that are reclaimed at the end of products. 6.7.5 of their useful life. 7. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN28 7-8 P6 6.5 44 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 8. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transpor6.5 ting products and other goods and materials EN29 7-8 6.5.4 127 used for the organisation’s operations and 6.6.6 transporting members of the workforce. 9. Overall Total environmental protection expenditures EN30 7-8 6.5 159 and investments by type. Sustainable Development 173 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles SOCIAL PERFORMANCE DMA Social management approach 44, 45, 88, 100 1. Labour Practices and Decent Work 1.1. Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, emplo6.4 yment contract and region broken down by P3 58, 160 6.4.3 gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires 6.4 and employee turnover by age group, gender P9 58, 160 6.4.3 and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that 6.4 are not provided to temporary or part-time P9 6.4.3 61 employees by major operations. 6.4.4 LA15* Return to work and retention rates after Collahuasi does not have a register of parental leave by gender. days of leave related to maternity and paternity. 1.2. Labour/Management Relations 6.3.10 6.4 Percentage of employees covered by collectiLA4 ve bargaining agreements. 3 P3 6.4.3 62, 162 6.4.4 6.5.4 Notice periods are not specified in the 6.4 collective contract. Minimum notice period(s) regarding signifiHowever, in the case 6.4.3 LA5 cant operational changes including whether 3 P3 of important changes 6.4.4 in the organisation, specified in collective agreements. these are announced 6.4.5 at least seven days beforehand. In 2011, no strikes with a duration of Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding more than a week MM4 occurred; however, one week’s duration by country. there were 24-hour stoppages and mobilisations. 1.3. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health 6.4 and safety committees that help monitor and 3 P5 104, 109 6.4.6 advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and total number 6.4 P5 107, 109 of work-related fatalities by region and 6.4.6 gender. 174 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention 6.4 and risk-control programmes in place to 6.4.5 assist workforce members, their families 6.8 102 or community members regarding serious 6.8.3 diseases. 6.8.4 6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Life and complementary health insurance agreements with trade unions. 6.4 are stipulated in the 3 collective contract 6.4.6 signed in 2010 and currently in force. 1.4. Training and Education Average hours of training per year per 6.4 LA10 employee by gender and by employee 62 6.4.7 category. Programmes for skills management and li6.4 felong learning that support the continued LA11 6.4.7 62 employability of employees and assist them in 6.8.5 managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular 6.4 LA12 performance and career development re63 6.4.7 views by gender. 1.5. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and 6.3.7 breakdown of employees per employee cate6.3.10 LA13 gory according to gender, age group, minori6 P3 58, 161 6.4 ty group membership and other indicators of 6.4.3 diversity. 6.3.7 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 6.3.10 LA14 women to men by employee category by 6 6.4 64 significant locations of operations. 6.4.3 6.4.4 2. Human Rights 2.1. Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant 6.3 investment agreements and contracts that 6.3.3 HR1* include clauses incorporating human rights 1-2 P3 68 6.3.5 concerns, or that have undergone human rights 6.6.6 screening. 6.3 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors 6.3.3 HR2 and other business partners that have undergone 1-2 P3 6.3.5 68 human rights screening and actions taken. 6.4.3 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human 6.3 HR3 1-2 162 rights that are relevant to operations including 6.3.5 the percentage of employees trained. Sustainable Development 175 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles 2.2. Non-Discrimination 6.3 6.3.6 Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 1-2-6 P3 6.3.7 41 and corrective actions taken. 6.3.10 6.4.3 6.3 6.3.3 Operations and significant suppliers identi6.3.4 fied in which the right to exercise freedom of 6.3.5 HR5 association and collective bargaining may be 1-2-3 P3 62 6.3.8 at significant risk, and actions taken to sup6.3.10 port these rights. 6.4.3 6.4.5 2.3. Child Labour Operations and significant suppliers identi6.3 Purchase orders fied as having significant risk for incidents of 6.3.5 include clauses HR6 1-2-5 P7 requiring compliance child labour, and measures taken to contribu6.4.3 with the regulation in te to the elimination of child labour. 6.6.6 force in Chile. 2.4. Forced Labour Operations and significant suppliers identified 6.3 Purchase orders as having significant risk for incidents of forced include clauses 6.3.5 HR7 or compulsory labour, and measures to contri1-2-4 P8 requiring compliance 6.4.3 with the regulation in bute to the elimination of all forms of forced or force in Chile. 6.6.6 compulsory labour. 2.5. Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the 6.3 organisation’s policies or procedures concer6.3.5 HR8 1-2 162 ning aspects of human rights that are relevant 6.4.3 to operations. 6.6.6 2.6. Indigenous Rights Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations MM5 79 and/or sites where there are formal agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities. 6.3 Total number of incidents of violations invol6.3.6 No related incidents HR9 ving rights of indigenous people and actions 1-2-6 6.3.7 occurred in 2011. taken. 6.3.8 6.6.7 2.7. Assessment Purchase orders Percentage and total number of operations include clauses HR10* that have been subject to human rights rerequiring compliance with the regulation in views and/or impact assessments. force in Chile. 176 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles 2.8. Remediation Number of grievances related to human HR11* rights filed, addressed and resolved 163 through formal grievance mechanisms. 3. Society 3.1. Community 6.3.9 Percentage of operations with implemented 6.6.7 SO1 local community engagement, impact as2 P4 6.8 77 sessments and development programmes. 6.8.5 6.8.7 Number and description of significant dispuNo legal action has MM6 tes relating to land use, customary rights of been filed against the company. local communities and indigenous peoples. The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land MM7 use, customary rights of local communities 163 and indigenous peoples, and the outcomes. Operations with significant potential or acSO9* tual negative impacts on local communities. 50, 76 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10* potential or actual negative impacts on local 50, 76 communities. 3.2. Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Number (and percentage) of company opeNo artisanal mining rating sites where artisanal and small-scale takes place on the MM8 mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, company’s operating sites or in the suthe site; the associated risks and the actions rrounding area. taken to manage and mitigate these risks. 3.3. Resettlement Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each and No community MM9 resettlements took how their livelihoods were affected in the place in 2011. process. 3.4. Closure Planning Number and percentage of operations with MM10 28 closure plans. 3.5. Corruption Percentage and total number of business 6.6 SO2 10 P1 42 units analysed for risks related to corruption. 6.6.3 Percentage of employees trained in the 6.6 SO3 organisation’s anti-corruption policies and 10 P1 35, 42 6.6.3 procedures. Sustainable Development 177 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles Actions taken in response to incidents of 6.6 SO4 10 41, 42 corruption. 6.6.3 3.6. Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in 6.6 SO5 1-10 39 public policy development and lobbying. 6.6.3 Collahuasi does not Total value of financial and in-kind contrimake donations or 6.6 SO6 butions to political parties, politicians and 1-10 contributions of 6.6.3 any type to political related institutions by country. parties. 3.7. Anti-Competitive Behaviour Total number of legal actions for anti-com6.6 There were no legal SO7 petitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly 1-10 6.6.5 actions of this type in 2011. practices and their outcomes. 6.6.7 3.8. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total 6.6 SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for non1-10 6.6.7 44 compliance with laws and regulations. 6.8.7 4. Product Responsibility 4.1. Materials Stewardship Programmes and progress relating to mateMM11 145 rials stewardship. 4.2. Customer Health and Safety Collahuasi does not Life cycle stages in which health and safety 6.3.9 evaluate the life cycle stages of its products impacts of products and services are assessed 6.6.6 since it is an extracPR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant 8 6.7 tive mining company and, therefore, does products and services categories subject to such 6.7.4 not market end procedures. 6.7.5 products for direct consumption. Total number of incidents of non-compliance 6.3.9 with regulations and voluntary codes concer6.6.6 No incidents of this PR2 ning health and safety impacts of products 6.7 type occurred in 2011. and services during their life cycle, by type of 6.7.4 outcomes. 6.7.5 4.3. Product and Service Labelling The quality of Collahuasi’s copper cathodes is registered 6.7 both under the EuroType of product and service information re6.7.3 pean REACH system and with the Lonquired by procedures and regulation, and per6.7.4 don and New York PR3 2-10 metals exchanges. centage of significant products and services 6.7.5 The copper consubject to such information requirements. 6.7.6 centrate it markets 6.7.9 is accompanied by a chemical analysis certificate issued by Bureau Veritas. 178 Global ICMM ISO Indicator Description Compact Page Principles 26.000 Principles 6.7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance 6.7.3 In 2011, Collahuasi did not receive with regulations and voluntary codes con6.7.4 sanctions or fines for PR4 2-10 incidents related to cerning product and service information and 6.7.5 product information labelling, by type of outcomes. 6.7.6 and labelling. 6.7.9 6.7 6.7.4 Practices related to customer satisfaction 6.7.5 PR5 including results of surveys measuring custo2 159 6.7.6 mer satisfaction. 6.7.8 6.7.9 4.4. Marketing Communications Given that it produces a commodity, Collahuasi does not carry out marketing Programmes for adherence to laws, stan6,7 activities. However, dards and voluntary codes related to marke6.7.3 it continues to PR6 2-10 carry out corporate ting communications including advertising, 6.7.6 marketing activities promotion and sponsorship. 6.7.9 through the media and the campaigns of the business associations to which it belongs. Total number of incidents of non-compliance No incidents relating with regulations and voluntary codes concerto non-compliance 6.7 of this type occurred PR7 ning marketing communications including 2-10 during the period 6.7.7 advertising, promotion and sponsorship by covered by this Report. type of outcomes. 4.5. Customer Privacy No incidents relating Total number of substantiated complaints to non-compliance 6.7 of this type occurred PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and 2-10 during the period 6.7.7 losses of customer data. covered by this Report. 4.6. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for nonIn 2011, no fines compliance with laws and regulations concer6.7 were received for PR9 2-10 non-compliance with ning the provision and use of products and 6.7.6 this regulation. services. * Additional indicators. Sustainable Development 179 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 3. External Assurance Statement Assurance Statement on the 2011 Sustainability Report of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi Santiago, 8 June 2012 Giancarlo Bruno Executive President Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi ASSURANCE STATEMENT BSD Consulting has carried out independent assurance of the preparation of the 2011 Sustainability Report of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi. The purpose of the assurance is to provide the company’s stakeholders with an independent statement as to the quality and level of application of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and methodology and the incorporation of the principles of the AA1000AS 2008 AccountAbility Assurance Standard in the company’s sustainability management processes. In addition, recommendations are made for the organisation’s continuous improvement on sustainability. Independence BSD Consulting works independently and confirms that it currently has no consultancy contract or commercial tie with Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi. BSD Consulting has an AccountAbility licence as an assurance provider (AA1000 Licensed Assurance Provider) under registration number 000-131. Our Skills BSD Consulting offers specialised sustainable development solutions. Its assurance was carried out by a team of professionals with experience and specific training in external assurance processes. Responsibilities and Limitations The preparation of the 2011 Sustainability Report, the stakeholder engagement processes and the definition of materiality are the responsibility of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi. 180 The scope of the assurance corresponds to the non-financial information contained in the company’s 2011 Sustainability Report and the stakeholder engagement processes it is currently implementing. An assurance process of Type 1, or moderate, was carried out in accordance with the AA1000AS 2008 principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Objectives and Scope The purpose of the assurance is to provide the stakeholders of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi with an independent opinion as to the quality of the Report, the company’s sustainability management processes, its adherence to AA1000AS 2008 principles and the continuity of the processes established. In addition, the assurance statement of BSD Consulting confirms the Report’s compliance with the level of application of the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. The scope of our work comprises the information contained in the 2011 Sustainability Report of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi for the period between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011. Assurance Method The assurance process carried out by BSD Consulting included: • Assurance of the non-financial information contained in the 2011 Sustainability Report and its adherence to GRI guidelines and AA1000AS 2008 principles. • Interviews with senior management in order to understand the integration of sustainability into the organisation’s strategy. • Review of the processes for defining materiality and developing the 2011 Report and meetings with the team responsible for its preparation. • Evaluation and analysis of different vehicles for relating to stakeholders. • Interviews with stakeholders about their perceptions of the vehicles for engagement established by the company. • Assurance of the quality and reliability of a sample of indicators and data through interviews, support documents and review of information systems. Principal Conclusions on Adherence to AA1000AS Principles Inclusivity – This refers to the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving a strategic response to sustainability in the organisation. • In 2010, the company carried out consultations in order to gather information about its stakeholders’ opinion of its performance and commitments as regards the company’s sustainable management. In these consultations, it used the Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) and dialogue with stakeholders, implemented in both cases by external bodies. Sustainable Development 181 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company • It is important to note that the company has in place permanent stakeholder engagement systems and clearly defines their objectives and scope, the participation of stakeholders and the engagement of the company’s operations units and senior management. • Through this process, the company seeks to ensure that relations and engagement with stakeholders are developed satisfactorily and permit the involvement of all players, both internal and external, in the engagement process. • The company must progress in consolidating a system of internal communications that permits the commitment of all its units and senior management in engagement processes and the definition of the company’s strategic stakeholders. • The company’s present risk analysis system, which includes sustainability issues in the control of management and performance, must be extended to include all the information and management of the units relevant for fulfilling the company’s commitments to its stakeholders. This will provide the company with a robust and reliable system for the performance of the company’s sustainability management. Materiality This is the determination of the relevance of issues to the organisation and its stakeholders. • Material issues for the 2011 Sustainability Report were defined on the basis of consultations with stakeholders and the gathering of information by the Vice-Presidency for Legal and Corporate Affairs and Communities. • The material issues identified by the company correspond to its stakeholders’ principal matters of interest. • The company must strengthen its internal communications so that all operations units and senior management are familiar with the main expectations of its stakeholders as regards the company’s sustainable management. • It is important that the materiality process be updated constantly in order to ensure an adequate system of control of results, considering changes in the local context in which the company operates. Responsiveness This refers to the actions taken by the company in response to specific stakeholder expectations. • The company must strengthen its responsiveness to its most strategic stakeholders, focusing on relations with and the expectations of communities where it has a direct impact, its local suppliers, its large suppliers and its internal stakeholders in order to respond adequately to their expectations. • In the case of environmental management, the company shows a good level of responsiveness, developing a number of important measures to improve its processes and impacts on its surroundings. These include particularly its policies and commitments on climate change, its energy and water management and its concern for waste management and its surroundings in general. • In a future report, it would be important to provide more extensive and in-depth information about impacts on and management of all the flora and fauna found in the geographic area of the company’s operations. • A change underway in the representatives of the company’s workers meant that, for this audit, it was not possible to know their opinion of the company’s responsiveness to their expectations. For the next report, inclusion of this information and access to workers’ representatives in order to validate their participation are recommended. 182 GRI-G3.1 Application Level In line with the recommendations of the GRI-G3.1 Guidelines, BSD declares that the 2011 Sustainability Report of Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi complies with Application Level A+. The Report contains all the information related to the company’s profile and provides a clear description of its sustainability management processes. It also provides complete information about the economic, social, environmental, human rights, labour practices and ethics, society and product responsibility dimensions of the company’s activities. In addition, it includes response to the indicators of the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. Concluding Remarks BSD Consulting can confirm the company’s will and policy to advance in and strengthen its sustainable management processes and that it has in place adequate systems for controlling the performance of its commitments. Hugo Vergara Recabal Managing Partner BSD Consulting Chile Sustainable Development 183 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 4. Evaluation and Assurance of Commitments Report Report on Evaluation of CMDIC’s Sustainability Report and Assurance of Commitments for 2011. GianCarlo Bruno Executive President CMDIC Dear Mr. Bruno, Please find attached the main conclusions of our work on the agreed evaluation and assurance of your company’s Sustainability Report. 1) Evaluation of 2010 Sustainability Report and final pre-publication draft of 2011 Sustainability Report The 2010 Sustainability Report was analysed using the Red Puentes’ Guide to Analysing the Sustainability Reports of Large Companies. The results indicate that complete information was provided as regards the GRI Version 3 and Mining Sector Supplement indicators. Only eight (11.7%) of the 68 GRI indicators evaluated require greater development and information. We, therefore, suggest improving the quality of the information provided for indicators SO2, 4.15, 4.17, HR1, HR8, EN6, EN20 and EN18. In the case of the 13 Mining Supplement indicators, their results are all satisfactory. We subsequently reviewed the final pre-publication draft of the 2011 Sustainability Report, using the same methodology, and made observations on indicators 1.2, 4.3, 4.17, EC2, HR3 and SO2 that were taken into account by the company’s Corporate Affairs area and Deloitte for the published version. The quality and accessibility of information in the 2011 Report show an improvement on the previous report and respond to stakeholder expectations as regards materiality. 2) Assurance of commitments Information and documents relating to the 52 commitments established by CMDIC in its 2010 Report were analysed, working directly with the areas of the company responsible for these commitments. The company’s level of compliance with these commitments is indicated in our report and a redefinition of its commitments for 2012 is suggested, distinguishing between strategic commitments and those designed to facilitate and complement these strategic objectives. It is also recommended 184 that the company’s commitments for 2012 be formulated in a more precise and measurable way, excluding those that form part of its normal activities and/or must be reported in the GRI indicators of the Report’s inner chapters. We confirm that, as regards CMDIC’s commitments, the company shows significant results and efforts with respect to organisational development, sustainability and social responsibility. Our complete reports and recommendations have been supplied to the company’s Corporate Affairs area. Yours sincerely, Gilberto Ortiz Red Puentes Chile. Junio 2011. Sustainable Development 185 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company 186 5. Feedback Survey We would like to know your opinion of this Sustainability Report so as to take your comments and suggestions into account and continue improving our reports. 1. To which of the following groups of Collahuasi stakeholders do you belong? Shareholder Contractor Community in vicinity of Collahuasi operations (Pica, Huasco, Matilla) Investor Regional government Employee Regulatory body Community in general (Iquique, Santiago) Customer Environmental group Other (please specify) Supplier Business sector 2. How would you describe the following aspects of this Sustainability Report? A. Length B. Usefulness of the C. Transparency and D. Lay-out and design E. Clarity and ease of information presented honesty understanding Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Good Good Good Good Good Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory Satisfactory Poor Poor Poor Poor Poor Very poor Very poor Very poor Very poor Very poor 3. What improvements would you suggest for our next Sustainability Report? Why? Please send your completed questionnaire to Bernardita Fernández, Corporate Affairs Manager: By e-mail: bernarditafernandez@collahuasi.cl By post: Avda. Andrés Bello 2687, piso 11, Edificio del Pacífico, Santiago, Chile By fax: (56 2) 362 6592 Thank you very much for your comments. Sustainable Development 187 Report 2011 Doña Inés de Collahuasi Mining Company Shareholders CMDIC Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi SCM Iquique office Avenida Baquedano 902 Iquique, I Región de Tarapacá, Chile Phone: +56 57 417 777 Post Code: 1100960 Pica office Blanco Encalada 280 Pica, I Región de Tarapacá, Chile Phone: +56 57 741 258 Post Code: 117007 Santiago office Avenida Andrés Bello 2687, Piso 11 Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Phone: +56 2 362 6500 Fax: +56 2 362 6562 Post Code: 7550611 www.collahuasi.cl Sustainability Report 2011 Compañía Minera Doña Inés de Collahuasi General Coordination: Vice-Presidency for Legal and Corporate Affairs and Communities Content Development: Deloitte Design: Armstrong & Asociados Photographs: Arturo Morales Alfredo Oñate Archivo Collahuasi Printing: Fyrma Gráfica August 2012 For more information about the contents of this Report, questions, suggestions and / or comments, please contact Bernardita Fernández, Manager of Corporate Affairs. Email: bernarditafernandez@collahuasi.cl
