Communication On Progress HSPpartners Year 2011 Statement of Continued Support Year 2011 is the second year for HSPpartners become member the United Nations Global Compact. Last year was an amazing experience for us because we could participate in the Leaders Summit meeting in New York. Our participation in the UNGC program was prompted by adopt basic participles of UNGC in the way we conduct our business.Indonesia Global Compact Network has executed many program of their agenda, which we always put the best effort to attend and participated in various events organized by the Indonesia Global Compact Network. During 2011 our Company has been trying to achieve and active to assist the founders of Indonesia Global Compact Network in preparing the organization to better IGCN.We, Hsppartners Committed to persevere in embracing and implementing the ten United Nations Global Compact principles through the daily business activities. Susi A.Sulaiman Managing Partner Introduction Communication On Progress (COP) is being prepared by HSPpartners for the second time, since participated as a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2010. it is an honor and a privilege to be involved in the world community as large as the United Nations Global Compact. The ten principles which introduced by United Nations Global Compact is the reason HSPpartners decided to join. Our Commitment to join the United Nations Global Compact was realized by participating in Leaders Summits Meeting for the first time in June 2010 held at United Nations Headquarters in New York, along with 1,200 other business leaders from around the world HSPpartners Profile HSPpartners founded in 2001, our company serves both the domestic and foreign clients doing business in Indonesia by providing services as legal Counsel to maintain the integrity of the law on every transaction made by the client and other parties in all of theirs commercial business. Our Company is always trying to do the best to maintain and not deviate from major commitment in providing perfectly satisfactory results and to meet our client’s business needs without compromising the quality and integrity of the law, also protects the interests of our clients include the interests of each of the employees , shareholders and customers. Our mission is to achieve excellence in providing total solutions to our clients satisfaction, continuous profitability, loyal employees, and the positive contribution to the community and work environment. Our vision is to become a global company known for providing professional services in law, finance and industry – specific to satisfied and loyal clients all over world. Our strategy is to provide an integrated and innovative solutions using a total systems approach to single – minded focus that can meet or even exceed our client expectations. The Implementation of Global Compact Principles Human Rights HSPpartners always incorporate human right in running its business and providing its legal services because HSPpartners realize that human rights are the very basic of every human being and must be enforced in addition to the above legal considerations given to the client’s business & partners. Our Firm takes concrete steps in fighting for human right by participating our Legal Services as one of Professional Pro Bono Lawyers for a bank officer whom accused by Indonesian General . Attorney committed of doing criminal act at Central Jakarta District Court. Ironically , the daughter of the plaintiff has been choosen as agent of changing of young generation. We providing our services by review the documents, mapping the case, going to any political party whom committed to find way out for our client once we presented the case to them. We even reported the case as violation of human rights to the National Human Rights Commission as an official institution established by Indonesian Government to protect the citizens right from being violated or threaten unfairly by Government. Labor Our Company genuinely is a corporate law firm that runs side by the side with the business activities. Trained professional staff and experts in their field to our company. To improved the quality and professionalism of employees, we are giving them the opportunity to participate in education and seminars, including education and training to meet the standards of professional competence. The working relationship between colleagues in the quality and mutual respect. In fact we sent one of our lawyer to get LLM degree at Leiden University in the Netherlands. We implement reward and punishment system in implemented our working environment in accordance with their respective accomplishment . Environment We participated directly participated with the former vice president of the Rapublic of Indonesia Jusuf Kalla and others communities in promoting Indonesia to maintain and preserve the environmental conservation in the region of the island of Komodo in Nusa Tenggara Province. Komodo Island has a nature wealth that needs to be preserved, including the feared Komodo animal will become exitinct if no conservation efforts. Komodo dragon are ancient animal protected the animals from extinction and since the eighties has also been a concern of the world organization UNESCO. Through series of activities since November 2011, we promote the conservation to the Indonesian People in Indonesia and abroad, as well as to world citizen, to increase public awareness of Indonesia and the international community to preserve the environment and conservation of Komodo Island, Including a protected animal. Anti-Corruption In providing services in the fields of law, because the establishment until now, our company has always put the best attempt to avoid dealing with legal issues involving corruption. It is a principle of our company refused to cope with potential client involved in corruption and bribery
