COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Year: 2010 11 Please give a brief executive summary of your company and its mission and objectives, its subsidiaries and financial performance. Located within the close proximity of the international airport, Radisson Blu Hotel, Delhi offers easy access to shopping and business districts of both Delhi and Gurgaon. Designed for travelers who want to be in a central location, Radisson Blu Hotel, Delhi has 256 beautifully appointed guest rooms, including 20 suites and one Presidential Suite. Contemporary and modern in setting, all rooms offer elegant décor and luxurious amenities. Guests can savour critically acclaimed cuisine with top-of-the-line service at award winning restaurants. The Great Kabab Factory, NYC, R-the-Lounge and Savannah Bar. The hotel also offers a 20,000 sq. feet RThe SPA which is a perfect wellness retreat. Our Mission : Worldwide World-class Hospitality Our Vision : To be the most admired Hotel Company in the Asia Pacific. Our Values : • Integrity • Innovation • Customer focus • Empowerment • Accountability • Responsibility • C-factor Our Purpose : At Carlson we work with a clear and noble purpose. We seek to: • Serve millions of guests and travelers in a way that makes a positive difference to their lives. • Provide tens of thousands of jobs and help our employees grow and achieve their potential • Contribute to the common good through our commitment to social responsibility • Generate attractive financial returns for our shareholders and business partners. 1 Our Guiding Principles: • We grow intelligently • We provide excellent business delivery • We optimize our resources • We attract, develop and retain top talent. • We build lasting relationship • We lead in social responsibility. Carson – Credo Whatever you do, do with Integrity Wherever you go , go as a Leader Whomever you serve, serve with caring Whenever you dream, dream with your All And never, ever give UP 2 3 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 1 Businesses Our Human Rights Statement, through our ‘Purpose’, “Credo”, and “Values” should support articulate and inform how we conduct our business. Guided by our values, we and respect the support universal human rights for our employees and in the communities protection of where we operate. internationally proclaimed Radisson Blu Hotel Delhi believes that the organization can play a positive role human rights; in contributing to safeguard human rights, their protection and promotion. Our principles prohibit child labour, forced labour and discriminatory behavior as well as recognize the right to freedom of association and representation. ACTION TAKEN: ¾ RBHD provides safe and healthy working conditions for all employees. ¾ Food handlers have a quarterly medical examination to ensure food safety & health of our guests and employees. Hotel has HACCP and Earth check certifications to support this clause of UNGC. ¾ Several training programmes are conducted by certified trainers and hotel doctor to ensure employee awareness and well-being. ¾ Providing access to basic health we have a tie-up with ESI, a government department, for weekly medical camp on-site for our employees wherein they also distribute free medicines to our employees. ¾ Inform and educate our employees about our commitment to the society and social accountability. ¾ There is no discrimination on the ground of sex, religion, place of origin etc. in the organisation as all employees are treated equally. ¾ Hotel is actively involved in promotion of education for underprivileged children through various/ periodic initiatives with a NPO called “Nai Disha” and we intend to carry this further as well with same vigour. ¾ Strict adherence to local laws. OUTCOME ¾ At RBHD no case of human right violation has been reported till date. 4 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 2 and make sure At RBHD we have policy against harassment. that they are not complicit in ACTION TAKEN:human rights ¾ Strict adherence to labour laws enacted by the government of India, to abuses protect the interests of the workers. ¾ Grievance mechanisms Ensures prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers to uphold human rights, for which there is well established grievance redressal system. ¾ RBHD in principle and in action places highest importance towards Human Rights and ensures that at no point these rights are abused. Such rights are not only ensured in the regular employment but are also recognized in contractual employment and other works as well. ¾ A complaint committee exists for redressal of sexual harassment complaints, a female confidential counselor is appointed and the complaints committee is headed by a senior lady management team member. ¾ For the work being executed by the contractors, it is ensured that appropriate steps are taken by the contractors for safety and welfare of their workers including insurance. OUTCOME: ¾ At RBHD no case of human right violation has been reported till date. 3 Businesses At RBHD we do not have any employee association, we follow the model should uphold standing orders specified as per the appropriate govt. Our functioning is subject the freedom of regular inspections by labour office of Delhi. association and the effective ACTION TAKEN: recognition of ¾ The management maintains contact with employees and resolves the right to grievances immediately, if any. collective bargaining: ¾ Constant in-house training and cross training programmes are organized to keep the team members up to date and expose them to the working environment of other organizations OUTCOME: ¾ Participation of employees has been ensured in staff welfare activities. 5 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 4 The elimination ACTION TAKEN:of all forms of forced and ¾ Strict adherence to local laws. compulsory ¾ There is no forced or compulsory labour as all staff are governed by labour hours of work as per Delhi Shop & Establishment Act 1954. ¾ Further, labour officials, who are enforcing authority, inspect the establishment regularly and no incidence of forced or compulsory labour has been reported at RBHD. ¾ Wherever employment of contract labour in non-core areas are made, it is done in accordance to contract labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 and is ensured that minimum wages, provident fund, and all the statutory requirements are met by the contractor. ¾ The service conditions are explicatory explained to the employees upon their joining. OUTCOME ¾ No case of forced labour has been reported so far 5 The effective ACTION TAKEN: abolition of child labour; ¾ Strict adherence to the child labour (Prohibition and regulation) act, 1986, which prohibits the engagement of children in certain employments and to regulate the conditions of work of children in certain other employments. However, RBHD has prescribed the minimum age limit for employment as 18 years. No person below this age can be employed in RBHD, thereby ensuring that child labour is not employed. ¾ Adequate procedures for age verification in recruitment procedures are used. ¾ Our contractors and vendors are required to scrupulously follow the laws / rules and regulations in respect of engagement of child labour. This is addressed and ensured through our contract agreement and inspection by RBHD and enforcing authorities. ¾ Training programmes are conducted to increase employee awareness on such issues OUTCOME: ¾ No case of child labour has been reported so far. 6 6 ; and the ACTION TAKEN:elimination of ¾ RBHD does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, discrimination colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and in respect of strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to employment & training, promotion etc. at work place. occupation ¾ At RBHD there are 84 executives out of whom 18 are female executives and 430 staff, out of which 63 are female. There is no discrimination in terms of employment, place of posting, nature of work, duty hours, training, promotions, emoluments etc., ¾ RBHD does not allow any kind of behavior that is threatening abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the workplace. Our system is well equipped to deal with such situations, as we have a very well defined and laid out process in our standing orders. ¾ In lines with the Constitution of India being a Secular state, RBHD offers a list of restricted holidays as per festivals of various religions, employees can choose any four as per their choice. ¾ We have training programmes to sensitize our employees to the discrimination of various forms and implications thereof. ¾ As per the guidelines laid down by the hon’ble Supreme Court of India, RBHD has appointed a special counselor and also constituted complaints committee for each Region to address any such grievances. ¾ There is no discrimination at RBHD in the process of recruitment, placement, training and advancement of employees. ¾ Our hotel is engaged in different activities with ‘non profit making non government organization’ for orphaned & underprivileged people. Due importance is given for recruitment of people from these areas at appropriate positions in our hotel. OUTCOME ¾ No such case has been reported so far. 7 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 7 Businesses COMMITMENT / POLICIES should support a The environment & social sustainability policy of the hotel as declared by the precautionary GM is given below: approach to environmental Radisson Blu Hotel, Delhi considers the importance of environmental and challenges:social sustainability and is committed to strive to achieve the same within the hotel and in its immediate vicinity. The Radisson Blu features 256 spacious guest rooms, including 140 Superior Rooms, 54 Premium Rooms, 41 Business Class Rooms, 20 Suites and one Presidential Suite, each appointed to meet the needs of the business traveler. Our hotel offers a range of business amenities and dining options such as New York Cafe, The Great Kebab Factory, R-The Lounge, Savannah Bar, Wi-Fi and complimentary airport transfers. To ensure a comfortable stay, rooms at our hotel in Delhi feature silk designer upholstery and linens, luxury beds, rain showers and mist-free mirrors. The hotel is close to Indira Gandhi International Airport and is located near urban village, Mahipal Pur. Radisson Blu Hotel commits to continually improve the environmental and social sustainability performance and annual Benchmarking. Radisson Blu Hotel has implemented an Environmental Management System and meets the requirements of the Earth Check company standard. Radisson Blu Hotel will comply with all relevant legislation and regulations, and strive to achieve international best practice. We have appointed Ms. Kalpana Jain as the Earth Check Coordinator, who has responsibility and skills for ensuring ongoing environmental performance, identification of environmental risks, recording and monitoring of impacts and implementing environmental and social sustainability measures. Special consideration will be given to employing and empowering local employees, and wherever possible environmentally sustainable, products and services will be sourced locally. We encourage staff to present our commitment to environmental and social sustainability and our benchmarked / certified status under the Earth Check Program to our guests, suppliers, contractors, agents and wholesalers. JAVED ALI VICE PRESIDENT & GENERAL MANAGER 8 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for the No. compact upcoming year principle 7 Contd. ACTION TAKEN The following actins have been taken: ¾ Solid biodegradable / non biodegradable waste is collected in color coded bins and segregated, recycled / disposed off to authorized agencies for recycling. ¾ Using recycled/ biodegradable products like papers, chemicals etc. ¾ Entire roof of the hotel has been coated by weatherproof solutions to reduce the solar heat gain from the roof terrace ¾ Disposing the waste product to the municipal authorised landfill. ¾ Hazardous waste is stored separated in designated store and collected by Delhi Pollution Control Committee authorised vendor i.e., M/s Bharat Oil Company. ¾ We provide biodegradable bags for collecting and delivering laundry to guests. ¾ Environment training is an essential part of the induction programme. ¾ Use of natural lighting in foyer areas. ¾ Preventive Maintenance of Equipments. ¾ Monitoring of daily consumption of Energy. ¾ Training to staff on conservation of Energy. ¾ Creating awareness among staff, guests and stakeholders through observing eco events like “Earth Hour”, “World environment day” etc. ¾ Hotel undertakes rain water harvesting to help protect the ground water levels. ¾ Pollution control check of the hotel vehicles is regularly done and records maintained ¾ Eco friendly chemicals are used in the laundry & kitchen for cleaning / washing. ¾ To conserve our natural resources we have posted instructions in all departments regarding switching off lights, air conditioning and computers when not required. ¾ Maintenance of greenery of the areas adjoining the hotel, in consultation with local community/ authority. ¾ Recycled water is used for(i) Cooling Towers of Central A.C. Plants (ii) W.C. Flushing System in Heart of the house area. (iii) Watering the landscaped areas inside and outside the Hotel (iv) Car Washing, Cleaning / Washing of outer areas. (v) Providing recycled water for irrigation to nearby locality OUTCOMES ¾ Resulted in usage of maximum recycled water in hotel premises ¾ Resulted in maximum recycling of solid waste. 9 PLANS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR ¾ LED lighting in Banquet / Public areas. ¾ In all AHU’s, VFD / motorized valves will be fixed. ¾ Water body pumps are to be replaced with high energy efficient pumps. 10 Sl. Global Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans for No. compact the upcoming year principle 8 Undertake COMMITMENT / POLICIES initiatives to promote greater The hotel is committed to continual improvement in the environmental environmental performance through prevention of pollution and compliance to local and responsibility national environmental legislative regulatory requirements. ACTION TAKEN The following actions have been taken:¾ The hotel has incurred considerable expenses in new eco friendly technology which has resulted in reducing air pollution as well as carbon footprint of the hotel like a) Replacement of old DG sets with CRDI technology MTU dg sets. b) Oil type transformers with dry type transformers c) Old LT panels with energy efficient LT panels. ¾ One of the first corporate partner of a Citizen led movement called “Let’s do it! Delhi” which is backed by Municipal Corporation, & Delhi Government for clean environment in various localities of the city. ¾ Hotel encourages and provides cleanliness derive along with neighbourhood and local authority for cleaning of the areas around hotel premises / immediate vicinity. ¾ Plantation done at local school and other possible soil areas in nearby vicinity. OUTCOMES ¾ Green and healthy environment for staff and community. PLANS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR ¾ Installation of Dry type electronic ionisation based scrubber for kitchens – 3 Nos. ¾ Kitchen exhausts / supply fans to be fixed with high efficiency electric motors and blowers. 11 Sl. Global compact Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans No. principle for the upcoming year 9 And encourage the Awareness of environmental management system among all employees, development and associates and key stakeholders. diffusion of environmentally ACTION TAKEN friendly The following actions have been taken:technologies. ¾ Installation of Minxon control system to control the illumination in guest rooms. ¾ Double glazed energy saving acoustic insulated windows have been installed in 150 rooms for sound insulation as well as energy saving by minimizing sun-heat penetration. ¾ Replaced old FCU’s in Guest Rooms with multiple speed energy efficient FCUs. ¾ Capacitor banks were augmented to 1300 KVAR to improve power factor OUTCOMES ¾ Green and healthy environment for staff and community. PLANS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR ¾ Installation of double glazed windows in banquet meeting rooms / business centre. 12 Sl. Global compact Commitment / policies, action taken and impact achieved and / or plans No. principle for the upcoming year 10 Business should Commitment / Policies: work against all Ensure open channel of communication for vendors and employees to forms of corruption, report instances of malpractice, solicitation of bribes / kickbacks. including extortion Ensure operations team makes no recommendation for unauthorized and bribery. payments to external agencies. Action Taken: Initiatives have been taken through committee and forums during negotiation with vendors / agencies to ensure instances of malpractices are not tolerated and practical best practice codes in various disciplines are followed by all. Outcomes: There have been no recommendations for operations teams of cases of unauthorized payments to external agencies. Further no complaint about solicitation of unauthorized payments were received. Plans for the upcoming year: Vendor’s management teams and operations teams to continue to ensure transparency in business deals. 13
