Purpose of Report This report has been published by EWP to disclose transparently its economic, social and environmental performance as an ethical corporate citizen to all stakeholders. Reporting Guidelines This report has been prepared based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Guidelines and BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline. Reporting Scope This report has been prepared for the corporate head office in Seoul and five plant sites. Reporting Cycle Korea East-West Power (EWP) has published its Sustainability Report each year since its first issue published in May 2007. Reporting Period This report outlines the company's sustainability management activities from January 1, 2011 to December 31. 2011; and also includes some of the activities carried on in 2012. For qualitative performance, the data from 2009 to 2011 have also been included to enable time series trend analysis. Base Unit of Data Used in the Report The units used in this report include KRW (South Korean won) as the currency unit, MW (generation facilities capacity), GWh (amount of power generated), TOE (amount of energy used), tCO2 (emission of greenhouse gas) and tCO2/MWh (basic unit of greenhouse gas emission). GRI G3 Guideline 적용기준 한국동서발전의 지속가능경영보고서는 GRI G3 보고서 적용 수준 기준표에서 ‘A’수준에서 요구하는 사항을 모두 충족하는 방향으로 작성되었음을 공시합니다. Additional Information For additional information, please visit the corporate Website or the department indicated below: Website : http://www.ewp.co.kr Green Environment Team, Power Generation Division Tel. : +82-2-3456-8533 e-mail : entro@ewp.co.kr CEO’s Message We will continue our powerful growth I think it meaningful to have the opportunity to inform all stakeholders of the efforts and performances of EWP in 2011 by issuing the 6th sustainability report since its first issue published in 2007. EWP is a public enterprise for power generation which occupies as a global energy company in the world approximately 11% of the amount of power generation in Korea. Although there were various great and small events and changes in the internal and external managerial environment after its separation from KEPCO in 2001, the company has been making efforts to market with infinite possibility. fulfill its basic mission of supplying cheap electricity in a reliable and eco-friendly manner. Especially, the status of EWP was changed in 2011 from an ‘other public agency’ to a ‘market-oriented state-owned enterprise’ imposing more roles and liabilities on the company for the fulfillment of social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. As the CEO of the company, I have presented a specific vision by newly establishing the three major management strategies, and am reinforcing the impetus by combining those management strategies with sustainability management. Global Management The year 2011 was the first year during which the energy territory of EWP has expanded substantially. We acquired the equity of Jamaica Public Service which is a monopolizing corporation like KEPCO, took over a power plant facility and established a branch office in the U.S., and won a contract for the construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant in Indonesia. With the gradual saturation of the electricity market in Korea, EWP is using its capabilities and experiences for the development of overseas markets with high ROI to not only pursue economic values but also create new jobs and improve the brand image of the company and the nation. Technology Management EWP is strengthening its professional capabilities to advance into the world market as a company which secured the technologies to construct and operate power plant facilities with the best efficiency in the world. For the first time in Korea, we began construction of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Units #9 and #10, each of which is 1,000 MW-class high efficiency power generation facility equivalent to one unit of a nuclear power plant. We are also expanding the portion of our own engineering knowhow and technologies used for the production of new power plant facilities. Partnership Management The managerial environment today makes it possible for companies to be respected by stakeholders only if they fulfill their social responsibilities. A cart cannot move forward well when its two wheels lose balance. So, as a public enterprise which pursues both profitability and public interest, EWP is doing its best for the balanced growth of the two axes. That is to say, we will make hard efforts to improve the managerial results while playing the roles as an ethical corporate citizen for the intensified green management including eco-friendly operation of power plants, co-prosperity with communities and win-win relationship with small & medium companies. EWP will humbly keep its ears open for the opinions of stakeholders, and reflect them to the management of the company to fulfill the social responsibilities of the company and distribute more profits to our customers. We look forward to your advice and support for the activities of EWP. Thank you. September, 2012 Lee Gil-Gu CEO, Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. 04 2012 Sustainability Report 05 About EWP Business Areas ■ Corporate Overview (as of Dec. 2011) Characteristics of Power Industry The major businesses of EWP can be divided into its current main business of the construction and Head Office 512 Yeongdong Blvd, Gangnam-gu, Electric power is an essential source of energy to almost all industrial activities and the basic life of people in operation of thermal power plants and the overseas projects and new & renewable energy business in Seoul the modern world. which much of the new investment is being made. A sustainable growth will be attained through the Date of establishment April 2, 2001 EWP, one of KEPCO's 6 power generation subsidiaries, produces power in conjunction with private power diversification of its businesses including new businesses in Korea, development of new & renewable Capital 3,391.9 billion won Total Assets 5,686.5 billion won generation companies and district electric power operators. EWP trades sells power to KEPCO through energy, and advancement into overseas power plant projects. Sales 4,813 billion won Korea Power Exchange, and then KEPCO sells power to general customers through its nationwide power Net Profit 99.2 billion won transmission and distribution networks. Power Generation Business Number of Employees 1,977 ■ Thermal Power Plant Business EWP Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant Development of power resource, The main business of EWP Donghae Thermal Power Plant Major business power generation, etc. Occupying 99.8% of the company’s facility capacity Total Power Output 53,637GWh (8,800MW, 35 units) Sales Volume 51,121GWh Dangjin Thermal Power Plant complex Composition of KEPCO 100% shareholders ■ Power Plants Power generation Power trade Transmission and sale Customer Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Complex 4,000MW (Bituminous Coal) -6 power generation companies Ulsan Thermal Power Plant Complex 3,000MW (Heavy Oil, LNG) -Private power generation KEPCO General customer companies Korea Power Exchange Honam Thermal Power Plant 500MW (Bituminous Coal) District electric power operators Corporate customer Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex -District electric power ■ Share of Power Generation (2011) Donghae Thermal Power Plant 400MW (Domestic Coal, Imported Coal) operators Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant 900MW (LNG) Others 11.18% EWP Pursuing Sustainable Growth Honam Thermal Power Plant 10.79% EWP successfully completed the construction of ultra super critical (USC) 500MW-class Dangjin Thermal KHNP KOSEP Power Plant Units #5 to #8, and began construction of USC 1,020MW-class Dangjin Thermal Power Plant 12.29% 31.87% Units #9 and #10, the largest in Korea as a single facility, with a goal to complete them by 2016. The KOMIPO 10.79% company is also constructing Ulsan New Combined Heat and Power Plant (948MW) to expand low carbon KOSPO Western 12.09% power power supply and stabilize electricity supply with the closure of Ulsan Power Plant Units #1~#3 (600MW) 10.99% scheduled in 2014 according to their end of operation longevity. In addition, we are accelerating the advancement into overseas projects and development of new and renewable energy to actively respond to Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant Dangjin Thermal Power Plant complex Honam Thermal Power Plant Donghae Thermal Power Plant Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex the changes in the environment of future power industry. ■ Percentage of Fuels at EWP ■ Organizational Chart CEO Executive Auditor Audit and Inspection Office Anthracite Heavy Oil 5.5% 5.6% LNG Planning & Administration Headquarters General Business Headquarters 19.8% Facility Capacity : 900MW Facility Capacity : 4,000MW Facility Capacity : 500MW Facility Capacity : 400MW Facility Capacity : 3,000MW Bituminous Coal Win-Win Growth Main Fuel : LNG Main Fuel : Bituminous Coal Main Fuel : Bituminous Coal Main Fuel : Domestic coal, Imported coal Main Fuel : Low-sulfur Heavy Oil, BC Oil, LNG 69.0% Quality Control Team Center Location : Goyang, Gyeonggi-do Location : Dangjin, Chungcheongnam-do Location : Yeosu, Jeollanam-do Location : Donghae, Gangwon-do Location : Nam-gu, Ulsan New & Renewable Power Output : 4,379GWh Power Output : 34,258GWh Power Output : 3,019GWh Power Output : 3,105GWh Power Output : 9,329GWh 0.1% Planning Division Administration Human Resources Contract Business Power Generation Construction Overseas Division Management Group Management Group Development Office Division Division Business Office Power Plants Overseas Branche Dangjin Thermal Ulsan Thermal Power Honam Thermal Donghae Thermal Ilsan Combined Heat & Guam Office Power Plant Complex Plant Complex Power Plant Power Plant Power Plan Miami Office 06 2012 Sustainability Report 07 ■ Power Plant Construction Overseas Projects Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Units #9 and #10 Ulsan Combined Heat and Power Plant Unit #4 Donghae Biomass Power Plant ■ Advancement into Overseas Projects A new growth engine for leaping forward to be a world-class energy company Promote various projects including construction of overseas power plants, O&M, and natural resources developments using the company’s knowhow of the construction and operation of power plants in Korea. Major Achievements Capacity : 2,040MW (1,020MW×2) Capacity : 948MW Capacity : 30MW • Power Plant Projects : Jamaica Public Service, Marubeni in the U.S., Guam, Wind Power 필리핀 세부 석탄화력 Fuel : Bituminous Coal Fuel : LNG Fuel : Woody Biomass Construction Period : June, 2011 ~ June, 2016 Construction Period : May, 2012 ~ July, 2014 Construction Period : December, 2011 ~ July, 2013 Generation in the Philippines, Diesel Power Generation Project in Haiti, etc. • Service Projects: O&M of CFBC in Cebu, Test Operation of a Thermal Power Plant in Chile, A ■ New & Renewable Energy Business Project in Madagascar, etc. New business of EWP to lead future green market Promote development of new & renewable energy meeting Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) to ■ Status of Overseas Business Development secure new source of profit. Projects underway Ended • In operation : 15MW (Solar energy in Donghae and Dangjin, fuel cell in Ilsan, etc.) In operation Under development • Under construction: 89MW (Wind power and bio gas turbine in Gyeongju, biomass in Donghae, etc.) 동해 태양광 Development of new energy in Korea ■ Joint investment with private power generation companies Promote development of new energy to contribute to the stable energy supply in Korea and achieve sustainable growth of the company. CPH New Hampshire(2) Construction of private-investment Donghae Power Plant Construction of private-investment Dangjin Power Plant 94MW EWP-RC 70.8MW New York Construction of the first private-investment coal thermal power plant in Korea Construction of a coal thermal power plant through a consortium with a private company California Facility Capacity 500MW × 2 units (2 trillion won) 500MW × 2 units (2 trillion won) Korea Haiti Construction Period 2012~2014.12/2015.4 2012~2015.6 30MW Dominica Jamaica 300MW Aerial view of private-investment Dangjin Composition of SPC STX Energy + EWP Dongbu Construction + EWP 636MW Power Plant Location Donghae, Gangwon-do Dangjin, Chungcheongnam-do Oman India Guam 80MW 1,900MW 1,320MW Sudan Vietnam Philippines(2) Senegal 120MW 2,400MW Peru(2) 480MW ■ Collective Energy Business 250MW 1,640MW Seokmun National Industrial Complex Collective Energy Osan·Segyo Collective Energy Nigeria Chile(4) Ghana Indonesia 500MW 500MW 200MW 1,296MW Consortium : EWP, SK E&S, Seohae City Gas Madagascar Supply heat and steam to the 80,000 households located in the 135MW Supply industrial steam to the companies operating in the industrial integrated Osan-Segyo district using new & renewable energy and LNG. Mozambique complex using the existing facilities. South Africa(2) 600MW 750MW Australia Aerial view of Seokmun Collective Energy 08 2012 Sustainability Report 09 Transparent Corporate Governance EWP has enhanced the transparency of its corporate governance and decision-making processes by Composition of the Board of Directors strengthening the operating system of the BOD and activating the participation of non-executive directors in The board of Directors consists of 4 executive directors and 5 non-executive directors. To guarantee the the managerial activities. independence of the BOD, the senior non-executive director presides over the board meetings as its chairperson. To establish a responsible management system by the executive directors, the CEO has signed ■ The System for a Transparent Corporate Governance a management contracts with the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. The CEO and executive directors have signed internal management contracts on the evaluation of management performance and compensation. Goal of Establish a responsible management system centering on BOD. Non-executive directors are appointed among those with professional knowledge and distinguished careers, Operation and are paid according to the BOD regulations. ■ Composition System of BOD Performance More than 70% of the More than 70% increase in More than 90% Index speaking of non-executive the recommendations BOD attendance in BOD (goal) directors about management Composition of BOD Executives Recommendation Audit Committee Committee BOD Real participation of nonPImplementation Strengthen the role of BOD. Activate BOD. executive directors in Exchange control committee Strategy management. Recommend the Internal evaluation & candidates for the Audit the works and deliberation committee Role of executives of the company accounting of the company Budget evaluation & Committees and discuss the and report it to the BOD. deliberation committee contract(draft) for the New business deliberation candidates. committee Come up with strategies for environment Prior report of BOD schedule. Activate professional sub-committees. analysis. Observe the schedule of regular BOD Specific Tasks Expand prior deliberation system. meeting. Improve policy recommendation system. Activate non-executive BOD meeting. Improve BOD operating system. Improve job performance analysis system. BOD Receiving Prior Notices of Prior Board Operation agenda items deliberation meetings. explanation deliberation Processes D-10 D-7 D-7 D-3 D-day Check results Performance Evaluation Feedback & Rolling Monitoring & Feedback Permanent monitoring system Analyze results of job performance. Find out issues that need improvement. Report the situation of resolved agenda. Analyze the performance of BOD operation. Reflect them to future plan. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the BOD The agenda for the BOD meeting can be divided into the matters for resolution and the others for report. The matters for resolution are put forward by the CEO or a director, and the matters for report may be reported Corporate Governance by the CEO, a director or the auditor. The matters to be submitted at the BOD meeting are to be prepared in EWP is wholly owned by KEPCO since it was founded as a spin-off from KEPCO on April 2, 2001, for power a certain form and presented to the coordinator at least 10 days before the date of the BOD meeting. The generation on the basis of the Law on the Restructuring of the Electricity Industry. coordinator shall assign a number to the agenda and distribute it before the beginning of the BOD meeting. Also, the coordinator shall send a written notice for the BOD meeting to each director and auditor at least 7 days in advance with the date, place and titles of agenda. However, the convening procedure may be omitted if all the directors and auditor(s) unanimously agree to do so. In principle, the person who suggested or reported the agenda for the BOD meeting is to explain about it, but if necessary the concerned staff can state vicarious explanation or opinion about the agenda. Also, if necessary, experts or concerned people may attend the meeting to present opinions on the agenda. 10 2012 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability Management Efforts to strengthen the role of BOD EWP has reestablished its mission, vision and value system to continue its growth as a global company. For EWP has improved the operating system of BOD to secure the independence and professionalism of nonthis, 4 strategic goals and 11 strategic tasks have been set up in order to realize co-prosperity with executive directors for efficient fulfillment of their decision-making function. The BOD has established a stakeholders by reinforcing trust. separate homepage to improve non-executive directors’ access to managerial information. Also, a system of prior deliberation for the agenda was introduced for practical deliberation of the agenda and the active ■ 2020 New Vision 체계도 reflection of the advices of non-executive directors on midand long-term core strategies and managerial policies. Especially, the professionalism of non-executive directors is sufficiently utilized when making Mission Enrich man’s life by providing electricity in a stable, economic and eco-friendly way. decisions on businesses with high risks so that collision of interest in the BOD can be prevented through active debate by check and balance. ■ Analysis of the work performance of non-executive directors Vision Global Top 10 Energy Company Attendance in BOD meeting Percentage of prior deliberation of agenda Percentage of speaking 85% 100% 71.1% Shared Core Two-digit Passion Teamwork Ethics Value Growth 2009 2010 2011 Number of BOD meetings 9 times 9 times 12 times Resolved agenda 24 cases 30 cases 49 cases Managerial Goals Achieve 1 trillion won of net profit, Top 10 power generation brand Percentage of prior deliberation 100% 100% 100% Agenda resolved after revision 2 cases (6.7%) 2 cases (4.4%) Reported agenda 8 cases 6 cases 14 cases Attendance in the BOD meeting 94% 97% 85.0% Managerial Global Technology Partnership Strategies management management management Attendance of non-executive directors 100% 100% 73.2% Proportion of the speaking of non-executive directors 52.2% 64.2% 71.1% Strategies for Sustainability Management EWP has decided 4 major strategic goals to achieve its vision: leading the power generation industry in Korea, expanding businesses of new growth engine, strengthening core competence, and realizing sustainability management. The company has also set up 11 strategic tasks to maintain its social, economic and environmental responsibilities as a public enterprise. Lead the power generation Expand businesses of new Strengthen core Realizing sustainability industry in Korea. growth engine. competence. management. · Expand low-cost power · Expand overseas · Secure the best · Promote win-win growth generation facilities in business. technological power with SMEs. Strategic time. as a power generating goals and · Expand green growth · Strengthen · Enhance facility business. company. socially responsible tasks operation efficiency and · Realize win-win growth · Foster manpower management. credibility. through cooperation strategically. · Secure stable and with private companies. · Upgrade management economical fuel. system. 12 2012 Sustainability Report 13 Corporate Vision and Value System ■ Vision Management Strategy Construct business Portfolio. Overseas business and resources development Two-digit growth ■ Corporate Mission Business-oriented global electricity company Management by sustainable management Enrich man’s life by providing electricity in a stable, economic and eco-friendly way. Global Management Global Eco-friendly Leave a clean environment to posterity by eco-friendly management. Economic Supply electricity at cheap prices by maximizing management efficiency. Vision Management Set competitive goals with business partners. Technology Strategy Partnership Mutual growth in partnership Management Management Dynamism, transparency and ethics Stable Supply electricity in a stable manner as an excellent power generating company. Technology Service Sustainable two-digit growth The best technology for the operation of power plants Construct highly efficient large-capacity Enrich man’s Improve quality of life by offering our services not only for Korea but also for all over the world. soft coal power plant. life. Have independent design and maintenance technologies. Increase development of technologies including POMMS. ■ Corporate Vision Global TOP 10 Energy Company Roadmap for Sustainability Management To establish the basis for sustainability management, EWP has set up the goals in each stage of the three sectors of economy, society and environment and is making continuous efforts to achieve them. Business Expand businesses from operation of power generating facilities in Korea to the development of new & renewable Areas energy and the global energy business including IPP business both home and abroad. 3st stage Achieve more than 50% of the portion of overseas businesses by 2020, with total sales of 14 trillion won and more 2016~2020 than 1 trillion won in net profit. Growth·Size Grow into a real Global Top Energy Company by 2020 achieving 20 trillion won in sales and more than 3 trillion won 2st stage in net profit. 2011~2015 External Make EWP a global brand for the expansion of overseas markets. 1st stage customers·Internal Make the organization a world-class IPP. organization, 2007~2010 Growth & Development Create a global corporate culture that can work on the world stage. members Sales: 14 trillion won ROIC : over 10% Perform global-standard Capability reinforcement responsibility management. Grow into a small but strong enterprise. Sales: 6.7 trillion won Lead global green management. Become a company with excellent growth potential, financial soundness and internal values. ROIC : 5% In general To be transformed into the world’s Top Ten professional energy and power generation company. Superior and respected company in Korea A company with the world’s best technologies and management efficiency fostering manpower. Excellent green management company Basis establishment Sales: 4.5 trillion won ROIC : 7.08% Form the basis for credibility. Certification of environmental management system 14 2012 Sustainability Report 15 Risk Management EWP has established the RMS (Risk Management System) on the basis of ERP (Enterprise Resource Financial Risk Planning) in preparation for the risks caused by the uncertainty of the domestic and overseas management To manage financial risks according to the changes in exchange rate, interest rate and fuel prices, EWP is environment, and the entire company is managing the risks in each area of finance & accounting, operation operating an active risk management system by combining LMS (Liability Management System), a foreign of power plants, fuel supply, safety from disasters, etc. exchange and debt management system, with PCN (Prime Coal NET), a system for the demand and supply of coal and the management of distribution lines, for the first time as a power plant company. In 2009, the company introduced VaR-based EaR (Earnings-at-Risk) technique to reduce the volatility of fuel prices, establish the optimum portfolio of debts, and manage risks due to the fluctuation of foreign exchange thus laying the groundwork for an advanced risk management. ■ Financial Risk Management System and Operation Methods Core Financial Risks Item Risk Management System Operation Method Maintain financial balance among affiliates Price Correction factor management Cost Evaluation Committee of power plant companies. Procedures to follow at time of fuel supply crisis Manual for responding to fuel supply crisis Timely acquisition of information (in Foreign Exchange Monitoring international fuel prices Self Blending system cooperation with Investment Deliberation In-house Research Committee, Foreign Exchange Management Committee, etc. within the company) Foreign Exchange Risk Management Minimize foreign exchange risk by hedging. Monitoring financial market Committee Set the ratio of hedging for longand shortIn-house Research term positioning. Interest Rate Annual Meeting Maintain superior credit rating. Credit rating management IR Conduct IR activities to expand investors. Liability management Business Performance Analysis Increase profits and reduce costs. Liquidity (once a quarter) Optimize currency of liabilities and Liability Management System maturity structure. Liquidity management Reestablish internal accounting system according to the changes in accounting policy. Reflecting the accounting policy changed by the adoption of IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) in 2011, the internal accounting system of the company changed its design and reestablished from K-GAAP to IFRS-based system. The previous internal accounting system based on individual ERP Comprehensive Risk Management System settlement of accounts was changed into a process based on consolidated settlement of accounts. In accordance with the new internal accounting system consolidated with the parent company of KEPCO, the risk caused by the changes in accounting standards was analyzed, core control items were reselected, work Risk Management of the Overall Company process was documented and IT processes were updated. To maintain the integration and consistency of information, EWP is running the RMS (Risk Management Classification Specific Measures Implementation Period System) in connection with the ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system which provides real-time Evaluate the effectiveness of the design information. Through this, continuous monitoring is being conducted for the 20 KRIs in 5 management of internal control. Sample test of the evidence of the trace of each work process Nov. 15~21, 2011 areas. In addition, the monitor has been designed in the same way as the EIS (Executive Information System) Self-evaluation of effectiveness Evaluate 11 work processes and company-wide control. Nov. 22~28, 2011 to operate the action plan according to the change of risks. Examine the results of self-evaluation and the effectiveness of the procedures of the test used for control. Evaluation of external auditor Confirm the appropriateness after testing a process chosen randomly. Dec. 1~30, 2011 Audit the examples of company-wide internal control and their operational appropriateness. 16 2012 Sustainability Report 17 Stakeholders Materiality Assessment There are many stakeholders who have direct and indirect influence on the managerial activities of EWP. It is very important in preparing the sustainability management report to grasp stakeholders’ concerns and According to the industrial characteristics and managerial environment of the company, EWP classifies its the issues that have much influence on the management of the company. EWP has conducted the stakeholders into various categories including investors, employees, business partners, power generation materiality assessment to reflect the opinions of various stakeholders on sustainability. The materiality companies, government agencies, communities and environmental NGOs. EWP collects all stakeholder assessment have found out important issues through internal regulations, government policies and laws, concerns through various communication channels for win-win growth with them and reflect them in its direct and indirect economic effects, surveys of stakeholders, benchmarking of major companies, media business activities to realize sustainability management. analysis, etc. ■ Materiality Assessment Processes Customized approach for each category of stakeholder Stakeholders have been classified into the 4 categories of participation, co-prosperity, cooperation and Collect Review and analyze Reflect them to the stakeholders’ Draw issues. coexistence according to their position inside or outside the company ? and potential conflicts. Then opinion. issues report. efforts are made to improve the relationship with stakeholders through communication activities appropriate Collect opinion for 2011 Analyze major assessment Compare with EWP’s vision Systematically reflect the for each category of the stakeholders. report. items such as GRI and long-term strategies drawn important issues to Analyze stakeholders’ ISO26000. and draw issues. the report. After defining the stakeholders for each category, concerns and survey employees. Inside Relationship Characteristics and Approach any mp Sta Grow together with the company e co ke Participation → Instill ownership to increase th h participation in the company’s work. Employees ide in g o f o ld and their ark nie s E m plo ye e Labor Union hm m p a ers ins families s’ es Be co Cooperative relationship is essential, but oth nc su Co-prosperity there is potential conflict. Is su er rvey → Communication and rational labor relations ISSUES Internal re g u l a n al ys is Have great influence on setting up the policy of the company. atio and related law ns Cooperation → Share internal information and conduct sa dia ethical and transparent management. any n Me C or mp d Radical amplification of conflict is possible if po c t a n d i n d ire c t co Coexistence interests collide. D i re r atem Inside and outside the company th e → PR, Provision of information, CSR activities n o m i c e f fe c ts eco ide an u ts ag so em Is s u e e nt Participation Co-prosperity Materiality Assessment Results Cooperation Coexistence The following are the major issues selected through materiality assessment of the issues of each KEPCO Competitor stakeholder. This report made efforts to include the detailed performance of EWP regarding those major issues. Economy Development of overseas markets, new & renewable energy, new businesses in Korea Gov. Biz. Partner Environment Counter measures against Climate change, environment protection Mass media Environmental Employees Welfare, human-resources NGO Business partners Win-Win Growth Congress Investor Community Coexistence with local communities Local resident Outside Low Potential conflicts High Open Management Smart Communicator We will take the right path by open management. We will listen carefully to the precious opinion of each person by taking the right path of open management and pursue true communication on the basis of wider participation of people. We will be a steppingstone to create a happy society with trust. | | | | | | Responsible & Ethical management Management of Employees’ Value Manpower Training Welfare System Labor Relations Safety & Health 20 2012 Sustainability Report 21 Responsible & Ethical Management EWP has put priority in ethical management as the core element necessary to achieve the Programs for Ethical Practice sustainability management of the company, and the code of ethics has become a criteria for the Ethical Standards performance of all works and managerial activities of employees. EWP continues implementing a The ethical standards, which stipulate the standards for employees’ behaviors and value judgment, are variety of practices to internalize transparent and rational business culture. composed of Charter of Ethics, Code of ethics, Code of Conduct and the instructions for people concerned with a job. Ethical standards are periodically revised according to social expectations in order to reflect the Organization in Charge of Ethical Management requirements of stakeholders, and they are posted in the company’s intranet and the homepage of ethical EWP has a department directly under the CEO exclusive for the implementation of ethical management. The management for easy understanding and practice of all employees. department in charge of ethical management plans and operates the strategies for the company-wide implementation of ethical management, and the deliberation and resolution of major policies related to Self-inspection of Ethics and Education on Ethics ethical management are done by the Green Management Committee. The auditor’s office is running a For the reinforcement of the ethics and law-abiding spirit of all employees, a weekly self-inspection of ethics is system for the investigation of violation of ethics and prevention of corruption. Ethical management is being done using a real case that may cause ethical dilemma and make it available in the company’s intranet to improve practiced across the company through the persons in charge of code of ethics at the head office and each ethics and will of autonomous practice. Also, various systematic educational courses are offered to employees so workplace. that they can agree with the ethical management and join it. New recruits and the employees in the promotion list must complete the education on ethics compulsorily, and the online education on ethical management, education Ethical Management Implementation System by external lecturers, and circuit education at workplaces are being offered for all employees. To become a global energy company, EWP is performing all managerial activities on the basis of ethical Preventive Report System management with the principle of taking the right path. We will achieve our corporate vision by promoting common interests with all stakeholders through transparent and ethical managerial activities. Both internal employees and external stakeholders may report a case through the homepage of ethical management, and there is an Online Ethics Counseling Office. The ‘Cyber Sinmungo’ is being operated for ■ Ethical Management Implementation System report of unethical behaviors or corruption cases. At the same time, the ‘Help Line System’ is being operated in which a professional external agency, which has no interest with the company, handles the cases of internal reports to activate the internal report system by guaranteeing the anonymity of internal VISION Global Top 10 Energy Company reporters. We have also improved the implementation of the Internal Law-abiding Monitoring System, Clean Mileage System, The System of Report of Acquaintances by Business Partners, etc. ■ Improvement of Preventive Practice System System Contents Remarks Core Values Ethics Passion Teamwork Growth Internal Report System Behaviors to be reported: power abuse, violation of laws and articles of association, abuse of budget, violation of A system that protects the internal reporter. ethical creed or code of conducts, etc. Accumulate mileage points of the participation in ethical management to encourage voluntary participation in Clean Mileage System Give incentives to 30 people in every half year. ethical management. System of Report of Acquaintances by Make report if the person in charge of contract is an acquaintance of the executive of a business partner company: Operate a system for report of acquaintances Business partners a relative, school ties or from the same hometown. in the integrity & ethics website. A respectable ethical company Goal of Ethical KoBEX SM : AAA / a “very good” institution in the evaluation of integrity level Ethics Program for External Stakeholders Management by Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission EWP is actively conducting ethics programs for external stakeholders such as ombudsman system for business partners and meetings with business partners to carefully listen to what must be improved in the ethical matter from the standpoint of business partners. Systematic Disclosure of Corporate Information Improve ethical Share and spread Prevent Develop the EWP continues to enhance the convenience of information users and the scope of information disclosure to increase Strategic management company’s unique Directions ethics. corruption. the transparency of the disclosure of corporate information through examination and analysis of customers’ needs. system. program. EWP responds to information disclosure requests within 10 days according to business guidelines for handling information disclosure, and reveals the management information specifically through the ALIO. Core Values Ethics 22 2012 Sustainability Report 23 Management of Employees’ Value ■ Ethical Management Implementation System ■ Systematic Information Disclosure System EWP is actively improving its employees’ value with a goal to foster professional global manpower who will Dept. in Charge Person(Dept.) in Supervisor Confirmer lead the power industry balancing work and life as well. A welfare system is being operated to realize the Charge Appoint person in change. (Planning Division) (Audit Office) balance between work and life with fair personnel management and compensation system, continuous Set up operational methods. (Decide disclosure Monitoring education and training for capability reinforcement and midand long-term master plan according to the period, etc.) Planning capability and performance of each employee. Confirm operating Notify operational methods. method. Occurrence of a Human Resources Management Balancing Efficiency and Equity Review matters to be reason for Feedback disclosed. disclosure. Present Condition of Employees Disclosure Disclose materials. 1st review of the matters 2nd review of the The number of EWP’s employees was 1,977 as of end of Dec., 2011. The number of employees has been to be disclosed. matters to be disclosed. reduced since the government’s policy for the restructuring public enterprises was implemented in 2009 and Complement Listen to and analyze disclosure. VOC. there was no new recruit until 2010. Also, the job opening rate decreased as a result of the 5 times’ Follow-up Draw matters to be implementation of ‘desired retirement’. However, the drop in job opening rate narrowed with the employment improved. of new recruits in 2011, and more interns were hired with the revised government’s policy to create jobs. ■ Number of Employees in respective Position (Dec. 2011) ■ Composition of Employees ■ Number of Employees at Workplaces (Dec. 2011) Improve Customer-oriented Management by ‘SMART’ Disclosure of Corporate Information Classification 2009 2010 2011 Workplace Number of Employees 1st & 2nd grad EWP has established customer-oriented “Friendly and SMART EWP Disclosure of Corporate Information 140 No. of Employees 2,065 2,006 1,977 Head Office 356 (EWP KS Disclosure)” system for customers to be able to have access to the information about EWP Dangjin Thermal Power Plant complex 590 Executives Regular Position 2,065 2,006 1,977 4 5th & 6th grade, anytime, anywhere with Smart Phones. Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex 487 technical post, Temporary Position 0 0 0 special services, Honam Thermal Power Plant 169 security guards Average Service Year 16.5 17.3 16.3 EWP Donghae Thermal Power Plant 170 134 3rd & 4th grade Friendly and SMART Job-opening Rate (%) -2.93 -2.85 -1.44 Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant 201 1,699 Disclosure Portal System Rate of leaving job(%) 1.12 0.74 0.8 Guam office 4 * job opening rate is the increase in the number of employees compared to the previous year. * rate of leaving job is the rate of voluntary resignation excluding regular retirement. Customers with much interest in EWP Those who are not using smart phones Business Partners including youths, university students Related agencies Lead Open Recruitment by Hiring High School Graduates and those preparing to be employed. Inform telephone No. Submit required documents. Homepage SNS Twitter(with EWP) Send mails (only to those who wish) www.alio.go.kr www.ewp.co.kr Since 2001, EWP has hired a total of 649 new recruits through 11 times of open recruitment. No restrictions are Facebook(ewp power) Blog(Powerlan) imposed on the application for employment according to gender, age or educational background. Recruitment is decided only by one’s ability and personality. Complaints about any discrimination in the recruitment procedures can be handled by the internal system including the direct report to the CEO and the ‘Sinmungo’ system. Accomplishments Especially, in 2011, EWP implemented the 30% employment quota system for high school graduates to foster On the basis of such ethical management system, EWP made efforts to make a clean and right company the open recruitment, and hired 19 ‘Meister’ high school graduates as new recruits for the first time among and was recognized by external organizations for the results of the efforts. public enterprises. In addition, an internship program (‘Global Dreamalizer Program’) at EWP’s overseas power plant was implemented to boost the global competitiveness of the students of Meister High Schools, which ■ Recognition of EWP’s Practice of Ethical Management in 2011 received favorable responses and an award from the Minister of Education, Science & Technology. Item Organization Evaluation The best among all public enterprises and 6 power generation Integrity Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission companies Examination of the practices The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies of sustainability Received AAA for 4 consecutive years. (On behalf of MKE) management(KoBEX) The best among all power generation companies, with a score 2.9 points National Sensory Level Ministry of Strategy & Finance higher than the average score of public enterprises. 96.80 points (3.45 points higher than the average score of marketPublic Agency ISO 26000 Korea Institute of Public Finance oriented state-owned enterprise) Received a grand prize in the sector of eco-friendliness for the first time UN Global Compact UNGC Korea Association among public enterprises. 24 2012 Sustainability Report 25 ■ Recognition of EWP’s Practice of Ethical Management in 2011 Item Organization Evaluation Manpower Training The best among all public enterprises and 6 power generation Integrity Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission companies Examination of the practices The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies of sustainability Received AAA for 4 consecutive years. (On behalf of MKE) management(KoBEX) The best among all power generation companies, with a score 2.9 points National Sensory Level Ministry of Strategy & Finance higher than the average score of public enterprises. 96.80 points (3.45 points higher than the average score of marketPublic Agency ISO 26000 Korea Institute of Public Finance oriented state-owned enterprise) Received a grand prize in the sector of eco-friendliness for the first time UN Global Compact UNGC Korea Association among public enterprises. ■ Review of the Necessity for Employment of High School Graduates through Structure Analysis Establishment of Education & Training Plans EWP establishes its education and training plans every year to develop individual ability and enhance Manpower Supply side Manpower Demand Side productivity in a harmonious and linked manner by surveying the educational needs of the employees. Gap Analysis Extreme educational inflation Difficult to recruit proper manpower. Shortage in superior technicians More than necessary educational period for technicians Operation of Educational Programs EWP is operating various educational programs to foster strategic talents and promote employees’ career Quota system for recruitment of high school graduates has been introduced. development. The system of education and training is classified into many programs for each position and (Foster superior technicians + open recruitment) duty as follows: Education on Duty Education for Position Corporate Professional Duty Special Education ■ Progress of the System for Employment of High School Graduates for Coexistence Classification General Internation Culture Educational Institute Computer Core Manpower Fostering Leadership Office work Technology Duty alization 2010 2011 2012 Executives 최고경영자 과정 Decide occupational group and Recruitment of ‘Meister’ high Expand the scope of recruitment percentage through job school graduates of high school graduates in analysis → 30% of the additional occupational groups. 경영자 코칭 과정 occupational groups of power (power generation, 경영자 역량강화 대학경영자 과정 경영정책 및 혁신과정 generation (mechanical, communication → all Professional electrical) and communication occupational groups) 1st grade 신임 1직급 과정 품질경영과정 국내·외 ■ Results of Employment Expansion for the 경영 성과관리 리더십 과정 노사관리기법과정 Socially Underprivileged Expand the Employment Opportunity for the Socially Underprivileged 2st 관리자 과정 중간관리자과정 grade (the handicapped and patriots & veterans) 경영부분 전문직무 기술부분 전문직무 The handicapped (%) Patriots & Veterans (%) 신임 2직급 과정 Excel 국내·외 경영관리연구과정 3.1 8.7 9.1 The employment of the handicapped has continued to increase with the implementation of employment 면접전문가과정 PPT 사내강사 양성교육 2.7 15% 7% quota system and additional points granted to them at time of recruitment. As a result, the percentage of the 기업문화창출 및 공유과정 Word 3rd employment of the handicapped is now over 3% which is the compulsory legal requirement. Discrimination Global Mind 함양 연수 관리자 리더십 과정 초급관리자과정 grade 조직활성화 과정 외국어 지원제도 국내·외 석·박사 과정 CAD 6 Sigma 교육 일반교양교육 is ruled out by equal personnel management for handicapped workers and all the employees receive Advanced 초청세미나 국내·외 직무 및 Project 연수 국내·외 직무 및 Project 연수 윤리교육 사내·외 통신교육 사내·외 현장 OJT 신임 2직급 과정 전문교육과정 등 2010 2011 2010 2011 education to improve their recognition of the handicapped. Individuals of national merit also benefit from OA positive discrimination through the employment quota system and the grant of additional points. 4th 학술·세미나·포럼참가 입사 10년차 grade Approximately 9.1% of EWP’s employees are filled with patriots & veterans and their children as a result of 및 초급관리자 품질경영과정 Women Workers Percentage of Women Workers active implementation of socially fair employment. 정보화 사무 실무과정 기술 실무과정 166 교육 162 158 156 8.40 5th year 7.78 Gender Equality 교대근무 특별교육 7.63 7.65 There are 166 women workers in EWP, taking 8.4% of its employees. A fair standard is applied to women 전문교육과정 workers at EWP with no discrimination in employment, promotion, compensation, etc. To fully recognize gender equality, EWP is making continuous efforts to expand the employment of women gradually. Basic 3rd year 신입사원 Refresh 2008 2009 2010 2011 Improvement in the Treatment of Women Workers 실무교육과정 In the trend of low fertility and aging, EWP is promoting various policies to support women workers and 1st year double-income families encouraging childbirth. Vacations before and after childbirth and maternity leave are after 신입사원 직무과정(OJT) 신입사원기초과정(필수) employment granted, and no discrimination is allowed in promotion and calculation of period of working for the women who take maternity leave so that they may work and at the same time take care of their home during the period of infant care. 26 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Welfare System Establishment of Granular e-Learning System EWP is implementing various welfare programs to increase employees’ satisfaction by expanding work-family EWP has established its own Granular e-Learning system to improve the group instruction at its educational compatibility culture and realizing family-friendly policies. Various programs are provided to contribute to the center to an on-site open education. The educational contents have been segmented into units ranging from solution of low fertility ? a core national challenge ? by creating an environment friendly to childbirth: a baby 20 minutes to 30 hours to enable immediate learning whenever necessary, and in-house expert instructors shower system which presents gifts of books for prenatal education, support for prenatal medical check-up were utilized to produce the contents mainly on the matters required on-site. Currently there are 34 expenses, remodeling the lactation room at the company, childbirth grant, Pregnant Women’s Day on Oct. 10, educational courses composed in 127 modules. and operation of a consigned day-care center at the company. In June, 2011, the ‘Pineville Day-care Center’ was opened in the company housing at Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Headquarters to actively support childcare. Fostering Global Manpower According to the strategies for the advancement into overseas projects, which is the future growth engine of the Expand Childcare and Maternity Protection to Overcome Low Fertility. company, ‘Global Pioneers’ professional manpower for overseas business were selected for a systematic and To form a family-friendly company culture, EWP designated every Wednesday as a Day for Family Love and professional education aimed to enhance their job and foreign language capabilities. As of 2012 there are 80 Global encourages employees to spend enough time with their families. In cooperation with the Korean Institute for Pioneers and the number will be increased to 342 by 2014. Also, in 2011, regional experts were dispatched to overseas Healthy Family located near each workplace, differentiated family education programs are being operated for branches for 6 months to foster core global talents through acquisition of advanced managerial skills and technologies, each type of family including children, spouses and parents. There are also, various systems for the family of and they are now exerting their professional capabilities at related departments including Overseas Business Office. employees: experiencing mom’s and dad’s workplace done by inviting employees’ children, education of children during vacation for English, national security, etc., support for resort facilities during summer vacation, etc. Technological Education for Outside Manpower Using its excellent resources, EWP is contributing to the society through the education of outside technological Implementation of Welfare System by Finding out Various Needs of Employees manpower and ordinary people. At the simulation training center in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant, a total of 124 people To promote health of its employees, EWP is supporting operation of in-house physical training facilities and including the technological manpower of SMEs, military electricity personnel, and the students of Meister High physical examination. Other various welfare programs for employees and their families include residential support Schools and nearby schools were educated in 2011, and the customized education will be expanded in the future. with company housing and dormitory, school expenses for children, optional welfare points, collective accident insurance and support of family events. To reflect employees’ opinions to the operation of the welfare system, the Continuing Education Program summer resort spots are selected after surveying employees’ preferences, and the satisfaction of employees with ■ Pineville Day-care Center in Dangjin The education for those who are soon to retire is being conducted to help their psychological stability and fulfill the the welfare system is surveyed every year to monitor employees’ opinions and use the results for the Company childcare 45 employees company’s social responsibility according to the extension of the average lifespan. Through the education, the people improvement of the system. As a result of the support for various welfare systems, employees’ satisfaction has Consigned childcare 140 employees will be able to lead a successful life after retirement. The contents of the educational course include the skills on increased and, externally, EWP received an award from the Minister of Gender Equality & Family in July, 2011 for Support for 353 employees management of personal assets and health, launching a business, reemployment, stress management, etc. after that its contribution to the promotion of gender equality and the improvement in the status of women. The company educational expenses are needed after retirement, and all the lectures are provided by verified professional instructors. was also awarded by the Minister of Health & Welfare by being selected as a superior organization for childbirth and childcare in the 2nd contest for ‘A Movement to Make a World Good for Childbirth’ in August, 2011. . Results of Education & Training ■ Training Expenses and Training Hourss Classification 2009 2010 2011 Training expense per person (1,000 won) 2,190 2,828 3,310 Training expenses in the total budget (%) 0.57 0.63 0.97 Years hours of training (per person) 88 98 110 ■ Number of Trainees Classification 2009 2010 2011 Training at in-house training center 857 996 1,428 Domestic Consigned Training 9,381 11,767 10,690 Overseas Consigned Training 25 10 27 Total 10,263 13,099 16,893 Family Education Program 28 2012 Sustainability Report 29 Labor Relations ■ Welfare Programs in Operation According to the amendment of the Labor Law in 2011, there are now two labor unions in EWP: the existing Classification System Details Branch of Power Plant Industry Labor Union and the newly formed EWP Labor union. The company is trying Baby Shower System Presents gifts of books for prenatal education to establish a labor-management relationship of discussion, cooperation and communication maintaining Support pregnant employees for a part of the expense for prenatal neutrality not taking side with any of the two labor unions. Prenatal Medical Check-up medical check-up Childbirth Grant Give congratulatory incentive for childbirth (500,000~2 million won) Support consigned day-care Support the consigned day-care center at the company. (Up to 50% of Declaration of Non-strike to Perform Social Responsibilities Create an environment favorable to childbirth and center at the company the expenses set by the government for 5 or less year old children.) EWP Labor Union declared actual non-strike principle for the first time as a public enterprise by expanding Install and operate a day-care The company’s day-care centers located in the head office and Dangjin child-care center in the company Power Plant the scope of compulsory maintenance workers to all employees from the previous shift worker only (54%), Subsidy for the education of infants (0 ~ 5 year old children) for a stable supply of electricity to the nation and society as a power plant company which produces Support tuition for children attending middle & high school and university electricity that is an essential public goods directly connected with people’s life. This is expected to improve Support children’s education. Support with dormitory for offspring attending universities located in the the performance of EWP’s social responsibility reinforcing it public character. metropolitan area. Optional welfare programs Support with self-improvement programs, family anniversary dates, etc. Promote Labor-Management Harmony by Strengthening Joint Programs. Employee Assistance Program Implement education for employees’ family and financial counseling. Various joint programs have been implemented at the power plants scattered nationwide according to their Vacation for family event and payment for congratulations and Support for employees and Support for family events their families condolences characteristics to prevent misunderstanding between the labor and the management and create a Support at time of natural disasters Grant aid in case of complete or partial burning down and breaking down and flooding in natural disasters relationship of cooperation and communication. The programs include social contribution activities, Support with weekend family experiencing event and the experience of happiness sharing filial duty event, donation to the “Beautiful Shop” and sales events, the education to make Support family-unit event programs. dad’s workplace. a good father and making love lunch box. The company and the labor unions have established a labor Loan money for house Give loan for purchase or rent of a house. relation which creates a happy workplace and realizes the compatibility of work and home. Support for stability of Give loan at low interest rates for employees who have been working for Loan money for stability of life more than 1 year. residence and living Provide a company housing for the employees working at local power plants. Workplace Joint Labor-Management Program Goal & Achievements Remarks Support for accommodation Dormitory is provided for those who are working in the metropolitan area. Convention for the resolution to innovate Promote mutual growth of the labor and the management and Operation of living training center Rooms in living training center in Sokcho, Suanbo, Muju, etc. are provided. Dangjin corporate culture (May 24) realize a sharing culture. Support for resort facilities during The resort facilities near the power plant are provided during summer Complex Voluntary service at welfare facilities (Aug. 10) Establish a value-creating cooperative labor relation through Support for leisure culture summer vacation vacation season. Fostering traditional markets (Sep. 28) voluntary services. Transportation: train and airplane (3 companies) Discounts with agreements related to Accommodation: Hotels and motels nationwide (10 companies) leisure activities Travel: Domestic and overseas travel package (2 companies) Form a sound labor-management culture and achieve a productive Ulsan Workplace Harmony Day (Oct. 22) and cooperative organization culture. Support for collective insurance for Seven items are guaranteed including death by disaster, death by disease, protection disability by disaster and cancer diagnosis. Complex Happiness sharing filial duty event (May 11) Realizes the compatibility of work and home through events which invite employees’ families to the company. Assist medical check-up Legal physical exam and special check-up are conducted once a year. Support for healthy life Discounts are granted for a comprehensive medical testing and Discounts at hospitals treatments at dental clinics, eye clinics, etc. by signing agreements with 17 Summer camp for children who have no place to hospitals and clinics located near the company’s workplaces nationwide. Honam Thermal Increase the value of both the labor and the management through turn to (Aug. 19) Power Plant social contribution activities. Support with the installation of exercising facilities within the workplaces Donation to the “Beautiful Shop” and sales events Physical Training Center (fitness center, soccer field, etc.) Incentive training for meritorious Incentives workers Support with training for meritorious workers and their family. Donghae English camp for employees’ children 84.9 billion won as of 2011 (Lump sum payment at time of retirement or Accumulate trust and enable the compatibility of work and home receiving as a pension is possible) Thermal Power Education to make a good father Support after retirement Keeping retiring allowance reserve for employees by implementing joint labor-management programs. The pension program was adopted in 2011 to give a choice between the Plant Joint social contribution activities lump sum payment of retirement pay and a pension) Ilsan Combined Happy Power Plant operating with communities Spread the recognition of the happy power plant. Heat & Power Providing a helping hand during the busy season Realize a beautiful labor-management partnership, especially in the Plant for farmers, and making love lunch box power plant site. 30 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Safety & Health Implementation of Retirement Pension System through Labor-Management Communication EWP regards the health and safety of its employees as a matter of the highest priority, and is making and Consensus continuous efforts to improve the working environment through practical support for safety and health According to the aging of the Korean society, it has become necessary to have a triple device to guarantee a programs. stable life after retirement with the retirement pension program of the company itself in addition to the national pension program and the personal pension. So the labor and the management of EWP surveyed Introduction of high-tech systems for health promoting programs the opinions of all employees through open discussion on the introduction of a retirement pension program Health experts are placed in all workplaces to conduct health management procedures including hearing by revising the existing lump-sum payment of the retirement pay. 84% of the employees showed positive preservation, prevention of musculoskeletal diseases, health promotion and job-related stress. Various opinions for the introduction of the retirement pension program and the new system was smoothly policies on health management have been established including the Non-smoking Fund which gives introduced. benefits to those who quit smoking, the discount for a general medical check-up of the employees and their families by agreement with hospitals, and a precise examination of physical strength. Grand Prize Award for Labor Cooperation Management Especially, the latest body composition measurement and analysis program that can precisely diagnose the The efforts of EWP to reestablish a proactive and healthy labor relations and the positive results of laborhealth condition of each person has been placed in every workplace so that those who have some health management relationship were recognized both internally and externally, and the company won the grand problems can check up their health regularly. prize at ‘2012 Grand Prize for Labor Relations in Korea’ in Feb. 2012 hosted by Korea Employer’s Federation. Thorough Safety diagnosis of Dangerous Equipment Dangerous materials and equipment such as explosives or devices that deal with harmful materials are Labor Management checked and diagnosed by the experts in construction, electricity and machinery areas to find out and Win-win labor•Being considerate of the eliminate on-site dangerous elements for the protection of all the employees of EWP and its business •Union members’ emotion is management minority labor union in the plural “anti-fight” and “free from partners. Also, through such safety management, the credibility of equipment can be enhanced for better political force”. agreement union system. / Enhance communication. •Practice social responsibility •A happy workplace / supply of electricity in a stable manner. of the labor union. Reasonable welfare Efforts to Improve Working Environment Awarded Grand Prize for Labor Relations in Korea. The use of asbestos, which is known to be a carcinogen, is completely prohibited in the workplace, and all the equipment that uses asbestos is examined to prevent industrial accidents and diseases thoroughly. In addition, the Industrial Safety & Health Committee and the Labor-Management Council have discussion on the matters of safety and health to prevent industrial accidents and improve working environment. Work-related Accidents Declaration of Introduction of Signing on Wage Fulfill Social Agreement on Annual Non-strike Retirement Pension Agreement Responsibility Jointly by Salary System EWP conducts risk assessment for all the elements for safety management in the workplace through Program Labor and Management objective certification processes of domestic and overseas safety & health management systems to prevent Expanding the scope of Accepted government’s Agree to upgrade annual compulsory maintenance Entroducing retirement recommendation. A declaration for the joint salary system to be linked the development of harmful and dangerous elements in advance. As a result, EWP has achieved the record workers to 100% of the pension system through Settled without disputes. fulfillment of social with work performance (for employees labor-management Matters pointed by the responsibilities executives and managers) of no accident for 4 consecutive years in all workplaces. (First among all public agreement board of Audit & and introduce the annual power plant companies) (First among all public Inspection were corrected. salary system for all power plant companies) employees Classification 2008 2009 2010 (First among all power public plant companies) Absence [Industrial Accident (%)] 0.00 0.00 0.00 Accident Classifications Death 0, Injury 0 Death 0, Injury 0 Death 0, Injury 0 (executives · employees) Electricity·Gas·Water Work 0.22 0.21 0.19 Average (%) (Source: Ministry of Employment & Labor, The accident rates of 2011 is to be announced in August, 2012.) Co-prosperity with Local Communities Happiness Partner We think of a way for true co-prosperity. We consider others before us. Everyone can pursue happiness, and we are not alone but living together with others. EWP will stretch out its arm for sharing and love. The source of EWP’s growth is the power of love. | | Win-Win Growth Partnership and Sharing 34 2012 Sustainability Report 35 Win-Win Growth EWP considers its business partners as a companion for its growth and is maintaining trustworthy EWP has provided SMEs with various supports concerning technological development, overseas market and cooperative relationships with them. On the basis of the support for the core competence of its exploration, shortage of manpower and financial aid. For four years since 2008, EWP signed 39 agreements for business partners and continuous mutual trust, EWP will support small but strong enterprises and the development of new products on the condition of purchase with the supervision of the Small & Medium continue to develop the power generation industry and strengthen its competitiveness to contribute Business Administration, which is No. 1 among 63 large companies in Korea. We have also supported 12.39 billion to the reinforcement of the national competitiveness. won in total for technological development using government’s fund. Also, to solve the problem of manpower shortage at SMEs, EWP dispatched its professional technological ■ Strategies and Implementation System for Win-Win Growth manpower, 35 in total, to SMEs from 2005 to 2009 to transfer managerial and technological know-how. In addition, to supplement the personnel to meet the needs of SMEs, EWP signed industry-academy cooperation Vision Establish the world’s strongest environment for power generation industry. agreement with 5 junior colleges for the first time as a power generation company and arranged the employment of 7 men by SMEs. To secure financial liquidity, EWP has made efforts to resolve the financial difficulties of SMEs Supporting Policy Fund through sPRM using banks, financial support with network loans, and pay an advance upon signing a contract. Efforts made to put the managerial principle to support SMEs <Lead> EWP SMEs <back up> In 2008, EWP announced its policy to support more than 100 SMEs and reestablished the support plans by collecting the needs and difficulties of its business partners. In addition, EWP made efforts to propagate its ideas •500 billion won in sales and 100 billion won in net profit for support to the government, academy, power generation companies and SMEs by establishing the philosophy •Realize Global Top 10 Energy •Become one of the 30 star Company Partnership companies in the world. of ‘pursuing co-prosperity for the sustainable management of power generation industry’. Management Strategic •Foster 100 core companies Also, by setting up the plans for systematic midand long-term support for SMEs and designating 39 success Policies in Korea. model companies for win-win growth, EWP is fostering companies that can be included in the world’s 30 Star Creation of Co-prosperity Development Fund companies as well as 100 core companies in Korea. Furthermore, EWP has established a customized support Support system by classifying the growth stage of each company through the launching of ‘EWP-SMEs Council’ to set up Explore both Mutual growth Establish a capability culture of winR&D for core reinforcement domestic and and a system for co-prosperity with SMEs. technologies overseas contribution to win growth. and commmarkets. the society ercialization. Support for Technological Development of SMEs EWP and SMEs are jointly conducting cooperative R&D projects. From 2004 to 2011, a total of 174 projects were EWP Win-Win A Consultative body for ImplemeGrowth Center SMEs Council conducted with a fund of 10.3 billion won. Also, the system of the development of new products on the condition of Win-Win Growth ntation System The Organization in Charge Regular meeting Autonomous operation purchase has been implemented in order to increase the local development of the power generation equipment that used to be imported from foreign countries. There were 15 contracts signed until 2011 contributing to the improvement in the technologies of SMEs by continuous R&D activities. In addition, the technologies of EWP have been transferred to Agreement on fostering Success Model Permanent Monitoring Frequent feedback SMEs for free for successful commercialization and reinforcement in technological competitiveness. Homepages of Win-Win Growth Center and SMEs Council ■ Performance of the Technological Development in SMEs (Unit: 100 million won) 2010 2011 Classification Number of projects Contract Amount Purchase Amount Number of projects Contract Amount Purchase Amount Show the vision of co-prosperity and cooperation and realize win-win growth with business partners. Development of new products on the condition In order to put the CEO’s managerial principle to support SMEs into practice, EWP has established Korea’s of purchase 9 38.99 8.9 15 36.8 12.1 first philosophy to support the ‘Win-Win Cooperation in the Sustainable Power Industry’, and reflected it to Joint R&D 25 59.4 7.7 18 5.8 13.4 the midand long-term managerial strategy of the company while transmitting it to other power generation Technological Development by Joint Investment 7 54.1 6 44.8 of the Public and the Private Sector companies and business partners. In Nov, 2011, in tandem with Win-Win Growth Committee, EWP announced its win-win growth model as the standard model of Korea. Expanding Purchase of SMEs’ Products EWP was selected as the best organization for win-win growth for 3 consecutive years among 59 public EWP has purchased products developed by the technologies of SMEs worth 7.42 billion won actively responding enterprises by searching and supporting superior SMEs. In 2010, KOPEC developed the ‘technology for the to the system of public purchase of SMEs’ products, and also purchased products produced by woman CEOs EWP’s win-win growth model became a coating of element at heat exchanger’ for the first time in Korea and succeeded in the local production of the standard model in Korea. worth 3.7 billion won to assist the brisk social activities of women, totaling the purchase amount of the products original material technology. As a result, the technology was applied to the desulfurization equipment at produced by SMEs 140.2 billion won. Also, a T/F directly under the CEO has been established with 31 persons Dangjin Thermal Power Plant to save 5 billion won in purchasing cost. In average, the technology let each from 26 departments to work exclusively for purchasing. The team is making efforts to establish a basis for the power plant company save about 10 billion won of its costs. expansion of purchase by tracing and controlling purchase performance. Test Installation of SMEs’ Products 36 2012 Sustainability Report 37 Partnership and Sharing Support for the Exploration of Domestic and Overseas Markets by SMEs As a public enterprise which produces the public goods, electricity, EWP not only creates economic value To help SMEs’ domestic marketing, EWP supported 95 companies in 3 exhibitions including the Global which is the intrinsic managerial activity of a company but also does various social contribution activities to make a society for coexistence fulfilling its social responsibilities and roles as a corporate citizen. Above all, Electric Power Tech Exhibition to have business consultation for 48.8 billion won and receive order for 7.7 the operation of a power plant is closely related with the local community, and mutual understanding and billion won, and participated in 5 times of business meetings for public purchase including the public cooperation is increasingly important. Thus communication and cooperation in many aspects are being purchase promotion meeting held by the Small & Medium Business Administration to support business pursued to form a partnership for co-prosperity in which the power plant makes efforts for the development meetings for 48 SMEs. Also, for the promotion of superior SMEs’ products, a program of SBS TV titled of the community and the community welcomes the power plant. Participation of 30 Southeast Asian Market ‘SMEs! Power of Korea!’ was broadcast on 8 broadcasting channels and an advertisement about electricity Exploration Team (June 29 ~ July 8, 2011) ■ Hope Connection Emergency On-site Service Corps was placed in 14 newspapers to maximize marketing effects. Implementation System and Finances for Social Contribution Activities · Prepared for the demand for urgent voluntary service including natural disasters. Performance of Support for SMEs’ Implementation system · Composed of 124 members in total at the head Exploration of Overseas Markets To help SMEs explore overseas markets, EWP supported the participation of 11 SMEs in 2 international office and each workplace. With the slogan of “A Hand of Love, A Light of Hope”, EWP organized a voluntary service corps in Feb. 2004, which · Signed agreements with the fire stations in each exhibitions including Dubai WETEX Exhibition and achieved business consultation for 90.67 million dollars now has 2,204 members and 88 teams in total as of end of 2011. The Social Contribution Committee works for the area. 260 7 times million 4 times in and received order for 5 million dollars. To increase exports by SMEs, EWP invited 13 foreign buyers of implementation of systematic voluntary service activities, and the “Hope Connection Emergency On-site Service overseas Korea Concerned Night-duty Service Corps dollars OccurJapan, India and the Middle East to register them at 135 SMEs. The results of the meetings for export were Corps” is ready for the demand for urgent voluntary services in connection with the fire stations in each area. rence of Organization Office Members. Demand business consultation for 373.35 million dollars and order receipt for 61.71 million dollars. for Notify the Sends Xroshot to service Gather at the site and do Voluntary corps voluntary 4 meetings Workplace. Service members. service. for export by Finances inviting buyers The source of revenue for the voluntary service activity is made by deducting a certain amount of money from the salary of employees and the company’s donation of the same amount of the money as is collected ■ 2011 Finances for Social Contribution by employees in a matching grant system. The voluntary service teams are conducting services every month ■ Performance of SMEs’ Exploration of Domestic and Overseas markets (Unit: 10 thousand dollars) with the funds. At the same time, the donation of the company is used for special voluntary services Other Budget 140 2010 2011 including the campaign to promote consensus about power generation business. million won 12% Classification Apart from the finances inside the company, the budget for the projects intended to support the local Company’s Collection from No. of participating Amount for Business No. of participating Amount for Business Amount of Order Amount of Order companies Consultation companies Consultation community is spent for the education and cultural activities in the area adjacent to the power plant according Donation 510 Employees’ Salary million won 270 million won Domestic Exhibition 110 216 35 95 488 77 to the Law on the Support for the Areas near Power Plants. 42% 23% Company’s Matching Grant International Exhibition 24 14,814 2,510 11 9,067 500 ■ 2011 Budget for local Community Support (Unit: million won) 270 million won 23% Vender Registration and Meetings 18 1,019 135 37,335 6,171 Classification Dangjin Ulsan Honam Donghae Ilsan Total for Export Support Fund 2,018 406 125 253 135 2,937 Reflection of the Opinions of the Local Community ■ Survey of Local Communities Surveys were conducted in the areas of 5 workplaces to reflect the opinions of the local community about the Respondents 344 people near 5 workplaces social contribution activities, and committees were organized with the concerned people in the local community to Period Nov. 29 ~ Dec. 09, 2011 continue exchanging mutual opinions. The collected opinions of the local communities were reflected as much as Satisfaction with Social Contribution possible to the establishment of the plans for social contribution activities so that the activities necessary for a Activities 3.97 (Full marks: 5) community can be planned and performed. Reflection of the Opinions of Local Community 3.88 (Full marks: 5) Results Urgent Matter: Support for Vulnerable Social Groups (51%) Matters that needs improvement: PR (22%) 38 2012 Sustainability Report 39 ■ Checking and Replacing Electric Device Promotion of Consensus about Power Generation Business Sponsoring educational, cultural and athletic activities Workplace Beneficiary Date Support for Energy-vulnerable Social Groups Implementation of Educational Projects Children living with June 30, Subsidies for electric charges are granted to the households that have difficulty in paying the bills though they Above all, EWP is making much effort for the ■ Supported Institution Grandparents 2011 Dangjin are living near a power plant. Also, obsolete electric devices are examined and replaced for the safe usage of education and training of human resources near 17 Accommodations located Sep. 9, Increase in the Experiencing Village 2011 electricity by the vulnerable social groups living near the power plant, and old light fixtures are being replaced its power plants. To improve the educational by 4.3 times Welfare Facility ‘Warm Aug. 16, with new, high-efficiency ones. In addition, heating items such as long underwear, blanket and jumper As well environment near the power plants which lags House’ 2011 as heating fuels such as briquette and heating oil have been supplied for energy-vulnerable social groups to behind urban areas, learning apparatuses such as 4 Senior Citizen Centers in July 14, spend a warm winter while contributing to the resolution of the peak of electric consumption during winter. Ulsan apartment complexes, etc. 2011 video presenter and lockers and storage closets 2010 2011 Senior Citizen Centers in ■ Support for Heating during Winter ■ Support Vulnerable Social Groups with Electric Charges are donated every year to improve the learning Aug. 18, Wolpyeong and Daldong Beneficiary Support Amount Jugong Apt. 2011 Heating Items (Unit: 1 household) (Unit: 10 million won) environment. As a result, the students at schools 140 6.9 Sister villages by ‘1 Aug. 17, Long underwear 380 pieces near the power plant now enjoy a learning Company 1 Village’ 2011 Honam Movement Blanket 16 pieces 108 environment comparable to that of the schools in Reading Camp During Summer Vacation Increased Villages near SangamSep. 9, dong 2011 Jumper 24 pieces by 1.3 3.1 other areas. Tuitions are supported for the times Increased Sharing School which Heating fuel by 2.2 times students from elementary school to university living in the neighborhood of the power plants to relieve their Aug. 12, Ilsan supports poorly-fed children 2011 Briquette 10,000 pieces burdens and encourage learning so as to foster local talents. Also, to provide the opportunity for special Heating oil 15,000 liters 2010 2011 2010 2011 learning in addition to regular classes, native English teachers are provided to become friendly with English in Voluntary Briquette Delivery Service (Sep. 2011) this global era, and the opportunities for the tour of the national museum and historical and cultural sites are Support for the Households Damaged by Electric Disasters provided for live learning through experience. Furthermore EWP has joined the ‘Love Fence’ movement of Provision of caregivers for the people damaged by electric disasters the Ministry of Knowledge Economy to break the vicious cycle of poverty for children of needy class to be 1 handicapped patient, 1 patient injured by electric As a company which conducts power generation business producing electricity, EWP is supporting those shock were damaged by electric disasters such as electric shock. The company has provided caregivers for those able to have proper education. A total of 17 local children’s centers are supported to give enough Granting scholarships for the children of damaged households (per half a year) 400,000 won each for 2 high school students, who were burned by electric shock. EWP is also granting scholarships to the students of the households opportunity for the children to be able to ascend the ladder of class. 600,000 won to 1 university student which were damaged by electric disasters. (Unit: 1,000 won) Educational Local Children’s Area Scholarship Special Learning Others Total Apparatus Centers Voluntary Services Linked with Promotion of Overseas Businesses Supported Amount 478,020 655,456 139,244 52,379 113,817 1,438,916 EWP is doing social contribution activities not only in Korea but also in overseas areas where new businesses are being developed, and in result a favorable atmosphere for the promotion of the new businesses have been formed. In Haiti where a diesel power plant is being operated and developed, the company has built a new house and supported tuition for a girl who lost a leg and the house in an earthquake in 2010 by collecting donations. In Cebu, the Philippines, where an O&M business is being performed, 290 sets of toothpaste and toothbrush have been distributed to the elementary students in schools near the business site and began to distribute free breakfast to 290 students who used to skip breakfast. In addition, EWP is assisting multi-cultural households in Korea with a family member from the country where the company is trying to launch a new business. Voluntary service activities help the family members experience Korean culture during traditional Korean holidays and the children are given scholarships. Scholarship Awarding Ceremony Support of Home School at Local Children’s Center Helping a girl victim of an Distributing free breakfast in Taking care of children of multiearthquake in Haiti the Philippines (Cebu) cultural households 40 2012 Sustainability Report 41 Support for Community’s Cultural Events and Athletic Activities Movement to Revive Traditional Markets and Direct Transaction of Agricultural Products ■ Active participation in ‘Win-Win for Knowledge Products & Local Economy’ campaign. EWP is supporting various cultural events of the communities near its power plants such as Oemok Sunrise EWP is making efforts to activate local economy for co-prosperity with the community fulfilling its responsibility Festival in Dangjin, Sangnok Cultural Festival and Ulsan Literary Award to satisfy the cultural needs of the as a corporate citizen. Each power plant signed for a sister relationship agreement with a traditional market near communities and contribute to the development of the local culture. Also, the company sponsors sports it. In 2011, employees of EWP bought gift certificates of traditional markets worth 660 million won, and EWP is ‘Win-Win for A campaign for the purchase of Knowledge local specialty products by the teams including the youth soccer team in Dangjin, the athletic club in Seokmun Middle School and a Judo encouraging its employees to use traditional markets by holding events to visit the markets once every month. Products & Local promotion of the Ministry of Economy’ In addition, there is a homepage for direct transaction of agricultural products being operated in EWP’s Knowledge Economy club in Ulsan to foster future athletes and encourage sports activities of the local residents to lead healthy life. campaign homepage to purchase the agricultural products produced near the power plants. It provides the farmers with a Support Oemok Sunrise Festival stable sales route at reasonable prices and enables the employees to buy good agricultural products in trust Culture & Sports achieving win-win relationship beneficial to both parties. In 2011, 119 items worth 48,360 thousand won were Area Total ■ Purchasing ‘Onnuri’ Gift Certificates Arts Promotion purchases, which is 179% increase from the previous year. Also, to contribute to the local economy by 660 Number of Activities 33 31 64 supporting local specialty products with sufficient potentiality, local specialty products worth more than 240 million won million won were purchased, which is the most among 23 public institutions participating in the ‘Win-Win for Number of 164 38 202 Participants Knowledge Products & Local Economy’ campaign. 280 Supported million won Amount 116,146 172,695 288,841 (thousand won) 40 million won 2009 2010 2011 ■ Amount of Purchase at EWP Marketplace 48,361 thousand won 26,993 thousand won 180% increase Going day to the Traditional market Homepage for Direct Transaction of Agricultural Products at EWP 2010 2011 Sponsor School Sports Teams Environmental Protection Activities in the Areas near Power Plants EWP is minimizing the impact on environment with an eco-friendly management, and furthermore taking Partnership for Co-prosperity with Communities lead in the preservation of the natural environment in the areas near power plants to leave a clean environment to posterity. Each power plant is conducting regular environment conservation activities Support for Development of the Infrastructure of Communities through ‘1 company 1 mountain’ and ‘1 company 1 stream’ movement, and environmental campaigns The areas near power plants are supported by law for their development. The subsidy is calculated every including the drawing contest for environmental painting are regularly held to promote awareness of the year on the basis of the quantity of power generation and is paid to the concerned local governments. In importance of environment among children. 2011, a total of 14.6 billion won was paid to local governments to be spent for the projects aimed to increase ‘1 Company 1 Mountain’ conservation the income of the residents and expand public facilities. Movement Supported Amount Classification Sister Relationship Number of Activities Number of Participants (thousand won) Cultivating Green ■ Amount Allocated for Community Support by Each workplace in 2011 (Unit: 1,000 won) 12 mountains and streams 32 524 5,534 Mountains and Streams Environment Protection Workplace Dangjin Ulsan Honam Donghae Ilsan Total 52 741 68,769 Activities Supported 12,459,000 946,400 292,000 590,800 315,000 14,603,200 Amount 42 2012 Sustainability Report 43 Sharing Voluntary Service Activities Other Voluntary Service Activities including ‘Love Blood Donation Relay’ Sisterhood Relationship with Child Heads of Household and the Elderly with No Place to Turn to, In every May since 2004, EWP circulates its workplaces beginning with the head office in the shape of a and Support by Providing Caregivers heart to have a blood donation campaign. 213 employees participated in the 8th blood donation relay held in The voluntary service teams at each EWP power plant made sisterhood relationship with the child heads of 2011 to practice their share of love. household and the elderly who have no place to turn to living near the power plant to support with daily Also, EWP has been supporting rice for free feeding worth 20 million won since 2004 for Holy Family necessities, preparing learning materials, cleaning the house and keeping company with them. In addition, Welfare Hospital which is a free hospital for those who have no place to turn to. to take care of those who have difficulty in moving among the extremely poor class in the neighborhood of the power plant, caregivers are hired to help the patients lead at least the minimal human life. ■ Support for Vulnerable Social Groups in 2011 Classification Sisterhood Relationship (person) Number of Activities Number of Participants Supported Amount (thousand won) Helping Child Heads of Household 98 709 975 139,906 Helping the Elderly with No Place to Turn to 82 495 704 78,743 Providing Caregivers 7 51,962 Total 327 1,204 1,679 340,177 ■ Support of Welfare Facilities in 2011 The 8th Love Blood Donation Relay Supporting Free Feeding for Holy Family Welfare Hospital Area Number of Activities Number of Participants Supported Amount (thousand won) Composite Welfare Facilities 156 770 103,166 Supporting for the Self-reliance of Socially Vulnerable Group by Sponsoring Social Enterprises and ■ Amount of Money Created Children’s Facilities 213 840 141,340 Purchasing Their Products (45 million won in total) Facilities for the Elderly 74 505 51,314 What is needed for poor people is not mere kindness but creating jobs for their self-reliance. EWP supported for Facilities for the Handicapped 56 326 31,240 the investment in facilities at social enterprises by forming co-prosperity fund for win-win growth in order to assist the job creation for socially vulnerable groups. Also, EWP has purchased the products of social enterprises worth Collection from Employees Total 499 2,441 327,060 600 million won. 15 million won reated by Business Partners 15 million won Matching Grant 15 million won ■ Details of Sponsorship Good Will Store 10 million won Helping the Elderly with No Place to Turn to Labor-Management Joint Voluntary Service at Somang Good World Bakery Rehabilitation center 20 million won Somang Rehabilitation center 15 million won Delivery of Co-prosperity Support Money Eco-friendly Green Management Eco Friend We think of the preciousness of nature which embraces the world. We think not only the convenience of today but also the life of the next generation. As our life today has been enriched by the gift of nature, we will cultivate the earth to prepare for the better future. EWP promises for a cleaner nature and happier mankind. | | | | Green Management System Greenhouse Gas Emissions Coping with Climatic Change Efforts to Minimize Environmental impacts 46 2012 Sustainability Report 47 Green Management System ■ EWP Green Management Cycle Implementation System for Green Management Conducting Carbon Disclosure Project, a Program for Coping with Global Climatic Change Recognizing the importance of coping with climatic change for sustainable growth of the company, the top EWP has disclosed the information on carbon discharge through its carbon report and sustainability report. Establish management of EWP is implementing systematic low-carbon green management by organizing a Especially, in this year, EWP voluntarily participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project, a project for coping strategies. department exclusive for green management both at the head office and each workplace. Also, the Green with global climatic change whose headquarters is located in the UK, for the first time as a public enterprise Management Committee has been installed to secure the development possibility of the overall company which is not required to make a response. In doing so, the company grasped the risks and opportunities related to climatic change and transparently opened GHG emissionS, the strategies to cope with climatic Feedback Set up including low-carbon green management. The committee is holding a meeting periodically for the master plan. change, and the performance of the company. consultation and debating of internal and external experts. Internal Organization External Organization Top-Tier Green Management System Evaluate Implement Consultation on Green performance. (Quantitative specific Establish Implement Management Consultation on Green Management Environmental Management System and Green Enterprise methods. strategies. strategies. Method) Environment EWP has acquired the integrated ISO 14001/9001 certification for competitive and differentiated implementation of Management Team Green Environment Environment Chemicals (Safety) Team External PR of Green Green Management Committee (Composed of external experts in areas of environmental management, and all of its workplaces have been designated as green enterprises by the Ministry Team New & Renewable Energy Team Management environment, energy, etc.) of Environment with its efforts to minimize the discharge of pollutants and wastes and save energy continuously. Win-Win Growth Team Green Management Performance Evaluation System ■ Responsibilities For a systematic establishment of green management, EWP has developed its own green management CEO(President) Establish the policies for green management. performance evaluation system by adding sustainability management index such as basic unit of GHG Green Environment Team Supervise green management. Set up implementation strategies and master plan. Reward superior emission to ERP environment performance evaluation system to evaluate performance of green (Dept. in Charge) staff. Support green life activities. Monitoring. management with an objective index. *System Composition: 3 large categories and 28 specific indexes (21 environmental indexes+ 7 sustainability Dept. in Charge of Green Management Practice green management of the workplace. Promote practice of green life. Spread good at Workplaces examples inside and outside the company. Support the activities of the department in charge. indexes) Green Management System Vision of Green Management Green management system was established to systematically control the participation of EWP employees in the According to the Low Carbon Green Growth Act, EWP revised its 2009 master plan for green management practice of green life by providing information on the effect of the reduction of GHG emission transparently. The in 2010, and is doing its utmost to reduce greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions, promote green growth, and root provided information includes the green life practice of individuals and workplaces, real-time comparison of down green corporate culture. performances, status of accumulation of green mileage in each area of activity, and the information related to green management. A Global Leader in Power Generation Industry for Low-carbon Green Management Classification Area Major Performance Amount of CO2 Reduction Individual BMW, etc. Participation of all employees 2,009 ton Designation and operation of a ‘Day without Workplace Car Diet, etc. 5 ton Cars in the Precinct’ 115 days Reduce 10% from BAU(Business as Usual) GHG emissions by 2020 (Invest 4 trillion won in green energy.) Carbon Management G3 GHG Reduction Green Growth Improve power generation Expand new & renewable Green Culture efficiency. / Save energy. energy. Create a green workplace. Develop technologies for Establish green Practice green life. reduction of GHG. infrastructure. Green Management System 48 2012 Sustainability Report 49 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Active Purchase of Green Products Goals of GHG emissions reduction Meeting the government’s recommendation on the purchase of green products, EWP is implementing the Due to the characteristics of the power generation sector, its GHG emission depends on the nation’s Improvement system of compulsory purchase of green products. In 2011, the company achieved 96% purchase of green electricity demand and power mix and there can be no inventory. So it is more reasonable to set a goal for in plant products worth 2.89 billion won. A green product means a product which can save resources or reduce reduction with GHG emissions intensity. The company’s goal is to reduce its intensity up to 10% from the efficiency environmental pollution which has been certified for environmental mark or good recycling (GR) by the base period value(average of 2007~2009) by 2020. To achieve this, all the capabilities for the reduction of Reduction of GHG Ministry of Environment. GHG are collected by improving the efficiency of power generation facilities, expanding new & renewable Green Expansion of energy, expanding investment in R&D of green technologies such as collection and storage of CO2, and Technology new & renewable Fostering Experts for Green Growth expanding programs for the practice of green life. R&D energy EWP continues to conduct professional education in each area to implement low-carbon green management such as coping with climate change and the development of new & renewable energy and related businesses. In-depth educational courses are provided to foster experts in related fields and at the World-class Plant Efficiency same time on-line educations are offered to all employees to form a consensus on green management. EWP’s power plants are mainly composed of new facilities with world-class operation abilities. As a result, ■ Plant Efficiency of Coal-fired Power Plant(%) they maintain the highest plant efficiency, which results in the less emissions. Especially, Dangjin Power Plant 41.3 Received a Grand Prize at UNGC Value Awards Units #1~#8, which take 63% of all the power generation capacity of EWP with 4,000MW in total, were 40.8 40.6 EWP was the first public enterprise to receive a grand prize in the section of eco-friendly management of UN completed between 1999 and 2007 and have the world’s highest efficiency among coal plants. In addition, Global Compact Value Awards in the Global CSR Conference held in Hotel Shilla last November. UNGC was the New-Ulsan Combined Heat and Power Plant (950MW) will be completed in 2014 with 55% of plant established in 2000 under the branch of UN as the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizen initiative with efficiency. The Dangjin Power Plant Units #9 and #10 will be completed in 2015 and 2016, which will 36 the participation of more than 100 states. EWP received high marks in the active implementation of upgrade the overall plant efficiency of EWP with a super large new concept power generation facility similar 34.1 simulated emissions trading system that designed by internal staff and the green management evaluation to a nuclear power plant. system. Korea Japan Germany UK US Current Status of GHG Emissions Received a Grand Prize in Green Company Contest In the presentation of superior cases of green management for about 190 green companies supervised by In 2011, GHG emissions were 41,412,000 ton-CO2, with direct emissions of 41,354,000 ton-CO2(99.8%) and the Ministry of Environment, EWP’s Ulsan Thermal Power Plant received the grand prize in 2011 following the indirect emissions of 58,000 ton-CO2(0.2%). awarding of Donghae Power Plant in 2010 for the grand prize. All the workplaces of EWP have been designated as green companies since 2005 for the first time as a power plant company, and its leading ■ Company-wide GHG Emissions position in the efforts for green management including coping with climate change is well recognized. Classification Type 2009 2010 2011 Scope 1 39,271,043 41,452,688 41,377,486 Emissions (ton) Scope 2 64,683 63,293 57,678 Total Emissions (including head office) 39,335,725 41,515,981 41,435,164 GHG Inventory System 50 2012 Sustainability Report 51 Coping with Climate change Reduction of Greenhouse Gas ■ Characteristics of Diverse Biomass Fuels Obtaining GHG Credits Wood Item Organic Solid Fuel SRF EWP is pursuing a CDM project and a national GHG reduction registration project as a part of GHG Wood Chip Pellet PKS reduction activities. The Photovoltaic Project of Donghae Power Plant was registered in the UN CDM for the first time in the world as a photovoltaic sector, and a small hydro-power generation project in Dangjin was also registered in the UN CDM in August 2009 for 5MW which used to be the largest as one unit of facility. Shape As for the national GHG reduction registration project, a high-voltage inverter was installed in Honam Power Plant in May, 2007, which was followed by registration of new technology development by Dangjin CoalFired Plant in September, 2008. HRSG Waste Heat Recovery of Ilsan CHP Plant and GT Waste Heat Characteristics Forest by-products, waste wood Dry and shape wood. Cocoa husk, seed, etc. Dry and carbonize sewage sludge. 쓰레기 건조 탄화 Registration of small hydro-power Recovery of Ulsan Power Plant were registered in November 2009. In 2010, Fuel Cell of Ilsan CHP was LHV (kcal/kg) 2,500~3,500 3,500~4,500 4,000 3,000~3,500 3,500~4,500 generation project in Dangjin in the UN CDM registered. The Hybrid SCR of Ulsan Power Plant was registered in Dec., 2011. (UNFCCC) Power Plant Donghae Thermal Donghae Thermal under consideration Dangjin Thermal Donghae Thermal Continuing Green Projects to Reduce GHG emissions Under the Negotiated Agreement for GHG emissions that came into effect in 2011, it is impossible for a company which was assigned a goal of reduction to register a new KCER project. Also, the uncertainties in R&Ds regarding Climate change the global carbon market is increasing including the decreases in the prices of carbon credits, and the merits In preparation for the increasing pressure of the international society to reduce GHG according to IPCC, of CDM project have virtually disappeared as the UN decided to allow the registration of new CDM only until EWP will invest 26.6 billion won by 2014 in the R&D related to cope with climate change. Through such the end of 2012 and the registration of new CDMs from 2013 is only applied to the poorest nations. However, investment, EWP will continue to secure the high technology for the reduction of GHG. Especially, in apart from such uncertainties, EWP continues to find out the projects to reduce GHG and making efforts to cooperation with other power generation companies, EWP will concentrate its capabilities in carbon capture fulfill its green goal successfully. Especially, the old Ulsan Heavy Oil Thermal Power Plant is being replaced and storage (CCS) and integrated coal gasification combined cycle (IGCC) that can be applied immediately with a new Combined Heat and Power Plant to reduce about 600,000 ton of GHG emissions. to power companies. For this, EWP secured available lands in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant for CCS site and 81.66 in Ulsan Thermal Power Plant for IGCC site. ■ Status of Carbon Credits Projects 54.33 51.64 Title of Project Registration Date Certified Reduction (ton/year) No. 1 at the Evaluation of Green Management in the Power Sector In 2010, EWP was selected as the superior company in the power generation sector in the Industry Survey Donghae Photovoltaic (1MW) Aug. 2006 690 for Competitiveness Index in Climate Change conducted in late 2009 by Business Institute for Sustainable Dangjin small hydro-power (5MW) Aug. 2009 15,000 Development (BISD) and Korea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO) for 1,738 companies that Honam high-voltage inverter May. 2007 16,419 consumed much energy. In addition, in the Green Management Diagnosis Evaluation conducted by the EWP Industry Total Average Average Dangjin new technology development Sep. 2008 91,789 same institutes in 2011, the company was selected as No. 1 in the power generation sector to boast its Ilsan HRSG Heat Recovery Nov. 2009 52,653 differentiated capabilities to cope with climate change both internally and externally. Ulsan GT Heat Recovery Nov. 2009 5,547 Ilsan fuel cell 1st stage Apr. 2010 6,476 Ilsan fuel cell 2nd stage Nov. 2011 7,216 Ulsan Hybrid SCR Dec. 2011 4,749 Expanding the co-firing of Biomass As a major short-term measure to achieve the nation’s goal in reduction of GHG, EWP is actively implementing co-firing of biomass. A test in Donghae Thermal Power Plant for burning in mixture with wood chip, wood pallet and RDF (Refuse Derived Fuel) ended successfully and it will be expanded. For Dangjin Thermal Power Plant, the equipment for testing the burning of sewage sludge, which is treated at the sewage treatment facility of the local government, is under construction with a plan to begin operation in late 2012. 52 2012 Sustainability Report 53 Efforts to Minimize Environmental Impacts Implementing Step-by-Step Simulated Emissions Trading Scheme Efforts to Minimize Environmental Impacts EWP joined with other power generation companies and the Korea Power Exchange on business EWP is producing electricity using coal, heavy oil and LNG. It is inevitable that various environmental cooperation for simulated emissions trading scheme to actively and jointly respond to the IPCC. Also, pollutants emits according to the consumption of the fuel for power generation. EWP is minimizing pollutants according to the EWP action plan, EWP, for the first time as a generating company, performed a simulated by operating facilities that can reduce environmental pollutants and recycling wastes. emissions trading scheme with SK Group in October, 2010. In 2011, EWP participated in the test trading supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in preparation for the compulsory emissions trading system which will begin in 2015. Monitoring air Removing sulfur and dust Removing nitrogen oxides Preventing noise Harmony with the Environment ■ Performance in Emissions Trading Indoor operation of Safety valve Monitoring smoke boiler silencer Interior operation of turbine Air treatment device Denitrification Generator 1st stage 2nd stage 3rd stage facility 2006~2009 2010 2011 Test Emissions trading Steam Simulated Emissions Desulfurization Electric Coal ash Transmission supervised by Ministry of condenser Transformer Switch gear Home/factory Simulated Emissions Trading Trading between EWP* facilities precipitator tower Knowledge Economy (July, 2011) Supervised by KEMCO and SK Group Education of international Gypsum Coal ash *Suggest the trading and design experts in emissions trading its own scheme. Intake (Oct. 2011) Recycling 5 workplaces of EWP Companies that will be resources Power generation companies, LG Chemical, 6 affiliates in SK group applied by NA Effective usage of SK Energy, etc. Coal ash storage Gypsum Preventing scattering of coal Monitoring water Waste temperature Closed-type coal water Coal loader General wastewater hoist treatment system Coal ship Implementation of Negotiated Agreement EWP is under the scheme of Negotiated Agreement. In the NA, the government assigns each company the Shore Coal Sprinkling system Coal storage Drainage goal for GHG emission and energy consumption and examines the performance. It is a preparatory stage for Purifying drainage Monitoring drainage Ash Disposal site the initiation of the emissions trading. EWP has prepared itself to minimize risks caused by the execution of the system by participating in the test project of NA and establishing a countermeasure prior to the system. The year 2011 was the preparation stage of the establishment of the general system for goal establishment and performance in 2012. The specifications for GHG emissions and energy consumption between 2007 Classification Coal Ash Desulfurization Gypsum Waste Water and 2010 were prepared, and they were submitted to the GHG registration center in the Ministry of Q’ty 2,122,000 ton 420,000 ton 2,809,000 ton Environment in June after obtaining the verification of a certified verification agency. In June, 2011, EWP Recycled Q’ty 1,368,000 ton 405,000 ton 1,108,000 ton negotiated with the representative of the government for the decision of the goal, and submitted its plans for Recycling Rate 64.5% 96.4% 42.0% the fulfillment of the goal in December, keeping pace with the government’s schedule for the implementation of the system. Power generation water Limestone Magnesium hydroxide Chemicals 12,417,000 ton 316,700 ton 46,800 ton 17,100 ton ■ Fuel for power generation ■ Emissions ■ Output Bituminous coal 15,958,000 ton SOx 13,311 ton Power generation Q’ty 53,637Gwh Anthracite coal 781,000 ton NOx 28,050 ton Power transmission Q’ty 51,116Gwh Heavy oil 708,000 kL Dust 671 ton Diesel oil 14,500 kL CO2 41,013 ton LNG 1,622,000 ton 54 2012 Sustainability Report 55 Proper Restrictions of Air and Water Pollutants Real-time Monitoring of Docks and Coal Yards The pollutants produced in the process of power generation can be largely divided into air pollutants, water While unloading docks and coal yards monitoring occurs in real-time. Unloading is observed and monitored pollutants and wastes. Air pollutants are sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, dust, etc. that are produced in the through CCTV, and the information is reported to the management to check for the environmental impact process of boiler combustion, and the water quality pollutants include organic pollutants and suspended and to prevent environmental accidents. Real-time information through coal yard CCTVs facilitates the solids. EWP is doing its best to reduce the amount of the emission of pollutants by setting strict criteria of its management of coal storage, coal quality and reduces spontaneous ignition. Through the system EWP is own. EWP is operating high-tech air pollution prevention facilities such as desulfurization, denitrification and endeavoring to minimize the environmental impact on nearby areas. dust-collecting facilities as well as the general wastewater treatment system. In addition, the coal ash produced after combustion is recycled as a raw material for cement. Most of the mercury produced by the Treatment of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) power plant is removed by electric precipitators and desulfurization facilities and only less than 10% of the Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) are treated legally according to Basel Convention and the Law in the allowed amount (0.1mg/Sm3) is emitted. Movement of Wastes across National Borders and Their Treatment. PCBs are contained in transformer oil, ■ Facilities treating air pollutants which is gradually banned by the voluntary plan to eradicate PCBs. 501 tons of wastes containing PCBs Desulfurization facilities Denitrification Facilities Dust Collector were treated safely until the end of 2011. Power Plant (to remove sulfur oxides.) (to remove nitrogen oxides) (to remove dust) ■ Treatment of wastes according to Basel Convention Units installed Type Units installed Type Units installed Type Period of treatment Treated Q’ty (ton) Country of treatment Treatment cost (100 million won) Dangjin Thermal 8 Wet limestone-gypsum method 8 SCR 8 Electric Precipitator Sep. 2005~Apr. 2006 25.12 France 0.85 3 SCR Jan. 2007~Aug. 2007 10.81 Belgium 0.51 Ulsan Thermal 3 Wet limestone-gypsum method 6 Electric Precipitator 2 SNCR Jan. 2009~Dec. 2009 54.55 Korea 0.26 2 SCR Jan. 2010~Dec. 2010 65.98 Korea 0.32 Honam Thermal 2 Magnesium hydroxide method 2 Electric Precipitator 2 SNCR Jan. 2011~Dec. 2011 344.55 Korea 1.91 Donghae Thermal 2 Desulfurization in a dry furnace 2 Electric Precipitator Total 501.01 3.85 *SCR: Selective catalytic reduction, SNCR: Selective non-catalytic reduction Use of chemicals Environment monitoring system More than 30 kinds of chemicals are used at a power plant for the prevention of corrosion of power All the power plants of EWP are subject to the installation of CleanSYS(Smokestack Tele-Monitoring generation facilities, pure production and treatment of waste water. To reduce the quantity of chemicals System). EWP is operating a CleanSYS to monitor pollution emissions in real-time. Information on pollution used, EWP has adopted hydrazine-free system, oxygen treatment method, etc. emissions is transferred on-line to the control center of the Environmental Management Corporation in real time. The system is linked with an environmental monitoring system within the plants to check information on Classification Unit 2009 2010 2011 emissions through smokestacks, and the surroundings, including water quality, around-the-clock. Power generation GWh 50,190 54,135 53,637 Amount of chemicals used Ton 19,475 12,625 17,130 Coping with leakage of chemicals and oil Intensity Ton/GWh 0.388 0.233 0.319 Cleansys To prevent environmental accidents, EWP has established the procedures of coping with each kind of environmental accident, and is holding exercise for leakage of toxins and oil every year to take prompt measures upon accident. Also, EWP is preparing itself for emergencies by placing a water surface cleaner consigned to Korea Marine Environment Management Corporation. There have been no accidents of the leakage of oil, wastes or harmful materials. Drill for cleaning ocean pollution 56 2012 Sustainability Report 57 Recycling waste resources through re-combustion of bottom ash ■ Quantity of water intake and usage of service water at power plants The bottom ash of a boiler contains unburned carbon. The technology for its complete combustion by Power Plant Raw Water (ton) Source of water putting it back into the boiler has been applied to the design of Dangjin units #9 and #10 to reduce the Dangjin Thermal 6,583,411 Boryeong Dam, Sambong Lake quantity of bottom ash. As a result, the lifespan of the ash pond will be extended and the consumption of Ulsan Thermal 1,715,055 Nakdong River coal for fuel will be reduced. Honam Thermal 1,200,906 Juam Dam Donghae Thermal 263,148 Dalbang Dam Ilsan Combined 2,654,611 Han River Total 12,417,131 ■ Quantity of usage of raw water and quantity of recycled wastewater Raw Water Wastewater Pulverizer Coal feeder Year Output Usage (1,000 ton) Intensity (ton/GWh) Treated Q’ty (1,000 ton) Recycled Q’ty (1,000 ton) Coal storage 2009 48,383 8,995 185.9 2,266 1,276 2010 54,136 11,821 218.4 2,570 1,197 Transfer bottom ash Ash treatment 2011 52,650 12,417 235.8 2,885 1,181 site is Bottom ash Bottom ash unnecessary. storage storage Boiler Environmental Impact Assessment EWP is conducting environmental impact assessment thoroughly to predict all kinds of environmental Use of recycled raw materials influence that may occur in the process of the construction and operation of a power plant and evaluates EWP recycles such wastes as coal ash, gypsum or waste oil that are produced in the process of power them comprehensively to protect the environment and ecological system. generation as a way for profit creation. In addition, the company is making efforts to increase recycling continuously and curtail the treatment costs by diversifying the usage of recycling, continuing R&D, ■ Post Environmental Impact Assessment for Power Plants searching for new usage, etc. Classification Agency Examined items Assessment period ■ Recycling coal ash and desulfurized Gypsum Dangjin #1~8 Spread of hot cooling water, air quality, noise, soil, marine water July 1994~ Dec. 2017 Korea Engineering and sediment quality, marine ecosystem, agricultural products, Consultants Corp. Classification Unit 2009 2010 2011 Dangjin #9~10 land plant, eco-friendly circulation of resources Dec. 2009~June 2021 Recycled plaster 1,000 ton 425 414 405 Ratio of recycled coal ash % 65.7 58.0 64.5 1,000 won 107.0 Environmental Events Profits created by recycling 77.9 77.5 To practice their love of nature, employees of EWP are carrying out diverse environmental conservation programs including nature purification activities, ‘1-company 1-shore’ cultivation and feeding wild animals. Usage of service water and recycling waste water In addition, EWP is operating green environment class for the students living near its power plants to teach The service water used at a power plant is supplied from the river and dam near the workplace. It is used for them, in a fun way, about the principles of power generation and waste water treatment through the water supply for boilers, cooling water for machines, desulfurization of facilities and other potable water. experiments. Also, EWP publishes environmental newsletters semi-annually in each power plant to A general wastewater treatment system, which treats the wastewater in physical and chemical ways, is reinforce communication with the local communities. installed at every power plant. The wastewater is reused for process water or discharged into the sea, at a level lower than the standard water quality for discharged water. EWP is making efforts to solve the problem Classification Sister Relationship Number of Activities Number of Participants Supported Amount (thousand won) of water shortage by reducing the amount of wastewater or raise the percentage of reuse through the green mountains and 12 mountains and 30 623 12,102 streams streams application of new technologies to the process of wastewater treatment. In 2011, we recycled 1.18 million Environment protection 52 887 84,441 tons of wastewater. activities Creation of Economic Values Economic Value Creator We will take one step in advance for a future filled with hope. EWP enriches our life realizing our dreams with electricity. Through value-creating management based on differentiated technologies and reinforced competitiveness, EWP is energetically growing into a global energy company. | | | | | | Stable Electricity Supply Demand and Supply of Fuel Future Growth Business Overseas Business Continuous R&D Financial Performance 60 2012 Sustainability Report 61 Stable Electricity Supply Strengthening efforts to cope with the crisis in electricity supply Timely construction of new power plants Sep. 15, 2011 was a day which left an unforgettable memory for the power industry of Korea. The honor and Dangjin Units #9 and #10 (2,000MW) are now under construction to be completed in 2016 by the national pride of power generation companies, which had boasted of supplying electricity at cheap prices with the demand for expansion of facilities according to the rapid rise in electricity demand. In addition, the world’s best efficiency and the least loss in power transmission and distribution, were damaged. Though the superannuated and high-cost Ulsan Heavy Oil Thermal Power Plant (Units #1~3) will be replaced by lowpower plant companies including EWP were not directly responsible for the circular blackout as they carbon, high efficiency Ulsan #4 Combined Heat and Power Plant (950MW) planned for completion in 2014. observed the general rules and regulations, they established a crisis manual for power supply and operated 24-hour emergency working team during peak seasons in order not to repeat the same thing in the future. In Operation of the Process of Examining Highaddition, EWP is constructing Ulsan New Combined Heat and Power Plant which is a low-carbon clean tech Power Plant Facilities 1st energy source to secure stable power supply capacity and reduce GHG emission basic units. EWP is utilizing a future facility monitoring system and monitoring has actively introduced scientific analysis techniques system ■ The system for stable power supply and the latest maintenance technologies on the basis Power plant control of sufficient professional technological manpower to room operators per form optimum operation and maintenance Construction appropriate for the condition of the facilities. Korea Power Exchange, 2nd EPC Power Supply Plan Management EPC In addition to the 1st monitoring conducted on the KEPCO, Government monitoring basis of the experience and technological power of the system operators of the power plants, EWP is doing the 2nd monitoring to prevent fatal accidents in power plant Prediction & diagnosis Optimum operation dept. of facilities facilities by sensing the problem of the facilities in advance with the application of intelligent algorithm to 3rd Electricity Supply Power Plants EPC the system monitoring the operation of the power plant monitoring The head office’s *EPC : Engineering, Procurement, Construction POMMS Center facilities; and the 3rd monitoring system designed to system prevent emergent breakdown through the monitoring at the head office’s POMMS Center. Through such triple monitoring system, EWP has minimized blind spots in facility monitoring and enabled stable operation of ■ Crisis management for power supply ■ Global comparison (Unit: %) facilities. Moreover, EWP has developed a smart solution by itself to prevent facility breakdown and performance degradation. Global Standard (NERC*) EWP Direction Establish rapid response system for a crisis in power supply. 93.76 7.49 An excellent availability ratio and forced outage rate 85.7 EWP has established a unique operation monitoring system and a multiple monitoring system for operational Organize emergency crew for rapid restoration of breakdown (jointly with maintenance departments). condition for early discovery and recovery of the problems in facilities, and accumulated technologies for System Operate a special inspection patrol team for multiple inspections of power generation sites. rearrangement diagnosis of problematic facilities. As a result, EWP has achieved an availability ratio and a forced outage 0.45 Nominate a person in charge at each facility. rate that are much more superior to those of global standards. availability Ratio Forced outage rate In addition, EWP is boasting excellent availability ratio by reducing construction period and prolonging the *NERC(North American Electric Reliability Corp) Rearrange crisis manual in power generation area (enhancing connectivity among related organizations). cycle of maintenance through perfect operation process management while conducting preventive System improvement Newly establish a hot line among power generation companies (EWP ↔ Korea Power Exchange) maintenance. EWP’s average yearly maintenance dates are 12.5, which is the shortest level in the world. Lend and share parts for repair among power plants with similar facilities. Expanding Own Engineering for Technological Self-reliance Strengthen education for the operators in power plants (making professional education compulsory). Strengthening Conduct joint exercise with concerned organizations including National Emergency Management Agency EWP used to consign the original design of power plant facilities to external organization and mainly handled education (in November). the operation and management of power plants. However, to upgrade the technological competitiveness of Transmit and share major breakdown cases. the company and promote advancement into overseas businesses, EWP is reinforcing its engineering capabilities gradually by designing Dangjin #2 small hydro-power generation project and the 30MW biomass power plant in Donghae. 62 2012 Sustainability Report 63 Supply of Fuel Future Growth Business ■ Fuel Supply Monitoring System The costs for fuel purchase occupy more than 70% of the total expenses of EWP. So the supply of fuel is Development of New & Renewable Energy very important. EWP makes efforts to stabilize fuel supply by diversifying source of supply and maintaining Major Sources of New & Renewable Energy Cleansys GPS Tracing System appropriate inventory and at the same time takes measures to save fuel costs in order to suppress the rise in electric charges to the utmost. Photovoltaic Power Wind Power Tidal Power Small Hydro Power ■ Main Fuels (2011) Real-time Inventory Stability of Shipping Management Bituminous Coal Anthracite Coal LNG Oil System Supply System 15,923,000 ton 802,000 ton 1,607,000 ton 736,000 ton Real-time Coal Storage Efforts for Stable Supply of Fuel Solar cells convert sunlight directly into The turning force of windmill is The flow of high tide and low tide is Small dams are used for waterpower Management electrical energy changed into electricity. used. generation. (CCTV) The fuel for EWP is mainly sourced at the two countries of Indonesia and Australia, which takes about 80% of the total. To improve stability of supply by reducing reliability on a certain source of supply, the sources are Fuel Cells Biomass Bio Gas Turbine Wastes (REF, RPF) expanded further to the U.S., Russia, etc. reducing costs. Also, managing appropriate inventory utilizing realtime inventory system and shipping management system contributes to the stable supply of fuel. A power plant separately Realizing Cheap Electricity purchases irregular coals that Self cannot be used independently, and Electricity has been supplied under production cost due to the continued rise in fuel costs and the regulation blend them in the power plant to Blending produce the standard kinds of coal appropriate to be used in the of electricity charges. Accordingly, it is necessary to take proactive measures and EWP has increased efforts Chemical reaction of oxygen and Woody biomass fuel is used. Combustible gas in food garbage Combustible wastes are used as hydrogen is used. waste water is used. resources. power plant. to save fuel costs. Through such efforts as saving fuel costs by self-blending, reducing freight by using ships exclusive for fuel transportation and improving the economic value of mixed coal. As a result, EWP realized Indonesia Medium Indonesia Lowest Classification Heat Value the lowest costs of fuel among power plant companies alleviating the pressure for price rise. Step-by-step Plans for New & Renewable Energy (NAR) calorie calorie NAR NAR High calorie Over 5,500 5,300 3,900 50% 50% Medium calorie 5,100~5,500 ■ Diagram of Cost Reduction through Self-Blending Low calorie 4,600~5,100 Ordinary Supplier EWP Long-term Low calorie NAR 4,600 Lowest calorie Under 4,600 2016~2022 Medium-calorie Lowest-calorie High-sulfur Low-sulfur Separate purchase Mid-term Blending Blending Coal Coal Coal Coal of A, B, C and D 2013~2015 A B C D coals Short-term 2010~2012 + + + Growth Engine Sunlight: 50.4MW Profit of Supplier Profit of Supplier Profit of EWP Land wind power: 427MW Fuel cells: 80.8MW Ocean energy: 142MW Establish basis. Ocean wind power: 757.1MW Sunlight: 50.4MW Bio: 96.9MW Land wind power: 164.4MW Normal Low-calorie Coal Normal Standard Coal Self Blending Fuel cells: 8.2MW Small hydro power: 8.0MW Strengthen capabilities. Ocean wind power: 11.4MW Bio: 59.5MW No. 1 in new & renewable energy in Korea by 2022 Sunlight: 13.95MW Land wind power: 13.8MW Fuel cells, small hydro power: 10.2MW 64 2012 Sustainability Report 65 Major Projects Wastes Energy Fuel Cell EWP is carrying forward 100㎿ Samcheok SRF Power Plant, the largest of its kind in Korea, which uses the The unused space in the precinct of Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant was used to construct eco-friendly solid recovery fuel (SRF) produced by recycling of buried and burned waste resources among the high-efficiency fuel cell facility step by step for an operation of 5.2㎿ facilities in total. The heat generated combustible wastes occurring in living and workplaces, a 22㎿ SRF power plant in a filled-in ground in the during the operation of the equipment is retrieved to be offered to the nearby consumers at cheap prices metropolitan area a 20㎿ SRF Combined Heat and Power Plant in Wonju. As a result, EWP creates a contributing to the efficient usage of energy. Especially, for the first time among power generation companies, EWP has secured an independent technology in fuel cell sector by transferring O&M composite synergy effect by fulfilling the compulsory amount of Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) and technology. Through this, the company is focusing in securing new growth engines with the development of increasing environmental convenience at the same time. fuel cell business both home and abroad and advancement into O&M business. Photovoltaic Power EWP has constructed and is operating high value added rooftop-style photovoltaic power generation facilities without environmental damage by using the existing buildings including the parking lot and roof of warehouse in Donghae Thermal Power Plant (1MW), the roof of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant’s turbine building (1MW), the roof of Dangjin City Waste Landfill Building (1.3MW), and the roof of the warehouse in the container berth in Gwangyang Harbor. As a result, EWP is contributing to the effective fulfillment of the compulsory amount of Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS). Especially, in the RPS business, EWP has successfully implemented 20MW photovoltaic power generation business at Renault Samsung Motors which is the largest capacity of its kind in Korea to develop new business, accumulate sufficient technology in the area of construction and operation, and lead the win-win growth in photovoltaic power generation industry by a joint development with a professional private photovoltaic power generation company. Grid Parity Construction of Wind Power Plants A point where the price of the electricity produced EWP is focusing on the development of on-shore wind power plants close to the grid parity. The 1st stage by new & renewable energy source becomes the Gyeongju Wind Power Plant (16.8MW) has been launched to construct an eco-friendly power plant, and the same as the price of the electricity produced by fossil energy construction of the 2nd stage Gyeongju Wind Power Plant (20MW), Gangneung Daegiri Wind Power Plant (24MW), Daeseongsan Wind Power Plant (34MW) and Jeongseon Imgye Wind Power Plant is being considered. In addition, the company is participating in the 3MW wind power plant R&D mission in the West Coast and the construction of 2.5GW off-shore wind power plant complex supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy to contribute to the technological development for land and ocean wind power industry in Korea. EWP is also fostering professional manpower for the development of wind power business to focus on technological independence and commercialization. Samcheok SRF Power Plant Bio Energy EWP is making continuous efforts to minimize the cost for the fulfillment of the compulsory amount of RPS. Development of Overseas New & Renewable Energy The company is constructing Donghae 30MW Biomass Power Plant, the largest capacity of its kind in EWP fulfills its social responsibilities and creates profits at the same time by continuously developing Wind Power in the Philippines Korea, by using waste woods which are simply buried and the residual materials in forest that are left in the overseas new & renewable energy areas such as wind power and small hydro power. A representative mountains due to the high cost of disposal. In addition, it is considering the construction of power plants to Capacity: 280MW be operated by co-firing of biomass in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant and Donghae Thermal Power Plant as business is the investment in the wind power plants in the Philippines, where EWP will construct 8 wind Share: 50% well as a 5MW bio gas turbine power generation facility in a filled-in ground in the metropolitan area using the power plant complexes (280MW) in areas including Philla in cooperation with Alternergy, a local Philippine Locations: 8 first and largest food garbage waste water in the world making continuous efforts to minimize the cost for company. The project is the first power plant business in the area of new & renewable energy propelled after Investment: the fulfillment of the compulsory amount of RPS. the enactment of the Law on New & Renewable Energy in the Philippines. The project is expected to USD 450million contribute greatly to the formation of a more friendly relationship between the governments of Korean and Ocean Energy such as Small Hydro and Tidal Power the Philippines through joint assistance. In addition, Salkit Wind Power Plant in Mongolia and Langogan EWP has actively promoted the R&D projects with domestic research institutes to improve the technological power of Korea in tidal power generation. A 1MW pilot tidal power plant has been constructed in Uldolmok Waters small hydro power project in the Philippines are also promoted by EWP to realize green energy in the global for the first time in Asia, and a large capacity tidal power plant (14.5MW) is being promoted on its basis. In addition, stage. a 5MW small hydro power generation facility has been completed by using the outlet which leads to the sea through a cooling system. A 3MW small hydro power generation facility is under construction for the 2nd stage, and the development of a 254MW tidal power plant is being propelled for the usage of ocean energy. 66 2012 Sustainability Report 67 Overseas Business ■ Projects for the Development of New & Renewable Energy Mid-term Plan for Overseas Business Classification Projects Date of (expected) Completion 1.0MW photovoltaic power generation in Donghae Thermal Power Plan★ Sep. 2006 1.0MW photovoltaic power generation in Dangjin Thermal Power Plant★ Sep. 2010 Global IPP Maturity Stage 0.1MW photovoltaic power generation in Honam Thermal Power Plant★ Jan. 2011 2014~2015 0.5MW photovoltaic power generation in Ulsan Thermal Power Plant★ Mar. 2011 Jumping Stage 1.3MW photovoltaic power generation in Dangjin Waste Landfil★ Feb. 2012 2012~2013 2.3MW photovoltaic power generation in the industrial complex in Gwangyang Harbor★ Dec. 2011 Photovoltaic Power Growth Stage 12.7MW photovoltaic power generation 1st stage in Renault Samsung Motors Jun. 2012 2009~2011 ·Leap towards a global 0.7MW photovoltaic power generation in the warehouse of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Sep. 2012 energy company. ·Maximize sales in operation 7.3MW photovoltaic power generation 2nd stage in Renault Samsung Motors Nov. 2012 business. ·Develop large-scale new businesses. (Greenfield) 1.0MW photovoltaic power generation in The Independence Hall of Korea Nov. 2012 Aimed equity capacity (2015): ·Expand receipt of O&M business in 2,000MW relation to investment projects. 1.3MW photovoltaic power generation in Suwon World Cup Stadium Nov. 2012 ·Acquisition of biomass and gas ·Expand resources development power plant assets in the US business. 1.0MW photovoltaic power generation in Ulsan Bangeojin Sewage Treatment Plant Nov. 2012 ·Acquisition of equity of Jamaica 16.8MW Gyeongju Wind Power Generation Aug. 2012 Public Service Aimed equity capacity (2012): ·Business diversification: Bidding 1,000MW 3MW West Coast Adaptation-type Wind Power Generation Oct. 2012 and (test) operation service 24MW Gangneung Daegiri Wind Power Generation May 2013 Equity capacity (2010): 220MW 20MW Gyeongju Cheonghak Wind Power Generation Aug. 2013 50MW Jeongseon Imgye Wind Power Generation Dec. 2013 Wind Power 40MW Pohang Seongbeomnyeong Wind Power Generation Investigating resources Overseas Power Business 20MW Yeongcheon Bohyeonsan Wind Power Generation Investigating resources Utilizing its professional technologies in the construction and operation of world-class power plants learned 20MW Pohang Janggigot Wind Power Generation Investigating resources through the execution of domestic power generation business, EWP is making efforts to participate in 20MW Taebaek Gadeuksan Wind Power Generation Investigating resources overseas private power generation business by advancing into the overseas market which is a new growth 20MW Yangsan Wonhyosan Wind Power Generation Investigating resources engine of the company. EWP expanded the domain of its overseas business in 2011 by creating profitable 20MW Yangsan Eomsubong Wind Power Generation Investigating resources and significant business results including the acquisition of Jamaica Public Service, the acquisition of a natural gas power plant in California, and the receipt of order for the construction of a coal thermal power 1MW Uldolmok pilot tidal power generation★ May 2009 plant in Indonesia. Ocean Energy 48MW Uldolmok tidal power plant facility In progress 254MW Asanman Tidal Power Plant Dec. 2019 ■ Overseas Power Generation Business in Operation 5MW Dangjin Small Hydro Power Plant 1st stage★ Dec. 2009 NO Project Name Capacity (MW) Type Business Partner Small Hydro Power 3MW Dangjin Small Hydro Power Plant 2nd stage Mar. 2014 1 Acquisition of equity of Jamaica Public Service (JPS) 636 M&A Marubeni, JPS 2.4MW Ilsan Fuel Cell Power Generation(1st)★ Sep. 2009 2 71 Operation of biomass and internal combustion power plant 2.8MW Ilsan Fuel Cell Power Generation(2nd)★ Mar. 2011 M&A EWP facility in the U.S. 3 94 Fuel Cell 2.5MW Ilsan Fuel Cell Power Generation(3rd) Nov. 2012 4 Haiti diesel power plant business 30 BOO E-POWER S.A. 2.5MW Ulsan Fuel Cell Power Generation Nov. 2012 5 Philippine wind power plant business 206 BOO AVPC 1.0MW Daesan Industrial Complex Fuel Cell Power Generation (demonstration) Dec. 2012 6 O&M of CFBC in Cebu, Philippines 200 O&M KSPC 30MW Donghae Woody Biomass Mar. 2013 Bio Energy 7 Guam Cabras #3,4 diesel power plant PMC business 80 O&M GPA 5MW Incheon Bio Gas Turbine Power Generation May 2013 8 Equity investment in Cockatoo, Australia Equity Investment SK, POSCO, etc. 100MW Samcheok SRF Power Generation In progress 9 Operation service for Ambatovy CFBC power plant in Madagascar 135 Test Operation KEPCO KPS Wastes 20MW Wonju SRF Power Generation In progress 10 Test operation service for Campiche Coal Thermal Power Plant in Chile 240 Test Operation POSCO Constructio 22MW Metropolitan Area RDF Power Generation In progress * BOO: Build-Own-Operate ★ in Operation * O&M: Operations & Maintenance 68 2012 Sustainability Report 69 Continuous R&D Overseas Resources Development EWP strengthens the competitiveness of its technologies in the world and fosters core competence of the To keep the leadership in the fierce competition for securing resources, EWP is promoting resources future through continuous R&D. By converting its paradigm of R&D into the type of active discovery of development businesses in connection with overseas businesses by reviewing various investment methods missions, EWP is leading technological management and promoting value-creating 4th generation R&D to jointly with professional resources development companies and the companies concerned with mine create future growth engines and secure the technological capabilities for global green growth. Moreover, development including strategic alliance, equity investment and direct development. As a result, EWP EWP was certified by the government in 2008 as an ‘organization exclusive for R&D’ for its leadership in R&D successfully acquired the equity of Cockatoo Coal Ltd., a professional mine development company in in the power generation industry. Australia, jointly with KEPCO in Dec. 2007, and the shares increased to 6.3% in 2009. This gave EWP the right of prior purchase for yearly 2 million tons of bituminous coal and 500 thousand tons of anthracite coal R&D Status The 1st R&D Competition for power generation from Cockatoo. At the same time, EWP secured the right to collect an average of 0.5% To perform ‘Practical R&D’ through the in-house R&D competition and public national invitation of R&D commission for the coals for power generation imported by Korea. In addition, EWP secured additional 2 missions, EWP established the ‘Plan for Zero Breakdown of the Power Plant’ to prevent unplanned loss by million tons yearly of bituminous coal by acquiring 20% of the equity of GAM Coal Mine in Indonesia. solving pending problems in each area, and promoted domestic development of core parts through the Especially for this project, risks were reduced by possessing the right of repurchase in case it had no analysis of overseas purchase. In addition the company has professionalized its R&D manpower and established a global network through the exchange programs with domestic research institutes and the profitability considering the characteristics of the project which was in development stage. EWP will push Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) in the U.S. The ‘R&D External Experts Pool’ composed of domestic ahead with resources development businesses to be able to supply the fuel for power generation in a stable research institutes and professors is being operated to improve the quality of R&D and exchange manner and cope with the fluctuation of fuel costs. information, and the 33 members of the Tech Solution Center are working hard to enhance the synergy in ■ Achievements in 2011 technological development. On such a basis, EWP developed Plant Operations and Maintenance Management system (POMMS), the world’s first comprehensive power plant operation and maintenance Acquisition of equity of Acquisition and operation of Acquisition of equity of Jamaica 360MW IPP development working system, and is actively coping with RPS and environmental regulations by preoccupying the Kalimantan GAM Coal Mine in CPH gas power plant in Public Service (JPS) project in Jamaica Eastern Indonesia California, U.S. technologies for the usage of low-quality fuels and making R&D activities in the area of new & renewable ·Acquired 20% of GAM's share. ·94MW ·636MW (power generation, ·360MW ·The developed quantity is to be ·100% / 94MW power transmission, power ·40% / 144MW energy for low-carbon green growth through the performance of an ‘R&D with Vision’. imported into Korea. ·11.5 billion won distribution) ·141.4 billion won High-calorie coal (4,757kcal/kg): 100 ·40% / 254.4MW million ton ·507.5 billion won Low-calorie coal (3,465kcal/kg): 500 ■ R&D Investment Status million ton Classification 2009 2010 2011 2012 R&D Investment 22.5 billion won 23.9 billion won 25.2 billion won 28 billion won R&D Achievements Korea EWP has actively invested in the R&D for not only commercialization but also securing original technology. A California total of 309 research projects have been conducted to save 70.4 billion won in maintenance and purchasing Jamaica costs, and the amount of profit is expected to increase in the future. Legend Such expansion in the systematic and continuous investment in R&D was recognize by the awarding of the Facility capacity Shares/Share ‘Korea Technological Innovation Management Grand Prize’ and the award from the Korean government for capacity Annual sales the company’s contribution to the development of power generation industry through the successful ‘domestic production of the main controlling facilities for combined heat and power plant for the first time in Korea. Besides, EWP has secured a total of 151 industrial property rights including the ‘method to provide Indonesia trouble diagnosis and preventive maintenance for generator controlling system’, and 31 cases among them have been transferred to the companies which need them to contribute to the creation of added value in Chile Bidding in Kalimantan Kalsel-1 Expanded test operation addition to achieving co-prosperity with SMEs. business in Chile. IPP in Southern Indonesia (Santa Maria, Campiche, etc.) ·00MW ·350MW / 242MW ■ Status of Industrial Property Rights of EWP ·35% / 70MW ·Test operation service ·41.4 billion won ·5.4 billion won Classification Patent Utility Model International Patent Trademark Service Mark Total Numbers 105 23 1 13 9 151 70 2012 Sustainability Report 71 Financial Performance EWP is making many efforts to achieve its vision of becoming a ‘Global Top 10 Energy Company’. EWP will 임금 및 복리후생비 secure competitive edge through innovation of business structure, create new growth engines through 2011년 급여·퇴직급여·복리후생비 등 임직원에게 지출한 인건비는 총 1,869억원입니다. 이 가운데 급여 business diversification, and support the execution of strategies with an advanced management system. 는 1,434억원으로 전년 대비 6억원 감소하였으며, 퇴직급여는 전년에 비해 4억원이 감소하였습니다. 한 편, 복리후생비는 전년대비 23억원 증가한 249억원입니다. Management Index 단위 : 억원 EWP’s sales volume of electricity in 2011 was 51.1 billion kWh, which was 0.2% decrease from the volume of 구분 2009년 2010년 2011년 the previous year of 52.2 billion kWh. The total sales recorded 4,813 billion won which was an increase by 급여 1,362 1,440 1,434 8.2% compared to the previous year due to the rise in unit price of sale in the first half. However, despite the 퇴직급여 96 190 186 continuous efforts for innovative improvement in management such as the reduction of maintenance periods 복리후생비 187 226 249 and the curtailment in fuel purchasing costs, the operating profit recorded 195.6 billion won which was a 합계 1,645 1,856 1,869 decrease by 122 billion won from the previous year. 주주환원 Classification 2009 2010 2011 2011 회계연도 성과에 대해서 2012년 3월 정기주주총회 결의로 694억원의 배당금을 지급하였습니다. Sales (100 million won) 39,232 44,473 48,130 Operating Profit (100 million won) 2,678 3,185 1,956 단위 : 억원 Net Profit (100 million won) 1,705 2,416 992 구분 2009년 2010년 2011년 Assets (100 million won) 44,822 45,192 56,865 현금배당 512 725 694 Debts (100 million won) 19,226 17,695 22,947 Capital (100 million won) 25,596 27,497 33,918 세금 Debt Ratio (%) 75.1 64.4 67.7 2011년 납부세액은 없으며 전년에 비해 결산서상 당기순이익이 발생하였으나 그동안 세법상 비용으로 인 Dividends (100 million won) 512 725 694 정받지 못하던 퇴직급여 한도과액 등이 일시에 비용으로 인정되는 바람에 납부할 법인세가 없습니다. Dividends per Share (won) 832 1,281 1,226 단위 : 억원 구분 2009년 2010년 2011년 ■ 경제적 성과배분 Distribution of Economic Value (단위 : 억원) 법인세 106 528 0 The profits created by continuous and stable supply of high-quality electricity are distributed in various types 40,434 지방세 66 55 29 to the stakeholders including employees, business partners, creditors, shareholder, local community and the 합계 172 583 29 government. 사회공헌 지출 Investment in Facilities 2011년 사회공헌 지출금액은 80억원이며, 이 중 약 75억원은 발전소 주변지역 지원에 관한 법률에 따라 1,869 The total amount paid to business partners in 2011 was 4,045 billion won which was spent for purchase of 발전소 지역 지자체와 각 발전소에서 지역경제 활성화를 위해 사용하였습니다. 그리고 임직원이 모금한 fuel, maintenance, etc. The materials necessary for the improvement in the maintenance of power generation facilities as well as fuels of coal, heavy oil, LNG, etc. were purchased. 사회공헌기금과 매칭그랜트를 통해 약 5억원이 사회공헌 활동비용으로 지출되었습니다. 694 단위 : 백만원 단위 : 억원 577 구분 2009년 2010년 2011년 구분 2009년 2010년 2011년 80 0 소득증대사업 1,488 4,027 2,786 설비투자 30,434 34,955 40,450 정부 지역사회 채권자 주주 임직원 협력사 공공시설사업 6,714 1,415 1,518 사회복지사업 1,497 1,161 961 육영사업 2,689 2,950 2,241 기타 800 533 515 합계 13,188 10,086 8,021 73 Appendix 제3자 검토의견 우선 동서발전의 지속가능성보고서 발간을 진심으로 축하합니다. 저는 본 보고서가 GRI G3.1 보고서 적 용기준을 준수하고 있는지, 지속가능경영의 핵심이슈인 경제성과, 환경성과, 사회성과가 충실하고 짜임 새 있게 잘 표현 되어 있는지, 핵심 이해관계자와 핵심이슈가 가감 없이 잘 분석되고 정리 되었는지를 중 심으로 검토 했습니다. 이번에 발간하는 보고서를 보면서 지속가능경영에 대한 동서발전의 열정과 노력 을 충분히 느낄 수 있었습니다. 경제성과에 있어서는 매출액 기준 지속적인 성장을 일궈낸 실적과 이를 달성하기 위해 추진해 온 혁 신 활동들이 잘 정리되어 있어 인상적입니다. 탄탄한 경영실적과 함께 제시한 태양광발전, 풍력발전으로 의 진출 등 녹색성장 동력 확보에 대한 내용도 눈에 띄는 부분입니다. 특히 동서발전이 추구하는 Global Top 10 에너지 회사 비전을 달성하기 위한 추진 로드맵을 수립하고 이를 뒷받침 할 수 있도록 기술경쟁 력 확보 방안에 필수적인 R&D 투자 계획이 경영전략에 잘 반영되어 있습니다. 이는 목표달성을 위한 경 영진의 굳은 의지를 표출한 것으로 여겨집니다. 환경성과 분야에서는 온실가스나 환경오염에 취약한 발전 산업의 특성을 극복하고자 하는 노력을 넘어 발전분야의 새로운 표준모델을 제시하고 있습니다. 우선 발전기업으로서 기후변화에 적극 대응하고 차 원 높은 녹색경영을 실천함은 당연한 일이겠지만, CEO부터 임직원 모두가 참여하는 녹색경영체계를 구 축하고, 높은 수준의 녹색경영시스템 운영을 통해 실행과제를 체계적으로 추진하고 있는 모습이 돋보입 니다. 금년도에 기후변화경쟁력 우수기업으로 선정된 것에서 알 수 있듯이 녹색투자, 발전효율향상 및 신재생에너지 비중 확대 등으로 이어지는 그 동안의 온실가스 감축 노력이 경영성과와 연계되어 대외적 으로 서서히 인정 받고 있는 것으로 여겨집니다. 또한 전기를 생산하는 과정에서 화석 연료 사용에 따라 필수불가결하게 발생되는 환경오염물질 발생을 최소화 하기 위해 저감설비 및 환경감시시스템을 운영하 는 것도 긍정적으로 보여집니다. 사회성과 분야에서는 협력업체와 파트너십경영을 통해 동반성장 협력 모델을 만들어 나가는 모습이 좋 아 보입니다. 특히 전담조직인 동반성장 센터를 운영하여 협력업체 핵심기술 연구개발지원, 국내외 판로 개척 및 구매 확대 지원을 통해 동반성장을 실천하는 것은 매우 바람직한 접근 입니다. 또한 동반성장 협의체와 중소기업협의회를 구성하여 상생과 나눔을 위한 지역사회 후원활동, 취약계층 자립지원 등을 비롯한 사회공헌 활동을 함께하고 있다는 점도 특기할 사항입니다. 이러한 노력은 이해관계자들에게 발 전사업의 공감대를 확산시켜 중장기적으로 회사의 발전에 기여가 될 것입니다. 주요 이슈분석은 이해관계자를 고려하여 체계적으로 정리 된 것으로 보입니다. 더 나아가 소통을 위한 다양한 활동을 지속적으로 수행하여 이해관계자들로부터 진정성을 인정 받고, 각계각층의 다양한 관점 을 회사의 전략과 연계하여 동서발전의 지속가능경영이 더 공고해지기를 기대합니다. 전기가 어둠에 불 을 밝히듯이 우리사회에는 따뜻하고 믿음직한 회사, 고객에게는 사랑 받는 회사가 되기를 바랍니다. 최광림 대한상공회의소 지속가능경영원 실장 | 공학박사 74 2012 Sustainability Report 75 GRI Index 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 1.1 CEO의 지속가능관련 선언문 3 4.13 산업, 국가, 국제기구 가입현황 75 전략 및 분석 1.2 주요영향, 위험요인 및 기회 16 4.14 참여 이해관계자 그룹 목록 16 지배구조, 2.1 조직 명칭 4 4.15 참여 이해관계자를 식별, 선택하는 근거 16 책임, 참여 2.2 대표브랜드, 제품 및 서비스 4 4.16 참여유형, 이해관계자 참여방식 16 2.3 조직 구조 4 4.17 이해관계자 핵심주제와 관심사 및 대처 17 2.4 본사 위치 4 EC1 직접적 경제 가치 창출 및 배분 70, 71 2.5 주요 발전소가 위치한 국가 7 EC2 기후변화에 따른 활동의 재무적 시사점, 이외 기회와 위험 47, 48 조직 프로필 2.6 소유 구조와 법적 형태 8 EC3 연금 지원 범위 28 2.7 대상 시장 4 EC4 정부보조금 수혜 실적 해당사항없음 2.8 기업 규모 5 경제성과 EC5 법정 최저임금 대비 신입사원 임금 비율 2.9 조직구조, 소유구조의 변화 4,8 EC6 현지 구매정책, 관행, 현지구매 비율 2.10 수상 내역 75 EC7 현지 채용절차와 현지인 경영진 비율 67, 68 3.1 보고 기간 1 EC8 공익을 우선한 인프라 투자 및 고위관리자 37, 38, 39 3.2 최근 보고 일자 1 EC9 간접적인 경제적 파급효과 36 3.3 보고 주기 1 EN1 원료 사용량 53 3.4 보고서와 관련 내용에 대한 문의처 1 EN2 재생 원료 사용 비율 56 3.5 보고 내용 결정 프로세스 EN3 1차 에너지원별 직접 에너지 소비량 53 3.6 보고 경계 1 EN4 1차 에너지원별 간접 에너지 소비량 57 보고매개변수 3.7 보고 범위와 경계의 제한 1 EN5 절약 및 효율성 개선으로 절감한 에너지량 50 3.8 합작 및 자회사등에 대한 보고기준 해당사항없음 EN6 에너지 사용절감 노력과 절감량 56 3.9 성과지표등 데이터 측정 기준 1 EN7 간접 에너지 절약 56 3.10 이전 보고서에 제공한 정보의 재조정 해당사항없음 EN8 공급원별 총 취수량 57 3.11 보고서 범위 및 경계 상의 변화 1 EN9 취수로부터 큰 영향을 받는 용수 공급원 57 3.12 GRI Content Index 76 EN10 재사용 및 재활용된 용수 총량 및 비율 57 3.13 보고서의 검증과 관련된 사항 73 EN11 보호구역 및 생물다양성 가치가 높은 토지 해당사항없음 4.1 기업 지배구조 8 환경성과 EN12 사업활동으로 생물 다양성에 미치는 영향 57 4.2 이사회 의장과 CEO겸임 여부 9 EN13 보호 또는 복원된 서식지 해당사항없음 4.3 이사회 구성 9 EN14 생물 다양성 관리 전략, 현행 조치 및 향후 계획 57 4.4 주주와 종업원이 이사회에 조언하는 메커니즘 9 EN15 멸종위기종의 수 및 멸종 위험도 해당사항없음 4.5 기업 성과와 이사, 경영진에 대한 보상 간 연계 9 EN16 직간접 온실가스 총 배출량 49 지배구조, 4.6 이사회 내의 충돌방지를 위한 프로세스 10 EN17 기타 간접 온실가스 배출량 49 책임, 참여 4.7 이사회 구성원 자격, 전문성 기준 결정 방법 9 EN18 온실가스 배출량 저감 성과 50 4.8 내부 미션, 핵심가치, 행동강령 및 원칙 11 EN19 오존층 파괴물질 배출량 49 4.9 이사회의 지속가능경영 관리 절차 10 EN20 NOx, SOx 및 기타 주요 대기 오염물질 배출량 53 4.10 이사회의 경제, 환경, 사회성과 평가방법 9 EN21 폐수 배출 총량 및 수질(배출지별 구분) 57 4.11 사전 예방 원칙과 접근방법 채택 및 방식 10 EN22 폐기물 배출 총량(형태 및 처리방법 구분) 56 4.12 가입하거나 지지하고 있는 외부 이니셔티브 75 EN23 중대한 유출사고 건수 및 유출량 54 76 2012 Sustainability Report 77 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 지표 지표내용 페이지 비고 EN24 바젤협약부속서에 규정된 폐기물량 및 해외반출 비율 55 PR1 제품의 건강안전 영향을 개선하는 절차 및 이에 따르는 주요 제품 비율 53 EN25 폐수 배출수역 및 관련서식지의 명칭, 규모, 보호상태 및 생물다양성 가치 56 PR2 고객의 건강과 안전영향관련 규제 및 자발적 규칙위반 건수 해당사항없음 EN26 제품 및 서비스의 환경영향 저감 활동과 성과 53 PR3 절차상 필요한 제품 정보 유형 및 이에 따르는 제품 비율 해당사항없음 환경성과 EN27 판매된 제품 및 관련 포장재의 재생 비율 해당사항없음 PR4 제품/서비스 정보 및 라벨링과 관련된 규제 및 자발적 규칙 위반건수 해당사항없음 사회성과 EN28 환경 법규위반사례 54 PR5 고객 만족도 평가 설문 결과 등 고객 만족 관련 활동 21, 22 (제품) EN29 제품 및 원자재 운송과 임직원 이동의 환경 영향 PR6 마케팅 커뮤니케이션 관련 법률, 표준, 자발적 강령을 준수하기 위한 프로그램 22 EN30 환경 보호 지출 및 투자 총액 51 PR7 광고, 판촉, 스폰서십 등 마케팅 커뮤니케이션과 관련된 규제,표준 및 규칙위반건수 36 LA1 인력 현황 23 PR8 고객개인정보보호 위반 및 고객 데이터 분실과 관련하여 제기된 불만건수 해당사항없음 LA2 총 이직수, 이직률 23 PR9 제품 및 서비스 공급에 관한 법률 및 규제위반으로 부과된 벌금 액수 해당사항없음 LA3 상근직 직원에게만 제공하는 혜택 27 EU1 전원별 설비용량 5 LA4 단체협약의 적용을 받는 종업원 비율 23 EU2 전원별 발전량 4 LA5 운영상 변화에 대한 최소 사전 공지기간 9 EU3 전압별 송배전선 길이 해당사항없음 LA6 정규 노사공동 보건 안전 위원회 31 EU4 일반가정, 산업, 상업, 기관 고객 분류 및 개체수 해당사항없음 사회성과 LA7 부상, 직업병, 상실일, 결근 발생률 및 업무 관련 사망자 수 31 EU5 배출량 거래시스템 하 배출권 할당분 해당사항없음 (노동) LA8 종업원, 가족, 지역사회 주민의 질병 관리 프로그램 31 EU6 단기, 중기 전력가용성 및 신뢰성 보장 계획 60, 61 LA9 노동조합과의 정식 협약 대상인 보건 및 안전사항 31 EU7 전력 수요관리 프로그램 실시 여부 및 현황 해당사항없음 LA10 연간 인당 평균 교육시간 26 EU8 안정적인 전력공급 및 지속가능발전을 위한 R&D지출 금액 및 활동현황 69 LA11 지속고용과 퇴직 지원 교육 및 평생학습 26 EU9 원자력 발전소 조업 중지 규정 해당사항없음 LA12 정기 성과평가 및 경력 개발 심사 대상 직원의 비율 8,9 EU10 장기 전력수요 예측량에 따른 전원별 설비 확충 계획 6 LA13 이사회 구성 및 종업원 다양성 9 EU11 전원별 화력발전 효율성 49 LA14 여성 대비 남성 종업원의 기본급 비율 24 EU12 전체 에너지 대비 송배전 손실률 해당사항없음 HR1 인권 조항을 포함하거나 이를 고려한 주요 투자협약의 수와 비율 74 EU13 생물 다양성 보호활동 지역의 생태 현황 57 HR2 주요 협력회사, 계약자 중 인권 심사를 해온 비율 및 관련 조치 EU14 전문인력 확보를 위한 인사관리 프로세스 및 프로그램 23 HR3 업무와 관련한 인권 정책 및 절차에 대한 직원 교육 이수 39 전력산업 EU15 직군별, 지역별 5~10년이내 퇴직이 예정된 임직원 비율 추가지표 HR4 차별 발생 횟수 및 관련 조치 24 (EUSS) EU16 임직원 및 하청업체 직원의 보건안전 보장을 위한 정책 및 지침 31 사회성과 HR5 결사의 자유, 단체교섭권이 심각히 침해되고 있는 발전소 및 관련 조치 30 EU17 발전소 건설 및 정비운영 하청인력의 근로시간 (인권) HR6 아동노동 발생 위험이 높은 발전소 및 관련 조치 74 EU18 보건안전 교육을 받은 하청업체 직원 비율 31 HR7 강제노동 발생 위험이 높은 발전소 및 관련 조치 74 EU19 이해관계자의 에너지 수급계획과 발전 인프라 건설 관련 의사결정과정 참여현황 16 HR8 업무와 관련한 인권 정책 및 절차 교육을 이수한 보안담당자 비율 EU20 이주민 관련 정책 및 경영방침 40 HR9 원주민 권리 침해 건수 및 관련 조치 해당사항없음 EU21 재난, 방재대책/위기대응, 긴급복구 관련 교육등 프로그램 54 SO1 지역사회에서 사업 운영의 영향을 평가, 관리하는 프로그램 37 EU22 프로젝트별 발생한 이주민수 해당사항없음 SO2 부패 관련 위험이 있는 사업부수 및 비율 20 EU23 전력보급률 개선을 위한 프로그램(정부공조포함) 해당사항없음 SO3 회사의 반부패 정책과 절차를 교육받는 종업원 비율 21 EU24 전력수요 소외계층에 대한 전력공급지원 프로그램 해당사항없음 사회성과 SO4 부패 발생에 대응하기 위해 취한 조치 21 EU25 법적제재를 받았거나, 법정 소송중인 일반사망 혹은 재해사고수 해당사항없음 (사회) SO5 공공 정책에 대한 입상, 공공 정책 및 로비 참여 30 EU26 송배전망이 없는 지역에 살고 있는 인구수 해당사항없음 SO6 정당, 정치인 및 관련 기관에 대한 국가별 현금/현물 기부총액 37 EU27 전기료 체불로 인한 전력공급중단 가구수 해당사항없음 SO7 부당 경쟁 행위 및 독점 행위에 대한 법적 조치 건수 및 그결과 해당사항없음 EU28 발전소 정지 빈도 61 SO8 법과 규제 위반에 따른 벌금 액수 및 비금전적 제재 건수 해당사항없음 EU29 평균 발전정지 기간 61 EU30 발전원별 발전소 평균 가동률 6 78 2012 Sustainability Report 79 UN 글로벌콤팩트 10대원칙 이행사항 주요 수상실적 및 협회 가입현황 한국동서발전은 투명경영과 기업의 사회적 책임을 다하는 기업으로 도약하기 위하여 2006년 8월 UN Global 2011 주요 수상실적 Compact에 가입하였으며, UN Global Compact가 지향하는 인권, 노동, 환경, 부패의 4대 분야 10대 원칙을 수상내역 수여기관 수상월 비고 준수하고 있습니다. 여성지위 향상유공 여성가족부 7 아이낳기 좋은세상 경진대회 보건복지부 8 구분 원칙 관련규정 및 준수내용 Unit of the Year 괌전력청 8 단체협약서 UN 글로벌컴팩트 친환경부문 대상 UNGC 11 윤리헌장 기업은 국제적으로 공표된 인권의 보호를 지지하고 존중한다 동반성장분야 유공기업 지식경제부 11 윤리강령 제19조, 제21조 행동강령 제27조 인권 기업이념 협회 및 단체 가입현황 기업은 인권 침해에 가담하지 않는다. 단체협약서 행동강령 제27조 가입단체 가입근거 및 목적 (사)한국감사협회 최신 감사기법 등 습득 및 정보교류 기업은 실질적인 결사의 자유 및 단체교섭권을 인정한다. 단체협약서 윤경포럼 사내 윤리문화 정착 및 투명경영체제 확립 단체협약서 기업은 모든 형태의 강제 노동을 철폐한다. 제안활동협회 사내 제안ㆍ소집단 활동 활성화를 위한 정보획득 윤리강령 제22조 EEI(Edison Electric Institute) 美전력산업 정보입수 및 협력관계 구축 등 기업은 아동 노동을 효과적으로 철폐한다. 단체협약서 노동 UN Global Compact 글로벌 기업으로서의 위상 제고 단체협약서 한국플랜트협회 사업개발 관련 정보 획득 및 참여 기회 모색 윤리헌장 한국국제협력단 사업개발 참여 기회 모색 기업은 고용과 업무에서 차별을 철폐한다. 윤리강령 10조, 20조 행동강령 제7조 한국경영자총협회 입법,행정부 등 최신 노동 동향 적기입수 한국무역협회 무역업무관련 자료 및 정보협조 한국전력거래소 전력거래 관련 업무협의 환경비전 환경방침 대한기계학회 학술대회, 강연회를 통한 기계관련 산업의 국내외 동향 파악 기업은 환경문제에 대한 예방적 접근을 지지한다. ISO 14000인증 대한전기학회 관련산업계 첨단 학술 및 기술정보교류 윤리헌장 윤리강령 제26조 한국에너지재단 기업의 사회적 책임 이행 및 에너지 복지프로그램 효과적시행, 한국표준협회 선진화된 품질경영기법 도입 및 사내 품질경영 마인드 확산 환경 환경방침 대한전기협회 발전설비의 신뢰성확보를 위한 기술적 제도적 사항 규정 기업은 더 큰 환경 책임강화에 솔선하여야 한다 윤리헌장 한국신재생에너지 협회 신재생에너지 분야의 정보교류 환경비전 한국풍력발전 산업협의회 기업간의 정보교류 및 홍보 및 협력사업공동추진 기업은 환경친화적인 기술의 개발과 보급을 지원하여야 한다. 환경방침 전력원가협회(EUCG) 해외전력정보 입수 윤리헌장 한국프로젝트 경영협회 프로젝트 수행능력 제고 윤리강령 제6조, 제8조 지속가능경영원 기업의 지속가능한 발전 도모 반부패 기업은 금품 강요 및 뇌물수수 등을 포함하는 모든 형태의 부패에 반대한다. 행동강령 제3장 한국 CCS 협회 이산화탄소 포집 및 저장기술 활성화 80 2012 Sustainability Report 독자의견 설문지 한국동서발전은 본 보고서를 통해 지속가능경영활동에 대해 최대한 공개하고자 하였습니다. 보고서 내용의 충실도와 완성도를 높이기 위해 여러분의 소중한 의견을 듣고자 합니다. 작성해 주신 내용은 향후 발간될 보고서에 성실히 반영하도록 하겠습니다. 1. 귀하의 직업은 무엇입니까? ① 투자자/주주 ② 협력업체 ③ 지역주민 ④ NGO ⑤ 전력그룹사 임직원 ⑥ 학계 ⑦ 정부 관계자 ⑧ 한국동서발전 임직원 ⑨ 기타( ) 2. 본 보고서 전반에 대한 평가  좋다  보통이다  나쁘다 3. 본 보고서에 대한 이해 정도  쉽다  적당하다  어렵다 4. 본 보고서에 포함된 정보의 양  많다  적당하다  적다 5. 본 보고서에서 가장 흥미 있게 읽은 부분은 어느 부분입니까?  동서발전의 지속가능성  경제부문  환경부문  사회부문 6. 본 보고서에서 보완되어야 할 부분이 있다면 어느 부분입니까?  동서발전의 지속가능성  경제부문  환경부문  사회부문 7. 한국동서발전의 지속가능경영 보고서에 대한 기타 의견을 자유롭게 적어주십시오. 여러분의 협조에 감사드립니다. 의견은 Fax(02-3456-8519)나 전자메일(sustainability@ewp.co.kr)로 보내주시기 바랍니다.
