Sustainability Report 2011 CONTENTS 1 Outotec and sustainability 2 Outotec in brief 3 Highlights in 2011 4 Our approach 4 CEO’s message to stakeholders 6 Strategy 8 Materiality assessment 10 Management approach 13 Our way of working 13 Employees 19 R&D and innovation 21 Code of Conduct, values and principles 23 Governance and sustainability 25 Interaction with stakeholders 30 Commitment to external initiatives 33 Our impact 33 Metals and sustainability 36 Industry drivers 37 Risks and opportunities 41 Impact of our products and services 43 Ecological footprint of our operations 45 Economic impact 47 Impact of our supply chain 50 About the report 50 Report scope and proﬁle 50 Data collection 51 Key targets for 2012 54 Independent Assurance Report 56 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 60 Contact information Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Outotec and sustainability 1 Outotec and sustainability Our approach to sustainability is defined in our mission, strategy, values, corporate responsibility policy, and management system documents. ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’ is the mission we work to achieve and we intend to incorporate sustainability into all aspects of our operations, from our own business processes to the solutions we develop for our customers. Our strategic intent is to be the leading provider of sustainable minerals and metals processing solutions and to become an innovative provider of sustainable energy and water processing solutions. Because of the nature of our business, our most significant contribution to abating climate change is made through providing sustainable technology for our customers, enabling them to run environmentally sound, profitable and socially acceptable business. In that way, with our innovative solutions, we enable societies’ sustainable development. Outotec has existed as an independent company since 2006. We started sustainability reporting as of 2010 to improve our performance and transparency in all aspects of sustainability. This report describes the company’s performance in 2011 and is an update of the Sustainability Report 2010. The reporting complies with the accounting standards and the reporting guidelines issued by the voluntary Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 2 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Outotec and sustainability Outotec in brief Outotec’s most significant impact on sustainability occurs indirectly through Non-ferrous Solutions With a mission of ‘sustainable use of our customers’ operations. At present, • Providing technology solutions for the processing of copper, nickel, zinc, lead, gold, silver, Earth’s natural resources’, O­ utotec these organizations are confronted with and platinum group metals at all stages in the value chain from ore to metal. develops technologies and provides the dilemma created by the growing Ferrous Solutions sustainable life cycle solutions to its need for metals and the environmental • Providing technology solutions for the processing of iron ores and other ferriferous customers, guaranteeing the best impact of their production. As a result, materials in the entire value chain from ore to metal. return on the customer’s investment. customers are increasingly looking The common denominator in ­Outotec’s to improve their energy efficiency, as Energy, Light Metals and Environmental Solutions • Providing technology solutions for sulfuric acid production, off-gas handling, alumina technologies is their ability to maxiwell as to reduce CO2 and other emisrefining, roasting, calcination, biomass and other renewable energy, oil shale and mize recovery, minimize environmental sions and water consumption. ­Outotec oil sands processing, as well as for industrial water treatment. impacts, and conserve energy, natural believes that with modern technologies resources and capital investments. and life cycle solutions metals and Services • Providing life cycle services to Outotec’s customers in all business areas. The majority of Outotec’s customers materials can be produced sustainably. operate in the minerals and metals inOutotec, headquartered in Finland, dustries, and increasingly in the energy has global operations with sales and sector, chemical industry and industrial service centers in 24 countries and Summary of key figures 2011 2010 2009 water treatment. sales to over 80 countries. ­Outotec Sales, EUR million 1,385.6 969.6 877.7 Innovative research at Outotec’s Oyj is the parent company and there Reported operating profit, EUR million 111.9 41.6 58.6 in-house R&D facilities and continuous are over 50 legal entities in the group. development work in cooperation with Outotec has four business areas: NonResearch and development expenses, 33.5 28.5 20.5 EUR million customers has made the company a ferrous Solutions; Ferrous Solutions; leading developer of technology in the Energy, Light Metals and Environmental Priority applications, pcs 41 50 56 minerals processing and metallurgiSolutions; and Services. National patents granted, pcs 326 287 286 cal industry. The company has a strong Together with Eesti Energia, ­Outotec Average number of employees 3,516 3,151 2,612 market position across the entire value operates a joint venture company deWages and salaries, EUR million 284.4 224.4 159.5 chain from ore to metal and it intends veloping a cleaner and more efficient to strengthen its technology leaderproduction method for refining oil Total greenhouse gas emissions, thousand 26.0 24.3 18.1 tonnes of CO2-e ship also through acquisitions. In 2011, from oil shale. In addition, Outotec is ­Outotec acquired a phosphorus recyinvolved in developing energy-efﬁcient Greenhouse gas emissions avoided through 4,800 4,200 4,100 cling technology business from ASH and environmentally sound approaches the use of Outotec technologies, thousand DEC Umwelt, the Vertical Pressure for utilizing logging and sawing wastes tonnes of CO2-e* Filter (VPF) technology from Australthrough GreenExergy AB, a joint venTotal energy consumption, TJ 141.5 150.0 101.6 ian Process Technology, a renewable ture company established together energy technology business from Enwith Skellefteå Kraft. * Y ear 2011 figure is calculated with 5 Outotec technologies (2010 and 2009: 3 technologies), ergy Products of Idaho, and a furnace Outotec has been listed on the the actual GHG emissions avoided with all Outotec technologies is higher. shutdown service business from Kiln NASDAQ OMX Helsinki since October Services Australia. 2006. Read more about our financial performance in Outotec Financial Statements 2011. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Outotec and sustainability 3 Highlights in 2011 jan feb mar apr • Acquisition of the ASH • Technology Award DEC recycling technology granted to 25 employees. business. may jun jul aug • Arcelor Mittal selected • Outotec published • New Technology and • Agreement to support Outotec as the Number its first sustainability Plant Safety management the Ministry of Mineral One Contractor for Safety report based on the GRI process became Resources and Energy Performance in Canada. guidelines. mandatory in all Outotec of Mongolia in developing entities. sustainable mining and • Outotec agreed with metallurgical processing. International SOS on • Outotec received Top the provision of medical Partner award from and security services Boliden Harjavalta, for Outotec employees Finland, for solid globally during business performance in safety, trips. environmental protection, cost efficiency and quality. sep oct nov dec • O'People employee • Outotec received jury's • Acquisition of the survey was carried out. honorary mention in renewable energy evaluation of corporate technology business • Outotec was included responsibility reports of from Energy Products in the Nordic Carbon Finnish companies. of Idaho in USA. Disclosure Leadership Index and ranked among • Outotec's Capital • New partial roasting the top 10% of the 260 Markets Day 2011 was process to purify companies in the CDP's held in London. contaminated copper annual Nordic Report. and gold concentrates • Outotec and PE was launched and a pilot • Outotec was ranked 8th International started plant established at the best company in a survey joint development of a company's research evaluating the reputation new software interface center in Germany. of 100 listed companies for metals production in Finland in 2011. sustainability and life cycle evaluations. 4 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach “With eco-efficient solutions, Our approach it is possible to reduce the environmental impact of the industry, at the same time increasing welfare.” CEO’s message to stakeholders I am pleased to be able to say in this ed in hiring a large number of new proMaking the most of our potentially time increasing welfare. Of the megsecond Outotec Sustainability Report fessionals to the company to increase global impact atrends facing the mining and metals that in 2011 we progressed well in our capacity in line with the business Outotec’s most significant impact on sector, we consider sustainability the many areas of our sustainability agenda growth and to strengthen our market sustainability occurs indirectly through most important, and we see evidence which we defined in 2010. This report area presence. We complemented our customers’ operations. ‘Sustainable of this not only in mature markets but gives you the details of our progress, our technology portfolio by acquiring use of Earth’s natural resources’ is the also in those in the developing stages. and I hope that its contents and the four entities, the most significant of mission we’ve worked toward achievIn the world of exhausting natural targets we have set for ourselves will which was Energy Products of Idaho, ing, in cooperation with our customers. resources and a new energy paradigm demonstrate to you our commitment a renewable energy technology busiAt present, our customers are inwhere oil is expected to run out by 2050 to sustainability and corporate responness located in Idaho, USA. The significreasingly confronted with the dilemma and nuclear power is being abandoned sibility. cant efforts of our employees in stratthat exists between the growing need by many countries, there is an increasContinued economic growth in egy execution, supported by our new for metals and the environmental iming demand for more advanced, energythe emerging markets, coupled with operational model, delivered strong pact of producing them. We believe that efficient technologies and recycling growing sustainability requirements, growth. Despite major investments in this dilemma can be addressed. In fact, solutions. encouraged our customers to invest in developing our business and operations its solution is a vital part of our strategy We address these challenges by pronew technologies, capacity, and serin 2011, our profitability continued to – we see it as our role in the industrial viding our customers with sustainable vices. In most of our technology areas, develop solidly towards our long-term ecosystem. With eco-efficient solutions, technologies to maximize the recovery the workload was high due to intensive targets. it is possible to reduce the environmenof valuables and minerals whilst consales and delivery activity. We succeedtal impact of the industry, at the same suming less energy and fewer natural © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach 5 “Around 87% of our order intake for 2011 was categorized as Environmental Goods and Services under the OECD classification.” resources at reduced operational cost. To support our commitment to the Our technologies – whether relating to United Nations Global Compact initiaminerals and metals processing or wative and the principles on human rights, ter, energy, and biomass – reduce the the environment, labor, and anti-corenvironmental effects of a number of ruption, we started a dialogue with our industrial operations worldwide, hence employees and management about the our strong commitment to making the values and business ethics. This work most of our potentially global impact. will continue in 2012 with defining our In fact, as much as 87 percent of our and succeeded well in putting in place in terms of ethical conduct and social Code of Conduct and training the whole order intake in 2011 was categorized policies and processes to improve responsibility. organization in this regard. We will conas Environmental Goods and Services our performance, data collection, and Although we made progress in tinue to lend our support to the United by OECD definition. This is a notable measurement systems. One of these certain areas, for example by installNations Global Compact and other such increase from the previous year’s initiatives was harmonizing our enviing new video conferencing facilities, causes, pushing for good use of the 72 percent. ronmental and quality management we were not able to reduce our greenEarth’s resources for generations to systems in order to create an intehouse gas emissions below the 2010 come. Improving our own performance and grated system for Quality, Environmenlevels, partly due to our strong busireporting systems tal Health and Safety management. In ness growth, which required frequent In line with our commitment to susaddition, we launched a global Supply air traveling to the project sites and Pertti Korhonen tainability, we continued our efforts Policy and defined our supplier criteria customer meetings. President & CEO, Outotec 6 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach Strategy “We strive to become the Outotec’s most significant impacts undisputed global leader on the environment occur indirectly in sustainable minerals through our customers’ operations. and metals processing Our strategy for 2012–2015 builds on providing sustainable life cycle solusolutions and to firmly tions which fully utilize Outotec’s establish our presence technology and service expertise and guarantee performance and lifelong in the energy and water benefits to our customers. These businesses.” benefits include a license to operate, reduced energy and water consumption, high recovery, and minimum increasingly scarce resource and its emissions. In addition to strengthening efficient use, along with the recycling our technology portfolio for the entire and purification processes, is a goal of value chain – from ore to metals – steadily mounting importance. through own research and development Energy and industrial water treatas well as by acquisitions, our stratment are just two examples of adjaegy focuses on expansion to adjacent cent areas which require efficient and industries such as the energy industry environmentally sound use of scarce and industrial water treatment. We also raw materials. These industries show aim at strengthening further our pressignificant growth opportunities for ence in emerging markets and improvOutotec while offering high synergy ing our productivity and scalability. potential and manageable risks. This strategy provides the direction for In addition to the pressure to imOutotec’s sustainability work. prove production efficiency from an In the area of mineral and metal proenvironmental sustainability perspeccessing, Outotec has been an industry tive, the financial impact of sustainabilleader, developing innovative technoloity in the metals and minerals industry gies for nearly a century. This expertise is also of growing relevance. Goldman has since been successfully applied to Sachs estimates that, assuming a many other industries. We continue to working emissions trading scheme is in seek actively new applications for our place with carbon pricing at USD 60/ton technologies. Rising energy costs and of CO2, 15 percent of the total cash flow stringent legislation have guided users of global companies will be transferred to seek out energy efficient solutions from companies with high emissions for many years. In addition, water is an to those with low emissions. This trend © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach 7 will be seen specifically in carbon can be reduced with this technology, Outotec has worked intensive industries, such as those of which lowers the environmental burden. on over 2,000 projects Outotec’s customers. While this poses Outotec also carries out environa significant threat to these customers, mental due diligence if there is a risk of worldwide. The majority it also provides immense possibilities potential environmental issues in relaof the world’s iron ore for Outotec to successfully market its tion to the acquisition. Sustainability technologies. issues are carefully considered in the pellets, half of the world’s In light of the trends mentioned business integration and future busiprimary copper, and a above, Outotec’s strategic goals for ness plans. 2012–2015 are to become an integrated third of the nickel from global company, to develop a strong sulfide ores are produced company culture, and to improve costefficiency and scalability. Supported by a In the assessment of new potential using Outotec processes. strong brand and reputation, the compatargets we use the following indicators among others: Furthermore, over 650 ny aims to cover all relevant geographic markets with its full offering, to become • Energy efficiency of technologies • Efficiency of water usage sulfuric acid plants the undisputed global leader in sustain• Environmental soundness of technologies installed with the help able minerals and metals processing solutions, and to firmly establish a pres• The environmental responsibility level of our expertise account of the acquisition ence in the energy and industrial water • How the target respects employee for more than a third of well-being, local health and safety treatment businesses. systems, local bargain agreements, the world’s sulfuric acid Sustainability approach in and human rights in overall • Ethical standards capacity. mergers and acquisitions • International norms Acquisitions support Outotec’s long term strategy. We take environmental, economic and social aspects into consideration when assessing potential acquisition targets. For example, the acquisition of the US based Energy Products of Idaho in 2011 complemented Outotec’s environmental technologies by renewable energy solutions, which efficiently produce energy from all kinds of waste. In addition to supplementing energy sources, the amount of waste 8 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach Materiality assessment Outotec’s most important sustainability mance Indicators (KPIs) were chosen create a globally integrated system cultures and treats people in an equal issues were discussed and defined in a based on the workshop results. The for quality, environmental health, and and fair manner regardless of their ethmanagement workshop in 2011 facilimateriality assessment revealed that safety management. nic origin, nationality, religion, political tated by an external partner. The pardevelopment and improvement of the Outotec’s Corporate Responsibility views, sex, sexual orientation, or age. ticipants included the CEO and heads of company’s technology solutions is Policy serves currently as the guideCorresponding to these concerns shared functions as well as representaclearly the most important sustainabillines for Outotec’s business ethics and ambition levels, the appropriate tives from business areas. The results of ity issue for Outotec. The significance including human rights and labor GRI indicators were chosen and targets the materiality assessment conducted of providing eco-efficient solutions is practices. Outotec encourages its emfor improvement determined. in 2010 were used as the starting point. underlined by comparing the amount ployees to value diversity and different Sustainability trends and feedback from of CO2 emissions annually avoided stakeholders were taken into account through the use of Outotec’s goods and when evaluating the most important services (4,800,000 tonnes CO2-e) and sustainability issues and, subsequently, the amount of greenhouse gas emisthe chosen GRI indicators. sions from Outotec’s operations (26,025 The ambition level for each matetonnes CO2-e). Sustainable rial issue was agreed and the person To become a preferred employer Sustainability products and responsible for developing the perwas regarded as highly important for solutions for of Outotec's own formance was nominated. Relevant Outotec’s future success. Community customers operations sustainability-related Key Perforinvolvement and charity work including employee engagement was identified as an area for further development. Responsible Preferred Improving the sustainability of Through discussion and ambition level supply chain Community employer ­Outotec’s operations, supply chain setting, the following aspects were involvement and selected as the most material for management, as well as technology and plant safety management were charity work Outotec: QEHS also identified as important targets to management Technology and • Sustainable products and solutions meet the expectations of customers, plant safety for customers systems • Preferred employer own employees and other stakeholders • Community involvement and as well. charity work Continuous development of Human rights / • Improving sustainability of our own ­Outotec’s management systems ranks Labour rights Forerunner operations Anticipation • Responsible supply chain high on the company’s sustainability Meeting • Technology and plant safety agenda. In order to operate as a globexpectations • Global integrated QEHS system ally integrated company, to grow the Compliance • Human rights and labor rights business, and to enhance productivity and quality, Outotec is in a process to © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach 9 We enable sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources The demand for metals and raw materials to support global development is growing while resources are becoming increasingly scarce. 4. SUSTAINABLE OUTCOME Solution Engineering, CUSTOMERS Our customers face many challenges definition Sourcing, Clean, efficient 1. such as declining ore grades, rising Delivery operations and high energy prices, water scarcity, 3. return on investment. tightening environmental SOCIETY regulations, employee health Benefits Improved resource and safety, and long-term efficiency, clean operational profitability. environment, prosperity. Material Fuel Energy Increased SUPPLIERS Feasibility efficiency efficiency efficiency safety We expect our study, Installation, suppliers to adhere 2. Our core competence is in mineral and metal Analysis Commissioning to the same high standards as we do. processing. We develop new applications for energy and Water Reduced Increased Recycling EMPLOYEES industrial water treatment, efficiency emissions recovery Meaningful and rewarding jobs. offering customers sustainable technology solutions and life SHAREHOLDERS cycle services. Investing in a responsible company. Upgrades, ECOLOGICAL Operation, Expansion, FOOTPRINT Maintenance Technologies with Demolition low impact. 10 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach Management approach Economic responsibility As a listed company, Outotec is commitenergy sector, and ASH DEC brought a Social responsibility Competent and motivated people are ted to increasing shareholder value. The new phosphorous recycling technology Society essential to Outotec’s success. Therecompany delivers on this commitment to the company. Outotec contributes to the community fore, the company provides continuous by developing and maintaining competiwell-being, in addition to paying taxes training and competence development tive and profitable operations based Environmental responsibility and providing jobs directly and indirectas well as a healthy and safe working on ethical business practices. ­Outotec Although improving the sustainability ly, by supporting charitable enterprises environment for the personnel. applies principles of good corporate of Outotec’s operations is an important and events in line with our ethics. We As a technology company, ­Outotec governance and transparent accounting. target for the company, the developalso maintain close cooperation with needs highly qualified employees and Outotec’s operations have economic ment and delivery of energy-efficient educational institutions. Outotec does suppliers. In Outotec’s customer proimpacts on the local, national, and and environmentally sound solutions for not support or give donations to politijects, also local subcontractors need to global communities in which the comthe customers has far more significance cal organizations. be trained specialists, and therefore the pany operates. We contribute to comfor Outotec in terms of environmental risk profile regarding affront/violation munity well-being through paying taxes, responsibility. We intend to further Human rights and labor practices of human rights is relatively low. We direct and indirect employment, and increase the share of environmental Outotec encourages its employees to defined and published a new Supplier other ways of community involvement. goods and services in our offerings. value diversity and different cultures Policy in 2011 and continue developing The world’s industrial production is inAs a leading provider of technology, and treats people in an equal and fair further our supply chain management creasingly concentrated in Asia to serve Outotec ensures that all the plants, manner regardless of their ethnic oriand supplier selection procedures. the area’s rapidly growing large local equipment, and services engineered gin, nationality, religion, political views, markets and to supply world markets and delivered by the company are reliasex, sexual orientation, or age. FreeGlobally integrated QEHS system as a manufacturing powerhouse. Thus, ble and safe over the life cycle and that dom of association prevails in ­Outotec. Outotec is committed to acting responthe majority of new metals producall the products meet with all relevant Outotec’s aim is to be an open and sibly, utilizing the best know-how availtion capacity is also being constructed health and safety laws and regulations equal work community. The company able in the areas of quality, environmenin the developing markets. Outotec is as well as safety-related industrial culture encourages everyone to distal and occupational health and safety. strengthening its presence, and it aims standards. cuss and develop Outotec’s operaOutotec operates as one globally to support sustainable development in We also aim to reduce the environtions. Regular briefings and interactive integrated company to enable business these markets. mental impact of our own operations. events are organized for the persongrowth and enhance productivity and An essential part of Outotec’s growth Therefore we follow our greenhouse nel regarding the company’s financial quality. Therefore, our management strategy is to complement the comgas emissions, energy consumption, situation, targets, and successes. systems for Quality, Environmental pany’s technology portfolio of sustainwater consumption, usage of paper, In addition, various influencing and Health and Safety (QEHS) are beable products and services through and waste generation. discussion channels are used, such as ing unified. The ‘One Outotec’ QEHS acquisitions. In 2011, the acquisition of online questionnaires, intranet, ­Outotec management system defines the Energy Product of Idaho strengthened Read more in Our impact, p. 33. Round-Table, and meetings with emprocedures, working instructions and Outotec’s offerings for the renewable ployee representatives. templates that are to be used in global © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach 11 business processes. Outotec adopted Several steps in establishing a world recorded initial data and prepared a a new QEHS policy in 2011. This policy class integrated QEHS management QEHS manual with main integrated addresses issues from a general persystem were taken in 2011. We estabglobal procedures and templates. spective, leaving specific details to be lished global teams and nominated Modular and integrated QEHS manageelaborated and applied as required. local persons responsible for QEHS ment system is expected to boost our It is each employee’s responsibility to in order to optimize the current QEHS business and profitability. The docucomply with this policy. management in all units and locations. mentation was approved and published These teams identified related KPIs, ­Outotec-wide in 2011. 12 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our approach Outotec’s QEHS procedures include Technology and Plant Safety Management (TPSM). A dedicated team made instructions and developed templates for TPSM and organized induction for the employees globally. Furthermore, preparations for ISO 9001 certification were done in six countries and preparations for multisite ISO 9001 certificates in seven countries. The system is based on ISO standards and focuses on Total Quality Management (TQM) and other modern ways of management. Our target is to establish modern management systems to cover all Outotec locations, introduce the Key Performance Indicators and data collection by 2013, and ultimately achieve the new QEHS management system certification in 2013. The challenge is to integrate our business requirements into the one system while keeping the existing certificates valid during the implementation of the new system. Read also Outotec strategy, p. 6. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 13 Our way of working Educational background Primary and lower secondary level 27% Upper secondary level and lower university Employees degree 49% Higher university degree and post Outotec had a total of 3,883 employees cution. The financial result for the year Implementing the growth strategy, graduate 24% at the end of 2011. Temporary person2011 was very good, which is a clear defined in 2010, required a lot of effort nel accounted for about 9 percent of indication that the operational model in recruiting new talent. Our permanent 2011: n=2503 (coverage: 64%) the total. In addition to own employees, taken in use in 2010 is gradually being personnel increased by approximately Outotec had approximately 620 fullimplemented and that the organization 700 new employees. This was a stretch time equivalent contracted professionis learning how to cooperate globally achievement, although not enough, and Personnel by age range als working in project execution. in a matrix organization. However, the therefore proper resourcing remains a 600 Nearly half of Outotec’s employees matrix and the operational model have key target for the Human Capital func500 are based in Europe; however, the comalso brought along some challenges tion in 2012. A new global resourcing 400 pany has operations and employees in that need the management’s attention. strategy was prepared in 2011, which 300 all the continents. These were partly addressed in “Workwill direct recruitment activities in 2012 200 ing Together” workshops organized in and onwards. 100 Educational background all major Outotec locations as a part 0 Outotec’s position as an industry leader of the work related to redefining our < 25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 > 60 requires strong technological expervalues and principles. tise, understanding of customers’ 2009 2010 2011 production processes, engineering and 2011: n=3616 (coverage: 93%) project implementation know-how, and production plant operating expertise. In 2011, 24 percent of Outotec’s emEmployees 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator ployees had a higher university level Number of employees at year end 3,883 3,130 3,128 LA1 or postgraduate degree, and some 49 percent of the employees had an upper Number of employees on average 3,516 3,151 2,612 LA1 secondary level or a lower university Temporary, % of the total number 9 8 8 LA1 level degree. Number of full-time equivalent contracted professionals 620 328 250 LA1 Share of women in employees, %* 20 20 LA2 Learning how to work in a global matrix Share of women in management, %** 14 11 LA2, LA13 While extensive internal changes were Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 284.4 224.4 159.5 EC1 implemented at Outotec in 2011, emAverage age of employees 40.7 41.3 43.7 LA2 ployees had a high workload due to intensive sales work and a record amount * 2011: n=3756 (coverage: 97%) of new orders and projects under exe** 2011: n=564 (a total of 631 employees in management; restrictions in gender data use in some countries) 14 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working Personnel by area Dec 31, 2011 Dec 31, 2010 EMEA (including CIS) 2,327 1,945 The Americas 972 759 Asia Pacific 584 426 Total 3,883 3,130 Personnel survey, % 2011 2010 2009 2008 Employee satisfaction 65.6 63.7 66.4 63.9 Survey coverage 79.4 74.6 73.1 79.0 Redefining values, principles and ment Forum. The long-term target is tems (bureaucracy). Management was design of the new operational model Code of Conduct to provide training related to Code of perceived more positively than in the and matrix organization, in 2011 the In 2011, a dialogue with employees Conduct to all employees. benchmark, as was the case also in the management and employees focused was started about Outotec values, previous survey. on learning a common way of working. principles, and Code of Conduct with Work satisfaction slightly behind To support the communication as well the purpose to discuss and redefine the global benchmark Lowest employee turnover in Europe as the onboarding and induction of new them. Approximately 60 percent of the The O’People personnel survey measDuring 2011, employee turnover reemployees and summer trainees, two employees participated in workshops uring work satisfaction globally was mained lowest in Europe. More detailed Outotec tailor-made e-learning apand gave also their input in an online conducted in October/November 2011. reporting on employee turnover was plications and several webcasts were questionnaire. Approximately 110 The number of respondents rose from possible because of the new master globally in use. Nearly 1,100 employees senior leaders started also an ethical 2010 by nearly five percentage points to data system taken in use in 2011. took the e-learning course. dialogue in the Management Forum on 79.4 percent. According to the survey, In learning and development, 70 various corporate responsibility and both overall satisfaction and commitCompetence development percent of Outotec’s emphasis is on values related topics. The work will be ment bounced back to improvement Competent and motivated people are on-the-job learning, 20 percent on finalized in 2012. The target is to pubcurve. Commitment is at the same essential to Outotec’s success. Therelearning from others, and 10 percent on lish the refined set of Outotec Values level with the global benchmark, while fore, the company provides continuous formal training programs. In 2011, the and integrate them into the managethe satisfaction index still remains training and competence development operational model, performance manment system, including recruitment, slightly behind. All areas in the survey as well as a healthy and safe working agement, and leadership were the key performance evaluation, promotions, improved in overall results. The biggest environment for the personnel. themes in training to increase the unand leadership development. The Code decrease was seen in ‘Involvement in To implement major changes derstanding of the matrix relationships, of Conduct will be renewed and an edecision making’ and ‘Bureaucracy’ as globally requires commitment of all cooperation, and the way of working. learning platform built. Ethical dialogue the organization started to experience employees and enhanced communicawill continue in internal social media working in matrix (decision making) tion and training. While the previous with all employees and in the Manageand harmonizing processes and sysyear was more concentrated on the © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 15 specialists to take an educator role to Training programs Employee turnover rate 2011 2011 2010 GRI indicator share their expertise and train succesOutotec organized some global training by age group # % sors. programs in 2011 focusing on leadership <25 15 8 n/a LA2 development. Outotec’s top manage26–30 40 7 Learning from others ment (150 managers) had a one-day Mentoring is also used to transfer tacit training session on personal health and 31–35 43 8 knowledge from more experienced speenergy management, which focused on 36–40 29 6 cialists to newcomers or less experiall dimensions of energy and implica41–45 23 5 enced employees. During 2010–2011, tions from neglecting them. The training 46–50 20 5 some 80 employees participated in included simple ways to take care of the mentoring programs as mentees sufficient physical exercise, rest/recov51–55 7 2 and mentors. Also a new cross-border ery, and nutrition facts, highlighting the 56–60 18 6 mentoring concept was completed, in importance of proactive and preventive >60 9 4 which two persons mentor a group of actions in health. After the training, Total* 204 6 10 persons for a year. all participants had access to a virtual by gender Outotec has its own concepts to training system, which included brain strengthen leadership and supervisory activity exercises and nutrition tips. Women 45 6.1 n/a LA2 skills. Leadership development and Most of the personnel in Outotec’s Men 195 6.5 new key expert position holders in a major locations (altogether approxiby region matrix organization were supported by mately 2,000 people) participated in Finland 51 4 n/a LA2 coaching programs. In 2011, there were a one-day workshop which focused Germany 16 3 about 40 personal coaching processes on the “Working together” theme and to support key employees in their on revisiting Outotec values. These Rest of Europe 12 3 challenging job. Management teams workshops gave direct input from the The Americas 83 9 of the Services, Ferrous Solutions, and personnel on how the Values should be Australia 18 5 Non-ferrous Solutions business areas, refined to reflect the current organizaRest of the world 60 15 and the Supply function participated in tion, mission, and strategic intent of the the development program conducted company. Employees’ input will be an * The reason for the difference in the total number in the category ‘employee turnover rate by age for 50 executives in total. Furthermore, essential part when defining the new group’ is restricted data of age from one reporting unit. ­Outotec has an in-house coach pool Code of Conduct in 2012. to meet different needs with regular In addition, there were some local On-the-job learning monitoring of the quality and achieveleadership development programs, As part of on-the-job learning and employees participated in different ment of targets of coaching. as well as safety, language, and ICT personal growth, job rotation was very development initiatives in Outotec, such Different tools, such as EQ-i Emotrainings. Outotec’s business lines much encouraged, and approximately as the strategy planning process and tional Intelligence (100 participants), and product lines organized technical 160 employees took on new challenges. designing global business processes. 360 assessments (55 participants), and training for employees and customers Outotec’s new employees participated To enable lifelong learning and uniqueMBTI assessments (60 participants), worldwide. Furthermore, cross-cultural in various customer projects to get ness of knowledge in certain expertise were used as part of personal growth training about Middle Eastern cultures practical experience. Hundreds of areas, we encourage our experienced and coaching. was organized for the employees. 16 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working an employee and a line manager, and beneﬁt pension plans. Other post-emTraining 2011 2010 GRI indicator target setting is tied to an annual bonus ployment beneﬁts relate to retirement All types of vocational training and instruction n/a LA10 system. Personal competence developmedical arrangements in Germany. Number of employees 1,288 ment plans were discussed in the midFair and motivating compensation is Hours 32,948 year review. A total of 92 percent of the achieved through pay that is in line with Paid educational leave provided by the reporting n/a LA10 employees globally had a PDD in 2011, the requirements of the job and the organization for its employees showing an increase of eight percentperformance and competences of the age points from 2010. employee. Number of employees 318 We also started to develop a new 54 percent of employees are covered Hours 4,240 integrated tool to support all Outotec’s by collective bargaining agreements. Training or education pursued externally and paid n/a LA10 performance management related Binding collective agreements are folfor in whole or in part by the reporting organization processes. The target for 2012 is that lowed in each country where they are Number of employees 1,237 90–95 percent of employees have their applicable to Outotec employees. Hours 16,569 PDD supported by the new tool which Almost all Outotec employees are allows automated individual target setcovered by an annual bonus system Training on speciﬁc topics such as health and safety n/a LA10 ting and review. to encourage their performance and Hours 9,955 development. The bonus is paid only to Labor practices those who have been employed by the Outotec Round-Table discussed strategy and company at least six months during the Coverage of the benefits provided by Outotec internal development programs accounting period, or if a person has Outotec Round-Table is a discussion been hired during the accounting peBenefit Full time employees Temporary employees GRI indicator forum for personnel representatives and riod, the minimum employment time is covered (%) covered (%) management on matters concerning 4 months, and in addition the employee Life insurance 30 10 LA3 the whole company. It is based on the needs to be employed by Outotec on the Health care 80 50 LA3 European Works Council directive 94/95 31st of December 2011. Disability/invalidity coverage 90 40 LA3 EU, Article 6 and it covers all employees In addition, 89 key employees were in the EU countries as well as in Norway part of the company’s share based Maternity/paternity leave 90 40 LA3 (and Switzerland). Outotec Round-Table incentive program in 2011. Retirement provision 45 30 LA3 was held twice in 2011. Topics discussed included strategy, acquisitions, organiRead more in the Outotec Financial Statements n=3119 (coverage = 80%) 2011, page 27. zational change, and internal development programs. 23 personnel repreOver 400 employees received trainPerformance Development Dialogues sentatives participated in the meetings. The minimum notice periods regarding ing for MS Office, Lotus Notes, SAP, In 2011, Outotec used a new electronic significant operational changes depend and Siebel applications, and many emworkbook application for Performance Employee benefits on locations and national legislation, ployees participated in external training Development Dialogues (PDD), and Outotec has several pension plans in and therefore differ significantly. The and graduation programs. approximately 360 managers globvarious countries. The plans are mainly range can be from 2 to 8 weeks up to ally were trained to use the tool. Our classiﬁed as deﬁned contribution penone year. PDD is a participative process between sion plans. In Germany, we use deﬁned © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 17 Health and safety topics are not Health and safety 2011 2010 GRI indicator covered in formal agreements with Non-fatal injury arising out of or in the course of work 48 n/a LA7 Case, Safety award: trade unions. Health and safety issues Arcelor Mittal selected Outotec as Fatal injury arising out of or in the course of work 0 n/a LA7 are covered by statutory regulations in the Number One Contractor for different laws, and therefore there is Lost Time Injury rate (LTIR) (number/200,000 working hours) 1.62 n/a LA7 Safety Performance in Canada. no need for agreements. Occupational diseases 0 n/a LA7 Arcelor Mittal is the world’s Occupational disease rate (number/200,000 working hours) 0 n/a LA7 leading steel company, operatHealth and safety ing in more than 60 countries. In Lost days because of an occupational accident or disease 408 n/a LA7 The main focus in the area of Quality, Canada, Arcelor Mittal produces Environmental Health and Safety Lost day rate (number/200,000 working hours) 13.76 n/a LA7 steel products and iron ore with (QEHS) is to harmonize the QEHSWork-related fatalities (The death of a worker due to 0 n/a LA7 extensive mining, steelmaking, management systems and to create an occupational injury or disease) and tube manufacturing facilities common procedures, instructions and in the provinces of New Bruntools for all the Outotec offices. The n=3394 (coverage=87%) swick, Ontario, and Quebec. target for health and safety is that all John Blais, Outotec’s Safety main offices are working according Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Specialist in Canada says, “I am OHSAS18001 management system Technology and Plant Safety Technology and plant safety: LA7 pleased to announce that Arbefore the end of 2013. Management (TPSM) as part implement TPSM in all celor Mittal, celebrating their During 2011, Outotec has taken into of the QEHS procedures, inlocations with engineering global safety day, selected and use a global health and safety reportstructions and templates were activities. (NEW) awarded Outotec as the Number ing system. The new reporting system developed and published and One Contractor on site for Safety is used for setting and following comglobal inductions executed. Long term target: Performance. It was noted that mon health and safety targets for all of Zero harm= there are some 1,200 contractors the Outotec offices. This reporting tool zero fatalities+ that expedite work on their sites zero incidents+ also provides qualified metrics that can throughout the year completing zero property damages be used by Outotec top-management, various jobs. It was also noted for Outotec and our Partners clients, and partners. As a result of this that we worked 100,000 mannew reporting system, Outotec was able hours with no Lost Time Injury. to report its health and safety perforGender balance and age structure Procedures for local hiring We had daily approximately 16–24 mance globally for the first time in 2011. Because of the new master data sysWhen Outotec starts a new operation men on site performing various In 2011, Outotec established a meditem taken in use in 2011, we are able in a country, normally an expatriate is tasks, for example, torpedo car cal and security services agreement to report detailed information of the sent to take care of integration of the demolition and coil repair, all of it with the global service provider Intershare of females and age structure in new operation. However, the target is work that involves high risk and national SOS to ensure the security each employee category. The low share that senior management of the local requires careful attention.” and well-being of its employees. This of women may reflect the typically high operation is hired locally. Currently service covers all Outotec employees share of men in the history of the min­Outotec has an office or operating enfor emergencies that occur during busiing and metallurgical industry. tity in 25 countries and a local manager ness trips, through providing medical There were no reported incidents of in 83 percent of them. and security assistance 24/7. any type of discrimination cases in 2011. 18 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working * Grading of all employees not completed yet (n=3106; coverage=80%) Employee categories, gender balance and age structure 2011 2010 GRI indicator ** Data coverage 80% because of local restriction of data reporting Total number of employees in each employee category* n/a LA13 Senior management 135 Middle management 496 Targets related to employees Specialists 1,959 Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Blue-collar workers 516 Senior management (%)** n/a LA13 Have a dialogue with Target was partially Finalize and publish SO3 employees about Outoachieved. Outotec Princithe refined set of Outotec Women 11 tec values, principles, ples were revisited, and Values and integrate Men 89 and the Code of Conduct approximately 60% of them into the manage< 30 years old 0 to redefine them. Longemployees participated in ment system. 30–50 years 68 term target is to provide workshops and gave their Publish the new Code > 50 years old 32 training related to the input in an online questionof Conduct and a related Middle management (%)** n/a LA13 Code of Conduct to all naire. In the Management e-learning platform. employees. Forum, approximately 110 Continue ethical dialogue Women 12 senior leaders started in internal social media Men 88 ethical dialogue on various with all employees and in < 30 years old 3 corporate responsibility and the Management Forum. 30–50 years 68 values related topics. > 50 years old 29 Implement the HC masHuman Capital master Define and implement LA1–13 Specialists (%)** n/a LA13 ter data system globally data system covering basic the HC Master Data Women 27 and develop it to include personnel data was implerelated processes. Men 73 relevant personnel data mented globally. Develop the HC Master needed to establish Data system and HC < 30 years old 21 corporate-wide indicareporting further. 30–50 years 57 tors. > 50 years old 22 90–95% of employees 94% of employees had a 90–95% of employees LA12 Blue-collar workers (%)** n/a LA13 have a Performance Performance Development have their PDD using Women 4 Development Dialogue. Dialogue. A new intethe new tool. Develop Men 96 grated tool to support all the tool to include a < 30 years old 22 performance management module for creating 30–50 years 49 related processes was individual development. > 50 years old 29 developed. Board of Directors (%) n/a LA13 Read also Interaction with stakeholders, p. 25. Women 14 Men 86 30 years old 0 30–50 years 29 > 50 years old 71 © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 19 R&D and innovation Outotec’s success is based on a strong ties, which have made it possible that portfolio of world-class technologies, dozens of Outotec technologies are robust expertise and, innovative persontoday best available techniques (BAT) nel. To stay at the forefront of sustainand industry standards. Outotec has able solutions, we continuously improve also extensive knowledge of mateand develop our proprietary technolorial technology, plant and equipment gies. We will further strengthen our engineering, equipment and process portfolio of sustainable solutions for the automation, and the implementation entire value chain from ore to metals of large international projects. and complement our in-house R&D with Outotec actively strives to explore acquisitions and partnerships. new applications for its technologies. We cooperate with universities, Among other sectors, energy and research institutes, and customers in industrial water treatment in particular R&D. Outotec has over 580 patent famioffer significant and attractive growth lies, over 5,300 national patents and opportunities. Both of these sectors Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator applications, and over 70 trademarks. require solutions for utilizing scarce Key areas of expertise are physical raw materials in an efficient and enviIncrease the percentage 87% of order intake Keep the percentEN6 separation, metallurgy of solid-state ronmentally sound way. For some time of Environmental Goods classified as EGS. age on the level and Services (EGS) in of 80–90%. materials, chemistry including pyronow, rising costs of energy and strinorder intake, long-term and hydrometallurgy, as well as gas gent legislation have led users to seek target is to reach a level handling technologies. We have two out energy efficient technologies. Water of 80–90%. in-house research centers, state-ofis also an increasingly scarce resource, Increase the investment Target partially achieved. Continues EN6, EN26 the-art laboratories, and test faciliand its efficient use, along with the in R&D in line with business growth. R&D expenditure was EUR 33.5 million, representing a 17.5% R&D and innovation 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator growth from 2010. However, R&D expenditure, EUR million 33.5 28.5 20.5 EN6, EN26 because of the strong business growth in 2011, the share of R&D R&D expenditure, % of sales 2.4 2.9 2.3 EN6 of sales was 2.4%, which is lower R&D grants, EUR million 2.1 1.3 2.0 EC4 than in 2010 (2.9%). Amount of new patent applications filed 41 50 56 Continue growth through Acquisitions of Energy Products Continues EC1 New national or regional patents granted 326 287 286 acquisitions to compleof Idaho and ASH DEC brought ment Outotec’s technolnew sustainable technologies for Amount of patent families 583 565 539 ogy portfolio. renewable energy applications Proportion of Environmental Goods and 87 72 76 EN6 and phosphorous recycling Services in order intake, % to the company. 20 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working Outotec granted a Technology Award to 25 employees in 2011 to encourage creation of new inventions and innovations and to reward individuals and teams for their significant contributions to Outotec and the industry in general. The awards totaled EUR 110,000. Outotec also agreed to collaborate with the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy of Mongolia (MME) to support MME in its development of Mongolia’s mining and metallurgical industry utilizing country’s vast mineral resources by using the most sustainable approaches possible. Targets related to R&D An essential part of Outotec’s strategy is to complement the company’s techrecycling and purification processes, is its expertise in solid-water separation new interface, which will be based on nology portfolio of sustainable products a goal of steadily mounting importance technologies, Outotec cooperates with PE International’s GaBi 5 and Outotec’s and services through acquisitions. in the customer industry. Kemira to improve the oil recovery and HSC Chemistry® software, will markIn R&D, Outotec focuses on technolThe growth opportunities offered water efficiency in oil sands extraction. edly facilitate determining of the best ogy development to increase resource by adjacent industries, such as energy In 2011, Outotec launched a twoavailable technique (BAT) from several efficiency, for example by reducing and industrial water treatment, are stage partial roasting process to purify alternatives. The new interface will energy and water consumption and enattractive as they show high syncontaminated copper and gold concenallow users to develop product and vironmental impacts of the company’s ergy potential and manageable risks. trates as a pre-treatment to actual exprocess modeling simulations and products and services. We plan to keep Outotec’s energy and environmental traction processes. We also established scenarios using a life cycle perspective. the current percentage of Environmensolutions business includes offerings a new continuous pilot plant at our In addition, Original Equipment Manutal Goods and Services (EGS) in our for bioenergy, water, improved heat research center in Frankfurt, Germany facturers (OEM) and metals manuoffering and the order intake on the recovery, and applications for oil shale to test customer concentrates with the facturers will be able to plan their level achieved in 2011 through product and oil sands. Naturally, all of the comnew process. operations and make material selection development and acquiring sustainable pany’s business areas focus on energy Another highlight of 2011 was when decisions based on the sustainabiltechnologies. and water efficiency, emission reducOutotec and one of the world’s leading ity and life cycle information of curtions and waste management in their sustainability consulting companies, rent and future metal manufacturing product development. In addition to inPE International (Germany), started scenarios and their environmental house R&D, Outotec develops sustaincooperation to develop a new software impacts. This will help to lower the enable solutions in partnership with other interface for evaluating metals producvironmental footprint of these products companies. For example, by utilizing tion sustainability and life cycles. The and production facilities. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 21 Code of Conduct, UN Global Compact Ten Principles Outotec values and principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • • Outotec Principles Corporate Responsibility Policy As defined in our Corporate Respon• Quality, Environmental Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy sibility Policy, corporate responsibil• Local health and safety systems • Employee training and development ity needs to be an integral part of all • Collective bargaining agreements ­Outotec operations, activities, and Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in • Corporate Responsibility Policy decision-making everywhere we operhuman rights abuses • Outotec Principles ate. Compliance with laws forms the • Supplier Policy basis of all Outotec’s actions. This Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and • 54% of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Policy serves currently as guidelines the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining for Outotec’s business ethics, and management as well as employees are Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of • Corporate Responsibility Policy forced and compulsory labor • Supplier Policy expected to comply with it. Corporate responsibility policy comPrinciple 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition • Corporate Responsibility Policy prises Outotec’s Code of Conduct, antiof child labor • Supplier Policy money laundering policy (approved in Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination • Corporate Responsibility Policy 2011) prohibits questionable vendor and in respect of employment and occupation customer arrangements, competition Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to • R&D, technology development to improve process solutions environcompliance policy removes obstacles environmental challenges mental performance, comply with all relevant environmental legislafrom free and fair trade practices, and tion, risk management (materials used, products, processes) disclosure policy provides for timely and • QEHSmanagement systems accurate investor communication. • Risk management system In order to develop our performance • Technology Policy and reporting, we strive for a continuPrinciple 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater • R&D, technology development ous dialogue on corporate responsibilenvironmental responsibility • Energy efficiency agreements in Finland ity issues with our customers, employ• QEHS systems ees, shareholders, suppliers, as well • Outotec products and services comply fully with local environmental laws and regulations as public and non-governmental organizations. As a listed company, Outotec Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and • BAT offerings, sustainability KPIs in Outotec solutions is committed to increasing the sharediffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Outotec mission and vision • Sustainability features in product design holder value. We deliver on this commitment by developing and maintaining Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Corporate Responsibility Policy competitive and profitable operations including extortion & bribery • Anti-money Laundering Policy based on ethical business practices. We apply principles of good corporate accordance with recommendation 54 Committing to the Global pact initiative and committed to its pringovernance and transparent accountof the Finnish Corporate Governance Compact initiative ciples of human rights, environment, ing. Outotec’s Corporate Governance Code and related instructions issued by Outotec has signed the labor, and anti-corruption in 2010. By Statement 2011 has been prepared in the Securities Markets Association. United Nations Global Comjoining the corporate responsibility 22 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working Global Compact initiative Outotec has Nor had any issues emerged concerning Internal control and audit seminars are held throughout the orexpressed its intent to further advance the rights of indigenous people. Internal control is a fundamental part ganizations on a regular basis to train sustainability and social responsibility Our products comply with industrial of Outotec’s corporate governance sysemployees in the organization’s antiprinciples in its business practices. health and safety standards and regulatem. Internal control can be defined as corruption policies and procedures. In August 2011, Outotec submitted its tions. We provide extensive product ina set of processes designed to provide first Communication on Progress (COP) formation for the customers in the form reasonable assurance on achievement Targets regarding Code of Conduct, to the United Nations Global Compact of user manuals and technical descripof company objectives in areas of efvalues and principles initiative. Outotec’s COP qualifies for the tions. No non-compliance concerning fectiveness and efficiency of processes The target for 2012 is to publish a Global Compact Active level. In spring the provision and use of products and and economic use of resources, reliarefined set of Outotec Values and 2011, Outotec was invited to give a presservices has been reported to Outotec. bility of financial reporting information, integrate them into the management entation in the Global Compact Nordic In 2011, Outotec’s subsidiary in South compliance with external rules and system, including recruitment, perNetwork meeting held in Helsinki. Africa embarked on a program to deregulations, as well as internal policies formance evaluation, promotions, and velop its Broad-Based Black Economic and procedures. leadership development. The code of Redefining values, principles and Empowerment (BBBEE) initiated by the Internal audit helps Outotec to conduct will be renewed and an eCode of Conduct South African government to distribute comply with good corporate governlearning platform built. Ethical dialogue Outotec Principles are Sustainable wealth across as broad a spectrum of ance, give an independent perspective will continue in internal social media technology, Lead in life and work, Pro South African society as possible scorefor management in considering and with all employees and in the Managecustomer, and Share and care. In 2011, card and become compliant to industry reviewing company operations, and ment Forum. Long-term target is to a dialogue with employees was started expectations to this regard. Various accomplish its objectives by bringing provide training related to the Code about Outotec values, principles, and initiatives were planned and executed, a systematic, disciplined approach to of Conduct to all employees. Code of Conduct with the purpose of which resulted in achieving a Level 6 evaluating and improving the effectivediscussing and redefining them. ApproxContributor status to BEE. This means ness of risk management, control, and Read also our Corporate Responsibility Policy at imately 60 percent of employees particiall customers within South Africa can governance processes. www.outotec.com/sustainability. pated in workshops and gave also their now recognize 60 percent of the money The existing internal and external input in an online questionnaire. Approxthey spend on Outotec products as audit processes take into account imately 110 senior leaders started also BBBEE Preferential Procurement. eventual corruption suspicions. Legal an ethical dialogue in the Management Forum on various corporate responsibility and values related topics. The work Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator will be finalized in 2012. Have a dialogue with employees about Target was partially achieved. Outotec Finalize and publish the refined set SO3 Outotec values, principles and Code of Principles were revisited, and 60% of of Outotec Values, and integrate them Compliance with regulations and laws Conduct to redefine them. Long-term employees participated in workshops and into the management system. Outotec endorses ethical business practarget is to provide training related to gave also their input in an online questiontices and complies with national and inthe Code of Conduct to all employees. naire. Over 100 senior managers started Publish the new Code of Conduct and ternational laws and regulations. In 2011, ethical dialogue on corporate responsibila related e-learning platform. there were no incidents of corruption or ity and values related topics. anti-trust behavior reported. No fines or Continue ethical dialogue in internal social media with all employees and sanctions for the non-compliance with in the Management Forum. laws and regulations were imposed. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 23 Governance and to sustainability and climate change. velop new technologies that result in are independent. Tapani Järvinen, who The group was also responsible for energy and cost savings. Employees of was the former CEO of the company sustainability the annual calculation of the company’s the research center are rewarded if the until the end of 2009, is defined as Outotec follows the Finnish Corporate carbon footprint and the emissions number of inventions and patent applidependent because of his employment Governance Code (available at www. avoided through the use of Outotec’s cations exceed a defined annual target. relationship. One of the Board memcgfinland.fi) issued by the Securities technology solutions. It is through bers is female. Market Association and adopted by the these means that the company moniBoard work In 2011, the Board of Directors met NASDAQ OMX Helsinki stock exchange. tors the progress it has made in its acThe Board of Directors of Outotec con19 times. The average attendance of Outotec complies with the regulations tions to mitigate climate change issues. sists of seven members, six of which members at Board meetings was 95 and recommendations issued by NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. Monetary incentives for management At Outotec, the highest level of related to sustainability Decision making in sustainability issues responsibility for issues related to susEmployees whose responsibilities tainability of our products and services include working with sustainability and Board of lies with the Technology and Product environmental issues have personal Directors Board chaired by the CEO. Decisions targets set in their annual bonus plans. made, actions, and commitments are This pertains mainly to environmental reported to the Board of Directors. and sustainability managers. Inventors In addition, Outotec has a separate working with new, patentable solutions CEO sustainability working group that also receive monetary rewards for their Executive Board meets two to three times annually. The inventions. In general, the inventions group is headed by the Chief Technolthat qualify are those with potential for Sustainability aspect ogy Officer (CTO), and decisions made introducing energy savings and reducat these meetings are communicated tions in CO2. Furthermore, Outotec to the Technology Board including the rewards all employees for making proCommunity Strategy Employees QEHS Corporate Products and Services Head of CEO and to Business Areas’ Presidents. posals that improve the sustainability involvement Supply chain Economic Head of Head of governance Technology Head of Business Head of Supply CFO Strategy Human Capital Head of Legal Board of the company’s internal processes. Communications Infrastructure CEO Sustainability working group The company’s research center in In 2011, Outotec’s Technology and Pori, Finland applies a reward system Product Board and sustainability workbased on balanced scorecard indicaing group set sustainability targets and tors. The majority of Outotec’s techSustainability monitored and reviewed the company’s nology development projects focus Corporate Investor Working Group Communications Relations sustainability actions. The CEO received on raw material and energy efficiency CTO regular updates on sustainability-reimprovements and thus CO2 emissions lated issues from the CTO, who in turn reductions, but management of other received reports from the Director of emissions has been the target a longer Environment and Sustainability. period of time. Water efficiency is also Sustainability Specialists The purpose of the working group often a driver for Outotec’s research, was to identify Outotec’s actions related and customers expect Outotec to de24 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working percent. The Board of Directors asTarget for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator sesses its performance annually. The Improve sustainability Data collection was improved: Continues annual evaluation regarding 2011 was governance processes, -N ew data collection systems were used conducted by an external advisor. data collection, and (e.g. SAP Master Data, financial reporting system HFM) Improve the system for sustainability The remuneration of the Board reporting. -S ix new indicators and four indicators changed from partly KPIs collection. members is described in the Outotec to fully reported Financial Statements 2011, p. 78. There Four CR team meetings in 2011 Include relevant sustainability KPIs in core is no linkage between the compensaSustainability working group meetings business and shared function processes. tion for Board members and the social Sustainability materiality workshop or environmental performance. Update the acquisition Potential acquisition targets were assessed by using Continue sustainability assessments EC1 The Board of Directors established process to include susthe following indicators: in acquisitions. a human capital committee in 2010 tainability assessment Are solutions energy efficient consisting of three members. The in due diligence. Is water usage efficient -D oes the acquisition provide an opportunity to offer Human Capital Committee was estabenvironmentally friendly technologies lished to ensure that all human capital -D oes the acquisition promote greater environmental related topics, such as ethics and valresponsibility ues, resourcing strategy, competence -H ow the target respects employee well-being, local health and performance management, and and safety systems, local bargain agreements and compensation arrangements support human rights in overall the strategic aims of the business and Ethical standards enable the recruitment, development, International norms motivation, and retention of key personPublish Outotec’s first First GRI report published. Continue reporting based on GRI 3.0. nel while complying with the requireGRI-based sustainSustainability website published. The long-term target is to follow GRI G4 ments of regulatory and governance ability report and webguidelines. bodies and satisfying the expectations based communication of shareholders. The human capital platform. committee met five times in 2011 and all members were present. The Board of Directors in its enare independent of the company. The concerning the election and fees of the Read more on Outotec’s Corporate Governance tirety determines the qualifications committee’s task is to review, in greater auditors for the company. In 2011, the Statement 2011 at www.outotec.com/cg. and expertise of the candidates for the detail than is possible for the Board as Audit Committee met four times and all members of the board and decides who a whole, the auditing work, the internal members were present. will be submitted to the Annual General controls, the scope of internal and exMeeting. One objective of O­ utotec’s ternal audits, invoicing by the auditors, Targets related to governance Board of Directors is to have both the company’s financial policies, and We continue improving our sustainabilgenders represented when proposing other procedures for managing compaity governance processes, data colleccandidates for future compositions. ny-specific risks. In addition, the audit tion, and reporting. In 2012, the focus is The Board has an audit committee committee prepares recommendations on sustainability KPIs. consisting of four Board members, who to the General Meeting of Shareholders © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 25 Interaction with stakeholders Outotec’s most important stakeholders are customers, current and future employees, suppliers, shareholders, and the scientific community. These key stakeholders have been prioritized in the sustainability working group. In addition, we cooperate with media as well as public and non-governmental organizations. Outotec has dedicated functions to deal with the key stakeholders in an open and continuous dialogue and to enhance transparency. Customers Outotec’s customers comprise large global mining companies as well as small and medium-sized mining and Keynote speakers of Outotec’s client event in Shanghai were Pertti Korhonen, President and CEO of Outotec; Matti Heimonen, Consul General of Finland; metallurgical companies operating loChen QuanXun, Chairman of CNIA; Wu ShaoHui, President and CEO of ENFI and Zhu JiaMing, Technology Management Department General Manager of cally. In addition, our customers include CHALIECO. Wang XiaoYang from Ministry of Industry and Information Technology; Guy Thiran, Secretary General of Eurometaux; and Li Jie Dean, Ph.D, companies utilizing natural resources Professor, from Central South University presented the sustainability issues for the industry. Outotec also signed a collaboration agreement with ENFI. as their raw material, such as fertilizers and energy producers. We have long relationships with the majority of ers’ meetings, training, and workshops supports MME as a technical advisor to the Chinese mining and metal processour customers. As a provider of tailored for the customers. To get feedback and develop mining and metallurgical proing industry to enhance cooperation and technological solutions and services, information on customers’ expectations, cessing of Mongolian mineral resourcshare information. Additionally, Outotec we continuously interact with our we make customer satisfaction surveys es in the most sustainable way. experts presented our technologies and customers on various levels during the and case study interviews. Furthermore, Outotec organized a client meeting their impact on sustainability including lifetime of their investment or plant. it is industry practice that the experts of in Shanghai in May 2011 in cooperation energy savings, emission reduction and Personal discussions and site visits are both producers and technology suppliers with China Nonferrous Metals Indusrecycling. always needed in Outotec’s business. In exchange information and experiences try Association. The event was built a number of cases we have joint R&D and meet frequently at technical conferaround the theme of sustainability Sustainability expectations projects with the customers in order to ences and trade shows around the world. in the mining and metals processing In 2011 Outotec studied its customers’ develop the best possible solution for In 2011, Outotec agreed on collaboindustry and gathered together 140 sustainability targets and requirements the customer’s specific need. ration with the Ministry of Mineral Reprofessionals from different mining they set on their suppliers. The study In addition to regular business sources and Energy of Mongolia (MME). and metal processing companies. The included 195 companies and was based contacts, we organize seminars, usAccording to the agreement, Outotec meeting provided a good platform for on information publicly available. 26 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working According to the study, the most reportenvironmental legislation drives their Current and future employees Case, Global meeting of Outotec’s ed targets were on energy consumpactivities to improve their sustainability Outotec’s aim is to be an open and copper and nickel Flash Smelting tion, greenhouse gases (emissions), performance (e.g. emission reductions, equal work community. The company licensees in Zambia: water use, waste management, and land use, safety). However, customers culture encourages everyone to discuss The world’s copper and nickel safety performance. The requirement are increasingly realizing the potential and develop Outotec’s operations. Regsmelting experts met in Livingfor suppliers was often the supplier’s to improve profitability by energy, water, ular briefing and interactive events are stone, Zambia at the 13th Intercode of conduct, or sometimes cusand resource efficient processes. organized for personnel regarding the national Flash Smelting Congress tomers expect suppliers to follow their company’s financial situation, targets, organized in October 2011 by Outoown code of conduct. Other requireAwards in customer work and successes. In addition, various tec for the licensees of the Outotec® ments Outotec’s customers set on their Boliden Harjavalta, producing anode channels are used for discussion and Flash Smelting technology. The suppliers were linked to human right copper and nickel matte in its smelters influence, such as the intranet, Outotec Flash Smelting Congress is a users’ issues and sustainability. in Harjavalta, Finland, gave its first ever Round-Table, and meetings with emmeeting where the participants In addition, Outotec studied the Top Partner award in 2011 to Outotec. ployee representatives. A new collabocan learn about new technological sustainability expectations of twelve ”The Top Partner award is given for ration tool was introduced in 2011 to improvements and exchange their major metals producers based on their good work performance. Outotec Serenable interactive communication and experiences. They also have the sustainability reports. As expected, the vice Team has had solid performance in information sharing globally. opportunity of visiting smelters with main challenges were related to energy several areas of appraisal. Their results Outotec Young Professionals netnew modernizations, expansions, or efficiency, GHG emissions reductions, in safety development, environmental work was piloted in Finland in 2011 new technology. GHG emissions trading, other emissions protection, cost efficiency, and quality of and will be expanded globally in the The 13th Congress gathered to air, water efficiency, water protecoperations as well as collaboration willfuture. The network is meant for young together over 100 participants from tion, waste management, efficient use ingness and ability were decisive factors or young-minded Outotec employees 20 countries. The program included of resources, environmental protecin our selection,” explained Boliden to ease networking across business visits to two smelters: BCL smelter tion, biodiversity, as well as health and Harjavalta’s President Jyrki Makkonen. units, improve professional pride, and in Botswana and KCM Nchanga safety. Because of the mature nature There was a special selection commitdistribute career experiences across smelter in Zambia. The key topic of the sampling group, many of the tee consisting of the management and the organization. The target is to create of the week-long Congress was planned actions were targeted to the employee representatives of Boliden a pool of young, active, and energetic ‘Thinking ahead smelter life-cycle’. improvement of existing operations. For Harjavalta. 21 areas of appraisal were people for fairs, career infos, customer The congress session themes the companies studied, it is of utmost assessed, and the criteria included both events, student visits, photo shoots, covered the smelter life-cycle importance that sustainability not only hard facts and soft values. summer trainee mentoring, and round issues, green smelting, recovery ensures their license to operate but Sterlite Industries, a subsidiary of table discussions. The new network and recycling, thinking ahead, and also improves their profitability. For Vedanta in India, rated Outotec as an arranged activities with positive thrive: future challenges. Additionally, instance energy efficiency, reduced CO2 A-grade supplier with the highest ratlunch dates, after work activities such sustainability was covered increasemissions, and efficient resource use ing in all its criteria, covering quality as game evenings, sports, and picnics. ingly in the sessions in terms of are essential factors for improved costperformance, delivery performance and environmental issues and health effectiveness. buyer feedback on vendor. Outotec has Read more about our employees, p. 13. and safety. Outotec’s customers are very well delivered tankhouse equipment to Steraware of their sustainability aspects and lite’s copper refinery in Tuticorin and Students publish this information in their sustainOutotec’s service team has been workWe have identified students and future ability reports and web pages. Often ing in the refinery in 2010 and 2011. employees as an important stakeholder © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 27 group with an increasing interest in Widely spread shareholder base sustainability and our performance as Outotec’s investor base is geographia responsible employer. cally widely spread and the company’s To increase recognition and to free float close to100 percent. Some strengthen its employer image, Outotec half (December 2011) of the company’s has actively sought different forms of shares are held outside Finland and collaboration with university students, the largest three shareholders account especially in Finland, Germany, Brazil, for some 15 percent of the shares. The Australia, and Chile. This collaborashareholder structure means there tion is planned to be expanded in other are numerous requests for informacountries as well. We organize vistion from the capital markets regarding its, internships, cooperative work on the company’s business operations, research, topics and supervision for financial performance, corporate govdiploma theses, field trips to producernance as well as environmental and tion plants, and lectures on various social issues. The aim in communicattopical issues. Many graduate students ing with the capital market is to ensure have contributed to the development of that the market has a true and fair view Case, Student cooperation: Outotec’s technologies through their of the company’s financial position, opIn 2011, Outotec awarded Sustainability Prizes for four students participatM. Sc. and post-graduate research. erations, and future prospects in order ing in Endeavour 2011, celebrating 150 years of Engineering Education at to make investment decisions. The University of Melbourne. There was a prize for each of the departments: Investors On November 8, 2011, holding of Mechanical Engineering, Infrastructure Engineering, Computer Science and In recent years, investors have been Tamares Nordic Investments B.V. in Software Engineering, and Electrical and Electronic Engineering. The prizes requesting more and more information shares of Outotec exceeded 5 percent promote the importance of engineering design, innovation, and creativity to on Outotec’s corporate governance and and was 2,356,519 shares, representing sustainability. The winners were judged on the merit of the sustainability sustainable technologies. 5.15 percent of the share capital and of their project and innovation. votes in the company (December 31, 2011: 2,457,219 shares, 5.37%). At the end of 2011, Outotec had 13,921 shareholders. Shares held in 17 nominee registers accounted for 54.19 percent Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator and Finnish households held roughly Outotec established a Facebook page and Further improve the employer image to 11.3 percent of all Outotec shares. started to use Twitter and LinkedIn more become a preferred employer: increase actively for recruitment and communication. use and develop content of social media Continuous dialogue channels (such as Facebook, Linkedin, Outotec’s IR team has a continuous Twitter, XING). (NEW) dialogue with investors and analysts and meets them on a regular basis at Survey on employer image using social quarterly reporting events, investor media participants. meetings, road shows, industry semi28 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working nars, and annual general meetings. In order to maintain a dialogue in between conjunction with the interim and annual the interim reviews and to comply with financial reviews, the company hosts fair disclosure. These live webcasts aim webcasts in order to disseminate public to give further clarity on information information simultaneously to the made public earlier. In order to serve market. In addition, Outotec organizes the capital market efficiently, to ensure the CEO’s mid-quarter Q&A sessions equal access to company-related infor(started in 2010) and Capital Market mation, and to comply with disclosure Days (CMD). As part of Outotec’s CMDs, requirements, the live webcasts are management sheds more light on comrecorded and available on demand for pany strategy, business operations, and future reference. long-term plans, as well as introduces technologies and solutions in more Outotec included in the Carbon Disclosure detail to the capital market. In addition Leadership Index to Finnish law, EU directives, Corporate Being transparent means that we try Governance, and stock exchange rules to answer, to the extent possible, to and regulations, Outotec’s IR policy is various sustainability-related questionbased on self-regulation, which is emnaires sent by investors and analysts. bodied, for the most part, in Corporate One example of these is the Carbon Governance and Outotec’s Disclosure Disclosure Project (CDP). For the third Policy. consecutive year Outotec was inIn 2011, Outotec had 28 road show cluded in the Nordic Carbon Disclosure days and hosted 130 investor meetings Leadership Index, which highlights In 2011 Outotec organized a high-level Non-ferrous Metal Sustainable Solutions Technical Meeting at the company headquarters. 20 anacompanies with the most professional in Beijing, China. The meeting was convened by China Non-ferrous Metals Industry Association (CNIA) lysts conducted research on Outotec. approach to climate change disclosure on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China One key task for the company in 2011 practices. Outotec received 81 out of (MIIT). The aim is to enhance, develop and apply both Chinese and foreign advanced technologies to reduce energy consumption and emissions in the non-ferrous industry and, at the same time, initiate was to introduce the new CFO to the 100 points and was ranked among the cost savings in metals production. Chinese metals production and engineering companies took also capital markets. Capital Markets Day top 10 percent of the 260 companies part in the two-day meeting, in which the major challenges of the industry were presented in a very 2011 was held in London on November in the CDP’s Nordic Report 2011. The open way. 15. “Sustainable technology” was the CDP’s analysis is based on greenhouse overall theme for the day with presengas emissions, emission reduction tations from business area heads as targets, as well as on understanding of Good reputation amongst investors The survey has six different dimensions well as the CEO and the company’s susrisks and opportunities associated with In 2011, Outotec was ranked 8th best to measure reputation, using factors tainability expert. Some 75 attendees climate change. company in a survey made by Reputarelated to corporate culture and leaderparticipated the day including both anaThe index provides an evaluation tool tion Management Consultancy Pohjoisship, financial excellence, public image, lysts and investors. The event was webfor institutional investors and other ranta for evaluating the reputation of products and services, social responsicasted live. The CEO’s Q&A sessions stakeholders. 100 listed companies in Finland in 2011. bility, and operational dynamics. continued to be an important channel in Outotec’s ranking was the 6th in 2010. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 29 Outotec made a remarkable leap policies provide the governance with a Sustainable Development Steering landing in the 7th place in 2011 from way to develop and operate a reliable Committee, among other organizations. 23rd in 2010, and thereby joining the and agile supply base supporting our In addition, one of Outotec’s experts is top 10 websites in Finland, according to strategy. In addition, a new Supplier a lead author and editor of a document a survey made by the KWD WebrankPolicy was published. Outotec expects on recycling technology under the ausing. The ranking is based on an annual its suppliers to comply with this policy pices of Dr. Ernst von Weizsaecker, the survey sent out to investors, financial in their dealings with Outotec, their co-chair of the UNEP resource panel. analysts, business journalists, and own employees and suppliers, as well The board of the Aalto University students in Europe. 296 professionals as with third parties. The policy covSchool of Science and Technology from the capital market replied to the ers among other things principles of established the Tapani Järvinen Enviquestionnaire, which was set out to exethical conduct, compliance of laws and ronmental Technology Fund in 2010 in amine how they use the web and what regulations, environment, health and honor of Outotec’s retired CEO Tapani content and functionalities they require safety, labor relations (e.g. no child or Järvinen. The fund aims to promote the of corporate websites. ­Outotec’s forced labor), intellectual property, and research of environmental technology website was ranked 7th scoring 66 improper benefits. and will fund the research and developpoints out of 100. The average score for ment work of distinguished individuals. Finnish corporate websites was 55.89 Read more about our suppliers in Impact The basic capital for the fund was dopoints. The career and corporate social of our supply chain, p. 47. nated by Outotec. In 2011, a scholarship responsibility sections of Outotec’s from CEO Tapani Järvinen’s environwebsite were recognized, both rankScientific community mental technology fund for modeling ing high in the Finnish ranking and the As a technology company, we cooperate environmentally friendly chemical industrial sector ranking according to closely with universities, research instiprocesses was granted to Prof. Ville the KWD Webranking report. tutes, and international organizations. Alopaeus. Outotec continued its active work Read more about dividends in the Outotec Finanin the development of environmentally Read also Commitment to external initiatives, cial Statements 2011, p. 71 and about shareholdsound technologies in various organip. 30. ers and share-related key figures on p. 57. zations. As an expert in the European Union’s technical working group and Suppliers in an environmental working group of Outotec uses thousands of suppliers the Federation of Finnish Technology around the world for its customers’ Industries, an Outotec representaprojects. These include mechanical tive participates in the updating of the workshops, component manufacturers BREF on non-ferrous metals, a referand local construction and engineering ence document which defines the best companies. available techniques (BAT). In addiIn 2011, Outotec took two new intertion, Outotec has been involved with nal policies in use to set the framework the work of the International Copper for interaction with suppliers. The Association’s Health, Environment and 30 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working Commitment to external initiatives Outotec works actively in various greenhouse gas emissions, emissions Research program Commitment organizations and in engaging with reduction targets, and the risks and to foster sustainto rehabilitating policy makers. A representative of opportunities associated with climate able water use the Baltic Sea Outotec participates in the definition change. Companies are scored on their Since 2010, Outotec has participated in Outotec contributed of the best available techniques (BAT) climate change disclosure, with high an industrial research program of the EUR 40,000 to the Baltic for non-ferrous metals as an expert in scores indicating good internal data University of Alberta intended to foster Sea Action Group’s initiatives to improve the European Union’s working group. management and an understanding sustainable water use in Canadian the state of the Baltic Sea. In addition, In addition, Outotec has been involved of the climate change related issues oil sands extraction. In addition, we Outotec has been carrying out invesin the committee work of the Internaaffecting the company. established a Natural Science and Entigations and development in order to tional Copper Associations’ Health and gineering Research Council of Canada determine the best concepts to remove Environment Program, among others. Read more about our performance in the CDP (NSERC) industrial research chair at the partly toxic organic contaminants from 2011 in Investors, p. 28. university entitled “Water Quality ManEstonian oil shale operations, aiming The United Nations Global agement for Oil Sands Extraction”. The to clean or even reuse the waters for Compact initiative Support and active cooperation research chair is a joint effort between in-house operations, thus reducing Outotec signed the United with scientific communities Outotec and the companies Kemira and pollution to the Baltic Sea. For these Nations Global Compact Outotec donated EUR 245,000 to FinnSuncor Energy Services, the Canadian challenging waste waters in question, initiative in 2010, comish universities to further enhance the government, and the Alberta Water Reseveral new innovative and state-ofmitting to its principles of level of research and education and to search Institute. The five-year research the-art methods have been applied. human rights, environment, labor, and strengthen the company’s wide coopprogram focuses on water quality anti-corruption. By joining the coreration with the scientific community. management studies to address water Technology Industries of porate responsibility Global Compact consumption, reuse, and recycling by Finland Centennial Foundation initiative, Outotec expresses its intent Sponsorship the in situ oil sands extraction industry. Fund for the Association of Finnish to further advance sustainability and of the Millennium Steel and Metal Producers social responsibility principles in its Technology Prize Cleantech Finland® CLEANTECH Outotec is one of the five founding business practices. In August 2011, Outotec continued its sponsorship of Since its inception, FINLAND members of the Foundation aiming to Outotec submitted its first Communicathe Millennium Technology Prize. In Outotec has been give EUR 300,000 annually in grants tion on Progress (COP) to the United 2010, the prize was awarded to Profesinvolved in developing the Cleantech and scholarships to students and Nations Global Compact initiative. sor Michael Grätzel, who is recognized Finland® brand together with Finpro. university research groups. The fund as the developer of third-generation The Cleantech Finland® brand brings awarded grants for 2011 to the amount Carbon Disclosure Project dye-sensitized solar cells. Grätzel cells Finnish clean energy and environment of EUR 295,750. Outotec are likely to have an important role experts together in an effort to build has particin low-cost, large-scale solutions for clean technologies as part of Finland’s ipated in the Carbon Disclosure Project renewable energy. The next prize will competitive advantage. (CDP) since 2009. The CDP analysis is be awarded in June 2012. based on a questionnaire focusing on © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working 31 Finnish Business is on projects that aim to improve susHuarmey, Peru. The objective of the doand Society tainable development and/or human life. nation was to make the school facilities Outotec is a member In 2011, Outotec continued to sponsuitable and safe for small children and of Finnish Business & Society which sor the renowned Tapiola Choir, which enable them to go to the pre-school in promotes financially, socially, and ecois composed of about 70 young, taltheir own hometown. logically sustainable business in Finented singers and musicians aged 9 Outotec employees and the company land and is a member of CSR Europe, to 18. Outotec also supported a group made a donation to help the victims of CSR 360 Global Partner Network, and of young Finnish architects and archithe flooding in Queensland, Australia, the Global Reporting Initiative. tecture students that aim at creating where many communities were devassocially and ecologically sustainable tated and some families lost everything. Support for children and youth architecture in their Kouk Khleang Outotec donated a dollar for every dolOutotec’s support for local communiYouth Center project in Phnom Penh, lar that Outotec Australian employees ties, whether international, national, Cambodia. Construction of the center donated to this appeal. or local, primarily targets sustainable will begin in January 2012. In 2011, Outotec’s donations to development, arts and music, as well as Donations to charitable causes charitable causes totaled approximately student and youth activities. The focus of included support for the “Estrellita EUR 110,000. ­Outotec’s donations to charitable causes de Mar” pre-school located in Puerto 32 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our way of working Principal international stakeholder organizations Organization Interest area Outotec’s engagement International Copper Association Increase the awareness and usage of copper by communicating Member, member of Environment Program the unique attributes that make this sustainable element an essential Advisory Committee contributor to the formation of life International Zinc Association Improvement of zinc production methods Member International Chromium Association Promote sustainable ferrochrome production Member International Committee on Ferro Alloys Promote the holding of International Ferro Alloy Member Congresses to retain the established high technical standard of the industry. Eurometaux Non-ferrous metals industry in Europe Member via the Association of Finnish Steel and Metal Producers Federation of European Mineral Programs Support international education and research Member Finnish Environmental Cluster for China (FECC) Increase the awareness of Finnish environmental solutions in China Member, consultation European Industrial Research Management Association R&D method management and development Member of the Board Finnish Business and Society Promote financially, socially and ecologically sustainable business in Finland Member Cleantech Finland Promote clean technologies Member since 2009 Baltic Sea Action Group Improving the state of the Baltic Sea Member since 2009 EU IPPC Bureau T W G evaluating the reference values Ensure in cooperation with the Finnish non-ferrous metals industry that the Outotec’s employee member since 2007 for BAT on non-ferrous metals technologies and emission values relating to them are realistic and reachable Excellence Finland Promote sustainable excellence and Member competitiveness in Finland Federation of Finnish Technology Industries Ensure that the Finnish technology industry has the preconditions Member of Technology & Business Working Group, for success in the global marketplace. member of Association of Finnish Steel and Metal Producers, Member of Environmental Working Groups Carbon Disclosure Project Greenhouse gas emissions reduction Reporting since 2009 United Nations Global Compact Business sustainability guidelines Participant since 2010 Global Reporting Initiative Outotec sustainability report 2010 according to GRI guidelines European Technology Platform on Sustainable Mineral Address the future technological and societal challenges in High Level Group participant since 2005 Resources the European minerals industry Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC) Boost cooperation between companies and research institutes Member of the Board Cluster for Energy and Environment (CLEEN) Facilitate and coordinate world class industry driven research Member of the Board in the field of energy and environment © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 33 Our impact Metals and sustainability Though metals and minerals, once The industry’s impact on the environcan result in conflicts with local comenvironmentally sensitive. Production extracted, have a very long usage life ment and on local communities munities that depend on the same processes also create slag and other cycle and are often close to 100 perResource-based industries have great resources. Furthermore, mining and potentially harmful by-products, waste, cent recyclable, their production is potential to assist the economic develmineral work is often carried out in and eco-toxic emissions. often linked to negative impacts on the opment of the communities in which parts of the world that are rich in environment as well as on society. As they operate. The mining industry has, natural resources, yet particularly Read also Industry drivers, p. 36. a provider of technologies and services for example, aided the development of for these industries, we see our role as several areas in the United States, Canan essential contributor to a change for ada, and Australia, as well as helped the better. As part of the varied soluChile to emerge as South America’s tions we offer, we aim to address the most successful economy. Unfortumain sustainability challenges facing nately, there are also many challenges, our customers. such as corruption, that countries face when attempting to translate their Outotec’s role wealth of natural resources into ecoAs a technology company, the bulk of nomic prosperity. Outotec’s impact on the environment Historically, the mining and metals and communities unfolds through our sectors have been heavy consumers of customers. Our primary sustainability energy. For this reason, climate change challenge is therefore to help minimize concerns are a significant risk for the any negative effects our customers’ industry. Energy is often the most operations may have on the social wellsignificant cost in the processes of Oubeing in communities. This includes astotec’s customer industries. Energy acsisting them with reducing their impact counts for around 70 percent of costs in on the surrounding environment and aluminum production, and the energy aiding them in the reuse and recycling consumption of concentrators attached of resources involved in their processes. to mines amount to approximately 50 The minimization of energy and water percent of total operating costs. consumption and the effective utilizaIn many mining regions such as tion of raw materials not only reduce Chile and Australia, the quality and environmental impact but also improve quantity of water also pose problems, profitability. as the water demands of companies 34 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact initiated Outotec’s collaboration with tightly intertwined. When consulting Expert’s view: the Chinese authorities in 2011. our customers, our focus is on the enviOutotec’s contribution Unconventional is the word to deronmental dimension including energy, scribe our cooperation with the Ministry which affects positively the other two. to sustainable growth of of Industry and Information Technology At the seminar we had an opportunity the non-ferrous metals of the People’s Republic of China (MIIT) to present our full technology portfolio and the China Non-ferrous Metals and thereby alternatives to overcome industry in China Industry Association (CNIA), which is the challenges addressed. the non-ferrous industry producers’ Outotec’s Director, Environment & organization. Private company from one Sustainable production gives a social Sustainability, Dr. Ilkka V. Kojo is side without governmental intermedilicense to operate responsible for Outotec’s technology ate consulting the Chinese government The framework for the cooperation is portfolio’s sustainability. He is also is exceptional. that in a global scale China is a major a member of several international Seemingly our recent, large copper producer of metals. For example, some stakeholder organizations such as smelter and secondary copper smelter 25 percent of the world’s copper is Outotec’s Director of Sustainability, Dr. Ilkka the International Copper Association deliveries to China have earned us a produced in China, and for aluminum Kojo, gives us an outline of how the metal proand WFEO Task Group on Sustainable reputation as a technology company the figure is nearly 40 percent, with duction is developing in China and how Outotec is Development and Mining. In addiwith sustainable solutions and a pera notable 25 percent growth rate last supporting the industry development towards the tion, Dr. Kojo has worked closely with spective that always takes the sustainyear. Here lies a global dilemma; the sustainable use of our shared natural resources. the Chinese non-ferrous industry for ability dimension into account. Low world increasingly needs metals, yet ore nearly a decade. emissions and low energy consumption grades are declining and need to be prohave been the absolute precondition for cessed with more advanced technology. processes in which the energy conToday we are facing the ecological limits all new smelter projects in China. Metal producers in China − as tained in the raw materials is utilized of the planet. It now takes the Earth 1.5 To kick-off cooperation we teamed elsewhere − require technologies that and recycled. This also minimizes the years to regenerate what we use in a up in a two-day seminar we organized enable the highest recovery with minienvironmental footprint, as it is easy to year. Fortunately awareness of this dein Beijing in December 2011. The meetmal use of energy. We have translated collect the process gases and capture velopment has started to steer decision ing was convened by the CNIA on behalf this requirement into our mission the contained emissions. making in the energy intensive mining of the MIIT. Some 30 local influencstatement “Sustainable use of Earth’s The CNIA is preparing a draft of and metals industry around the world. ers from the non-ferrous industry and natural resources”. We at Outotec have the emission control legislation to the We are now in the situation where universities as well as representatives the technologies and the systematic, MIIT to fulfill the sustainability targets the use of the best available techniques from MIIT addressed the most promiholistic view of the process to solve the required by China’s 12th Five-Yearand modern infrastructure need to be nent sustainability issues and demands challenge stated above. Plan. It forces non-ferrous industry to demanded also by legislation in orset by the 12th Chinese Five-Year-Plan. It is like a puzzle where every piece further cut down energy consumption der to cut down energy consumption The challenges deal with three dimenhas its seamless place. For example and emissions and to improve resource and thereby emissions of the industry. sions of sustainability: social, environOutotec’s Flash Smelting and Flash efficiency. In most cases those three These issues are the very ones that mental, and economic, all which are Converting used for copper are sealed go hand in hand, and that is where © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 35 Outotec’s solutions can tackle some of say that we have been one of the key the non-ferrous industry in China, EU, the legislation is still inconsistent, the issues. players in improving the non-ferrous or anywhere in the world, is facing. currently merely in forms of Directives, For that purpose the MIIT and the industry’s environmental performance Another environmental concern is the which allow member countries some CNIA ordered us to evaluate the Chiin China. so called red mud, a residue of refinfreedom in their adoption. However, a nese copper, nickel, zinc, and aluminum For example, the Yanggu Xianging bauxite in order to provide alumina step forward was the Industrial Emissmelters’ emission levels with the guang Copper smelter (2007) located for the aluminum production. China sions Directive (IED), which was adoptequivalent European ones. According to in the delicate rural area is a showcase being the biggest aluminum producer ed in November 2010. The principles of the assessment, the situation in China of the state-of-the-art copper smelter in the world, the country’s waste isthis directive were also the basis for the is quite close to the levels in Europe. operating one Flash Smelting and one sue is severe. Typically an alumina assessment we delivered to the CNIA. Only the mercury and cadmium levels Flash Converting lines. It competes refining plant produces one to two The IED specified the role of the permitted in China are still ten-fold. neck and neck with any copper smelter times as much red mud as alumina. BREF documents and BAT technoloIn general, the environmental perin the U.S. or Japan, which are known In China that averages to over 30 gies that give information on a specific formance of the Chinese non-ferrous to be the cleanest in the world due to million tonnes of toxic red mud that industrial sector, techniques and proindustry is relatively good after making very strict legislation and our technolis pumped into ponds, which takes cesses, current emission and congreat progress in energy conservaogy. Traditional producer countries up land area that cannot be used for sumption levels, techniques to consider tion and emission reduction by closing Australia and Chile are far behind with farming or housing now or later. in the determination of the best availdown ‘backward’ production facilities the permitted emissions, and some From the environmental point of able techniques (BAT), and associated and allowing foreign, advanced techproduction facilities have been closed view, there is a lot to be achieved in emission levels. Currently a total of 20 nologies during the previous Five-Yeardown for environmental reasons. In this area. The ultimate goal is to utilize of Outotec’s processes are BATs, and Plan period. Yanggu, Outotec processes combined the red mud as a raw material for we have had an active role in defining Today, e.g. 95 percent of the copper with sulfuric acid plants can capture iron production, because it contains a the BREF document. is produced with modern technology 99.99 percent of the sulfur. dominant amount of oxidized iron, but As a technology company without in China. The remaining 5 percent are In fact, the mining industry contribat the moment that is still a future sceown production, our own emissions are those small scale backward plants with utes to 1.8 percent of global carbon nario. Meanwhile, Outotec has to offer not that much of an issue in a global insufficient resources for emission dioxide (CO2) emissions, less than the methods to remove heavy metals and scale. Instead, we consider having a control, and they will therefore lose public perception anticipates. The adopalkaline to lower the environmental vital indirect role in supporting our custheir license to operate in a few years. tion of BAT technologies could save burden of the red mud. That technology tomers to lower the environmental footUntil today, the problem has been another 280–460 million tonnes of CO2 could really have potential in China and print of their operations. And, how do insufficient law enforcement by the loemissions in iron & steel, aluminum, was discussed in the seminar. we do that? By determinedly developing cal authorities who have allowed poor and non-ferrous metals production. That new technologies that ensure sustainaenvironmental performance. The legshould, of course, be a target globally! New Industrial Emissions Directive ble minerals and metals processing and islation will be revised this year or the harmonizing the environmental a global society as healthy as possible. next, and the enforcement has been Enabling the cleanest possible permission levels in the EU countries In our global society the geographical or shifted from regional to governmental operations China is revising their environmental political borders do not matter. level, eliminating “free-riders”. Still, emission control is just one legislation − and the EU is creating its Without any chest pounding we can aspect of the sustainability issues own. In the environmentally conscious 36 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact Industry drivers Outotec believes that the increasing awareness of sustainability is the most Industry drivers important megatrend driving industries 1. Ore grades are declining and today. This trend can be seen not only the demand for metals is inin developed economies but also in creasing. In order to meet the emerging and developing markets. demand, more ore needs to be Much of global development can processed with more advanced be attributed to metals and minerals. technology. However, the society is confronted by a 2. Making metals requires a lot dilemma: the need for metals is growof energy, and energy costs ing, while there is a great concern over are constantly climbing. More the environmental impacts of producing energy-efficient processes are them. As a technology company, we at needed. Outotec believe that this dilemma can 3. Mining and metallurgical be resolved. industries are major emitters of Decision-makers have realized CO2 and eco-toxic substances. that the current exploitation of nature Cleaner solutions must be cannot continue. Increasing energy developed. consumption and criticism against 4. Water availability and pollution nuclear power plants, pollution, and are critical issues. Advanced lack of clean water are growing issolutions for water cleaning, sues that need to be addressed. At the conservation, and recycling are same time, employee health and safety needed. requirements are increasing. All of the 5. Peak oil is approaching. Oil is aforementioned developments stimuexpected to run out by 2050 with late increased investment into sustaincurrent production rates; thus, able solutions, a trend that we believe alternative sources are needed. will continue to strengthen over time. 6. The need for recycling is growThe companies producing minering, thus requiring new techals, metals, and materials face many nologies for turning scrap and challenges and require a social license waste into products. to operate. We have identified six trends that act as drivers of sustainable development. These contribute to an increased demand for new technology, presenting great opportunities for Outotec’s technologies and solutions. Read also Metals and sustainability, p. 33. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 37 Risks and opportunities Outotec’s business environment is imness operations. In turn, the Project Climate change poses risks which may be a cause of the cap and pacted by the fact that while developed Board is primarily responsible for the and opportunities trade schemes, also compromise our economies are stagnating, emerging risk assessment procedure. FurtherWe continuously look for new business customer’s competitiveness. countries keep growing fast, especially more, Outotec’s Technology Manageopportunities to address the challenges Outotec’s technologies are designed China. This accelerates urbanization, ment function includes a team that that our customers are facing. These to improve the efficiency of our customthe growth of middle class, and the use concentrates on the environment and challenges include improved energy efers’ processes and therefore help them of natural resources. The exhaustion sustainability. ficiency, reducing CO2 and other emisaddress these risks. They help customof natural resources as well as a new The risks and opportunities dissions, as well as improved recovery of ers to reduce emissions to air, water, energy paradigm, where oil is expected cussed below are those that have been metals and greater efficiency in the and soil, and thus help them control the to run out by 2050 and nuclear power deemed as key risks by management utilization of raw materials in general. financial implications of regulatory risk. is being abandoned by many countries, and which bear a strong link to sustainWe also assess the water consumption For instance, energy savings, which requires improvement in the ecoability. Outotec has defined a risk to in our customers’ processes. lead to reduced carbon emissions, efficiency of resources and materials. be anything that may have an impact We aim to capitalize on these opmake customers less vulnerable to Awareness is increasing in environon the company’s business activities. portunities to introduce technology fuel and energy taxes and regulations. mental, social, and economic sustainWhile risks can be threats, uncertainimprovements or develop new technolThese include international, national, ability all over the world. Furthermore, ties, or lost opportunities, they may ogies that mitigate climate change and regional, or state regulations on emisthere is a trend of outsourcing non-core also be potential opportunities. Outopromote sustainability. By successfully sions, carbon taxes, as well as cap and activities. This means that networking tec’s risk management policy defines a implementing our technologies and trade schemes. and partnerships will be increasingly balanced risk profile from the perspecsolutions to address customer chalIn order to help customers reduce important, both for our clients and us, tive of all stakeholder groups. lenges, Outotec’s references increase, their exposure to emissions and enin R&D and tailoring solutions. The Strategic and business risks are which also enhance competitiveness. ergy related regulatory risks, Outotec industry is consolidating, resulting in associated with the nature of the busiWhile climate change presents provides proven environmentally sound fewer but bigger customers, and comness and are often difficult to quantify. Outotec with attractive business opand energy saving solutions that meet petition will further increase. Among other areas, strategic risks portunities, some risks may affect our environmental standards and regulaFrom an environmental, social, relate to Outotec’s business portfolio, customers and therefore indirectly Outions. Regulatory opportunities can and governance perspective, Outomarket position, and major investtotec. International, national, regional, help Outotec grow its business because tec’s greatest risks and opportunities ments. Business risks are connected to or state regulations on emissions may inefficient mining and metallurgical unfold through our customers. Within the operating environment, customers’ present risks, and excessively strict processes need to be replaced with Outotec, an in-house system of risk and subcontractors’ operations, and limits on emissions can threaten the new technologies. Outotec’s solutions, management is in place throughout the overall economic outlook. operations and existence of some for instance, help cushion customers company to identify operational risks Outotec follows up on environmental customers. Furthermore, cap and trade against carbon taxes and secure their and opportunities. The Board of Direclegislation, competitors’ technologies, schemes may force our clients to move competitiveness. Furthermore, with the tors is responsible for the company’s and best available techniques, as well operations into areas with less strincarbon trade mechanisms, customers risk management procedures and for as our own operations and solutions gent regulations, and in some cases utilizing Outotec’s technologies may ensuring that risks are taken into acofferings. excessively strict regulation may lead have the opportunity to turn the CO2 count in strategic planning and busito plant closure. High energy prices, savings into a profit and obtain emis38 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact sion reduction credits (ERCs). Outoour technology solutions, a task that is areas now focus on improving energy increasing. In order to be less dependtec’s customers will not be threatened carried out both in-house and in coopand water efficiency, carbon dioxide ent on the cycles of the mining and by tighter environmental regulation eration with universities and research reductions, waste management, and metals industries, Outotec has begun to and will be able to indicate that their institutes globally. In 2011, Outotec’s life cycle services. pursue opportunities to deliver its techproduction requires less energy and R&D expenditure was EUR 33.5 million. Many growth opportunities are seen nologies to other process industries. results in fewer emissions than their We also plan to acquire new technoloin adjacent industries, such as the competitors. In the future, a premium gies to meet the customer needs. energy sector, for environmental solumay be placed on clean production, but Outotec revised its operational tions, including industrial water treatstrictly speaking the main benefits are model in spring 2010 for the purpose of ment. New opportunities in environmaintaining a license to operate, lower better addressing the growing sustainmental technologies, such as materials operation costs, and improved recovery. ability challenges our customers face. recycling, renewable energy solutions, We work in close partnership with As a response to the increasing signifiand waste management as well as our customers to continuously develop cance of climate change, all business industrial water treatment, are steadily © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 39 Sustainability driver Opportunity for Outotec Risk for the customer and/or Outotec Ore grades are declining, ores are more complex and more difficult to process. Average copper ore grade is 0.8%, which is 20% less than Outotec’s vast knowledge of mineralogy and process technologies, as Developing new incremental technologies is expensive and takes ten years ago, and it is forecasted to fall further to 0.65% by well as comprehensive R&D facilities enable the company to develop time. If Outotec fails to develop new technologies or keep its 2020. To produce one tonne of copper requires 30 more tonnes new process solutions for lowgrade and complex ores. Outotec’s portfolio competitive, it may lose business. Customers’ operations of ore to be milled, which also results in an increased amount technologies enable efficient ore processing and higher yield thanks require sufficient amounts of water, coal, fossil fuels, rock and of tailings and the consumption of energy and water. to advanced process control in the grinding and flotation phases. mineral resources. Any changes related to the availability or the Customers replace inefficient mining and metallurgical processes price of these commodities has financial implications. The operawith new technologies. There are increased business opportunities tional costs (energy and water) may rise too high for the customers also for energy and water efficient solutions. and they may need to close down some operations, which could also reduce Outotec’s business. Making metals is energy-intensive and energy costs are constantly climbing. Minerals and metals processing is very energy-intensive. Several Outotec technologies are rated BATs by the EU thanks to Price changes prompted by resource scarcity, energy shortages, The GHG emissions in this industry are mainly related to their energy-efficiency and low CO2 emissions. Outotec designs sealed and changes in consumer attitude imply high financial risks for our energy use. Roughly 7% (2008) of the world’s energy is used by processes that utilize the energy contained in the raw materials. customers and subsequently for Outotec. If in consumers’ point of the metals sector and will increase due to falling ore grades. For example, the adoption of best practice technologies in iron and view the CO2 footprint from plastic is smaller than from aluminum Grinding mills alone take up 10% of Australia’s total steel, aluminum and non-ferrous metals production worldwide would or copper, they might change attitudes and buying habits, which energy consumption. reduce CO2 emissions annually by 280–460 million tonnes (IEA 2007; would risk our customers’ and Outotec’s business. Tracking Industrial Energy Efficiency and CO2 Emissions). Through Outotec’s technology solutions impacts of carbon taxes for our clients are cushioned and their competitiveness secured. Cleaner solutions need to be developed. Sulfur – being a constituent in many ores – is released as Outotec’s sustainable technologies guarantee license to operate Too strict laws and regulation can result in unprofitable operation sulfur dioxide (SO2) in smelting and refining. Metals industry far into the future and make it easier for the producers to get financand the customer may lose its license to operate. If Outotec fails emits annually over 13 million tonnes of SO2, with the largest ing for their investment. Modern metallurgical processes combined to provide competitive solutions for the customer, it may lose amounts in Peru, Chile, Russia and Australia. SO2 emissions with sulfuric acid plants can capture 99.99% of the sulfur. Efficient gas business. have a significant local impact. Fine particulate matter emiscleaning captures mercury, arsenic, antimony, bismuth, and lead from sions to air cause health problems. Heavy metals in hazardous off-gases, and sealed processes minimize fugitive emissions. Outotec dusts and fumes can cause occupational exposure. Eco-toxic is continuously working to further develop its technologies and to substances from metallurgical operations impact air quality, innovate new ones, and therefore the company is well positioned water and soil. in the competition. 40 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact Sustainability driver Opportunity for Outotec Risk for the customer and/or Outotec Availability of water and water pollution. Availability of water is becoming a critical issue at many mine Outotec has technologies which lead to significant reduction in fresh Customers who have operations in areas of drought may be forced sites, because when ore grade declines by 20%, water conwater consumption, recycling of process water and decrease in water to close down their operations, which may reduce Outotec’s busisumption increases respectively. For example, processing one loss. For example, advanced filters separate water from concentrates ness.If Outotec fails to develop new water-efficient applications, tonne of ore requires 3,500 liters of water, one tonne of nickel energy-efficiently. Paste thickening separates water from tailings and it may not be able to grow its business. 377,000 Iiters of water in a hydrometallurgical process, and reduces water consumption by approximately 10%. Paste can directly one tonne of gold 252 million Iiters of water. Furthermore, minbe used as a back fill in the mine. The company is also developing new ing and metals extraction can impact nature due to discharges applications for industrial effluent treatment and cooperating with of contaminated water. Kemira in developing solutions for water-intensive industrial applications. Peak oil is approaching. Global energy demand is expected to increase by 44% in the Outotec has some technologies which enable environmentally sustainToo high energy prices due to carbon taxation and emission tradnext two decades (EIA, 2009). With the current rate of producable use of oil shale, oil sand and bio fuels as new alternative energy ing schemes can cause our clients to lose their competitiveness tion, the industry estimates that conventional oil reserves will sources, and the company is developing new applications and stop operation. If the first oil shale processing reference plant be exhausted in 40 years. The world’s proven oil shale reserves in cooperation with Eesti Energia, Kemira, and some other compausing Enefit technology fails, Outotec’s growth opportunities will are 3 trillion barrels, many-fold compared to conventional oil nies, universities and research institutes. The demand for sustainable reduce. If the environmental regulation will tighten so much that reserves. Current methods for oil shale and oil sand processtechnologies for alternative energy sources is increasing and Outotec oil shale and oil sand processing will not be allowed, Outotec may ing are inefficient in oil recovery, energy and water consumpcan expand its business in the energy sector. lose business. There is also a risk that the development of new tion and have a substantial impact on the environment. technologies will not succeed. The need for recycling is increasing. Metals are almost 100% recyclable, and this potential is not Outotec can grow its business by selling solutions for the production If the industry does not succeed in organizing the recycling of scrap fully taken advantage of. Product lifetime is becoming shorter, of metals from secondary materials, such as electronic waste, metaland waste properly, opportunities for Outotec may be reduced. and thus the need of recycling is growing. Manufacturing new lic scrap, cabling, and battery paste/scrap. Outotec’s technologies are products from recycled metal consumes much less energy used for the recovery of metals from residues, fume dusts and waste than from virgin metal. There is also a need for the recycling stockpiles at production sites. They utilize raw materials efficiently of process water and turning waste into products. reducing the amount of emissions, residues and waste. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 41 Impact of our products and services Outotec innovates, develops, and delivModern metallurgical processes Several Outotec technologies are best technology solutions, impacts of carbon ers solutions which utilize natural combined with sulfuric acid plants can available techniques (BAT) rated by the taxes for our clients are cushioned and resources and raw materials efficiently, capture 99.99 percent of the sulfur. EffiEU thanks to their energy-efficiency and their competitiveness secured. reduce energy and water consumption, cient gas cleaning captures mercury, arlow emissions. Outotec designs sealed produce less waste and emissions, as senic, antimony, bismuth, and lead from processes that utilize the energy conProducts and services that address well as minimize the plant’s lifetime off-gases, and sealed processes minitained in the raw materials. For examcustomers’ challenges operating costs. Through our vast mize fugitive emissions. In metallurgical ple, adoption of best-practice technoloThe industries in which our customers experience and in-house R&D centers, processing, energy is the most signifigies in iron and steel, aluminum, and operate face many crucial and growing we have the ability to tailor processes cant cost item and the main reason for non-ferrous metals production worldchallenges. At the present time, ore for different raw materials, test and CO2 emissions. Outotec designs sealed wide would reduce CO2 emissions annugrades are declining, more efficient scale up, and develop new processes processes that utilize the energy conally by 280–460 million tonnes (IEA 2007; energy consumption is essential, and for complex raw materials. We have a tained in the raw materials. The annual Tracking Industrial Energy Efficiency the availability of water and natural strong portfolio of world-class technolemissions avoided by the metallurgical and CO2 Emissions). Through Outotec’s resources is at risk. Peak oil is rapidly ogies for the entire value chain of proindustry through use of five Outotec approaching, carbon dioxide emissions cessing ore to refined metals. Each of technologies (ferrochrome production, need to be drastically reduced, and reOutotec’s technological developments copper flash smelting, alumina calcinaOutotec’s BAT-rated products: cycling is increasingly essential. These has the potential to reduce the envitions, ceramic filters, and cogeneration • Flash smelting and flash converting circumstances mean that the demand ronmental impact of a large number of in ferrochrome process) amounted to for copper and nickel for sustainable technologies is growing. • Zinc direct leaching industrial operations worldwide. 4.8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalency • Electrolytic refining of copper, nickel, zinc In this global situation, we see opportuOur concentrator technologies en(CO2-e) in 2011. In addition, Outotec’s • Direct reduction of iron ore fines nities to apply our wide technology platable efficient ore processing and higher new CO filter enables the use of process • Traveling grate process for iron ore form even more broadly and tap unused yield thanks to an advanced process gas in direct electricity generation. pelletizing market potential. • Emission optimized sintering for iron ores control in the grinding and flotation Once a plant is built and commis• Ferrochrome process phases. Outotec has technologies sioned, we assist the customer by • Alumina calcination Product safety which lead to a significant reduction in providing services and technological • Aluminum smelting (rodding plant, As a leading provider of technology, fresh water consumption, recycling of improvements to maintain the plant so green paste plant) Outotec has established a Technology • Partial roasting of copper concentrate process water, and a decrease in water that it will run smoothly, safely, and ef• Zinc roasting in fluidized bed and Plant Safety management process loss. For example, advanced filters sepficiently at all times. • Pyrite roasting to ensure that all products engineered arate water from concentrates energyThrough hundreds of successful • Sulfuric acid production (single/double and delivered by the company worldefficiently. Paste thickening separates projects, we have made a significant absorption) wide are reliable and meet all applied • Spent acid regeneration water from tailings and reduces water global impact by creating new revenue • Wet electrostatic precipitator safety standards during all phases of consumption by approximately 10 streams, reducing our customers’ • Top submerged lance technology the life cycle. The equipment fulfill percent. Paste can be used directly as a carbon footprints, and increasing wellthe safety related industrial standards back fill in the mine. being in local communities. such as ISO 12100, IEC 62061 for the 42 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact safety of machinery and all required by examination of HAZOP according IEC and safety information according to incustomers are offered maintenance as European directives such as 1997/23/ 61882 and SIL-Allocation Assessments dustry standards. In industrial processa service package. EG, 2009/105/EG, 2006/42/EG, 94/9/ are mandatory at Outotec. We provide es, safety is an integrated part of the We also provide training services to EG (ATEX), 2004/108/EG, 2006/95/EG, information to our customers about the operational manuals. Outotec manuals our customers, including safety training. and IEC 61508, IEC 61511 for process impacts of our products and services cover the entire delivery, follow the new plants. Detection of hazards such as (e.g. their energy consumption, emisIEC 82079-1 standard, and contain inRead also Industry drivers, p. 36. explosion, fire, and lightning followed sions, metal recovery, and water usage) formation on maintenance. In addition, Outotec’s expertise in a value chain from natural resources to minerals, metals, energy, water, and other materials Natural Minerals processing Metallurgical processing Industrial minerals/ resources Grinding Sintering and pelletizing concentrates (ores, Flotation Smelting and refining minerals, Filtration Direct and smelting reduction Copper biomass, Physical separation Calcination Nickel oil shale/sand, Thickening and clarification Roasting and off-gas handling water) Analyzers and process automation Leaching and solution purification Zinc Solvent extraction Electrorefining and electrowinning Cobalt Process control Precious metals Chemicals Aluminum Sulfuric acid production Ferroalloys Water treatment Pellets/sinter Neutralization, effluent treatment, drinking water DRI/HBI/Pig Iron Energy Combustion and gasification, heat recovery, gas handling, Sulfuric acid bio energy, oil sand and oil shale processing Water Services Shale oil Expert services, spare parts and maintenance, operation, Char modernization and expansion, life cycle service contracts Energy © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 43 Ecological footprint of our operations Outotec operates globally, mainly in ofBusiness travel Energy consumption, TJ 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator fices which are located in 25 countries. GHG emissions from air travel are Direct energy consumption: 22.2 25.6 11.5 EN3 In addition, the operations include two the biggest single source of Outotec’s Propane gas 8.7 9.8 0.02 research centers in Finland and Geremissions. Therefore, 25 new video many, two manufacturing workshops conferencing systems were installed in Light fuel oil 0.5 0.5 0.4 in Finland, assembly shops in Canada, 2011 in Outotec’s facilities to reduce air Coal, coke, semi coke 0.4 1.0 1.1 China, and the USA, a ceramic plate travel. Flights to visit customers are an Natural gas 6.7 8.2 6.2 production plant in Finland, and some integral part of Outotec’s business, by Diesel and gasoline 5.9 6.1 3.8 warehouses. However, the majority of which means Outotec also contributes Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced. indirectly to avoid emissions through Indirect energy consumption: 119.3 124.4 90.0 EN4 The bulk of Outotec’s operations the use of Outotec’s technology soluElectricity (incl. cooling* 67.0 67.6 51.3 involve engineering and business mantions and services. The positive impact District heating 50.3 53.4 35.6 agement, the environmental impact of of Outotec’s business travels can be Steam 2.0 3.4 3.2 which is relatively small and is manbest illustrated by comparing Outotec’s Total energy consumption 141.5 150.0 101.6 EN3, EN4 aged through the use of unit-specific annual greenhouse gas emissions in environmental and quality management 2011 (26,025 tonnes CO2-e) with emis* MWh converted to TJ: 18,605 MWh (2011), 18,770 MWh (2010), 14,258 MWh (2009) systems. In addition, at our workshop in sions avoided through our goods and Turula and at our Pori Research Center, services (4,800,000 tonnes CO2-e). we are committed to the Federation of Outotec has paid attention to the use Greenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator Finnish Technology Industries’ energy of responsible air carriers and hotels. Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, 2,841 2,993 1,659 EN16 efficiency program. No spills were 90 percent of the flights used by Outocompany cars) reported from these activities in 2011. tec employees are operated by LufthanDespite the strong business growth sa and other Star Alliance members Scope 2 emissions (purchased heat and 8,323 10,212 6,933 EN16 electricity) and increased number of personnel and Finnair. For instance, Lufthansa in 2011, our total energy consumption and Finnair use a relatively new fleet. Scope 3 emissions (air travel and commuting) 14,861 11,049 9,512 EN17 decreased from 2010. When Outotec makes agreements with Total greenhouse gas emissions 26,025 24,254 18,104 EN16 In 2011, Outotec made four acquisihotels, the hotels that have a social reGreenhouse gas emissions avoided through 4,800,000 4,200,000 4,100,000 EN18 tions that contributed to an increase of sponsibility policy and system in place use of Outotec technologies scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) are preferred. emissions. Due to increased business activities, scope 3 GHG emissions from air travel rose. 44 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact Materials used, tonnes 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator Company cars in Finland 2011 2010 2009 2008 GRI indicator Paper 90.8 100.1 92.1 EN1 Company car emissions, g CO2-e/km 134 147 173 191 EN16 Reduction from 2008, % 30 23 9 Waste, tonnes 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator The CO2 emission limit for company cars in Finland was 180 g/km in 2011. Waste recycled 1,949.7 1,480.3 843 EN22 Landfill waste and incinerated waste 1,086.5 678.3 584.9 EN22 Targets related to environmental performance Hazardous waste 23.5 27.3 25.5 EN22, EN24 Total waste 3,059.7 2,185.9 1,453.4 EN22 Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Paper recycled 98.3 96.3 59.8 EN22 Increase video con25 new video conDouble the use of video EN18 ferencing globally ferencing systems conferencing facilities and introduce 20 new installed globally to from 2011 level. A small amount of hazardous waste is formed in the final surface treatment of installations. reduce air travel. filter presses in the Lappeenranta works. In addition, oily waste from lubricants Study the possibilities to EN18 used in the Turula works is hazardous. The hazardous waste is sent for treatment increase the sustainability of to local hazardous waste treatment facilities. our own operations e.g. telecommuting i.e. remote work Water consumption, m3/year 2010 2010 2009 GRI indicator from home (social and environmental impacts). (NEW) Total water withdrawal 55,997 43,774 30,305 EN8 Water is purchased locally from municipal water suppliers, and waste water is Local unit-specific targets sent to municipal waste water systems. Because our workshops are mainly asIn addition to the common Outotec-wide targets, we have local or unit-specific sembly shops, no process water is discharged. targets regarding the energy efficiency of operations. The Outotec Research Center and the Turula works in Finland are committed to the Federation of Finnish Energy consumption and emissions 2011 2010 2009 GRI indicator Technology Industries’ energy efficiency agreements 2008–2016 and plan to save in Finnish units (Research Center 9 percent in energy consumption compared to the baseline year 2006. Actions in Pori and Turula works) taken to achieve the targeted savings include the implementation of energy efficient air conditioning and heating at the new production facilities in Turula and Energy consumption, TJ 40.3 44.5 46.8 EN3, EN4 the refurbishment of the ventilation system at the main building at the research Energy saved due to efficiency 7.6 3.4 1.1 EN5, EN7 center. improvements, TJ Outotec’s target in Finland is to reduce company cars’ emissions per km by Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 2,703 2,983 3,140 EN16 18 percent by 2013 compared with the base year 2008. Read also Management approach, p. 10. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 45 Economic impact Through solid financial performance, Strong growth in 2011 the business operations, our profitone-time costs and purchase price Outotec benefits all company stake2011 was a record year for Outotec in ability continued to develop towards our allocations of acquired businesses, holders. Profitable business enables terms of financial performance. Growth long-term target. to be at 10 percent on average; and growth and development of the busiin the emerging markets, coupled with • to maintain a strong balance sheet ness as well as prosperity of owners growing sustainability requirements, Financial targets in order for the company to have and employees. Through providing encouraged our customers to invest in Outotec’s long-term financial targets to operational flexibility and to execute sustainable solutions to our customnew technologies, capacity, and serensure continuous profitable growth are acquisitions. ers, we create jobs and wealth locally vices. This resulted in an all-time high • to grow faster than the market in countries where we operate or where order intake and strong organic sales resulting in a compound average anIn addition, we aim to grow the sales of our customers’ projects are located. growth. We achieved the financial tarnual sales growth of 10–20 percent; our services to an annual level of EUR gets that we had set for 2011. Despite • annual operating profit margin 500 million by the end of 2015. significant investments in developing from business operations, excluding Added value to stakeholders Generation of added value Distribution of added value Employees + Customers Wages and salaries Sales EUR 1,385.6 million EUR 284.4 million Public sector Suppliers Direct taxes Cost of goods, materials and EUR 33.5 million services purchased EUR 966.5 million Creditors Interest on debt and = EUR 419.1 million borrowings EUR 6.6 million Added value Shareholders Dividends EUR 34.3 million 46 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact Tax expenses which EUR 29.1 million in 2011 (2010: Outotec’s target as defined in the Donations Outotec pays taxes to 24 governments EUR 30.2 million), came from outside company’s dividend policy is to distribAccording to Outotec’s donation policy, in countries where the company either Finland. The most significant countries ute at least 40 percent of annual net the focus of donations is on global has its own operations or customer in terms of current tax expenses in income of the preceding financial year projects that aim to improve sustainprojects. Our tax rate and taxes paid in 2011 were Chile, Australia, Finland, and per share as dividends. able development and/or human life. a certain year vary according to large Germany, whereas in 2010 the respecOur profitability from business Outotec will not give donations to projects under implementation or comtive countries were Germany, Chile, operations improved in 2011. Earnings individuals, political parties or pressure pleted in that particular year and the Australia, and South Africa. per share were EUR 1.75 (2010: EUR groups, religious organizations, or any legislation of the country in which the 0.59). Earnings per share in 2010 were organizations showing or encouraging project is located. Dividends impacted by the one-time costs related any type of prejudice (for example raOur income tax expenses in 2011 toThe value of Outotec’s share sank 21 to the company’s cost savings program. cial, sexual, or religious). Outotec does taled EUR 34.0 million (2010: EUR 10.4 percent on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki in The Annual General Meeting decided not give political contributions. million). These expenses include taxes 2011, and the closing price at the end of that a dividend of EUR 0.85 per share Outotec’s donations to charitable paid on the basis of local tax legislation, the year was EUR 36.40 (Dec 31, 2010: be paid out for 2011. This is a total of causes amounted to approximately EUR tax adjustments from previous years EUR 46.24). At the same time, the NASEUR 38.9 million, and it will be paid to 110,000 in 2011. and the effect of annual change in deDAQ OMX Helsinki portfolio index, OMX shareholders in April 2012 (dividends ferred taxes. The direct taxes (current Helsinki CAP, decreased 24 percent. paid for 2010: EUR 34.3 million). Read more about Outotec’s financial performance taxes in Outotec’s consolidated finanOutotec’s market capitalization at in Outotec Financial Statements 2011. cial statements) were EUR 33.5 million year-end was EUR 1,666 million (Dec in 2011 (2010: EUR 30.9 million), out of 31, 2010: EUR 2,117 million). © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 47 Impact of our supply chain At Outotec the supply chain has historiManufacturing suppliers. We therefore aim to develop Outotec’s supplier policy. This process cally been managed on a project-byOwn workshops 10% long-term relationships with selected was piloted in 2011, and it will be project basis. In 2011, Outotec estabSuppliers 90% suppliers and establish procedures refined and globally deployed in 2012. lished global supply chain management to ensure that results meet with our As a technology company, ­Outotec as a key strategic pillar for the compaexpectations. needs high-quality suppliers. In ny and streamlined its supply activities. In 2011, Outotec defined its Supplier ­Outotec’s customer projects, also the Policy and launched it globally. Outotec locally sourced subcontractors need Supply chain management expects its suppliers to comply with this to be trained specialists, and therefore Outotec sees its supply chain as enpolicy in their dealings with Outotec, the risk profile regarding affront/violacompassing both our own activities and their own employees and suppliers, as tion of human rights is relatively low. the management of our suppliers. We well as with third parties. The policy However, more emphasis will be put deliver large tailored solutions to our covers ethical conduct, compliance with on supplier selection procedures in customers all over the world and hence laws and regulations, environmental, the future to improve our supply chain use various suppliers in our projects. Supplies by category health and safety performance, labor management and thus also our susIn 2011, Outotec spent approximately Components and relations (e.g. no child or forced labor), tainability performance. EUR 967 million on external sourcing. systems 29% respecting intellectual property, imSome 90 percent of manufacturing Metal products and proper benefits, conflicts of interest, as Safety in field operations basic materials 28% is sourced from external suppliers. well as sub-suppliers and management Safety is an important aspect in Small parts, The remaining 10 percent of Outotec’s support materials system. Suppliers are requested to ­Outotec’s field operations at custommanufacturing takes place in the comand services 25% continuously improve their competence ers’ sites. Outotec’s project manager is pany’s three manufacturing workshops Indirect purchases 15% in providing Outotec reliable, cost-effecresponsible for the company’s own and in Finland and three assembly shops Plastic and fiber tive, and innovative services and goods. subcontractors’ site activities and folproducts and linings 3% located in China, the USA, and Canada. Furthermore, they are expected to lows the management of environmental Besides managing our own manumonitor compliance with Outotec policy, issues, safety, systematic practices, facturing facilities, we also operate identify any area which does not comply and cleanliness. All Outotec’s project construction sites on behalf of our Sustainability aspects in supply chain with it, and implement improvements to and service specialists follow the cuscustomers. For this reason, installaSupplier selection is of key imporachieve compliance, as well as provide tomer’s safety regulations at site. From tion and services comprise an importance in Outotec’s business. Outotec status, related improvement actions, the occupational safety standpoint, the tant part of our supply chain. On the gives performance guarantees for and supporting information to Outotec. greatest risks are associated with work supplier side, Outotec’s supply chain the plants and processes we deliver From a wide variety of procedures assignments in countries that have management encompasses supplier to our customers. Naturally, Outotec existing earlier within the company, little awareness of safety issues and selection and project purchasing. is responsible for the equipment and Outotec developed in 2011 one Outoteca weak occupational safety culture. In materials supplied as well as engineerwide standardized supplier qualification these countries, Outotec employees are ing and construction work provided by process, which systematically includes instructed to follow the company’s own our subcontractors and project-specific sustainability aspects as specified in occupational safety principles. 48 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact In its main locations, Outotec provides training in occupational safety for all employees whose work involves or will involve participating in installation, commissioning, maintenance, or general site operations related to plants, equipment, or services delivered by Outotec to its customers. The objective of the training is to teach employees hazard recognition and methods of preventive action and to improve practical collaboration between the customer and supplier organizations on shared sites. In 2011, we launched a new Technology and Plant Safety Management process, which is mandatory in all Outotec entities. By following the new Technology and Plant Safety Management process as well as the HAZOP and SIL methods (worldwide known methods to analyze risks for personnel and environment within process plants), we ensure that we deliver a safe product which causes no harm to human beings or the environment. Our manufacturing/assembly shops Outotec operates three manufacturing workshops in Finland and assembly shops located in China, the USA, and Canada. These facilities have unitspecific local quality, health, and safety systems in place, and they care of proper sorting and further handling of wastes, including hazardous wastes. There were no operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, forced, or compulsory labor. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Our impact 49 Location of major suppliers Outotec uses thousands of suppliers sourcing category management. FurIn 2011, the specific sustainability EMEA 79% around the world for our customers’ thermore, it leads and develops sourcrelated targets in relation to activities The Americas 8% projects. These include mechanical ing activities with locally based purwith suppliers was to define, commuAsia Pacific 13% workshops, component manufacturers, chasing for projects and services. nicate, and make the Outotec supplier and local construction and engineering policy publically available. In addition, a companies. The majority of purchasTargets regarding supplier activities project was initiated to harmonize the ing (approximately 79%) takes place in Outotec started to systematically imsupplier assessment process across the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East, prove the supply chain management in the company and to cover the sustainAfrica). 2010. This also included the creation of ability aspects. This process has been Outotec has defined Supply as a a Supply function and redefining Outodeveloped and piloted with a few supCoverage: 70% strategic function, and it is highly pritec’s supply practices. This long-term pliers. The target for 2012 is to refine oritized as a development area in the supply initiative in itself sets the basis the process and to deploy it globally. company’s strategy, which builds and for a systematic development of the manages the supplier base through sustainability of Outotec’s supply. Read also Impact of our supply chain, p. 47. Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Assess the supplier base, update Target was partially achieved. Refine the supplier assessment EC6, HR2 and develop the sourcing policy. process further covering sustainability The new Supply function built the basis aspects and deploy it globally. for the systematic sustainable development of Outotec’s supply base globally. Outotec supplier policy, covering sustainability, was defined and published. A harmonized supplier assessment process including sustainability aspects was developed and tested. 50 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // About the report About the report Report scope and profile Data collection This report covers the company’s The environmental data reporting sysBecause of the improvements in social Environmental data was available sustainability performance for the 2011 tem was introduced in Outotec in 2009. data collection systems, we were able to for Outotec’s most important and calendar year and is an update to the The data on environmental performance include new information in this report: largest business units, whereas the Sustainability Report 2010. In the upis based on Outotec’s financial reporting smallest offices were not able to report coming years, performance and targets system ‘Hyperion Financial Manage• employee turnover by age group, environmental data, because they will be reported annually on the comment’ (HFM), where each business unit gender, and region are located in bigger office premises pany’s website. Outotec’s sustainability reports its environmental figures. After • breakdown of employees per categotogether with other companies. They reporting is prepared according to the data collection, the reported figures ry according to gender and age group pay a monthly lump sum to the office Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainwere retrieved from the HFM system • more detailed reporting on training providers, and therefore it is not possiability reporting guidelines and the UN and Microsoft Excel was deployed to and benefits provided by Outotec ble to identify electricity, heat, or water Global Compact principles. If you are carry out calculations. In 2011, Outotec • global health and safety reporting consumption. For this population, an interested in specific issues relating to acquired the Energy Products of Idaho average number was calculated based corporate responsibility, we recommend and Kiln Services Australia businesses. The data reported does not cover all on the available data. that you check the GRI and UN Global These new businesses are included in Outotec employees yet, which is an area Economic performance data is based Compact reporting index, where all the the environmental data reporting. that needs further improvement. on data collection through ERP systems indicators regarding responsibility pracFor collection of social performance Performance data on environmenand Outotec’s management reporting tices are listed together with links to the data, a global master data system tal aspects of sustainability have been system HFM. The figures used in the pages on which they are addressed. was applied. Outotec HC Master Data collected from major business units consolidated financial statements of Outotec reports on the core indicasystem has been built on the SAP HCM for electricity, heating, owned or leased Outotec have been prepared according tors of most relevance to its operations, (Human Capital Management) softcompany cars, flight emissions, water, to IFRS (International Financial Reportsolutions, and stakeholders. The seware. It includes accurate data of each paper, recycled waste, and landfill waste. ing Standard). In addition, some data lected core indicators are of importance Outotec employee globally and covers In addition, the combustion of fuels in has been collected manually from MS at the corporate level and are based on all major business units. The system the company owned combustion sources Excel sheets. those proposed by the GRI guidelines. was introduced in 2010 and has been (scope 1 emissions) and hazardous waste In preparing the report, the “GuidWe report on our own operations but further developed in 2011. In addition, occurring in Outotec’s research centers, ance on Defining Report Content” has do not include delivery projects, use of Outotec has taken into use a global equipment manufacture workshops, and been applied. The content of this report the technology, and supply chain. The health and safety reporting system for ceramic plate production plant are inwas reviewed and approved by Outotec report boundary includes all our major setting and following common health cluded in the report. The sources of own Executive Board in March 2012. operations. Our aim is to expand inforand safety targets in all Outotec operafuel combustion are identified through We have identified our investors, mation collection and include site operations. It also provides qualified metrics. separate environmental data reports customers, current and future employtions, construction, and commissioning This report includes the health and provided on an annual basis. When ees, and suppliers as the main users work carried out at our customers’ sites. safety data that covers Outotec globally. required, e-mail correspondence was of this report. used to collect the information from the different business units. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // About the report 51 Key targets for 2012 The materiality assessment and the – namely through improvements in its solutions, technologies, and services, UN Global Compact initiative, ­Outotec CO2 emissions avoided through Outotechnologies to enable customers to reOutotec also strives to improve the has expressed its intent to further tec’s technology solutions clearly ilduce the environmental impact of their economic, environmental, and social advance sustainability and social relustrate where Outotec can achieve the operations. Besides efforts in R&D performance of its own operations. sponsibility principles in its business most positive impacts on sustainability and providing customers with process By joining the corporate responsibility practices. The key targets are collected in this table: Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Improve sustainability governance processes, Data collection was improved: Continues data collection, and reporting. -N  ew data collection systems were used (e.g. SAP Master Data, financial reporting system HFM) Improve the system for sustainability KPIs collection -S  ix new indicators reported and four indicators changed Economic and governance from partly to fully reported Include the relevant sustainability KPIs in core business Four CR team meetings in 2011 and shared function processes Sustainability working group meetings Sustainability materiality workshop Continue growth through acquisitions. Outotec made four acquisitions in 2011. The largest of those, Continues EC1 Energy Products of Idaho, is expected to increase Outotec’s sales by EUR 60–90 million annually. Update the acquisition process to include sustainPotential acquisition targets were assessed by using the following Continue sustainability assessments in acquisitions. ability assessment in due diligence. indicators: Are solutions energy efficient Is water usage efficient -D oes the acquisition provide an opportunity to offer environmentally friendly technologies -D oes the acquisition promote greater environmental responsibility -H ow the target respects employee well-being, local health and safety systems, local bargain agreements, and human rights in overall Ethical standards International norms Publish Outotec’s first GRI-based sustainability First GRI based sustainability report was published in 2011. Continue reporting based on GRI 3.0. The long-term report and web-based communication platform. Sustainability website published. target is to follow the GRI G4 guidelines. 52 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // About the report Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Increase the percentage of EGS in order intake; 87% of order intake in 2011 was classified as Environmental Goods Continue on the level of 80–90%. EN6 the long-term target is to reach a level of 80–90%. and Services. Increase the investments in R&D in line with Target partially achieved. Continues EN6, EN26 Environmental business growth. R&D expenditure was EUR 33.5 million, representing 17.5% growth from 2010. However, because of the strong business growth in 2011, the share of R&D of sales was 2.4%, which is lower than in 2010 (2.9%). Harmonize the QEHS systems in and for all One global QEHS policy and manual developed and published. Develop all needed EHS Modules (14001 and 18001) and units and locations with international certifications Procedures, instructions and templates (modules) for quality part of implement them in all locations. by 2013. integrated QEHS management system published and implemented. Preparations for global certification. Preparations for ISO 9001 certifications executed in 6 countries ISO 9001 Certification for 6 new countries. (currently without ISO certification), preparations for multi-site ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification ISO 9001 certificates in 7 countries executed. of one additional location. QEHS teams established globally. Over 5% annual increase in the amount of avoided 4.6 million tonnes CO2 emissions avoided through the use of three Continues CO2 emissions through the use of Outotec technoloOutotec technologies, representing a 9% increase from 2010. gies and solutions. 4.8 million tonnes CO2 emissions avoided through the use EN26 of five Outotec technologies (flash smelting, ferrochrome production, alumina calcination, ceramic filters, co-generation in ferrochrome process). Increase the use of video conferencing globally and New video conferencing systems installed in 25 locations globally. Double the use of video conferencing facilities EN18 introduce 20 new installations. from 2011 level. Study the possibilities to increase the sustainability EN18 of our own operations, for example telecommuting, i.e. remote working from home (social and environmental impacts). (NEW) © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // About the report 53 Target for 2011 Performance in 2011 Target for 2012 GRI indicator Have a dialogue with our employees about Outotec Target was partially achieved. Finalize and publish the refined set of Outotec Values and SO3 values, principles, and Code of Conduct and redeintegrate them into the management system. fine them. The long-term target is to provide trainOutotec Principles were revisited, and 60% of employees participated Social ing related to the Code of Conduct to all employees. in workshops and gave also their input in an online questionnaire. Publish the new Code of Conduct and the related Over 100 senior managers started an ethical dialogue on corporate e-learning platform. responsibility and values related topics. Continue ethical dialogue in internal social media with all employees and in the Management Forum. Implement the HC master data system globally Human Capital master data system covering basic personnel data Define and implement the HC Master Data related and develop it to include relevant personnel data was implemented globally. processes. needed to establish corporate-wide indicators. Develop the HC Master Data system and HC reporting further. Technology and Plant Safety Management (TPSM) as part of the Technology and plant safety: take TPSM in use in all LA7 QEHS procedures, instructions and templates were developed, and locations with engineering activities. (NEW) published and global inductions executed. Long term target: Zero harm= zero fatalities+ zero incidents+ zero property damages for Outotec and our Partners 90–95% of employees have a Performance 92% of employees had a Performance Development Dialogue. 90–95% of employees have their PDD using the new tool. LA1–13 Development Dialogue. A new integrated tool to support all performance management related processes was developed. Develop the tool to include individual development. Outotec established a Facebook page and started to use Twitter and Further improve the employer image to become LinkedIn more actively for recruitment and communication. a preferred employer: increase use and develop the content of social media channels (such as Facebook, Linkedin, Twitter, XING). (NEW) Survey on employer image using social media participants. Assess supplier base, update and develop Target was partially achieved. Refine the supplier assessment process further covering EC6, HR2 the sourcing policy. sustainability aspects and deploy globally. The new Supply function built the basis for the systematic sustainable development of Outotec’s supply base globally. Outotec supplier policy, covering sustainability, was defined and published. Harmonized supplier assessment process including sustainability aspects was developed and tested. 54 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report – Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 To the Management of Outotec Oyj Methodology Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) has been commissioned by Outotec Ecobio based the assurance process on the following guidelines and standards: Oyj (hereafter Outotec) to perform a limited third party assurance engagement the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0, regarding the content of Outotec’s Sustainability Report for 2011. the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE3000) and Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. The assurance process was performed Outotec’s Responsibility utilizing Ecobio’s internally developed GRI assurance tool, covering the principles, Outotec was responsible for the collection, preparation and presentation of standard disclosures and indicators of the GRI G3 Guidelines. All Standard Disthe information in the Sustainability Report (hereafter Sustainability Information) closures, Management Approaches and reported Performance Indicators were according to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version 3.0) set up by the assessed individually. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Ecobio, as an independent assuror was not Concerning limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures involved in the preparation of any Sustainability Information, apart from the Indeare more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less pendent Assurance. The Management of Outotec has approved the information assurance is obtained. This assurance engagement was conducted from February provided in the Sustainability Report. to March 2012. The assurance process included: • Interviewing employees responsible for data collection and reporting at Practitioner’s Responsibility Outotec’s group level. Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conclusion on the Sustainability Informa• Evaluating procedures for gathering, analyzing, and aggregating quantitative tion subject to the assurance performed by Ecobio. data for the Sustainability Report 2011 as well as performing cross-checks The scope of work included assurance of completeness and correctness of on a sample basis concerning environmental data. information presented by Outotec in the Sustainability Report 2011. The assurance • Checking the internal guidelines of the data collection. engagement was limited to the non-financial performance data disclosed in the • Checking the sufficiency of the documentation of the data gathering process. Sustainability Report for the reporting period of January 1st 2011 to December • Checking the consistency of the Sustainability Report 2011 compared to 31st 2011. the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The Sustainability Information assured included the Standard Disclosures (GRI; sections 1 to 4), and the reported Environmental and Social Performance Indicators. In addition, the level of the consistency of the Economic Performance Indicators reported was checked against the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Ecobio disclaims any liability or responsibility for any third party decision based upon this assurance report. © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Independent Assurance Report 55 Conclusions Practitioner’s Independence and qualifications Based on the work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention Ecobio is an independent consulting company that specializes in Environmental, that would cause us to believe that the information presented in Outotec’s Health and Safety management with over 20 years of history. Ecobio provides enSustainability Report 2011 is not fairly stated, in all material respects, or that it vironmental consultancy services, combined with training, research and planning, would not comply with the Reporting Criteria stated before. for companies in the infrastructure, industry and service sectors. Ecobio’s team is Outotec claims that an Application Level of B+-level is achieved. We assessed skilled and experienced within non-financial assurance and has good knowledge the scope of Sustainability Information provided by Outotec for each Standard of industry related sustainability issues. Disclosure and Performance Indicator included and evaluated that an Application As an independent consultancy, Ecobio has no financial dependencies on Level of B+ is achieved. Outotec beyond the scope of this engagement. Ecobio has conducted this assurance independently, and there has been no conflict of interest. Observations and Recommendations Based on our limited assurance engagement we provide the following observations and recommendations related to GRI Sustainability Reporting principles. These observations and recommendations do not affect the conclusions presented earlier. • In general, the report is comprehensive, well-structured and claims are reHelsinki, 9th of March 2012 ported in a reasonable fashion. Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy • Due to improved data gathering processes especially for social data, Outotec has been able to extend the number of indicators reported (“partly reported” from 18 to 19 and “fully reported” from 29 to 34). It is, however, recommended for future reporting periods to further improve the accuracy and completeness of the data provided. Taru Halla Thomas Andersson • As stated in the Independent Assurance Report 2010, we recommend the Managing Director Project Manager boundary of the report to be expanded in future reporting periods to include, where possible, project execution as well as site and supplier performance. • To improve transparency even further, it is strongly recommended for Outotec to also include possible failures in the report content. • As the data gathering process has undergone changes it is recommended that the documentation of the data gathering process and internal guidelines of the data collection are brought up to date. By improving the documentation it will enhance the accuracy and completeness for future reporting periods. 56 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact Based on its own assessment, Outotec has self-declared this report to comply with the GRI application level B+. The application level has been checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles Standard Disclosure 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO's statement CEO’s message to stakeholders, p. 4–5 Fully 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Materiality assessment, p. 7–8 Fully Risks and opportunities, p. 35–38 Key targets, p. 49–51 2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.7 Markets served Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully Economic impact, p. 43–44 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Highlights 2011, p. 3 Fully Customers, p. 23–24 3 Report parameters 3.1–3.4 Report profile Report scope and profile, p. 48 Fully Contact information, p. 58 3.5 Process for defining report content Materiality assessment, p. 7–8 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 23–27 3.6 Boundary of the report Report scope and profile, p. 48 Fully Data collection, p. 48 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report scope and profile, p. 48 Fully 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Report scope and profile, p. 48 Fully outsourced operations, and other entities Data collection, p. 48 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Data collection, p. 48 Fully 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 57 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully or measurement methods Data collection, p. 48 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index and UN Global Compact, p. 54–57 Fully 3.13 Assurance Independent assurance, p. 52–53 Fully 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1–4.10 Governance Governance and sustainability, p. 21–22 Fully 1–10 Risks and opportunities, p. 35–38 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Commitment to external initiatives, p. 28–30 Fully 1–10 Risks and opportunities, p. 35–38 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement Employees, p. 11–16 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 23–27 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to economic responsibility Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1,4,6,7 Economic impact, p. 43–44 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic impact, p. 43–44 Fully EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Risks and opportunities, p. 35–38 Fully 7 activities due to climate change EC3 Employee benefit obligations Employee benefits, p. 14–15 Partly EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government R&D and innovation, p. 17–18 Fully EC6 Spending on local suppliers Supply chain, p. 45–47 Partly EC7 Procedures for local hiring Labor practices, p. 14–16 Partly 6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Commitment to external initiatives, p. 28–30 Partly primarily for public benefit EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Economic impact, p. 43–44 Partly (NEW) Management approach, p. 9–10 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to environmental responsibility Management approach, p. 9–0 Fully 7,8,9 Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 EN1 Materials used Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Partly 8 EN3-5 Energy consumption and energy saved Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Fully 8,9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products R&D and innovation, p. 17–18 Partly 8,9 and services EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions achieved Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Partly (NEW) 8,9 EN8 Water withdrawal Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Fully 8 EN11 Location and size of land holdings in areas of high biodiversity Not relevant 8 EN12 Description of significant impact of activities, products, and services Not reported 8 on biodiversity EN16–17 Greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Fully 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Fully 7,8,9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Not relevant 8 58 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles EN21 Water discharge Not relevant 8 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Fully 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant 8 EN24 Hazardous waste Ecological footprint, p. 41–42 Fully 8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products R&D and innovation, p. 17–18 Partly 7,8,9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that Not reported 8,9 are reclaimed by category EN28 Compliance with environmental laws Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully 8 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work Management approach to labor practices and decent work Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1,3,6 Labor practices, p. 14–16 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Employees, p. 11–16 Fully LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Employees, p. 11–16 Fully 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Employee benefits, p. 14–15 Fully or part-time employees LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employee benefits, p. 14–15 Fully 1,3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes Labor practices, p. 14–16 Partly (NEW) 3 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and Health and safety, p. 15 Fully 1 total number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training and prevention programs regarding serious deseases Not reported 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health and safety, p. 15 Partly (NEW) 1 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee category Competence development , p. 12–14 Partly LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Competence development , p. 12–14 Fully LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Competence development , p. 12–14 Fully career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Employees, p. 11–16 Fully 1,6 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported 1,6 Human rights Management approach to human rights Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1,2,3,4,5,6 Code of Conduct, p. 19–20 HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses or Not reported 1,2,3,4,5,6 that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 45–46 Partly 1,2,3,4,5,6 screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning Management approach, p. 9–10 Partly (NEW) 1,2,3,4,5,6 human rights relevant to operations Employees, p. 11–16 © Outotec 2011 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 59 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Labor practices , p. 14–16 Fully 1,2,6 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Not reported 1,2,3 collective bargaining may be at significant risk HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 45–46 Fully 1,2,5 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 45–46 Fully 1,2,4 compulsory labor HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully 1,2 and actions taken Society Management approach to society Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 10 Employees, p. 11–16 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that asses Commitment to external initiatives, p. 28–30 Fully and manage the impacts of operations on communities Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 45–46 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Partly 10 related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Partly 10 and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Principal international stakeholder organizations, p. 30 Fully 1-10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Economic impact, p. 43–44 Fully 10 and related institutions SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully and monopoly practices SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility Management approach to product responsibility Management approach, p. 9–10 Fully 1–8 Impact of our products and services, p. 39–40 PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Impact of our products and services, p. 39–40 Fully 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully 1 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Impact of our products and services, p. 39–40 Partly 8 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully 8 codes concerning product and service information and labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Customers, p. 23–24 Fully measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Not reported marketing communications PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Code of Conduct, values and principles, p. 19–20 Fully (NEW) regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 60 Outotec Sustainability Report 2011 // Contact information Contact information Minna Aila Outotec Oyj Senior Vice President – Communications and Corporate management Corporate Responsibility PO Box 86, FI-02201 Espoo, Finland e-mail: minna.aila@outotec.com Tel. +358 20 529 211 Dr. Ilkka Kojo www.outotec.com/sustainability Director – Environment and Sustainability www.facebook.com/Outotec e-mail: ilkka.kojo@outotec.com www.linkedin.com/company/outotec www.twitter.com/outotec Harald Huppe Sustainability Specialist e-mail: harald.huppe@outotec.com Eila Paatela Director – Corporate Communications e-mail: eila.paatela@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Communication Specialist – External Communications e-mail: saija.kinanen@outotec.com © Outotec 2011 Design: Miltton Oy Printing: Libris Oy Cover stock: Edixion 250 g/ m2 Text stock: Edixion 120 g/ m2 Outotec Oyj Riihitontuntie 7, PO Box 86 FI-02200 Espoo, Finland www.outotec.com
