Global Compact for Higher Education Institutions Communicating on Progress for Université Laval Pilot May 2012 Foreword Université Laval is proud to participate in the evaluation of A Practical Guide to the United Nations Global Compact for Higher Education Institutions: Implementing the Global Compact and Communicating on Progress. In the area of sustainable development, Université Laval is a testing ground for all of the various social stakeholders and partners seeking to implement new approaches, technologies, and practices. Université Laval strives to be a leader in sustainable development. Like other universities, it plays a major role in society. Firmly rooted in today's realities, Université Laval is particularly concerned by the many challenges posed by sustainable development. Why? Because it is: A place to educate qualified, responsible individuals to promote change A wellspring of new knowledge and innovation A significant driver of cultural, social, and economic development in the community A living environment for tens of thousands of people. Université Laval at a glance Our mission: Université Laval, the oldest French-language university in North America, is an institution of international repute and high academic standards that contributes to society’s growth and development By training qualified, responsible individuals who promote change By advancing and sharing knowledge in a dynamic environment of research and creativity Some numbers in 2010-2011: 5 main fields of study: administration; arts, literature, and languages; sciences and engineering; humanities; and health sciences An updated selection of 392 undergraduate and graduate programs, including programs with cooperative, sustainable development, entrepreneurial, or international profiles Some 600 distance learning courses The University is ranked 7th among major research universities in Canada, with over $280 million in funding for research and creativity, 25% of which comes from private partners Over 1,300 research professors, many of whom are internationally renowned Some 2,500 regular professors, lecturers, and teaching assistants Over 45,000 students Over 4,500 foreign students from 113 countries A total of 248,690 graduates since the University’s founding Nearly 9,000 diplomas and attestations issued every year, 27% of which are for graduate studies Over $46 million in scholarships and research grants given out annually Over 200 student associations Université Laval’s sustainable development vision Since its founding, Université Laval has strived to preserve and improve people’s quality of life without compromising that of others or of future generations. It believes sustainable quality of life for individuals and the community is achieved by striking a balance between our efforts in three areas: living environment (environment), lifestyle (society), and standard of living (economy). Issues related to standard of living: Responsible purchasing of goods and services to minimize their ecological footprint and promote community social and economic development Rigorous operational management and maintenance of a balanced budget to ensure healthy finances Issues related to lifestyle: Promotion of healthy habits Support for initiatives that foster a global outlook and commitment to social and humanitarian causes by members of the university community Issues related to living environment: Conservation of the environment and its resources Application of measures promoting maximum energy and water recovery The context of Université Laval's participation in A Practical Guide to the United Nations Global Compact for Higher Education Institutions: Implementing the Global Compact and Communicating on Progress Université Laval’s participation in the evaluation of this implementation guide geared at higher education institutions is part of a pilot project led by a group of universities. By taking part, Université Laval was able to validate the content of the guide in a Canadian and Quebec context while expressing its desire to be a testing ground for new approaches to sustainable development. Université Laval operates in a region where legislation to protect human rights, labor rights, and the environment is firmly established. The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, adopted in 1982, clearly sets out the rights of each individual. In addition, at both the national and provincial levels, a legislative and regulatory framework lays down workers' rights. Environmental protection is also well regulated. The province of Quebec is one of the few jurisdictions in the world to have a law on sustainable development. Public consultation processes and project evaluations from an environmental perspective are also provided for by law. Université Laval, like the other universities in Quebec, is subject to laws governing and guiding its administrative operations. This is the case, for example, with its entire goods and services procurement process. Collective agreements regulate the working conditions of nearly all of its employees. A raft of policies and regulations govern its relations with partners, in particular regarding business development, ethics, and intellectual property. A declaration of students' rights was adopted in 1989, setting guidelines on the quality of education, the right to information, the right to participate in university life, and the right to a healthy environment. A process to uphold student rights (i.e. complaint process) is also in place. Université Laval has analyzed and interpreted the challenges and risks associated with the ten social responsibility principles put forward by the Guide according to its own legislative and operational context. It is therefore normal to find aspects that have been adapted to this context, for which other higher learning institutions, in other states and under other laws, will have different interpretations of the types and levels of risk. Université Laval's approach in the context of the implementation guide and communicating on progress In 2007 Université Laval introduced a comprehensive, structured approach to sustainable development. The university has the tools to measure progress and recognize the efforts made by its community. 1 Assessing and communicating the results associated with the ten principles is an approach that complements the one already in place. The university's challenges and risks in implementing the United Nations Global Compact's (UNGC) social responsibility approach were analyzed by examining its sustainable development challenges and the ten principles championed by the UNGC. The identified challenges and risks take into account the legislative and operational context of the university. Given that many of them were similar for several of the ten principles, it was decided to group some of them together where a joint analysis was deemed appropriate. The grouping is as follows: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The method used by Université Laval to analyze the challenges and risks is the following: Brief background for each principle 1 See the 2010–2011 Annual Report on Sustainable Development, pages 6 and 7, for complete details. Identification of the challenges and risks for each principle Presentation of the university's concrete achievements in response to the challenges/risks Presentation of monitoring indicators, performance targets (if applicable), and results of achievements Identification of future orientations for progress and forthcoming actions in response to the challenges The information is presented in the form of a summary table for each principle or group of principles. Université Laval believes that this method of analysis and presentation could be used by other higher education institutions wishing to draw on and implement such an approach. Summary of the principles and challenges The following table presents the challenges and risks examined under each principle: Principles Challenges Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Responsible procurement of internationally proclaimed human rights Recruitment of international students Supporting foreign students' integration Raising awareness of human rights Research on human beings Responsible institutional investing Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not See Principle 1 complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Collective bargaining Preventing discrimination in employment and occupation Occupational health and safety Preventing student discrimination Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms See Principle 1 of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of See Principle 1 child labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of See Principle 3 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Ecological footprint environmental challenges Preserving biodiversity Waste Environmentally responsible events Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Teaching/education greater environmental responsibility Raising awareness in the community Responsible consumption Certifications, associations, and standards Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and Research and creation diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Technological transfer and social innovation International collaboration among researchers A place for sharing and exchanging sustainable development knowledge Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Goods and services acquisition process forms, including extortion and bribery Business ethics Intellectual property Student plagiarism Administrators' ethics Student admissions and selection Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Background The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, is a pivotal document in the modern history of humanity. It sets out the fundamental rights and freedoms of human beings in the world. Of particular note, in Article 4, is the total exclusion of all forms of slavery. Although initially intended for states, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is also an important guide for companies and organizations. It has become all the more relevant in today's globalized world, in which organizations have to deal throughout their supply chain with numerous partners both at home and abroad. Université Laval is located in Canada, in North America, in a region of the world with strict and defined laws and regulations on these matters. While many of the risks associated with this principle are less present here, the university hires employees from all over the world, recruits students from many different countries, carries out internship, research, and international cooperation activities, and acquires products, many of which are manufactured abroad. The university must therefore ensure that human rights–related risks in its international activities are identified and that measures are in place to reduce such risks to the lowest level possible. Responsible Procurement In the area of human rights, given the university’s mission and the legal framework in which it operates, rights violations are more likely to occur among some of its partners. Procurement is therefore a point to which special attention must be paid in order to reduce risks as much as possible. The challenge lies in the university's capacity to evaluate different companies up the product supply chain leading to the original manufacturer, which is sometimes located in a country where human rights may be at risk. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Responsible procurement: Percentage of goods and services purchases/suppliers when The next responsible procurement plan will include • Université Laval is subject to strict regulations enforced by the Government of Quebec and must follow sustainability criteria (e.g. human rights, no forced labor, targets and more thorough followup on the supplier procedures when acquiring goods and services. Within this defined framework, the university has freedom of association, exclusion of child labor) are taken approach. The plan will cover the 2012–2015 period. introduced a policy on the acquisition of goods and services and on the awarding of construction contracts into account: Training of the people involved is provided on an that includes measures to encourage respect for human rights. In addition, this policy contains a In 2010–2011, 25% of purchases were validated in ongoing basis. sustainable development clause whereby the university privileges “suppliers and their business partners accordance with sustainability criteria for the selection of that respect the fundamental rights of individuals and employees and that undertake to adopt responsible products/services. practices.” • The university has put in place a responsible procurement action plan that includes methods for evaluating Some 8% of purchases were validated according to products and services, as well as assessment criteria and tools intended for members of the university sustainability criteria for the selection of suppliers in 2010– community who handle purchasing. 2011. • The aim of the product approach is to select goods and services offering the best possible compromise Around 200 people are trained every year. In addition, all among the environmental, economic, and social issues of sustainable development. new professors hired are trained to follow the acquisition • The aim of the supplier approach is to encourage goods and services manufacturers and suppliers to policy, in particular regarding the purchase of scientific commit to be socially responsible. The university has introduced a responsible purchasing guide and equipment. product sheets intended for the different people responsible for purchasing on campus. Training is also provided. A preferential margin of 5% has been granted to computer manufacturers that have developed policies to improve 1 • An assessment grid has been put in place to evaluate suppliers in terms of responsible procurement. This working conditions in their supply chain. grid uses criteria such as membership in international human rights–related certification bodies (e.g. World Fair Trade Organization, OHSAS 18001), the publication of a social responsibility report presenting the practices and indicators used in this regard, and the company's involvement in joint industry initiatives to develop best practices in the monitoring of working conditions in factories. • In its calls for tender, the university can grant a preferential margin so that a bid with a higher price can be accepted when a supplier can demonstrate that it respects the principles of responsible procurement. Recruitment of International Students Université Laval recruits a great number of foreign students. For the 2010–2011 academic year, more than 4,800 foreign students from over 100 countries were enrolled. The challenges lie in providing financial support and in international applicants' ability to fulfill the admission requirements, as Canada requires several formalities from applicants from certain countries before a study permit can be issued Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Student recruitment: Number of foreign students: Université Laval intends to continue to increase the • The admission process for foreign students is transparent, rigorous, accessible, and impartial. It is handled 4,800 students in the fall of 2012, a 15% increase compared number of foreign students. by the Registrar's Office and the faculties. The information presented on the university's various websites with the fall of 2007 The scholarship program for foreign students has explains to foreign prospective students the specific requirements (e.g. study permit, travel insurance) that Number of international doctoral scholarship recipients: been maintained. Canada asks of them. Admission applications from abroad are examined quickly so that applicants can be For the 2011–12 academic year, 901 doctoral students contacted should they be required to obtain additional documents. received a scholarship in the form of a tuition fee • Université Laval provides foreign students with considerable financial aid, in particular by extending the exemption. Government of Quebec's supplemental tuition fees exemption scholarship program to doctoral students. This means that all foreign students who enroll in a full-time UL doctoral program pay the same tuition fees as Quebec students. In Quebec, the cost of higher education is largely covered by the state, and Quebec students pay a small percentage of the total cost (foreign students pay a higher amount). By allowing foreign doctoral students to pay less than they normally would, the university is increasing accessibility to education for them. Supporting Foreign Students' Integration Foreign students have to adapt to Quebec culture and the university's practices. The challenge is to make sure there are accompaniment services in place to support foreign students in their integration, thereby fostering their success. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Support for the integration of foreign students: Number of students participating in the Buddy Program: Respect for plurality is a crucial value in the • To facilitate the integration of foreign students, Université Laval demonstrates openness towards cultural In 2010–2011, 529 foreign students were paired up with 480 university's identity. This is why it continues to and religious differences, and has various programs and policies in place to encourage interculturality and Quebec students. All of the foreign students who requested encourage and organize various activities to the integration of foreign students. a buddy received one. integrate foreign students that respect their values • The Residence Service organizes a large number of social activities aimed at fostering interaction and There are 14 student religious associations on campus. In all, and cultures. These diverse activities bear witness to networking. the university's philosophy and action plan regarding student religious associations registered 58,000 • Bureau de la vie étudiante (Student Life Office) organizes many activities to foster the integration of participations in their activities. the academic success of its students. foreign students: o Chaplaincy services that provide welcoming, referral, and support services for students and student associations representing members of the same religion o The Student Buddy Program pairing foreign students with Quebec students to help them settle in and understand Quebec culture and mores 2 o A program of regional visits and social activities to foster networking o a handbook for foreign students, published annually, which is an important source of information to help integration Raising Awareness of Human Rights Raising the university community's awareness of the importance of respecting human rights both here and elsewhere is an important task. The challenge consists in organizing activities in which members of the community take part. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Raising awareness of human rights: International Development Week brings together more than The university intends to continue supporting • A large number of student activities related to this issue take place every year. They include various United 1,000 people every year. students who wish to carry out all sorts of projects, Nations simulations and activities organized by the student group Partenariat: objectifs du millénaire pour especially those focused on international human 1 le développement (POMD), which supports the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals rights issues. (MDGs). These include ensuring primary education for all throughout the world, which is also in keeping with the principle of abolishing child labor. Every year, POMD organizes International Development Week, a week of activities to raise awareness for the Millennium Development Goals. The university supports various student projects through Bureau de la vie étudiante (Student Life Office) and Bureau International de l'Université Laval (for International Development Week). Research on Human Beings Every year, professors and student researchers conduct a large number of studies and research projects in which human beings are required as subjects. The challenge is to ensure that such projects respect ethics and human rights. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Research on human beings: The ethics committee on research on human beings Ethics in research remains a matter of great • Université Laval has introduced procedures for dealing with the ethics of research on human beings. These evaluates over 700 projects annually. importance at the university, and the required procedures ensure that the applicable principles and ethical rules on human being research guide resources are allocated to ensure compliance. professors, researchers, students, and all research staff at Université Laval. An ethics committee assesses every research project and decides whether the research is acceptable, basing its decision on the moral imperative of respecting human dignity and on these principles: respect for free and informed consent, respect for vulnerable people, respect for privacy and personal information, respect for justice and integration, weighing of the pros and cons, reduction of drawbacks and optimization of advantages for project participants. Responsible Institutional Investing The university, through its foundation and its employees' retirement plans, invests several million dollars in diverse forms of investment (e.g. stock market investments) every year. The risk is that investments might be made in companies that are responsible for problems related to the four principles. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Responsible investing: Responsible investing indicators need to be developed. More in-depth analysis is required in the area of • The university's foundation has an investment policy as well as a policy on accepting donations. Donations responsible investing. 1 POMD brings together Université Laval student associations interested in international issues and sustainable development. These associations work towards a common goal: eradicating extreme poverty by respecting the objectives of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). As a communications platform, POMD coordinates a multitude of events organized by its member association every year. The following groups are POMD members: AGIR International, AIESEC-Laval, Art de Vivre, Lawyers without Borders (LWBC), Délégation Droits et démocratie de Université Laval (DDUL), Développement et Paix, comité Université Laval, World University Service of Canada (WUSC-Laval), Engineers without Borders (EWB), Groupe Oxfam-Québec à Université Laval , PharmaSII, and Univert Laval. 3 from the tobacco industry are not accepted. Financial management is entrusted to external portfolio Université Laval intends to develop a responsible managers, who must comply with the policy's terms. investing action plan. One of the first steps will be to • An investment policy also applies to the university’s employee pension plan. Financial management is thoroughly analyze current practices and potential entrusted to external portfolio managers, who must comply with the policy's terms. risks. 4 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Background Université Laval operates in Quebec, in Canada, where the legal and social context clearly protects the rights of people and, more specifically, those of workers. Both the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms explicitly guarantee the freedom of association. These two documents constitute, as it were, the legislative foundation of the two jurisdictions. Further, the Quebec Labor Code draws on these texts in its very first legal provisions, stating that “every employee has the right to belong to the association of employees of his choice, and to participate in the formation, activities, and management of such association.” In the same text, a large number of articles deal with bargaining procedures and the application of collective agreements. Université Laval respects these laws and has, moreover, a long history of positive labor relations with its employees, who are practically all members of various unions and associations. Eliminating discrimination is also a subject of broad social agreement in Quebec and the rest of Canada. As a result, there are many government, grassroots, and corporate initiatives in this regard. One example is the Employment Equity Act (pay equity), whereby different job categories are evaluated so that women earn the same pay as men for jobs receiving the same score (point system). Université Laval has implemented detailed, rigorous, transparent, and equitable hiring practices. It has also adopted forward-looking policies and practices as regards occupational health and safety. The various risks associated with these principles have been considerably reduced, although the university must always remain vigilant to ensure compliance with the practices in place. Freedom of association Any organization wishing to maintain its operational legitimacy, and Université Laval is no exception, must comply with applicable laws and social standards on the freedom of association in Quebec and Canada. The challenge is to maintain harmonious relations with union management and establish efficient ways of working. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Freedom of association: The university does not have any indicators related to the • Virtually all employees at the university are represented by a labor association. Université Laval assumes freedom of association since it is not a major issue here. its responsibilities by recognizing the validity of these groups and their representatives. There are 12 recognized labor unions and associations (professors, professionals, office employees, student employees, etc.) Collective Bargaining With more than 8,000 employees in nine job categories working in many different departments and faculties, Université Laval has a complex labor structure. Negotiations with the various unions must take this situation into account. The challenge is to maintain harmonious relations with union management and establish efficient ways of working. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Collective bargaining: The university does not have any indicators related to • Owing to the number and duration of its collective agreements, Université Laval is practically always in collective bargaining since it is not a major issue. negotiations with at least one of its 12 unions. Collective bargaining is taken seriously by the university. En 2011, four collective agreements were signed. Although labor disputes are at times inevitable, the university and its union partners favor agreements negotiated in good faith. • The emphasis on the smooth functioning of labor relations is unequivocal. For instance, out of a concern for transparency, the university discloses, on the human resources website, the various collective agreements in effect as well as the different working conditions. 5 Preventing Discrimination in Employment and Occupation It is easy to say that one is against discrimination; it is more complicated to act concretely to counter it. In many organizations, policies exist but are not always implemented. For an organization of our size, eliminating discrimination must necessarily entail clear, concrete procedures that can be uniformly and effectively applied. The challenge lies in the large proportion of internal recruitment, for which there need to be well-defined procedures to prevent positive or negative prejudices. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Preventing discrimination in employment and occupation: Diversity and visible minorities: In 2010–2011, there were Université Laval will continue its equal opportunity • Université Laval is committed to acting in an equitable and nondiscriminatory manner in its human 6,181 employees for whom diversity statistics are known program, reviewing it in the coming years to ensure resources management. This situation is reflected in various practices and policies: (among regular employees only – student employees are that it adequately reflects diverse situations. o In the area of hiring, the university recognizes diversity, which means that it must try to reflect in its not included): staff the composition of the country’s population. To this end, it complies with the provisions of the • 50.9% are women Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms • 3.0% are visible minorities and in so doing with the associated diversity management programs. Equal access and employment • 0.7% have a disability equity for visible minorities are thus taken into account. Among the 2,609 employees working in research and o The posting of available positions follows a set procedure: teaching:  Ensure that requirements on education and experience are specified.  Ensure that job titles and postings are written in neutral language that excludes any • 40.1% are women discrimination. • 3.3% are visible minorities  Ensure that job openings are posted in diverse places, both physical and virtual, to reach • 0.7% have a disability members of underrepresented groups. Among the 3,310 members of the administrative and  Indicate in all internal and external postings that Université Laval has an equal opportunity support staff: program and encourages applications from members of the groups mentioned. • 60.0% are women • Remuneration is an important aspect of employment equity. Temporary and permanent employees enjoy • 3.0% are visible minorities the same benefits. Pay for men and women is also identical. • 0.7% have a disability • In compliance with Quebec law, Université Laval has an employment equity program whereby the various job categories are evaluated so that women earn the same pay as men for jobs receiving the same score. Among the managerial staff (262 people): Compensation has been paid to employees working in positions predominantly occupied by women. • 37.0% are women • The university strives to ensure that employees do not hit a glass ceiling in the organization. For example, • 1.9% are visible minorities an advancement program for professional staff has been introduced for management and administrative • None has a disability personnel. All UL job postings include the following message: “Valuing diversity, Université Laval encourages all qualified individuals to apply – particularly women, visible and ethnic minorities, aboriginal persons, and persons with disabilities – but priority will be given to Canadians and Canadian permanent residents.” Occupational Health and Safety The laws in effect in Quebec and Canada are very strict with respect to health and safety in the workplace. Université Laval embraces this position, boasting detailed and forward-looking policies and programs in this area. The challenge lies in training employees and raising their awareness. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Occupational health and safety: Reduction in the number of accidents per year: The university wishes to pursue its forward-looking • To ensure a high-quality environment for its personnel and all people who work or study here, Université • Drop of 11.3% in the 2009–2010 school year compared practices regarding occupational health and safety, as 6 Laval has set out, in its occupational health and safety policy which was renewed in 2011, its intention to with 2007–2008. well as general health. In 2012–2013, it would like to eliminate at the source, where possible, any dangers to health, security, and physical safety. obtain the Entreprise en santé certification from the Sectoral committees on occupational health and safety: • The Human Resources Department has a specialized occupational health and safety division in charge of Government of Quebec. This certification is part of a Each committee is made up of a representative of each applying the various related measures. This division includes advisory and support services to facilitate comprehensive institutional approach to promote group of employees in the administrative unit. The returning to and remaining at work after an absence due to illness or accident, a program to support the employees' health and well-being, including several committee chairperson is a manager from the psychological health of personnel, a workplace ergonomics service, specific training programs, as well as activities on habits, work-life balance, work administrative unit. In 2010–2011, 37 committees were in awareness activities on general health and healthy habits. environment, and management practices. place and nearly 300 people actively participated in them. • Health parity committees, sectoral committees on occupational health and safety, and special risk In addition, the university would like to fully develop committees have been set up to work with employees on prevention measures tailored to different work In 2009–10, 1,472 employees (administrative, support, and the “Mon Equilibre UL” program situations, by sector. In 2011, the university put in place a comprehensive policy on health in the managerial staff) took part in at least one training course in (www.monequilibre.ulaval.ca) launched in 2012, workplace that encourages a healthy work environment and introduced organizational practices that occupational health and safety. whose goal is to promote healthy habits among promote people's physical, psychological, and social health. students. • Launched as part of the sustainable development initiative, the “Mon équilibre UL” program aims to promote healthy habits among students on campus, and more generally among all members of the university community, in order to improve their overall health. Preventing Student Discrimination The freedoms and rights granted to Université Laval employees were extended to its students many years ago. The challenge lies in raising students' awareness and informing them of the services offered. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Preventing student discrimination: As of fall 2011, some 41,000 students were enrolled at The university intends to continue its student • Université Laval has put in place measures to support students who are visual minorities or have Université Laval: integration and support policies, especially those disabilities. • 29,000 undergraduate students related to students' academic success. o A policy to integrate students with disabilities has been in effect since 2002. • 12,000 graduate students o The purpose of the Student Assistance Centre is to support students in their achievements, in • 4,800 foreign students particular as regards academic and career guidance and information, support for successful learning, • 58.5% women counseling and suicide prevention, as well as special support services for people with disabilities. The university recognizes students' right of association. Every year, the Student Assistance Centre reaches: • More than 3,000 students in individual consultations • Nearly 4,000 students through its workshops • Almost 300 students with disabilities Over 200 recognized student associations work to defend students' rights and interests. 7 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Background Twenty years ago, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development established a precautionary principle that would go on to become the foundation of much legislation and various treaties around the world: “Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.” On account of their nature and mission, institutions of higher education have an important role to play in terms of environmental precaution. Although the precautionary principle has not been enshrined in an official UL document, it is clear that this philosophy is reflected in the sustainable development actions that members of the community perform on a daily basis. Such acts obviously arise from the desire communicated from the top to make environmental requirements a priority at UL, and the involvement and dedication of senior administration is indeed crucial to ensure the effectiveness of current and future actions. Universities must set an example for the rest of society and share the knowledge and innovations generated by their members so that sustainable development issues are better understood. Université Laval strives to be a leader in sustainable development and act as a benchmark for its peers. Université Laval is subject to a federal and provincial legal framework that is strict with regard to the environment. Since the main campus is fully integrated into the urban fabric of Quebec City, Université Laval must ensure that its development projects respect Quebec City's guidelines on sustainable development. The university has, however, introduced several initiatives that go beyond existing legislation in a spirit of precaution and heritage preservation. Ecological Footprint (greenhouse gases GHGs) There is broad agreement among international scientists that increased amounts of GHGs in the atmosphere are causing climate change and global warming. The challenge is to put in place effective tools to reduce GHG emissions. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Ecological footprint: Tons of GHGs emitted Introduction of a GHG emissions reduction plan in 2012– • Preparation of a report on the university community’s emissions Target: carbon neutrality of direct emissions in 2016 2013. • Continuing actions to reduce emissions, including replacing an oil furnace with an electric boiler in 2007 Results: Implementation of a voluntary GHG emissions (Since Université Laval is in Canada, heating is its main source of GHG emissions). 37,746 total tons emitted in 2010, down by 17% versus compensation program in 2012–2013. • Drawing up an institutional reduction plan. 2006 • Using the university's research and teaching forest as a carbon sink (around 4,000 tons per year). Emissions report in 2013 and 2016. Carbon-neutral bridge in 2011: 2,650 trees were planted • Canada's first carbon-neutral bridge built at Forêt Montmorency in 2011. to compensate for the emissions generated by the According to the Copenhagen Protocol, HCFCs should be • Refrigeration systems using chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in the campus's cool water network have been construction. replaced by 2030. Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) have been converted to less harmful gases, namely hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs). mentioned as a replacement solution. Preserving Biodiversity The university wants to preserve its natural heritage for future generations. The challenge is to put in place tools to identify the species found on its land. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Preserving biodiversity: Area description Introduction of measures to preserve the forest cover on • Plan to protect woodlands on campus (around 22% of campus surface area). Target: completing the 2011–2012 plan to determine the campus. • The university's research and teaching forest is recognized by the Government of Quebec as a composition and quality of woodlands Certification of the research and teaching forest for the biodiversity reserve. As such, 13% of the forest's surface area is protected (66 hectares in total). Maintaining the biodiversity reserve. 8 • The research and teaching forest is harvested sustainably so as to ensure its viability (e.g. allowable cut FSC international standard (Forest Stewardship Council) calculations). in 2012–2013. • Establishment in 2005 of an advisory committee on campus land use. Waste On account of its huge community and the nature of the activities taking place on campus, Université Laval produces a considerable quantity of waste every year of various types: • Laboratory waste (e.g. chemical, radioactive, biological) • Domestic waste • Recyclable materials (e.g. paper, plastic, glass) • Compostable waste The challenges lie in the appropriate treatment of waste in order to reduce environmental and health risks, as well as the amount of waste generated. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Waste treatment: Domestic waste: Develop reduction targets for waste, and improve • Biological, chemical, and radioactive waste that poses a high risk for health and safety is treated with the Target: recover 65% of domestic waste analysis. utmost prudence. Results in 2010: Continue to apply measures to increase the proportion o The university has centralized hazardous waste management to further minimize the inherent risks. 1,612 tons of waste matter of recycled waste. o Committees made up of prevention experts and scientists are in charge of managing the various 688 tons recycled or composted (43%) types of hazardous waste and suggesting improvement measures. Improve the process of tracking construction waste. Computer equipment: o A hazardous materials treatment plant was built on the campus in 2010 to facilitate treatment. Target of 32 tons of recovered material • A waste materials recovery program has been in place since 1995 (paper, plastic, glass, and metal). Results in 2010–2011: 33.9 tons were recovered Composting was added in 2009. Recycling bins are found in all buildings. Reuse rate: 10% • A program was put in place in 2010 to handle computer waste (recycling and reuse). • Implementation between 2009 and 2012 of several specific recycling programs: batteries, fluorescent Construction waste: tubes, transport pallets. Target of 60% of recycled materials • Special attention is paid to institutional and construction waste. Results: not measured Environmentally Responsible Events The many events that take place at UL contribute to the production of GHGs and waste. The challenge is to reduce the waste generated by events and to raise awareness among organizers. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations A practical guide for environmentally responsible events is available to help organizers set up Number of environmentally responsible events Creation of additional tools for event organizers (e.g. environmentally responsible activities. Results: in 2010–2011, 22 events were registered as carbon emissions offset tool). environmentally responsible. Training is offered to organizers twice a year. 9 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Background In order to promote greater environmental responsibility, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) stipulates, in accordance with Agenda 21, that all organizations should demonstrate their commitment to environmental responsibility. The same is true for institutions of higher education. Through its policy on sustainable development, Université Laval has redefined its practices. Our institution has set the objective of raising awareness in the university community about sustainable development and introducing students to this issue. To this end, the university has placed sustainable development at the centre of its primary mission, namely the acquisition and transfer of knowledge. Importance is also given to motivating people to change their everyday behavior by acquiring responsible habits in their use of resources. Promoting social responsibility extends beyond the campus, through meetings with suppliers, relations with some 500 academic partners abroad, as well as the wide dissemination and sharing of the university's accomplishments in the area of sustainable development. Teaching/Education The transfer and acquisition of knowledge through education constitutes the cornerstone of the university's mission. Educating people to be able to face the challenges of sustainable development and to be agents of progress in their communities is therefore an essential aspect of Université Laval's social responsibility. The challenge is to reach all students during their studies. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations A comprehensive education program structured in a progressive continuum of specialization: The various levels are still being implemented, but The various components of the education program will 1) Introduction to sustainable development issues in bachelor’s programs considerable progress has been made. continue to be developed. The challenges will lie in Required for all bachelor’s programs. This requirement can be met by attending seminars or lectures or discussions with program directors in the faculties. Number of programs meeting Article 100 of academic completing educational activities within existing courses. For example, Faculty of Land Use Planning, regulations The creation of a graduate degree program in Architecture and Visual Arts students can take the course Architecture et environnement [Architecture Target: 80% of programs in 2012–2013 environmental education and sustainable development is and Environment] – ARC-2001, which raises student awareness of various aspects of sustainable Results: 23 programs (approx. 23%) in 2010–2011 under way. architecture. 2) Introduction to sustainable development course – Fundamentals of sustainable development DDU-1000 Number of programs that have incorporated the The creation of a certificate program in sustainable An interdisciplinary course, which can be taken online, introduces the concept of sustainable sustainable development profile development is under way. development, its various dimensions, as well as implementation tools (for undergraduate students). Target: 66% of programs in 2013–2014 The university intends to expand other summer courses 3) Sustainable development profile Results: 13 programs (approx. 13%) in 2010–2011 on sustainable development, for example a course on The Profile allows students to incorporate a personalized sustainable development component into Establish a distinction for programs specialized in integrating multilateral environmental agreements. their bachelor’s program without extending the length of their studies. The profile equips students with sustainable development sustainable development skills and knowledge related to their field of study (for undergraduate Target: have a promotional identity students). Results: ongoing 4) Bachelor’s degrees with a specialization in sustainable development Students may specialize in a specific area of sustainable development via bachelor’s programs with a focus on sustainable development. A number of faculties offer these types of programs, including the bachelor’s in water engineering, the bachelor’s in agri-environmental engineering, and the bachelor’s in international studies and modern languages (environment concentration). 10 5) Specialized graduate programs Some faculties offer this level of training, including the master’s in land use planning and regional development, the MBA in corporate social and environmental responsibility, and the master’s in environmental law, sustainable development, and food security (For students who wish to pursue graduate studies in fields related to sustainable development). 6) Professional development, continuing education, and summer programs focusing on sustainable development There are a number of additional undergraduate and graduate educational programs, including the sustainable tourism certificate, the human transport microprogram, and the cultural development management microprogram. For organizations with special training needs, the Continuing Education Department also offers specialized courses and training programs, while the various faculties and Institut EDS put on some 50 summer programs. Raising Awareness in the Community Raising the university community's awareness of everyday sustainable development problems. The challenge is to reach the whole community and to get people to change behavior that is not in line with the principles of sustainable development. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Université Laval's educational strategy also extends to the non-academic spheres of university life. For Number of participants These annual activities will be continued and adapted so example, awareness campaigns are organized every year: Target: Reach at least 1,000 people as to reach the greatest possible number of people. • The public water campaign aims to encourage the consumption of tap water on campus and to reduce Results: purchases of bottled water. • Over 100 people reached during the water campaign • The Energy Challenge seeks to promote habits that save energy on campus and to come up with ideas to • More than 1,000 Energy Challenge participants enhance the university's energy efficiency. • Some 1,393 people reached during Public Transit and • The goal of Quebec City's Public Transit and Active Transportation Week is to raise awareness of the Active Transportation Week alternative transportation options available instead of driving alone. • Flash campaigns in the cafeterias during Waste • As part of Quebec's Waste Reduction Week, UL sponsors various activities on different topics related to Reduction Week decreasing waste. Responsible Consumption By requiring its suppliers to meet specific sustainability criteria, Université Laval ensures a level of environmental protection and resource savings. Interaction with suppliers raises awareness along the whole supply chain. The challenge is to be able to measure this impact. The Financial Services Department has developed a responsible procurement operational framework Integrating responsible purchasing criteria in the Continue to evaluate suppliers when contracts expire. (policy, evaluation process, etc). This framework sets out the criteria for procurement decision-making: procurement policy Information sheets on various types of goods will be responding to a real need, promoting quality and sustainability, considering the total cost of ownership, Results in 2010–2011: posted online to help employees who have to make acting according to health and safety guidelines, promoting re-use, and analyzing environmental impacts. 25% of product/service purchases were made with purchases in the community. sustainability criteria in mind. 8% of suppliers were selected with sustainability criteria A website for sharing equipment among the various in mind. units will be set up. Certifications, Associations, and Standards Taking part in joint initiatives and analyzing problems are other ways of promoting social responsibility. By acting in concert with other organizations and obtaining certifications, standards, and association memberships, the university is able to take into consideration a larger number of issues, while showing the public examples of concrete action. 11 Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations • When renovating or expanding its buildings, Université Laval uses construction criteria based on Maintaining criteria Continued use of various certifications, standards, and international standards such as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). Results: The construction criteria and EPEAT standard criteria, where appropriate (e.g. integrated design, • When electronic equipment is purchased, the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool have been integrated into university procedures. energy efficiency, indoor air quality, use of wood, (EPEAT) standard is applied. landscaping, water consumption, ecological footprint, For example, in 2010–2011, use of the EPEAT standard • Energy Star–certified appliances are acquired in order to reduce electricity consumption. sustainable materials). (silver level) enabled the purchase of computer • The university has obtained the “Sustainable Campuses” certification from the Sierra Youth Coalition equipment that, over its lifespan, will reduce energy Maintain the “Sustainable Campuses” certification. (SYC), proof of its concrete, rigorous, and serious commitment to sustainable development. consumption by 2.2 million kWh. As part of ongoing improvement efforts, undertake the Maintaining the “Sustainable Campuses” certification certification process for STAR (Sustainability Tracking Results: Level 3, the highest level attained by a Canadian Assessment and Ratings System), a North-American university. accreditation for colleges and universities. 12 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Background The scientific revolution has given society tremendous power to transform the world and improve general living conditions. Knowledge has become the ultimate resource and the source of progress itself. Universities therefore have a great responsibility, since they are among the predominant places where knowledge-creation happens. In terms of environment-related knowledge and innovations, universities have a duty to contribute to the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly methods and technologies that contribute to protecting ecosystems, reducing pollution, optimizing the sustainable use of natural resources, and managing waste more effectively. In the area of sustainable development, Université Laval endeavors to be a place for exchanges, debate, and dissemination regarding pertinent innovations, while acting as a laboratory for the testing of new approaches, technologies, and methods. The university has integrated sustainable development and the environment into the strategic orientations of its 2010–2014 research development plan. Research and Creation The transfer and acquisition of knowledge through research and creation is a fundamental dimension of the university's mission. Many researchers deal in their work with subjects related to the environment and social responsibility. The challenge for the university is to be able to adequately support them in their activities while respecting their academic autonomy and freedom. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Promoting and supporting sustainable development research and creation: Number and percentage of research chairs associated with The university wishes to maintain and increase the • Integration of the environment and sustainable development as strategic dimensions in its 2010–2014 the university's sustainable development policy number of chairs in the area of sustainable 2 institutional plan for the development of research and creation, which includes the following themes: Results: in 2010–2011, 64 chairs out of 140 (46%) development. It also plans to continue developing the o Governance, public policies, and regulations related to sustainable development PAIR and CLÉ programs. PAIR Program: o The repercussions of climate change worldwide on the ecosystems and geosystems in the North, Number of chairs created and financial support received: and the strategies needed to adapt to these changes Target: 100 new chairs and $100 million in PAIR o Technological developments for environmental industries and climate change partnerships o Managing water and natural resources, sustainable forestry, and diversifying energy sources Results: in 2010–2011, $103 million received and 22 chairs o Rational use of chemical products and new agricultural practices created. o The biodiversity of marine organisms, the dynamics of northern forests and lakes CLÉ Program: • Support for sustainable development chairs and research groups. The university boasts nearly 100 Results: As of March 1, 2012, five chairs have been created, research groups, centers, and chairs linked to sustainable development. To financially support all of its including a leadership chair in science and sustainable research and creation activities, the university has put in place two institutional programs to develop development teaching. research: o The Program for the Advancement of Innovation and Research (PAIR) is aimed at facilitating research partnerships with external organizations. The Chaires de leadership en enseignement (CLE) program seeks to promote innovative teaching practices by establishing partnerships with external organizations. 2 For a list of chairs associated with sustainable development issues: http://www2.ulaval.ca/developpement-durable/programmes-detudes-et-de-recherche/recherche/chairs-de-recherche-et-de-creation.html 13 Technological Transfer and Social Innovation Transferring technologies and social innovations from the university to society is an important step in research and creation. This is equally true for environmentally friendly technologies. The challenge is to protect researchers' intellectual property while promoting the effective use of such technologies by society. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Technological transfer and social innovation: There are no set targets for the transfer of environmental The university would like to add targets and indicators The university has a Bureau de liaison entreprise-université (BLEU) (office of university/industry liaison) technologies. for patented and licensed technologies to its whose mission is to facilitate university/industry collaboration and to support researchers through the sustainable development action plan. process of promoting an invention or creation. The office assists researchers with contractual agreements for transfer or commercial use, the protection of intellectual property, as well as the promotion of technologies and creations developed at the university. • Every year, numerous innovations are patented or licensed, including several that seek to respond to sustainable development needs. Here are a few examples from 2010–2011: o A group of students founded a company that offers a system of intelligent recharging terminals intended for electric and hybrid cars. o A team of researchers from the Department of Chemistry developed three photo-active polymer families to replace the use of silicon in solar panels. o A biofungicide was developed to fight a pathogenic fungus in greenhouse tomatoes and cucumbers. International Collaboration among Researchers Since the transfer and sharing of knowledge takes place on a global scale, university researchers communicate and work together on a regular basis. The development of new environmentally friendly technologies is therefore encouraged. The challenge lies in supporting professors and researchers in their relationships with counterparts at other universities in the world. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations International collaboration among researchers: Number of international cooperation agreements. The university would like to enhance its In 1999 the university established an International Office in charge of developing and managing different internationalization. It plans to structure activities that Results: As of March 12, 2012, the university had signed create and diffuse knowledge on international issues. types of international partnerships with educational institutions and various organizations. It offers an more than 685 agreements with partners in 64 countries. These activities fall under three complementary areas: advisory service to professors wishing to set up an international partnership, whether for a framework agreement, a student-exchange protocol or internships for study or research, participation in a consortium, academic programs, extracurricular activities, and research a research project, international development aid, or a professor exchange. on international topics and international institutions. Several of these areas involve sustainable development. A Place for Sharing and Exchanging Sustainable Development Knowledge Université Laval is a multidisciplinary university with over 1,400 professors. A clearing house was set up among various researchers in sustainable development to facilitate collaboration and innovation. The challenge of this action is to stimulate exchanges and foster multidisciplinary cooperation. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations A place for sharing and exchanging sustainable development knowledge: Number of professor/researchers and students who are Institut EDS seeks to position itself as a forum for • Created in 2005, Institut Hydro-Québec en environnement, développement et société (Institut EDS) Institut members: debates and collaboration on the role of academics with seeks to coordinate and organize educational, research, and knowledge sharing activities in sustainable In 2010–2011, Institut EDS members numbered 65 regard to major international issues and their potential development. Institut EDS represents: professors and 365 students from 11 faculties. contributions. o A valuable reference for sustainable development stakeholders o A pool of research and training expertise o Knowledge sharing through events and publications For more information: http://www.ihqeds.ulaval.ca/ 14 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Background The UNGC urges companies to oppose and fight corruption, extortion, and bribery. In this tenth principle, the term “corruption” is defined, in accordance with the meaning provided by Transparency International, as “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain.” As regards extortion, UNGC uses the definition given by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD): “The solicitation of bribes is the act of asking or enticing another to commit bribery. It becomes extortion when this demand is accompanied by threats that endanger the personal integrity or the life of the private actors involved.” The definition of bribery is based on the one provided in Transparency International's Business Principles for Countering Bribery, which describes it as “[a]n offer or receipt of any gift, loan, fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do something which is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust, in the conduct of the enterprise's business.” Université Laval is located in Canada, in North America, in a region of the world where there are strict and defined laws and regulations on these matters. Many of the risks associated with this principle are less present. Nonetheless, the university must have the tools to ensure that interactions between suppliers and university members in charge of purchasing goods and services take place in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and policies and in an ethical manner. In addition, the university carries out various activities abroad (research projects, international cooperation, internships) that require interactions with local partners from cultures different from that in North America. The university must avoid possible cultural shocks when establishing partnerships, while still setting out its acceptable limits. Goods and Services Acquisition Process Public institutions such as Université Laval must adhere to a strict acquisition process for goods and services that emphasizes transparency, fairness, and accountability. This process is regulated by the Government of Quebec, and UL's policy complies with the relevant legislation. The challenge is to decentralize purchasing decisions for various categories of goods, for which the people involved may not be aware all of the stages in the acquisition process. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Acquisition of goods and services: Every year, the university signs approximately 150 A few years ago, the university adopted a responsible • Université Laval has a policy on the acquisition of goods and services and on the awarding of construction contracts worth more than $100,000 each. Around 500 procurement action plan. It intends to continue contracts that sets out the acquisition process conditions. By way of example, here are a few conditions other contracts worth less than this amount are granted implementing this plan. from this policy: annually. No complaints about corruption problems have Université Laval regularly audits various contracts to o Any purchase or contract worth more than $100,000 automatically requires a public call for tender been reported. make sure that they have been awarded in compliance process The different types of bid-evaluation methods are used with its policy. People in charge of purchasing receive o Purchases under $100,000 are also subject to awarding conditions depending on the type of goods. diligently according to needs. In the specific case of an training in this area. For example, procurement contracts for more than $10,000 and service contracts for over $25,000 evaluation by quality only, an assessment grid with a point must involve a public call for tenders or a call for tenders on invitation. In 2012, targets will be set to evaluate contracts that are system has been introduced. o All public calls for tenders are launched via a notice made public in the call for tenders electronic modified while still underway. system, in accordance with provincial regulations. In addition, awarded contracts worth more than Every year, approximately 450 people participate in $25,000 must be published on the same site and indicate the selected supplier and the value of the selection committees, with some members sitting on contract. more than one committee. o The call for tender model documents are prepared by the Financial Services Department and by the Université Laval works with more than 3,000 different legal department of Bureau du secrétaire général. suppliers. However, the majority of its contracts are with a o The opening of bids received in a call for tenders is public (planned time, place, and date), and a small number of these suppliers. selection committee assesses the offers received after a public tender process for contracts of more than $100,000. The committee is made up of at least three people, including one person from outside the university. o Depending on the type of goods or services involved, the evaluation of bids is based on the price, 15 the quality (minimum level to attain) and the price, the value for money (adjustment depending on quality assessment), or only on the quality, in very specific cases (when remuneration rates are set by the government). o The quality criterion can include specifications related to sustainable development and the environment. o Specific conditions apply to possible modifications made to an awarded contract. o Procedures for disposing of surplus goods are also provided for. The reuse, recycling, and recovery of goods is included in the provisions, thus facilitating the tracking of goods at the end of their lifecycle. Business Ethics In order to facilitate business relations between the university and its partners, clear policies must be put in place so that members of the university community and partners alike are fully acquainted with the university's procedures. The challenge is for all stakeholders to have a comprehensive understanding of the rules. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Business ethics: The university has no record of any complaints from Support is provided for those requesting information on • As a member of the Purchasing Management Association of Canada (PMAC), Université Laval has suppliers, subcontractors, or contractors for any affair the PMAC's best practices. undertaken to comply with the PMAC Code of Ethics. Its rules include the following: related to a lack of ethics. o Any personal interest which may impinge on impartiality must be declared to one's employer. o Although maintaining a continuing relationship with a supplier is an advantage to the employer, any arrangement which might prevent the effective operation of fair competition must be avoided. o Business gifts other than items of small intrinsic value should not be accepted. Reasonable hospitality is an accepted courtesy of a business relationship. The frequency and nature of gifts or hospitality accepted should not be such that the recipient might be or might be deemed by others to have been influenced in making a decision. • In 2009, the university renewed its policy on integrity in research and creation and on conflict of interests, thus setting benchmarks for members of the university community as regards relationships with partners within research and creation projects and when it comes to founding companies. The policy includes ethics guidelines. • A policy on proper conduct with external partners, adopted in 2010, sets out the terms for collaboration with partners within the framework of strategic partnerships (whether with other educational institutions; federal, provincial, municipal, or international authorities; public or broader public organizations; or private companies), to make sure that the university’s mission, values, and institutional orientations are respected. Intellectual Property The rules on the intellectual property of innovations and technologies developed by university researchers and students have to be explicit, since knowledge creation is a source of great intellectual wealth for universities. Problems such as plagiarism or patent and license violation must be avoided. The challenge is to make sure that researchers are well aware of the rules. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Intellectual property: The university intends to continue its strategy of In 2010-2011, the BLEU team received 76 invention • The university has adopted clear policies in this area: disclosures and copyright declarations, a record year. providing its researchers with intellectual property o The university has a policy on integrity in research and creation and on conflict of interests, setting Over the 2010–2011 academic year, 49 patent applications support. benchmarks for members of the university community on relations with partners within research were submitted. At the end of 2010–2011, there were 641 16 and creation projects and when it comes to founding companies. The policy includes ethics active patents and patent applications in progress for 250 guidelines. patentable technologies. o There is also a policy on the transfer of knowledge and technologies, as well as rules related to its For the same academic year, 31 new licenses were granted application. for a total of 148 active licenses at the end of 2010–2011. • The Bureau de liaison entreprises-Université (BLEU) (office of university/industry liaison) accompanies researchers through the process of promoting an invention or creation. The offices assists researchers We define a spin-off company as a company created for the with contractual agreements for transfer or commercial use, the protection of intellectual property, as commercial exploitation of a technology belonging to the university. At present, 28 such companies are active. No new well as the promotion of technologies and creations developed at the university. spin-off companies were created in 2010–2011. Student Plagiarism Plagiarism constitutes a high risk among students. It is important to have clear rules and detailed consequences regarding plagiarism in order to properly guide students. The challenge on this issue is to disseminate the rules in effect among students. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Student plagiarism: In 2010-2011, the Disciplinary Committee received 25 • The university has disciplinary rules for students that set out penalties in the event of plagiarism, as well complaints about student plagiarism. 24 complaints were as mechanisms for handling complaints. More broadly, the rules also provide for other situations in which founded. students may breach rules, as well as how such situations are handled. Administrators' Ethics The university's administrators must demonstrate exemplary ethical behavior. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Administrators' ethics: • The university has had a code of ethics for its administrators since 1998 that is presented to every new administrator. Student Admissions and Selection The student selection process for the various academic programs must be conducted in a transparent, fair, and rigorous way. Clear rules and detailed application procedures must be in place to avoid any situation giving rise to doubt about possible favoritism or corruption. Achievements Targets, Indicators, and Results Future Orientations Student admissions and selection: Some 58,710 admission applications (admission choice) • The university's academic regulations set out the responsibilities and procedures related to the entrance were processed in 2010–2011. requirements for different programs and the evaluation of these requirements. There were 40,690 registrations for fall 2011. • Program entrance requirements and selection criteria are clearly presented in the descriptions of the various academic programs. • The Registrar's Office is in charge of presenting the various program admission requirements and analyzing the admission applications it receives with complete impartiality. If a person meets the admission requirements, he or she will receive an offer of admission regardless of his or her status or provenance. • In the case of programs with limited space (e.g. medicine), there is a selection committee. The committee is made up of a program director, who acts as chairperson, and two professors appointed for two-year terms by the faculty council. 17
