LNV Communication on Progress under the UN Global Compact Mottaker: UN Secretary General – UN Global Compact – The COP-Office Mottakers referanse: N/A Dato: 21.05.2012 Ansvarlig utførende: Tarjei Ytrehus Bjørkly Kvalitetssikringsansvarlig: Stian Davidsen Tema: Communication on Progress for the implementation and the distribution of the UN Global Compact by the LNV. Communication on progress STATEMENT ON THE CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT On behalf of the entire LNV-organisation the continued support for the Global Compact is hereby confirmed. RENEWED COMMITMENT TO THE INITIATIVE AND ITS PRINCIPLES By submitting this COP, by all the informal support for the Global Compact, as well as by all the actions described below, the LNV continues to support and commit to the initiative and its principles. The commitment is long term, durable and is anchored in the core values of the company and its resources. DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT THE PRINCIPLES Several practical actions on the operational level, customer and contract related. This period, the principles are implemented in all our – and almost all of our customers – standard contracts in form of obligations with clear and enforceable remedies for breach – in general the right to cancellation and damages. Next year the main focus will be set on upholding and sanctioning the principles by enabling all companies and public bodies, who have implemented the contractual obligations, to follow up and sanction deviations or breach. The set of principles are easily transcribed to contractual terms and/or entity internal guidelines. All principles are implemented. In any international assignment, all our managers must evaluate and asses the status of the principles in the relevant country. The countries history of violations is a central part of the foundation for the decision on whether or not to conduct business within the country. Serious breaches of the principles will automatically disqualify the country as a viable business region for us or our network, unless the assignment is aid-related. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In practical terms the implementation of the principles is in its infant stage and the results are, at this point in time, fairly immeasurable. However, due to the continuous commitment to the principles; one contractual relation was terminated and one contract was renegotiated to comply with the principles. 2 LNV
