We value sustainability Sustainability Report 2012 BHP Billiton locations Petroleum Aluminium (b) Ref Country Fields Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 1 Algeria ROD Integrated Onshore oil production 38% 12 Australia Worsley Integrated alumina refinery 86% Development (a) and bauxite mine in 2 Australia Bass Strait (a) Offshore Victoria oil, condensate, LPG, 50% Western Australia natural gas and ethane production 13 Brazil Alumar (a) Integrated alumina refinery and 36–40% 3 Australia Minerva Offshore Victoria natural gas and condensate 90% aluminium smelter production 14 Brazil Mineração An open-cut bauxite mine 14.8% 4 Australia North West Offshore Western Australia oil, condensate, 8.3–16.7% Rio do Shelf (a) LPG, natural gas and LNG production Norte (a) 5 Australia Pyrenees Offshore Western Australia oil production 40–71.4% 15 Mozambique Mozal An aluminium smelter, located 47.1% near Maputo 6 Australia Stybarrow Offshore Western Australia oil and 50% gas production 16 South Africa Aluminium Hillside and Bayside aluminium 100% South Africa smelters, located at Richards Bay 7 Pakistan Zamzama Onshore natural gas and condensate production 38.5% 8 Trinidad Angostura Offshore oil and natural gas production 45% and Tobago Stainless Steel Materials (b) 9 UK Bruce/Keith/ Offshore North Sea and Irish Sea oil and Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Liverpool Bay natural gas production 17 Australia Nickel Mt Keith and Leinster 100% • Bruce (a) 16% • Keith 31.8% • Liverpool Bay 46.1% West nickel-sulphide mines, 10 US Gulf of Mexico Offshore oil, LPG and natural gas production from Kalgoorlie nickel smelter, several fields Kambalda nickel • Atlantis (a) 44% • Genesis (a) 5% • Mad Dog (a) 23.9% concentrator and the • Neptune 35% • Shenzi 44% Kwinana nickel refinery 11 US Onshore US Onshore shale gas and liquids in Arkansas, < 1–100% 18 Colombia Cerro Integrated laterite 99.9% Louisiana and Texas Matoso ferronickel mining and • Eagle Ford • Fayetteville smelting operation • Haynesville • Permian in northern Colombia 25 42 BHP Billiton principal office locations Ref Country Location Office 37 Australia Adelaide Uranium Head Office 38 Australia Brisbane Metallurgical Coal Head Office 36 39 Australia Melbourne Global Headquarters 23 48 11 40 Australia Perth Aluminium (b) and Stainless Steel Materials (b) Head Offices Iron Ore Head Office 10 41 Australia Sydney Energy Coal Head Office 42 Canada Saskatoon Diamonds and Specialty Products Head Office 43 Chile Santiago Base Metals Head Office 44 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Shared Services Centre 8 45 Singapore Singapore Marketing Head Office 34 Minerals Exploration Head Office 18 46 South Africa Johannesburg Manganese Head Office 47 UK London Corporate Office 14 13 48 US Houston Petroleum Head Office 22 Petroleum Iron Ore Aluminium (b) Manganese 20 27 Stainless Steel Materials (b) Metallurgical Coal Base Metals Energy Coal 21 Uranium (c) Offices Diamonds and Specialty Products 43 (a) Jointly or non-operated BHP Billiton Assets or Fields (monitored assets). (b) Aluminium and Stainless Steel Materials form the Aluminium and Nickel Customer Sector Group. (c) Uranium is part of the Base Metals Customer Sector Group. Projects and exploration activities are not shown on this map. Locations are current at 10 September 2012. Base Metals Manganese Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset DescriptionOwnership 19 Australia Cannington Underground silver, lead and zinc mine, 100% 28 Australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore at GEMCO in the 60% located in northwest Queensland Australia Northern Territory and manganese alloys at TEMCO in Tasmania 20 Chile Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado and Spence open-cut 100% mines producing copper cathode in 29 South Africa Manganese Mamatwan open-cut and Wessels 44.4–60% the Atacama Desert, northern Chile South Africa underground manganese mines and the Metalloys manganese alloy plant 21 Chile Escondida Comprises the world’s largest copper 57.5% mine, concentrators and solvent extraction plants and port operations Metallurgical Coal 22 Peru Antamina (a) A joint venture open-cut copper 33.8% Ref Country Asset DescriptionOwnership and zinc mine, located in the Andes 30 Australia Illawarra Underground coal mines (West Cliff, 100% north-central Peru Coal Dendrobium, Appin) in southern New South 23 US Base Metals Includes the Pinto Valley open-cut copper 100% Wales, with access to rail and port facilities North America mine, located in Arizona 31 Australia BHP Billiton Saraji, Goonyella Riverside, Peak Downs, 50% Mitsubishi Norwich Park, Gregory Crinum, Blackwater Uranium (c) Alliance and Broadmeadow open-cut and underground Ref Country Asset Description Ownership mines in the Queensland Bowen Basin and Hay Point Coal Terminal 24 Australia Olympic Large poly-metallic orebody and the 100% Dam world’s largest uranium deposit, producing 32 Australia BHP Billiton South Walker Creek and Poitrel open-cut coal 80% copper, uranium, gold and silver Mitsui Coal mines in the Queensland Bowen Basin Diamonds and Specialty Products Energy Coal Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset DescriptionOwnership 25 Canada EKATI Open-cut and underground diamond 80% 33 Australia New South Mt Arthur Coal open-cut mine 100% Diamond mines, located in the Northwest Territories Wales Energy Mine of Canada Coal 34 Colombia Cerrejón (a) An open-cut coal mine, with integrated 33.3% Iron Ore rail and port operations Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 35 South Africa Energy Coal Khutala, Middelburg, Klipspruit, Wolvekrans 50–100% South Africa open-cut and underground mines and coal 26 Australia Western Integrated iron ore mines (Area C, Jimblebar, 85–100% processing operations Australia Yandi, Newman and Yarrie), and rail Iron Ore and port operations in the Pilbara region 36 US New Mexico Navajo open-cut and San Juan 100% of Western Australia Coal underground mines 27 Brazil Samarco (a) Open-cut mine that produces iron ore pellets 50% Percentage ownership figures have been rounded to one decimal place. 9 47 1 7 44 45 28 4 5 19 6 26 31 32 46 3515 38 29 16 17 24 33 40 12 37 41 39 30 3 2 28 About this Report BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective Materiality subsidiaries operate as BHP Billiton. Throughout this Report, Materiality, in the sustainability context, refers to the issues unless otherwise noted, ‘BHP Billiton’, the ‘Company’ and activities that are considered by our internal and external and the ‘Group’ refer to the combined group. stakeholders to be the most significant and relevant to our We regularly engage with our key stakeholders to understand industry, our Group and our operations. This is discussed their areas of interest and address their potential concerns in more detail on page 7. about our operations. While this Report does not aim to Report boundary and scope examine all stakeholder issues the most significant issues This Report covers assets that have been wholly owned and their potential impacts are discussed. and operated by BHP Billiton or which have been operated The minimum mandatory Health, Safety, Environment and by BHP Billiton in a joint venture operation (controlled assets) Community (HSEC) performance requirements expected across from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 (FY2012). Our assets include the Company are prescribed in our Group Level Documents those under exploration, projects in development and execution (GLDs). Our HSEC GLDs can be found on our website at phase and closed operations. Our Group Functions, Minerals . Exploration and Marketing businesses are also included. In May 2012 we announced that our Stainless Steel Materials and Reporting approach and the Global Reporting Initiative Aluminium Customer Sector Groups (CSGs) would consolidate BHP Billiton is a registered Organisational Stakeholder of the into a single CSG named Aluminium and Nickel. In this Report, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our reporting is prepared in Aluminium and Stainless Steel Materials are reported separately. accordance with the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, In March 2011, we acquired the US Fayetteville shale resource including the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. The GRI from Chesapeake Energy Corporation and subsequently acquired guidelines encourage companies to report on practices and Petrohawk Energy Corporation in August 2011, which now form performance that relate to sustainability in a manner that is clear our Petroleum Onshore US business. Under a transition services and open, and uses a globally shared framework of indicators. agreement, Chesapeake Energy Corporation continued to operate We report to an A+ Application Level, and a copy of the GRI Fayetteville on our behalf until 1 April 2012. Accordingly, HSEC statement is available in the Sustainability Reporting Navigator. data relating to our Onshore US business has not been collected The Sustainability Reporting Navigator assists in locating in BHP Billiton systems for the FY2012 period and all information information related to the GRI indicators and principles contained in this Report excludes data from our Onshore US of the United Nations Global Compact and the International business, unless specifically stated. All monetary amounts in this Council on Mining and Metals and is available online at document are reported in US dollars, unless otherwise stated. . At controlled assets, BHP Billiton sets the performance External assurance requirements and enforces those requirements through KPMG conducted reasonable assurance over our greenhouse direct supervision. At monitored assets that we do not control, gas emissions and voluntary community investments and limited we provide our HSEC performance requirements and seek assurance over a selection of other sustainability parameters. to influence the operation to follow them. A copy of KPMG’s assurance report is available on page 44. Case studies This Report is supported by case studies focusing on specific activities that explore our approach to sustainable development. Where you see this symbol, it denotes more information is available online at . In this Report Chief Executive Officer’s review 1 Society 24 Our sustainability approach 2 Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders 25 Our performance 4 Making a positive contribution to society 28 Our new HSEC targets 5 Understanding and managing our human rights impact 31 Focusing our efforts on the things that matter most 7 Governance 32 People 8 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically 33 Keeping our people safe and healthy 9 Appendix 36 Employing and developing our people 13 Our stakeholders 37 Environment 16 Performance data 39 Reducing our climate change impacts 17 Independent assurance report to the Directors Managing water 20 and management of BHP Billiton 44 Managing land and enhancing biodiversity 22 Cover photo: Liverpool Bay – UK Chief Executive Officer’s review At BHP Billiton, we value sustainability; it is about putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible and supporting our communities. Marius Kloppers Chief Executive Officer Our long-term commitment to sustainability and ethical intensity targets. Furthermore, our absolute greenhouse gas behaviour is at the core of what we stand for as an organisation emissions remain below FY2006 levels. Regrettably, we did not at BHP Billiton. Operating a global company in a socially achieve our target of remaining fatality free. Nor did we meet responsible way is guided day-in-day-out by Our BHP Billiton our land rehabilitation target, and despite improvements in Charter. It is the single document that is central to everything our health performance, we finished short of target in two we do, defining the core values of our Company and what we of our health metrics. strive to achieve. Our values start with sustainability; we believe Our new Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) we will be successful when we put health and safety first, targets for the FY2013 to FY2017 period have been developed are environmentally responsible and support the communities following careful consideration and are detailed in this Report. in which we operate. The new targets are centred on our most material HSEC issues We are committed to being an organisation without work-related and specifically focus efforts towards eliminating fatal risks, fatalities, serious injuries or occupational illnesses. Despite overall minimising occupational exposures and improving the efficient improvements in injury trends, I am deeply saddened to report use of energy and water resources. Land management activities that three of our colleagues lost their lives while at work during and continuing to have a positive effect on our communities also FY2012. We extend our deepest sympathies to their families, feature in our new targets. friends and colleagues. Each of these incidents was thoroughly We will continue to regularly review our performance and investigated, with lessons learned shared and acted upon publicly report our progress. This Report signifies our approach across the Company. to stakeholder engagement and commitment to transparent Our approach to sustainability is about ensuring our organisation reporting. It also serves as a public reference, providing contributes lasting benefits through the consideration of social, a collation of performance data and statements of key issues ethical and environmental aspects in all that we do. We will and related management approaches. Within this Report, only be successful when our workforce returns home safe and you will also find how our key sustainability issues are prioritised healthy every day, and we remain resolute in achieving this. and our management approach to such issues. Our overarching goal for environmental management is to The Report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting minimise, and where possible eliminate, any impact of our Initiative framework. As a founding company member of the operations on the environment. We recognise that the efficient International Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM), our Report and responsible use of natural resources is critical to the also aligns with the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework. sustainability of our environment and we will continue to focus ICMM’s activities are aimed at strengthening the performance on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions and on improving of the industry and enhancing its contribution to sustainable our energy usage and efficiency. development, and it has been my pleasure to take on the role In FY2012, our focus continued on improving the control of our of ICMM Council Chair during the year. Our public commitments material risks and our performance against our key sustainability also include the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human targets. We again achieved our target of having no significant Rights, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and the environmental or community incidents reported. Throughout United Nations Global Compact Principles. Our suite of annual the year, we committed US$214 million to community programs reports can be found on our website at , around the world and again achieved our target of contributing and we welcome your feedback. one per cent of our pre-tax profits, on a three-year rolling I would like to sincerely thank each of our employees and average, to community programs across our regions. Importantly, contractors for their efforts and persistence in continuing this contribution includes funds matched by the Company to make a difference as we work together to achieve our through our Matched Giving Program, which is only made sustainability objective, and I look forward to reporting possible through the dedicated efforts of our people who, our progress in the future. outside of the ordinary course of their work, make personal donations, volunteer their time or raise funds for the community, and I am proud our organisation is able to take part in this. This year marks the final year of our current sustainability targets that were established at the commencement of FY2007. I am pleased to report we exceeded our high-quality water usage, Marius Kloppers carbon-based energy intensity and greenhouse gas emission Chief Executive Officer BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 1 Our sustainability approach Operating sustainably underpins everything we do. As a global and diverse company, our responsibilities are extensive, ranging across many countries, issues and stakeholders. We consider our stakeholders’ varied needs and work with them to create lasting benefits in the communities in which we operate. Sustainability and BHP Billiton This Report references multiple GLDs, most of which are drawn Our ability to operate globally is dependent upon gaining access from the suite of Health, Safety, Environment and Community to natural resources and maintaining our licence to operate. (HSEC) GLDs. The HSEC GLDs outline our approach to the Sustainable development is core to our business strategy; we Group’s material sustainable development risks and highlight integrate health, safety, environmental, social and economic our commitment to, and support of, international policies, factors into our decision-making. We transparently report standards and management practices, including the principles the financial and non-financial dimensions of what we do. of the International Council on Mining and Metals Sustainable The sustainability dimensions that we report on include Development Framework, the United Nations (UN) Global the health and safety of our people; governance and risk Compact, the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the Voluntary management processes; how we are socially responsible and Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs). contributing to improved standards of living and self-sustaining Although the GLDs are for internal use, several of them, minus communities; our impact on the environment and approach confidential information, have been made publicly available to resource conservation and biodiversity; and how we ensure as they describe our management approach and we believe the broader economic contributions of our operations benefit there is a broader community and industry benefit in sharing the regions in which we operate. this information. Our BHP Billiton Charter outlines our purpose and the actions, The GLDs, which can be found on our website values and measures by which we judge our success in at , are: creating long-term shareholder value. Earning the trust of our • Aviation employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, communities and shareholders and establishing mutually beneficial relationships • Community is vital to our success. Our Charter values are Sustainability, • Environment Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability. • Fatal Risk Controls Our Charter value of ‘Sustainability’ reflects our priority to ensure • Health that all our people return home safe and well at the end of every • Marketing (HSEC elements) working day. Effective health and safety performance is critical, • Security and Emergency Management and we believe everyone has a role in ensuring the care of • Supply ‘Source to Contract’ (HSEC elements). their colleagues and in taking the appropriate steps to prevent Managing our material risks workplace-related injuries and illness. By understanding and managing our risks, we provide greater Operating sustainably underpins everything we do. We work to protection to our people, communities and assets, and increased improve energy efficiency, reduce pollution, enhance biodiversity certainty and confidence for our shareholders, customers, and improve key quality-of-life indicators of people in our suppliers and the communities in which we operate. Effective surrounding communities. We believe we are successful when management of risk is vital to the continued growth and success we provide lasting social, environmental and economic benefits of the Group. to society. Our Risk Management GLD provides the framework that Our approach to sustainability is incorporated in our Group embeds risk management into our business activities, functions Level Documents (GLDs) which set out our mandatory minimum and processes. The effective identification, assessment and performance requirements, guiding how we operate and shaping management of risk forms the basis of our management the decisions we make. approach to sustainable development. Embedding risk BHP Billiton Group Level Documents management processes into our critical business systems GLDs describe the mandatory minimum performance requirements allows us to adopt an active and consistent approach to risk and accountabilities for definitive business obligations, management that is based on valid data and sound science. processes, functions and activities across BHP Billiton. They are A broader discussion of our risk management approach the foundation for developing and implementing management is provided in section 1.5 of our Annual Report 2012. systems at our operations. All our businesses are committed to implementing the GLDs; however, compliance with all of the requirements is not yet in place at every operation. 2 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Assessing risks and establishing controls Risk Management Plans are established to assess, control and We identify risks material to our business and take into monitor material risks. In FY2012, we increased the emphasis consideration the potential health, safety, environmental, on critical control verification through a GMC key performance social, reputational, legal and financial impacts. The severity indicator (KPI). The KPI stipulated that each BHP Billiton asset of any particular risk is assessed according to a matrix that develop critical control verification processes for its material HSEC describes the degree of harm, injury or loss from the most risks that have a MFL rating and RRR above agreed tolerability severe impact associated with a specific risk. Risks are levels. Our risk management processes are consistent with the considered material if they meet either of the maximum hierarchy of controls described in Article 6 of International Labour foreseeable loss (MFL) or residual risk rating (RRR) criterion. Organization Convention 176, Safety and Health in Mines, 1995. MFL is the plausible worst-case scenario for any risk when Our sustainability governance structure all active risk controls are assumed to be ineffective. The RRR The Board governs the Group in a manner consistent with represents the level of residual risk associated with the particular Our Charter values, our business strategy and our commitment material risk after taking into account the controls that are to a transparent and high-quality governance system. The Board already in place and have had their effectiveness tested. has established a number of committees to assist it in exercising The objectives of the risk assessment process are to understand its authority and to monitor the performance of the business. the nature and tolerance of the material risks for the Group The Sustainability Committee assists the Board in oversight of and to ensure they are managed through the verification HSEC matters. This includes overseeing areas relating to HSEC of critical controls. risk, compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, Potential HSEC events that may have a material adverse and overall Group HSEC performance. impact on our operations include fire, explosion or rock The Board also delegates authority to the Chief Executive Officer fall incidents in underground mining operations, personnel (CEO) to manage the Group in its pursuit of creating long-term conveyance equipment failures in underground operations, shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development aircraft incidents, incidents involving light vehicles and mining and marketing of natural resources. To assist the CEO, the GMC mobile equipment, ground control failures, well blowouts, was established to oversee the performance of the organisation explosions or gas leaks, isolation, working from heights or and to regularly review matters that are strategic and long-term lifting operations. Additional environmental incidents that have in nature or have the potential to significantly affect the the potential to create a material impact include uncontrolled Group’s performance. tailings breaches, subsidence from mining activities, escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons. More specifically, management is accountable for the Health risks faced include fatigue and occupational exposure implementation of sustainability-related processes and to noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust particulate, fluorides, performance to comply with our suite of HSEC GLDs. Internal coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist. Longer-term health audits are conducted to test compliance with the requirements impacts may arise due to unanticipated workplace exposures or of the HSEC GLDs. In addition, HSEC audits also address HSEC historical exposures to hazardous substances by our workforce. risk management and HSEC data integrity. We regularly audit Infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and malaria may have a the effectiveness of our management of material risks; and during material adverse impact upon our workers or on our communities FY2012, 28 such audits were conducted. Audit results are used by and they also may be affected by potential pandemic influenza management to create detailed action plans where the businesses outbreaks. Community protests or civil unrest, and inadvertent have not yet achieved full compliance with the GLD requirements. breaches of human rights or other international laws or Key findings are reported to senior management, and summary conventions also pose a risk. reports are considered by the Sustainability Committee of the Board and, where appropriate, by the Risk and Audit Committee of the Board. BHP Billiton Sustainable Development Governance Risk and Audit BHP Billiton Board Sustainability Committee of the Board Committee of the Board Executive Management* Group HSEC Customer Sector Groups (CSGs) CSG HSEC Representatives Business Line Management HSEC Personnel * Authority to manage the business is delegated to the CEO. The CEO on-delegates authority to committees, including the GMC, and individuals. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 3 Our performance The 2012 financial reporting year marked the end of our HSEC target period from FY2007 – FY2012. The table below shows our performance in FY2012 and our overall performance against the FY2007 – FY2012 targets. Not achieved Achieved Target (1) Performance Zero Harm Result Commentary Zero fatalities Three fatalities at our controlled operations Zero significant environmental incidents and zero significant No significant environmental or community incidents community incidents Health All operating sites to finalise baseline health exposure assessments Target achieved in FY2010 on occupational exposure hazards for physical exposures 15% reduction in potential employee exposures (but for the An 8% reduction in potential employee exposures (2) (but for the use of personal protective equipment) over the occupational use of personal protective equipment) compared with the FY2007 exposure limit (OEL) base year 30% reduction in the incidence of occupational disease A 22% reduction in the incidence of employee occupational disease compared with the FY2007 base year. The greatest number of cases related to musculoskeletal illness and noise induced hearing loss Safety 50% reduction in total recordable injury frequency (3) (TRIF) at sites TRIF for FY2012 was 4.7, a 36% reduction compared with the FY2007 base year Environment Aggregate Group target of 6% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) A 16% reduction in GHG energy intensity compared with the FY2006 emissions per unit of production base year Aggregate Group target of a 13% reduction in carbon-based A 15% reduction in energy intensity compared with the FY2006 energy per unit of production base year Aggregate Group target of a 10% improvement in the ratio of water A 29% improvement in the ratio of water recycled/reused to recycled/reused to high-quality water consumed high-quality water consumed compared with the FY2007 base year Aggregate Group target of a 10% improvement in the land A 1% decline on the land rehabilitation index compared with rehabilitation index the FY2007 base year Community 1% of pre-tax profits to be invested in community programs, US$214 million invested in community programs, including including cash, in-kind support and administration, calculated US$65 million contributed to BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities, on the average of the previous three years’ pre-tax profit our UK-based charitable company (1) The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007 (FY2007), except for Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions, where it is 1 July 2005 – 30 June 2006 (FY2006). (2) Operational assets are the only ones to provide occupational exposure data. (3) The sum of (fatalities + lost-time cases + restricted work cases + medical treatment cases) x 1,000,000 ÷ actual hours worked. Stated in units of per million hours worked. We adopt the United States Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury and illnesses. Other key highlights GHG – Water Use – Average Average Community Underlying EBIT Total Scope 1 & 2 High-Quality Total Employees Contractors Investment US$M Mt CO2-e ML Number Number US$M 2012 27,238 40.2 148,000 46,370 78,813 214 More detail on our performance is available in the Appendix of this Report. Further information on our FY2012 financial information can be found in section 1.4.1 of the Annual Report 2012, which can be found on our website at . 4 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Our new HSEC targets New Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) targets were introduced at the start of FY2013. We established these targets using a comprehensive process to ensure they embody Our BHP Billiton Charter values and reflect our most material HSEC risks. The targets help us to remain focused and improve our HSEC performance by delivering measurable outcomes in the areas that matter most to our Group. Our targets are designed so that our businesses own and integrate them seamlessly into their established five-year business planning processes. Our senior executives, including the Group Management Committee, will adopt annual key performance indicators aligned to meeting these targets. The achievement of these targets is also supported by the underlying performance requirements detailed in our HSEC suite of Group Level Documents (GLDs), and is available online at . We have introduced a number of new elements that build on our previous targets, while others reflect our commitment to progressive leadership and performance within the areas of HSEC. Progress against our targets is reported to senior management and the Sustainability Committee of the Board on a regular basis. Performance against the targets and the effectiveness of relevant controls is assessed by internal audits, and the annual performance assessment is presented in our Sustainability Report. We believe we will be challenged and our capabilities further developed as we endeavour to deliver our new HSEC targets. The integrity of our performance management systems will provide a transparent account of our performance, enabling us to credibly report to our stakeholders our progress against these metrics. HSEC targets for FY2013 – FY2017 Target Target context Target date Safety Zero fatalities at our The safety and health of our people is our priority and integral to every aspect of our Annual controlled operations. business. We are determined to operate without work-related fatalities. Our target of zero fatalities at our controlled operations emphasises the need for our businesses to remain vigilant and focused on the control of their fatality-related risks. To this end, our operations are required to have systems, processes and controls in place to identify, assess and mitigate potentially fatal risks. Year-on-year improvement We use TRIF as an indicator in highlighting broad personal injury trends. Annual of our total recordable injury frequency (TRIF). Conduct annual reviews for We are signatories to the VPs, and we use both public and private security providers in Annual alignment with the Voluntary protecting our people and our assets. Security providers’ alignment with the VPs is pivotal Principles on Security and Human to our ability to maintain the safety and security at our operations, while respecting the Rights (VPs) and implement fundamental freedoms and human rights of our stakeholders. Annual reviews are conducted improvement plans to close to assess our alignment and to verify that security providers are acting in accordance with out identified gaps. the VPs. We also use the reviews to identify improvement opportunities and activities that support the implementation of the VPs. Health In addition to the use of personal While PPE currently safeguards our people, we believe improving our occupational exposure 30 June 2017 protective equipment (PPE), which controls will offer greater protection and can further improve our performance. Improvements safeguards our workforce, we will will be achieved through the implementation of exposure reduction projects that have reduce potential occupational been identified by each asset and will be compared with our baseline exposures and OELs. exposure(1) to carcinogens and Our businesses continue to implement ways to control exposures at their source. airborne contaminants by 10%. Environment No significant environmental Our priority is to avoid or minimise any adverse environmental impacts from our operations. Annual incidents resulting from To achieve this, operations are required to have management plans and controls in place our controlled operations. to identify, assess and mitigate environmental impacts, thereby minimising the potential for significant environmental incidents. We will maintain total greenhouse We believe that we all have a responsibility in addressing climate change. With this in mind, 30 June 2017 gas emissions below FY2006 we are committing to limit our FY2017 greenhouse gas emissions to FY2006 levels. This will levels(2), while we continue require us to actively pursue and implement abatement opportunities. to grow our business. (1) For exposures exceeding our occupational exposure limits if not for the use of PPE. continued… (2) FY2006 baseline will be adjusted for material acquisitions and divestments based on asset emissions at the time of the transaction. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 5 Our new HSEC targets continued HSEC targets for FY2013 – FY2017 continued Target Target context Target date Environment continued All operations to develop dedicated Securing access to land and managing it effectively are essential components of our Annual management plans, including commitment to operate in a responsible and sustainable manner. This requires our operations controls to prevent, minimise, to understand the environment they operate in and establish controls to manage land rehabilitate and offset impacts holdings and to prevent or minimise associated impacts to biodiversity and the related benefits to biodiversity and the related derived from ecosystems. benefits derived from ecosystems. We will finance the conservation and The maintenance of biodiversity and ecosystems for future generations is paramount in the 30 June 2017 continuing management of areas of way we think about the environment. As such, we will broaden our environmental activities high biodiversity and ecosystem value and contribute through conservation to lasting environmental benefits beyond what could that are of national or international be achieved by our operations alone. Land conserved will be measured through implemented conservation significance. conservation projects. All operations with water-related Our operations rely on the ability to obtain the appropriate quality and quantity of water for Annual material risks, inclusive of volume our activities and to demonstrate that we are managing this resource responsibly. Our diverse and quality considerations, will set and geographically distinct operations face a range of water-related issues, including volume targets and implement projects and quality considerations (e.g. some operations have excess water); and no single Group to reduce their impact on numeric target can address the multitude of issues adequately. All operations are required water resources. to implement Water Management Plans that detail controls to limit our impact on water resources. Where water-related material risks are identified, each operation is required to set targets and implement tailored projects to specifically address these risks and to monitor and report progress on project implementation. Community No significant community We strive to avoid or minimise any adverse impact of our operations on our communities. Annual incidents resulting from To achieve this, operations are required to have Stakeholder Engagement Management Plans, our controlled operations. as well as processes and controls in place to identify, assess and mitigate incidents that may potentially impact our communities. 1% of pre-tax profits invested in We are committed to making a positive contribution to society and are focused on supporting Annual community programs, including cash, programs that have a positive effect on the quality of life of people in our host communities. in-kind support and administration, The 1% of pre-tax profits voluntarily invested in community programs is in addition calculated on the average of the to royalties, taxes and legislated contributions. previous three years’ pre-tax profit. All assets to have local procurement Supporting regional businesses creates long-term financial and non-financial benefits Annual plans with targets included in by contributing to the livelihoods of people in host communities and, in doing so, enhances their Community Development our licence to operate. Assets are required to establish formal local procurement programs Management Plans. focused on increasing the capacity of the local community to provide products and services to our operations and other businesses. The focus will be on enhancing the capacity and opportunity for economic participation of locally based small to medium enterprises in our businesses. 6 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Focusing our efforts on the things that matter most Identifying our focus areas We identified the sustainability issues included in this Report through a three-step materiality process. Step one of the process included identifying issues by reviewing our internal risk registers, enquiries from our shareholders and investors, daily print media coverage and by an independent review of issues raised by non-government organisations and global electronic and print media. Step two involved rating the significance of these issues to our stakeholders and the potential impact on our business as low, medium or high. The third step was to review the issues and seek feedback. One of the ways we did this was through our Forum on Corporate Responsibility. We also asked our Health, Safety, Environment and Community leaders in each of our Customer Sector Groups to review the issues, assign ratings and advise of any gaps. The issues were reviewed by the Sustainability Committee of the Board and reassessed throughout the preparation of this Report. The themes that are common to a number of material issues have been grouped into focus areas for the purpose of this Report, as outlined in the diagram. Each of these focus areas is discussed on the following pages, with supporting performance data provided in the Appendix. People Keeping our Employing and people safe developing and healthy our people Gov ern an ce Reporting transparently Reducing our and behaving climate change ethically impacts Our focus Understanding areas Environm and managing Managing our human ent water rights impact Making a positive Managing land contribution and enhancing to society biodiversity Ensuring meaningful So engagement with cie ty our stakeholders BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 7 People Escondida – Chile Our people are the foundation of our success; their safety and health comes first. Our approach Attracting, employing and developing talented and motivated Our workforce is comprised of an average of 46,370 employees people, who share our values, is critical to our long-term and 78,813 contractors; their safety and health and that of sustainability. Each individual brings unique skills, experience the broader communities in which we operate is central to the and perspectives, and we recognise that we are strengthened success of our business. Regardless of where our people are by diversity. We are committed to providing a work environment located, the business in which they operate or the type of work in which everyone is treated fairly and with respect and has they undertake, we strive to create a working environment that the opportunity to maximise their potential. is safe and free from occupational illness. It is critical that our people are fit for work. The acute and immediate nature of serious accidents can make them an In this section, we highlight our activities obvious health and safety focus; however, the long-term and performance in two of our focus areas: disabilities associated with chronic exposure to health risks 1 Keeping our people safe and healthy. are equally serious. We are continuously working to reduce the potential for these exposures. We also work with the 2 Employing and developing our people. communities in which we operate to support programs focused on significant community health and safety issues (such as malaria, HIV/AIDS and road safety), which may also affect our people and their dependants. 8 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Keeping our people safe and healthy Implementing and verifying critical controls is essential People to delivering a safe and healthy workplace. Environment Why this is a focus area The controls that we implement to address these risks are The safety and health of our people is core to every aspect consistent with Articles 6 to 12 of International Labour Society of our business. Having our people return home safe and well Organization (ILO) Convention 176, Safety and Health in at the end of each day, and enabling them to end their working Mines, 1995. We focus on improving our workplaces, using life fit and healthy, is central to everything we do. This is reflected the recognised hierarchy of controls and work practices to in the processes and controls we have in place throughout minimise the need for personal protective equipment (PPE), our organisation. which we provide to all employees and contractors as required. Managing material risk Key issues The key safety and health issues that we faced in FY2012 related Our safety and health performance to adhering to isolation and permit-to-work procedures and to The FY2012 total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) performance Governance reducing potential occupational health exposures, particularly to of 4.7 per million hours worked improved by six per cent carcinogens and airborne contaminants, noise-induced hearing compared with FY2011 (5.0) and while we have not met our TRIF loss, musculoskeletal injuries and fatigue. target of 3.7 it has reduced by 36 per cent since the FY2007 base We reviewed and updated our Fatal Risk Controls Group Level year. Although our injury rates and statistical measures showed Document (GLD). In particular, we provided further clarity about a steady improvement, we are reminded by the three fatalities controls associated with isolation and permit-to-work, including in FY2012 that lower injury rates alone do not prevent fatalities. expectations around change management and ensuring those In FY2012, the incidence of occupational illness was 43.7 cases involved in the work fully understand the hazards and associated per 10,000 employees, an increase of 7.4 per cent compared controls. The GLD details steps required to identify, assess and with 40.7 cases per 10,000 employees in FY2011*. However, control seven key risk areas for our business: vehicles and mobile since 2007, we have achieved a 22 per cent reduction in the equipment, explosives and blasting, ground control, hazardous incidence of occupational illness against a target of 30 per cent. materials, isolation and permit-to-work, work at height, and Forty-one per cent of these cases were due to noise-induced lifting operations. In FY2012, we also undertook a project to hearing loss and 44 per cent due to musculoskeletal illness. assess how to more effectively apply permit-to-work controls The increased number of cases led our operations to increase in our underground mines and the results of this work are also their focus on control effectiveness for these hazards. In reducing reflected in the updated GLD. the impact of noise, some of our operations adopted custom-made hearing protection devices, which are individually fitted to optimise their protective capacity. Total Recordable Occupational Illness Cases* * In FY2012 internal audits identified that some illnesses Injury Frequency had not been recorded as required in FY2011. Consequently, the number of employee illnesses for FY2011 increased and 8.0 60 has been adjusted. Employee data is based on head count Occupational Illness per 10,000 employees as at 30 June 2012. 50 6.0 40 19.2 6.3 4.0 4.7 30 20 0.2 2.0 18.0 Other Illnesses 10 Musculoskeletal Respiratory Diseases 0 0 Noise Induced Hearing Loss FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 9 Keeping our people safe and healthy continued Safer vehicles for our global operations During FY2012, the Group established a global requirement that all new BHP Billiton purchased or leased vehicles must have a 5 Star New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) safety rating. Existing light vehicles, including those belonging to contractors, will be phased out so that all vehicles meet the 5 Star NCAP safety rating by 1 January 2016. This will eliminate the current complex practices of retrofitting vehicles with additional features, such as roll bars, bull bars and other devices. Future modifications to 5 Star NCAP compliant vehicles will be limited to signage and visibility requirements, and must not affect the stability or reduce the 5 Star NCAP safety rating of the vehicle. We work actively with the road safety industry and key vehicle manufacturers to ensure the most relevant safety technologies are adopted globally. Our decision to move to the highest NCAP safety rating will, by 2016, improve the safety rating of an estimated 50,000 vehicles a year in Australia alone, resulting in broad community benefits as safer vehicles appear on the road. Operations are addressing musculoskeletal illness through Managing our emergency response and business continuity movement and wellness initiatives and the identification Conducting internal benchmarking of our processes is a vital and control of ergonomic health risks. Case management element of our approach to risk management. In recent years, is mandated when an individual is identified as having our industry has faced a number of serious underground mine a work-related illness or injury. incidents. In light of these, during FY2012, we incorporated the findings from an Emergency Preparedness Escape and Rescue Embedding safety and health controls Management Workshop held in May 2011 into our Security Regardless of our rate of growth, the ability to grow our and Emergency Management GLD. The workshop brought organisation safely is essential. We remain vigilant in our together representatives from each of our underground mines. focus on material risks, ensuring that we have the appropriate With the assistance of industry expert David Cliff, Professor controls in place to address these risks and that our people of Occupational Health and Safety in Mining and Director, are appropriately trained. To this end, we are supporting our Minerals Industry Safety and Health Centre, University engineering, procurement and construction management of Queensland, we examined, discussed and reviewed our contractors in managing their safety and health risks. standards and procedures to assess our ability to effectively Performance requirements related to the identification manage and respond to an underground crisis. The Security and management of material risks are required for our and Emergency Management GLD also requires our operations major capital projects. to have systems in place to identify, manage and effectively Expectations for safety and health outcomes, as well as respond to foreseeable crises and emergencies. Collectively, safety rules and definitions that classify incidents, are applied these requirements are designed to enable our operations to uniformly across our workforce. We also adopt the United States safely return to full function as swiftly and smoothly as possible. Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury and illnesses. Controlling risk through system custodian processes 10 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Preventing illness and disease People through effective controls Respirable silica dust is an industry-wide occupational risk and if not controlled effectively may result in respiratory disease. Environment At Klipspruit colliery, part of our Energy Coal South Africa Asset, we instituted controls that include a combination of water-based dust suppression and regular servicing of air-conditioning filters and cabin seals to reduce our workforce’s potential exposure to respirable silica dust. Klipspruit is measuring the effectiveness of these controls through real-time dust monitoring of drill operator cabins. Society The cabin monitoring system detects failures in the dust suppression controls. Preliminary data indicates a 55 per cent reduction in respirable silica dust exposure to below the occupational exposure limit (OEL) following implementation of these controls. Governance Ensuring control effectiveness to prevent illness and disease Safely undertaking deepwater drilling Occupational health exposures Deepwater oil and gas exploration is an important aspect of our Health risks faced by our people include fatigue and other causes worldwide business. Our team of skilled drilling professionals, of impaired fitness for work, as well as occupational exposure comprehensive processes and systems are fundamental to noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust particulate, fluorides, to ensuring our deepwater drilling operations are conducted coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist. in a safe manner that comply with the United States Bureau Our priority is to control occupational exposures at their source. of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement This priority was supported by a Group Management Committee regulations and our own strict requirements. Following the oil key performance indicator in FY2012, which led to each asset spill from BP’s Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010, developing a five-year project pipeline to reduce exposures to we reviewed our deepwater drilling safety standards to assess carcinogens and airborne contaminants. Each asset also forecast the effectiveness of our existing risk management controls, the number of exposures to our people that would be reduced which were tested and improved where required. for each new exposure reduction project implemented. Managing aviation risk We did not achieve our target of reducing potential employee Aviation is a significant material safety risk. We move a exposures by 15 per cent by the end of FY2012, compared with the substantial number of people by chartered aircraft each year. FY2007 base year. However, we have seen a 41 per cent reduction Our Group aviation safety assurance process continues to use since FY2009 in the number of carcinogen exposures to our the Flight Safety Foundation Basic Aviation Risk Standard to employees that potentially exceed the occupational exposure limit. satisfy the minimum technical requirements for our contracted This does not take into account the protection afforded by PPE. aviation activities. In FY2012, through our Aviation GLD, we enhanced the operational review process undertaken Our Health GLD requires that an exposure risk profile be by our aviation specialists to assess the effectiveness of established and maintained for our employees and contractors aviation critical controls. The Aviation GLD was also updated to and that relevant exposure controls be identified and implemented. provide greater emphasis on operational readiness and airfield If the potential exposure to harmful agents exceeds 50 per cent infrastructure. We engage with our aviation specialists to ensure of the OEL, medical surveillance is implemented to identify we maintain the necessary balance between audit and approval potential illness or health effects at an early stage and to provide of aircraft operations and the risk-based operational assurance feedback as to whether the exposure controls we have in place reviews in the field. are functioning as designed. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 11 Keeping our people safe and healthy continued Controlling malaria prevalence in our workforce In some countries where we operate, malaria is a serious health risk to our workforce and the broader communities. Initiatives to address infection rates in southern Mozambique, in the areas surrounding our Aluminium Mozal Operation, have been extremely successful, with malaria prevalence in the controlled area being reduced by 80 per cent over a period of eight years. Spraying, and distribution of more than 44,000 bed nets has helped to control malaria prevalence in the region. Education initiatives have also highlighted the need to eliminate breeding sites to prevent emergence of adult mosquitos, and informative materials on malaria prevention and treatment have been widely distributed in the community. The review of our OELs is a continual and ongoing process. Serious disease In April 2012, we reduced the OEL for fluorides, requiring our BHP Billiton operations with a high exposure to serious diseases, Aluminium operations to review engineering controls in the such as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, have education, reduction area, where the majority of fluoride exposure exists, training and counselling programs in place to assist employees. and implement additional respiratory protection programs. We also offer prevention and risk-control programs to employees Our Health, Safety, Environment and Community Reporting GLD and, where appropriate, to employees’ families and local requires our operations to regularly record and communicate communities. We help manage the impact of disease and potential occupational health exposures up to the Group level. protect the viability of our operations by assisting in caring This enables us to devise the framework to address these for our employees and the wellbeing of our host communities. exposures in the future. In some communities where we operate, such as South Africa and In line with our commitment to providing a safe and healthy work Mozambique, the incidence of HIV/AIDS is among the highest in environment, we expect our people to function at an acceptable the world. For many years, we have adopted an active approach level of performance and require that they are not impaired by to managing the disease within our workplaces, drawing upon illegal or legal drugs, including alcohol, while at work or when the ILO Code of Practice on HIV/AIDS. This includes conducting conducting Company business. Where appropriate, drug and education programs, offering voluntary testing and counselling alcohol screening is conducted to minimise the risk of related programs under the strictest confidentiality, and seeking incidents and injuries. Our employees and contractors are to provide appropriate access to medical care for employees informed of, and accept, their responsibility to be fit for work and their dependants. and we have developed drug, alcohol and fatigue management ‘HIV & ME’, launched in FY2012 by our Manganese South Africa education programs at our operations to minimise risks Asset, is an education and prevention program targeting associated with these health issues. 20 schools in local host communities. The program aims to Reducing silica dust exposure enable participants to make responsible and informed choices. Reducing personnel exposure in underground mining Issues of stigma, gender bias and cultural challenges are addressed and students are provided with the skills to negotiate Managing fatigue difficult situations and make responsible decisions. In many of our operations, the potential exists for our people to be exposed to situations that lead to fatigue, and we understand During FY2012, we had malaria programs operating in Liberia, the serious implications that can result from poor fatigue Guinea, Mozambique and Indonesia. In Liberia, Guinea and management. Fatigue can directly affect health, create safety Mozambique, the programs sought to create self-sustaining risks, affect productivity and have broad-reaching effects on initiatives to control malaria through education, spraying and the wider community. We encourage our people to be aware providing bed netting. In Indonesia, an initial baseline study of their own personal signs of fatigue and to be well rested prior is currently being undertaken, which includes identifying malaria to commencing work and a number of our operations provide cases, parasites and infection rates. This will enable a malaria fatigue management and awareness training. control strategy to be developed in the region where we operate. Our objective is to reduce the potential for fatigue in our people and mitigate its effects. Our Health GLD explicitly details the need for our operations to identify causes of fatigue, assess fatigue-related risks and implement controls to manage the identified risks. One such initiative being adopted has been the installation of infra-red sensors to the dashboard of mobile equipment to detect driver drowsiness at our New Mexico Coal Asset. The system has raised worker fatigue awareness and the number of fatigue-related incidents has decreased. Managing worker fatigue 12 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Employing and developing our people We value promoting from within and seek to build People a high-performance organisation through fair reward and recognition. Environment Why this is a focus area Employees by Geographic Region Attracting, employing and developing people with exceptional Society skills who share our values provides us with a competitive Australasia 42% advantage and is critical to our long-term sustainability. South America 24% Africa 22% Our people are encouraged to help deliver our strategy and North America 9% achieve superior business results by applying their functional Asia 2% expertise and stretching their capabilities. Europe 1% Recruiting our people Recruitment is managed on a local basis by each CSG, Minerals Exploration, Marketing and Group Function. Employment is Contractors Engaged at our Owned and Operated Assets by Region Governance offered and provided based on merit. Every person applying for a job is evaluated according to their job-related skills, qualifications, Australasia 49% South America 30% abilities, aptitudes and alignment with Our BHP Billiton Charter Africa 15% values. We acknowledge that targeted affirmative action may be North America 4% required to address historical imbalances and past discrimination Asia 2% through programs such as Indigenous employment and training Europe <1% and Black Economic Empowerment (BEE). Our businesses are required to have recruitment plans that reflect our current and future human resourcing requirements and that are aligned with broader business planning needs. Developing and rewarding our employees We seek to ensure strong internal candidate representation We develop the skills and capabilities of our workforce through for roles, supplemented by external recruitment. Where local regular performance reviews combined with training and employment policies are in place we first look to recruit locally. development programs. Our practices and processes are designed In FY2012, 54 per cent of our people including, 25 per cent of to ensure performance is measured on fact-based outcomes our management*, were drawn from the local community**. and to reward people for their achievements. Performance However, the remoteness of many of our operations often means is measured and rewarded in a transparent process. we are unable to employ enough people locally to meet our business requirements. This can result in the need for operations In FY2012, a formal performance review process was undertaken to employ people who choose to work on-site but reside outside for applicable employees, which comprised 75 per cent of the community; this is generally known as a fly in, fly out (FIFO) our employee population. This process included a review of workforce. We endeavour to accommodate as best we can the an employee’s development plan, which may consist of training lifestyle sought by our people, and many prefer the flexibility and development programs to maximise their performance and and lifestyle afforded by FIFO arrangements. A FIFO workforce potential. Due to the structure and provisions of some industrial creates challenges and opportunities, and we continue to address agreements not all employees participate in individual the effects of this approach on our people and the communities performance reviews. in which we operate so that together we identify ways in which In FY2012, on average each employee received 61 hours of our operations can make a positive and meaningful contribution. training. Training and development programs are designed and implemented at the operation level to support local requirements. As part of the mandatory induction process all employees * Management includes senior leaders and managers at assets with local and agency contractors receive training on health and safety, employment policies in place. ** Local community is defined at the operation-level and varies as a result Our Charter, the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct of local terms and conditions but generally relates to the employee’s and anti-corruption. place or region of birth relative to the location of the operation. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 13 Employing and developing our people continued Investing in our future leaders Our Foundations for Graduates Program is an award-winning, two-year program designed to transition our graduates from study to work and provide them with development opportunities in their early working years. Each year, approximately 500 new graduates from a variety of disciplines participate in the program. Graduates gain on-the-job experience through analysing and solving real business issues. In FY2012, we ran an Executive Leadership Program, which sought to align our senior leaders to deliver on our future priorities and vision. Senior leaders were provided with tools to support them in cascading key themes and outcomes through the organisation. Our Accelerated Leadership Development Program, which has been running for the past four years, is focused on providing our organisation’s future leaders with the necessary skills to deliver our strategy. Developing our people to enable future business growth Supporting workforce diversity In FY2012, all businesses made progress against their diversity We strive to achieve diversity, in all its forms, at all levels of our objectives; initiatives undertaken included leadership workshops organisation. Our Board of Directors, for example, is made up to bolster understanding of unconscious bias and actions that of 13 members, representing seven nationalities. Two members support or impede inclusion, development and implementation are female and all are aged 50 and over. Our aspiration is of manager toolkits on diversity and inclusion, review of to have a workforce that best represents the communities in recruitment practices to assist with removing unconscious which our assets are located and our employees live. In FY2011, bias and to assist in attracting females, and delivery of we committed to three key measurable objectives to enhance mentoring programs for Indigenous employees. our diversity profile. Secondly, we committed to increasing female participation Firstly, our businesses were required to develop and implement in our Accelerated Leadership Development Program. In FY2012, a diversity plan dedicated to achieving diversity of gender, female participation in the program was 43 per cent, against skills, experience and ethnicity, while taking into account a target of 40 per cent. legislative requirements. These multi-year diversity plans Thirdly, we are reviewing our graduate recruitment process and were further refined in FY2012 by identifying measurable identifying and implementing the necessary actions to address objectives that would result in an improved diversity profile. low female representation. Initiatives to increase female graduate The objectives that were identified through this process intake will be implemented at the Group-level and Asset-level formed a part of each business’s performance requirements and will include targeted advertising, sponsorships and partnering and were considered in determining bonus remuneration. with university and industry bodies. Monitoring and tracking performance against diversity plans will continue to be undertaken as part of the Group’s internal Females comprise 17 per cent of our total employee numbers. compliance and remuneration requirements. Pay equity across our 406 senior leaders is based on skills, experience and size of role; the male-to-female salary ratio is 1.034:1.000. 14 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Fostering mutually beneficial relationships • We consolidated our Aluminium and Stainless Steel Materials Relationships with our employees and our stakeholders are built CSGs into one CSG known as Aluminium and Nickel. People on mutual respect. • We suspended operations for 90 days at our Australian Due to the breadth and geographic diversity of BHP Billiton, Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd (TEMCO) our assets operate under a number of legislative regimes and our manganese alloy facility to review the economic viability of employment arrangements range from collective to individual continuing operations. After extensive stakeholder consultation employment contracts. Within this diverse global framework, and the identification of significant cost reduction opportunities, we recognise the right of our employees to freely associate in May 2012, we announced our decision to restart TEMCO and collectively bargain where they choose to do so. From time which is currently in progress and planned to be completed Environment to time, we provide comment in relation to regulatory reviews by the end of 2012. regarding workplace relations. In providing this comment, • We announced our Base Metals Pinto Valley open-cut copper our objective is always to ensure the regulatory frameworks mine in Arizona, United States, is expected to recommence are workable and fair to both employees and employers. operation by the end of 2012. In FY2012, 50 per cent of our employees were covered by • We acquired HWE Mining Subsidiaries from Leighton Holdings, collective arrangements. We work closely with contracting who provided contract mining services to our Western companies to encourage them to ensure that their employee Australia Iron Ore operations. The move to an owner-operator relations are governed in a manner consistent with Our Charter model removed a layer of complexity and cost from our and the Code of Business Conduct. business and delivered significant workforce advantages. Transitioning to an owner-operator model in this way Society In line with our employee relations approach, we believe is a lower-risk strategy for the Company and eliminated that ensuring our employees are directly engaged with the the need to replace the highly skilled and long-serving business and aligned with our goals is the most effective way HWE contractors through direct recruitment. of avoiding any form of industrial disruption. We have developed comprehensive contingency plans to ensure that our operations • We completed the acquisition of Petrohawk Energy Corporation experience as little disruption as possible. In instances where in August 2011. Petrohawk has a focused portfolio of three we do encounter industrial disruption, our aim is always world-class onshore natural gas and liquids-rich shale to minimise the impact on our customers in line with our assets, which builds on our acquisition of Fayetteville shale Governance commitment to shareholders and, above all, to maintain in Arkansas, United States. We have retained Petrohawk’s the safety of our employees and contractors. sizeable US-based workforce, which has been at the forefront of the technological innovation that brought about the However, in FY2012 there was one labour strike in one of economic viability of US shales. our operations in South America of more than a week duration. • BMA indefinitely ceased production at the Norwich Park Our Australian-based BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) coal mine in Queensland, Australia. All employees affected Asset has also been subject to extensive industrial disruption by the decision and wishing to remain with the Company between June 2011 and July 2012. BMA is committed to settling were able to be redeployed. a new agreement in the interests of all concerned. We recognise that such business decisions impact our workforce People and our strategy and we offer employee assistance programs to assist those We manage significant organisational change locally and affected. In instances where our people need to find alternative consult with our employees about changes that affect them, employment, where possible we redeploy them within our seeking input and guidance where possible. We are committed business or assist in finding alternative external opportunities. to complying with legislative requirements across the jurisdictions in which we work. In addition to legislative requirements, BHP Billiton’s labour agreements include minimum notice periods for termination of employment ranging from one week to three months. We regularly review our business performance to ensure we are operating in line with our strategy and reducing complexity by simplifying processes and stopping low value-adding activities. In FY2012, these reviews led to a number of business decisions, including: BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 15 Environment BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) – Australia We seek to minimise the environmental impact of our operations, while contributing to lasting environmental benefits. Our approach Where such preventive actions are not feasible we investigate We own and operate a diverse range of businesses in different and implement options to minimise our impact. We then look countries and ecosystems around the world. We continue to to close this gap by implementing compensatory actions to improve our understanding of the sources, scope and extent address our residual impacts on the environment. In addition of our resource use, environmental emissions and impacts and to our direct environmental management actions, we look transparently report our performance. Our overarching goal at opportunities, such as conservation, to deliver lasting for environmental management is to avoid or, where this is environmental benefits. Throughout this process, we engage not possible, minimise our impacts while contributing to lasting with stakeholders and take their perspectives and knowledge environmental benefits across the regions where we operate. into account in our decision-making. We assess, plan and manage our environmental impacts across all phases of our business, from exploration to development, operation and closure. Our approach to In this section, we highlight our activities environmental management is based on the robust identification and performance in three of our focus areas: and assessment of material risks. Where we can, we implement 1 Reducing our climate change impacts. opportunities to avoid resource use, pollution or contamination. 2 Managing water. 3 Managing land and enhancing biodiversity. 16 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Reducing our climate change impacts As a global organisation operating in an energy-intensive People industry, we are actively managing risks associated with climate change. Environment Why this is a focus area of our operations. During FY2012, we conducted an assessment We believe the mainstream science of climate change is correct; to review the societal risks associated with climate change Society human activities are having an impact on our climate and this for our key businesses. A detailed discussion of regulatory, may pose risks to our social and economic wellbeing. We also physical and other climate change risks and opportunities recognise that we have a social and economic responsibility to is included in BHP Billiton’s 2012 response to the Carbon constructively engage on climate change issues. By understanding Disclosure Project on . the risks and opportunities of climate change and how these Reducing energy intensity and greenhouse gas emissions affect our organisation, we believe we can reduce our own We strive to continually improve energy and GHG management. impact on the environment and make a positive international Our operations with material emissions must implement and contribution to the issue. maintain Energy and GHG Management Plans. These plans Governance Potential impacts of climate change on our organisation include a five-year forecast and identification, evaluation and Our operations and fossil fuel products are exposed to potential implementation of energy-efficiency and GHG-reduction projects. financial risks from regulations to control greenhouse gas (GHG) Emissions abatement and energy savings are key considerations emissions. In the medium and long term, we are likely to see in our decision-making, and we undertake transparent public changes in the cost structures of our GHG intensive assets as reporting of our emissions. In FY2012, our carbon-based energy a result of regulatory requirements in the countries where we intensity and GHG emissions intensity were lower than the operate. This may also have implications for our suppliers and FY2006 baseline, by 15 per cent and 16 per cent, resulting in the customers. Inconsistency of regulations, particularly between successful achievement of our FY2012 target of 13 per cent and developed and developing countries, could affect the investment six per cent respectively. This result was primarily driven by the attractiveness of assets in different jurisdictions. use of hydroelectric power to supply 98 per cent of the electricity Potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations needs at our Mozal aluminium smelter in Mozambique. The result may include changes in precipitation patterns, increased storm also reflects successful implementation of energy efficiency intensities and higher average temperature levels, which may projects and reductions of fugitive methane emissions. adversely affect the productivity and financial performance Energy Use by Source Energy Use – Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (1) by Source (1) 350 60,000 300 50,000 295 250 40,000 Petajoules (PJ) kilotonnes CO2-e 20,000 200 30,000 150 Electricity 38% Electricity 49% Distillate/Gasoline 25% Fugitive Emissions 18% 20,000 100 20,200 Coal and Coke 17% Coal and Coke 12% Natural Gas 17% Distillate and Fuel Oil 13% 10,000 50 Other 3% Natural Gas 7% Fuel and Process Oil <1% Other Sources <1% 0 0 LPG <1% FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Scope 2 (2) Scope 1 (3) (1) Measured according to the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. (2) Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and steam that is consumed by controlled operations. (3) Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from controlled operations. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 17 New South Wales Energy Coal – Australia Energy efficiency projects Future greenhouse gas emissions abatement and targets Within Australia, in compliance with the national Energy In FY2011 and FY2012, our Customer Sector Groups identified Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act 2006, we progressed GHG emissions abatement projects and committed to a number of energy efficiency measures. One example is at implementing the most cost-effective options from FY2012 our Base Metals Cannington underground mine, in northwest through to FY2017. The suite of abatement projects successfully Queensland, Australia, which now individually controls the implemented in FY2012 will deliver an annual GHG emissions start-up and shutdown of each of the mine’s secondary reduction of up to 260,000 tonnes. The combined effect of ventilation fans. The new system allows fans in areas of low or all abatement projects to be undertaken through to FY2017 no activity to be individually shut down, saving approximately has enabled us to set an ambitious target to limit FY2017 100 terajoules of energy per year. The results of our participation GHG emissions equal to or below FY2006 levels. in the EEO program for FY2012 will be available online in December 2012 at . We work collaboratively with communities and employees to reduce emissions and support internal emissions reduction projects. To this end, we committed to spending US$300 million over the 2008 to 2012 period to support the implementation of energy efficient and low GHG emission technologies. We exceeded our commitment, having spent US$430 million on projects which are in various stages of implementation. While this commitment was realised in FY2012, we remain focused on establishing projects that reduce our energy consumption and carbon emissions footprint. 18 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Engaging in policy development In recent years, we have actively engaged with the Australian The issues associated with climate change continue to be a Government on the development and implementation of its People challenge for governments, communities and industries around climate change policy response. During FY2012, we commented the world and it seems a global solution to climate change on the Australian Government’s draft Energy White Paper 2011, is some time away. Until then, nations are likely to continue which will become the policy framework for government to accelerate their domestic emissions reduction efforts and decision-making regarding energy sources in the years ahead. establish low-carbon economies, balancing their needs to In terms of the carbon price introduced in July 2012 as part ensure a reliable energy supply and sustain economic growth. of the Australian Government’s Clean Energy Future Plan, we continue to hold the view that this is just one of the Governments globally are considering a variety of legislative potential policy measures that government can adopt to Environment and regulatory options to mitigate GHG emissions. In our view, address climate change and that any policy response should assessing these options requires an understanding of their be broad-based and use a portfolio of complementary measures likely effectiveness, scale and cost, as well as their implications to deliver abatement. for economic growth and quality of life. We take an active role in climate change policy development in the key regions where Independently, we maintain the Carbon Pricing Protocol, an we operate and market our products. We have developed six internal mechanism for pricing carbon and determining carbon principles that outline what we believe climate change policies price impacts on our greenfield and brownfield developments should deliver to best tackle carbon emissions reduction: and on mergers and acquisitions. Our Carbon Pricing Protocol clear price signal; revenue neutral; trade friendly; broad-based; includes a range of prices for developed and developing countries, predictable and gradual; simple and effective. In all instances based on likely scenarios of government requirements and Society of climate change policy development, we analyse and compare technology deployment, as well as the associated costs and the various policy options by evaluating the degree to which economic impacts. Our valuations for investment decisions they meet these principles. Although we are committed to and planning processes include the expected impacts of carbon contributing to the public debate on climate change, including emissions (both cost and price impacts). The Carbon Pricing sharing our knowledge and experience, we recognise that Protocol is updated annually to reflect internal and external it is for government and society as a whole to decide which carbon price modelling and the proposed treatment of carbon direction to take. permits in countries where we operate. Governance Principles for addressing climate change policy development 1 Clear price signal – ensuring that the carbon price signal reaches consumers such that consumption is reduced and investment choices are made that favour low-carbon alternatives (as opposed to not communicating clearly to consumers that higher costs are required to change behaviour, thus not optimising the use of market mechanisms to decrease emissions). 2 Revenue neutral – returning aggregate revenues raised to individuals and businesses impacted by the carbon price (for example by a cut in taxes and individual lump sum grants) to maximally offset the impact of increased carbon costs (as opposed to carbon as a mechanism to increase total tax take and applying the additional revenue for general spending and backing ‘winning’ technologies). 3 Trade friendly – rebating emissions costs for trade-exposed products during the transition to a global system prevents emissions simply being transplanted to other countries where emissions prices are lower (as opposed to penalising trade-exposed products with additional costs that make them uncompetitive). 4 Broad-based – covering the broadest possible range of both carbon emission activities and low-carbon energy options in any plan ensures the largest base for emissions reduction (as opposed to placing the burden of carbon emissions reduction on a subset of emission sources and solutions). 5 Predictable and gradual – ensuring that future carbon costs are predictable facilitates investments that reduce emissions; a gradual change in price gives the economy time to adjust (as opposed to volatile costs that create uncertainty and stifle investment). 6 Simple and effective – a combination of a carbon tax, land-use actions and limited trading system (for example, for stationary electricity production only) is easy to implement and effective (as opposed to an encompassing trading system, which is theoretically economically efficient but highly complex and impractical). BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 19 Managing water Water is essential for all aspects of our business, therefore our operations focus on addressing their water-related material risks. Why this is a focus area Managing water risks across our operations The sustainability of our operations relies on our ability to obtain Water risks and impacts experienced by our operations vary the appropriate quality and quantity of water and to use this from region to region and from site to site, with some sites facing resource responsibly. multiple and conflicting risks, including water scarcity, water excess and water quality issues. Managing water is a complex issue Increased competition for water due to population growth, The range of potential water-related risks and their potential urbanisation and industrialisation, is affecting the quantity impacts on water resources, biodiversity and communities makes and quality of available water resources and poses a managing water a complex task for our businesses. To ensure potential operational risk for our business. The social, cultural, these impacts are managed to an acceptable level, all operations environmental, ecological and economic values of water have are required to develop a Water Management Plan. This plan led to greater scrutiny of responsible water use and expectations takes into consideration the baseline quantity and quality of from our stakeholders for improved resource stewardship. We are water potentially affected, and quantifies the acceptable level experiencing greater governance, regulation and performance of impact to water resources, taking into account regulatory requirements in response to these expectations. requirements and stakeholder expectations. It also details the preventive and mitigating controls necessary to achieve At the same time, climate change is likely to make the patterns the acceptable level of impact, with each operation required and cycles of water flows less predictable, requiring flexible and to implement a monitoring and review program that verifies adaptive responses. We also consider cumulative effects on water the effectiveness of these controls. resources when multiple operations are active within a region. Olympic Dam and the sustainability of the Great Artesian Basin In FY2012, we achieved our water target, with a 29 per cent improvement in the ratio of water recycled/reused to high-quality water consumed when compared with the FY2007 base year. This was primarily due to the reduction in high-quality water Water Use by Classification use and increase in desalinated water use at our Base Metals Escondida Asset. Recycled 41% High-quality 34% Our new water target requires all operations with water-related Low-quality 25% material risks, including volume and quality considerations, to set targets and implement projects to reduce their impacts on water resources. This target recognises the local and regional context of water by including all material risks, rather than adhering to a single metric based on water use reduction, and allows operations to define the necessary projects that will best address their material water risks. High-quality Water Use by Source Onshore US and hydraulic fracturing 180,000 In line with our strategy to have a suite of diversified commodities, we made a significant investment in natural gas and liquids by 11,300 160,000 acquiring the US Fayetteville shale resource from Chesapeake 140,000 Energy Corporation in March 2011 and subsequently acquiring 137,000 120,000 Petrohawk Energy Corporation in August 2011, which now Megalitres (ML) 100,000 form our Petroleum Onshore US business. Natural gas is one 80,000 of the lowest carbon intensity fossil fuels. Extracting oil and 60,000 gas from shale involves hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing 40,000 is an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry Water Use – High-quality to stimulate production of natural gas and oil from dense 20,000 Manufactured Water Use – High-quality subsurface rock formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves 0 from Environment using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. 20 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 People Identifying and managing water risks Western Australia Iron Ore (WAIO) has established a Water Management Plan to address identified potential long-term Environment water risks. These risks range from managing water scarcity to water excess and take into consideration changing conditions that may occur over the life of an operation. They also considered the cumulative impacts of iron ore mining on regional water resources as a result of more mining in the region. Our Pilbara mines and those of neighbouring operations increasingly operate below Society the water table. Accessing this ore requires continual pumping of groundwater to lower the water table (dewatering) in the area to be mined. WAIO’s Water Management Plan focuses on addressing potential impacts from drawdown (a lowering of water levels or pressure in groundwater Governance aquifers) or from the discharge of excess water from dewatering. WAIO is also developing a regional water monitoring network to facilitate the prediction of environmental response to hydrological changes. Public concerns have been raised about hydraulic fracturing, From FY2013, we will align our water reporting across all our including potential environmental impacts of the hydraulic operations with this framework. The International Council on fracturing fluid, its potential effect on drinking water aquifers, Mining and Metals has also piloted the framework to assess the handling and disposal of waste water produced from the how it could be broadly applied across international industry. wells, and the visual, noise and traffic impacts on the use of Since FY2010, we have participated in the Carbon Disclosure the surface land. The oil and gas industry is well established Project’s Water Disclosure Project. Now in its third year, the and is subject to federal, state and local regulations requiring project aims to increase awareness of the risks and opportunities permits for well construction, drilling and waste water disposal. around water, make water reporting a standard global corporate The waste water produced from the wells, including the practice and provide data that informs decision-making by hydraulic fracturing fluids, is disposed of safely in accordance investors, companies and governments. with applicable oil and gas industry regulations and BHP Billiton Managing waste operating standards. The composition of hydraulic fracturing Mining and minerals processing operations produce large fluids, including chemicals, is publicly disclosed in FracFocus, quantities of mineral waste, including waste rock, tailings and the hydraulic fracturing Chemical Disclosure Registry slag, which need to be effectively managed. Our operations are ( ). Our priority is to safely develop these required to have Waste Management Plans, which address waste operations in a way that protects the health and safety of minimisation, storage, transportation and disposal. These plans the environment and the communities in which we operate. are maintained to control the risk of adverse impacts on the Using hydraulic fracturing to produce unconventional oil and gas environment and communities. Developing new water accounting standards Tailings dams are constructed and operated to engineering Unlike the more developed accounting approach to GHG standards and monitored and assessed to manage material risks emissions, there is no internationally consistent approach including the risk of failure. Mineral wastes are analysed for to water accounting and reporting. During FY2012, we piloted physical and geochemical characteristics to identify potential the Minerals Council of Australia’s Water Accounting Framework impacts arising from erosion, acid rock drainage, salinity, at several of our sites. The framework aims to improve data radioactivity and metal leaching. We do not dispose of tailings integrity, allow more meaningful analysis to inform policy-making or waste rock into river or marine environments. and deliver improved outcomes for industry and communities. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 21 Managing land and enhancing biodiversity We seek to deliver lasting benefits to the environment and communities by improving natural resource management and enhancing biodiversity. Why this is a focus area • Do not explore or extract resources within the boundaries Securing access to land and managing it effectively are essential of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) components of our commitment to operate in a responsible and Protected Areas Categories I-IV, unless a Biodiversity Action sustainable manner. We depend upon biodiversity and the related Plan is implemented that delivers measurable benefits benefits derived from ecosystems such as food, air and water. to biodiversity commensurate with the level of expected biodiversity impact and meets regulatory requirements. Biodiversity and land is a complex issue We appreciate the importance of preserving biodiversity and • Identify any local IUCN Red List Threatened Species the challenge this presents to all land users. Host governments and do not operate where the direct impact will result and communities are seeking a greater demonstration of effective in their extinction in the wild. land stewardship as a critical component in their decision to As our operations expand, we may enter regions of greater grant land access. This is exacerbated by growing competition environmental or social sensitivity due to biodiversity values for land, whether it be for mining, agriculture, forestry, water or other land-use values that may compete with resource supply or biodiversity conservation. Consequently, this requires extraction. We seek to effectively engage with stakeholders broader consideration of how we manage land use and to best understand and manage these issues. biodiversity at our operations and how this is balanced with Managing land access other societal needs. Obtaining community support is most Our approach to land access is undertaken on a case-by-case challenging when there is strong competition for the use of the basis and takes into account potential environmental, societal, land, such as the competition between resource development economic or cultural impacts. We first consider what land we and agriculture. need. We then look at our possible short-term and long-term Caroona Coal Project community program impacts on that land, including the effects that our use may have on biodiversity and the related benefits derived from ecosystems. Biodiversity, land and our business We also seek to identify the past and present uses of the land We assess and manage the potential land and biodiversity and any landowners, occupiers and users who may be affected impacts of our operations throughout their life cycle. by our activities. Compensatory actions, such as biodiversity Our operations are required to have Land and Biodiversity offsets, may be undertaken where residual impacts exceed Management Plans that incorporate baseline and impact the acceptable level of impact to biodiversity, land use assessments, controls designed to mitigate impacts on or water resources. biodiversity and the related benefits derived from ecosystems, and monitoring programs to verify effectiveness of controls. Operations are required to adhere to a formal management Number of operations in or adjacent hierarchy that begins with avoiding disturbance, followed by to Designated Protected or High No. of mitigating negative impacts, rehabilitating land (both during Biodiversity Areas by region operations operations and at closure) and undertaking compensatory Designated Protected Areas actions, such as biodiversity offsets, at our operations. Africa 1 We rehabilitate disturbed areas consistent with the Australasia 12 pre disturbance land use or alternative land uses developed Europe 1 in consultation with stakeholders. We have explicit commitments North America 1 relating to areas of high environmental sensitivity. These are: South America 2 • Do not explore or extract resources within the boundaries of World Heritage listed properties. High Biodiversity Areas Africa 1 • Do not explore or extract resources adjacent to World Heritage listed properties unless the proposed activity is compatible Australasia 10 with the World Heritage outstanding universal values. North America 2 South America 1 22 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 People Managing land for rehabilitation Our Mt Arthur Coal Operation, part of our New South Wales Energy Coal Asset, has expanded its approach to rehabilitation Environment to ensure land is managed to contribute to long-term sustainability. Aerial seeding has been successfully trialled and implemented as a temporary cover system on land not currently available for rehabilitation. Since 2011, more than 220 hectares of exposed overburden has been seeded. This has reduced the area of exposed overburden and improved the visual amenity of the land. Society The growth of our BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance (BMA) Asset has delayed the availability of land for rehabilitation. BMA’s rehabilitation efforts are focused on a long-term aim of returning land to safe, stable and usable landforms. The intent is to rehabilitate land to a mosaic of pasture and Governance bushland compatible with the surrounding region and desired end-land uses. Managing land for rehabilitation Addressing land rehabilitation challenges Enhancing biodiversity and contributing to conservation The rehabilitation of land no longer required for our activities Improving our management of land and enhancing biodiversity continues to be a central part of our approach to managing are essential to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner. our effects on land. In 2007, we established a target of achieving In July 2012, we introduced new biodiversity and conservation a 10 per cent improvement in the land rehabilitation index targets. The first target focuses on a core business requirement (the ratio of land rehabilitated to land disturbed). We did to implement management plans that include controls to prevent, not achieve our land rehabilitation target due to the growth minimise, rehabilitate and offset impacts to biodiversity and the of some of our operations and the challenges associated related benefits derived from ecosystems. In addition to this, with progressive rehabilitation while an operation is active. we have introduced a conservation target which will see the This delayed our ability to rehabilitate land for suitable Group finance the conservation and ongoing management of uses that meet environmental and stakeholder requirements. areas of high biodiversity and ecosystem value that are of national Delivering a cleaner Hunter River or international conservation significance. As a result of this conservation target, we will broaden our environmental activities beyond what could be achieved by our operations alone. Total Rehabilitated and Disturbed Land The conservation work will be largely supported by the 200,000 five-year alliance established in FY2012 between Conservation International and BHP Billiton. The alliance aims to deliver significant and lasting benefits to the environment by preserving 150,000 137,000 areas of high conservation value, in conjunction with local partners, in the key regions where we operate. In addition, Hectares (Ha) 100,000 Conservation International is providing technical and professional expertise to BHP Billiton to improve the management of land, biodiversity and the related benefits derived from ecosystems. 50,000 FY2012 43,000 Disturbed Land 0 Rehabilitated Land FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 23 Society Our Aluminium Mozal Operation has supported the construction of classrooms at the Nelson Mandela Secondary School, located in Maputo Province Our long-term success depends on our ability to build mutually beneficial relationships and work collaboratively and transparently with business partners, governments, non-government organisations and host communities. Our approach We acknowledge our activities have the potential to have an We engage regularly, openly and honestly with people and impact on human rights in many ways. Therefore, we actively organisations interested in and affected by our operations. commit to respecting the rights of employees, contractors and We take their views and concerns into account in our our host communities and promote fundamental human rights decision-making and strive for mutually beneficial outcomes. consistent with the articles set out in the United Nations Universal All of our operations are required to establish platforms Declaration of Human Rights. In addition, we encourage cultural for dialogue that acknowledge cultural requirements, which sensitivity and respect the traditional rights of Indigenous people enable us to identify and work with our stakeholders to develop by recognising, respecting and valuing sites, places, structures strategies that address their concerns and aspirations. and objects that are culturally or traditionally significant. Developing partnerships that foster the sustainable development of our host communities, enhance economic benefits from our In this section, we highlight our activities activities, contribute to poverty alleviation and deliver lasting and performance in three of our focus areas: benefits is integral to how we operate. We work with host governments and other organisations to create transparency 1 Ensuring meaningful engagement of the broad economic benefits to communities generated with our stakeholders. from our operations. However, we do not make any political 2 Making a positive contribution to society. contributions, in cash or in-kind, or participate directly in the activities of any political party. 3 Understanding and managing our human rights impact. 24 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders People Wherever we operate, we engage regularly, openly and honestly with the people interested in and affected by our operations and take their views and concerns into account in our decision-making. Environment Why this is a focus area Effectively engaging with our stakeholders Engaging openly with our host communities, governments and We seek to build trust with stakeholders at the earliest possible Society other key stakeholders is important when trying to ensure that stage of a project’s life. Our Community Group Level Document our activities positively enhance the lives of people who live near (GLD) stipulates that a Stakeholder Engagement Management our operations and society more broadly. Through meaningful Plan be in place from the development phase of a project and engagement we improve our understanding of and can work be reviewed annually. The plans identify the interests and towards addressing potential impacts and concerns about relationships of stakeholders and contain a range of culturally our operations and create opportunities that are aligned and socially inclusive engagement activities to encourage with the interests of our stakeholders. open communication. Our stakeholders Engagement activities vary from monthly meetings to open Governance We define stakeholders as those who are potentially affected public forums, with topics ranging from town amenity and by our operations or who have an interest in or an influence housing to impacts of growth and expansion projects, contractor over what we do. Our key stakeholders include the investment management, security, cultural issues and social development. community, shareholders, customers, media, business partners, Our responses to concerns or complaints are recorded, as are employees and contractors, local and Indigenous communities, any commitments we may make. industry associations, suppliers, governments and regulators, Our operations are required to measure the effectiveness non-government organisations (NGOs), community-based of their stakeholder engagement by conducting mandatory organisations and labour unions. community perception surveys every three years. These surveys Our stakeholders and their interests are detailed on page 37 provide a valuable external perspective on the quality of our of this Report. engagement and whether our stakeholders believe we are effectively addressing the key concerns of their communities. In FY2012, a standard set of questions was added to all our existing community perception surveys, which will allow for Group-level assessment on these performance indicators in the future. During FY2012, 16 operations conducted community perception surveys. Examples of formal consultative groups that are operated by our businesses CSG and Asset/Field/Project Country Consultation Frequency of meeting Petroleum – Zamzama Pakistan Local community special interest group. Monthly Stainless Steel Materials – Colombia Indigenous communities. Quarterly Cerro Matoso Base Metals – Cannington Australia Local community. Biannual Diamonds and Specialty Products – Canada Local government. Adhoc Jansen Potash Project Manganese – Manganese South Africa Regional government and NGOs. Quarterly South Africa Energy Coal – New Mexico Coal United States Adjacent landowners. Quarterly BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 25 Ensuring meaningful engagement with our stakeholders continued Helping preserve Indigenous cultures BHP Billiton Iron Ore is the principal and founding partner of The Canning Stock Route Project. It is a long-term cultural project, which has involved 10 Indigenous arts and cultural enterprises in 17 communities and more than 250 Indigenous people across the remote north west region of Western Australia. The purpose of the project is to create a rich cultural repository, which explores the history and cultures of the Canning Stock Route, as well as to support Indigenous people in developing new sustainable economic development opportunities. As a result of Iron Ore’s partnership, nine Indigenous people secured long-term employment in roles as curators, film-makers and project advisers; more than 240 pieces of art have been created; 148 short films have been produced; more than 120,000 people have visited the exhibition in the National Museum of Australia; a national education curriculum has been developed; and more than A$1.3 million in direct earnings has been generated for the remote communities involved. Helping preserve Indigenous cultures Acknowledging customary rights from the host rocks poses an environmental risk. We have At a very early stage in a project, before any substantive work mitigated this risk by performing monthly ground and surface is carried out on the ground, we seek to identify landowners, water sampling and monitoring around these sites and the occupiers and users who may be affected by our activities. general tenement at large. Knowing who owns and uses the land is critical to establishing During FY2012, there were no significant incidents involving an effective community consultation and engagement program. cultural heritage sites and there were no reported community It helps to ensure that affected people are fully aware of the resettlements at BHP Billiton controlled operations. If resettlement project and that they have an opportunity to express their is required (voluntary or involuntary), it is done so in accordance concerns and aspirations. Arising from this engagement, with the requirements of the International Finance Corporation the work plan may be amended to reduce potential impacts Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary on landowners and users. Resettlement, excluding the requirement to obtain free prior informed consent (FPIC). None of our controlled operations In instances where land may be used for customary purposes reported any significant disputes relating to land use or and no formal land title has been issued, information is sought customary rights during FY2012. from relevant organisations to determine those groups with connections to the land. This includes government authorities with responsibilities for customary land uses and any Indigenous No. of operations located No. of operations with people’s representative organisations, such as land and tribal in or adjacent to Indigenous formal agreements with councils. Further enquiries are also made directly with the people Country people’s territories Indigenous communities in the area. Surveys are commissioned to identify the customary Australia 25 19 owners and how the land is being used to ensure these uses are Canada 2 1 taken into account in our development plans. Through a heritage US 2 0 survey conducted by our Liberia Exploration Project in FY2012, we became aware of artisanal miners within our exploration Chile 1 1 licence areas. The artisanal miners’ chemical leaching of gold 26 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Promoting reconciliation within Australia Engaging with NGOs through the Forum Through our Reconciliation Action Plan, we are focused on Corporate Responsibility People on promoting a culture of respect and working to achieve Established in 1999, the Forum on Corporate Responsibility reconciliation. We aim to develop effective relationships with currently includes six members from our Group Management the traditional owners and Indigenous people who live near Committee (GMC) and eight senior leaders from the NGO sector. and are impacted by our mining operations. Our Australian The NGO members have extensive experience in regions where businesses work collaboratively with other sectors, including we have business interests, including South America, west Africa, industry and government, so together we can build on and Australia and the United Kingdom. Our Chief Executive Officer contribute to longer-term sustainability of communities. chairs the meetings, which were held twice during FY2012. Environment Cultural awareness training for our employees and contractors is The Forum encourages open discussion and expression of views a key focus for many of our Australian assets. This is implemented on environmental, socio-economic, geopolitical and ethical through cultural awareness workshops and induction programs issues. Sustainability issues discussed in the past financial year that facilitate an understanding and appreciation of traditional included energy choices; biodiversity; Indigenous people and rights and of management and protection of Indigenous FPIC; resource endowment and benefit sharing; and consideration cultural heritage. of our new HSEC targets. While we are not bound by the advice We aim to strengthen capacity within Indigenous communities of the Forum and the Forum does not necessarily endorse the through partnerships and community investment programs. Company’s decisions, the meeting provides insight into society’s current priorities and an opportunity to understand and debate Society We support a range of community projects in the areas of education, health, culture, and community and enterprise issues from multiple viewpoints. development. Indigenous employment and business opportunities The Forum on Corporate Responsibility are increased through improving access to training and education, providing flexible working environments and Addressing community concerns involving local Indigenous businesses in our supply chain. Our operations are required to have local processes to accept, assess and resolve community concerns, complaints and Committed to broad-based community support grievances about the performance or behaviour of BHP Billiton We require greenfield or significant expansion projects to obtain and our people. The processes are commensurate with the Governance support from stakeholders before proceeding with development. country context and associated risks and are transparent, Such broad-based community support is distinct from achieving culturally appropriate and readily accessible to all segments FPIC, which we seek when it is mandated and defined by law. of the community. As part of the complaint resolution process, In the instance of the Olympic Dam expansion project, key State all complaints and grievances are required to be acknowledged, and Commonwealth Government approvals have been given for documented and investigated internally. As required, appropriate the project. An Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA) relating actions are implemented and complainants are advised of to the expansion project was signed by all the parties following the outcome. community meetings held in March 2012 at which the Traditional In FY2012, the highest number of complaints across the Group was Owner groups voted in favour of it being executed. However, registered at our Mt Arthur Coal Operation, in New South Wales, following a recent review of the business, it became clear that the Australia. The mine recorded 140 complaints, predominantly right decision for the Company and its shareholders was to study about noise, blasting and lighting. Mt Arthur Coal management an alternative, less capital-intensive design of the Olympic Dam is actively addressing noise and dust issues by using a range of open-pit expansion that involves new technologies. As a result, mitigation strategies. These include using electronically timed the Group is not in a position to approve the Olympic Dam blasts to minimise ground vibration in sensitive areas, aerial expansion project at this time; nevertheless, we will continue seeding to minimise the amount of windblown dust, and to work with our stakeholders. continuing monitoring and maintenance of noise attenuation While our businesses actively engage with local landholders, equipment on machinery. there are some challenges for us as a resource company With four other mines operating in close proximity to Mt Arthur in relation to FPIC. Some of these include: Coal, cumulative impacts related to dust, blasting and noise • Mineral rights are typically vested in the state, and our host will continue to present the greatest future challenges from governments may wish to retain the right to determine if and mining to the area. Mt Arthur Coal worked collaboratively with when resources are developed for the benefit of all citizens. other mining companies and the local community over FY2012 • Traditional decision-making processes are highly variable to implement programs aimed at understanding and addressing and may not be deemed appropriate by all parties with these cumulative mining impacts. an interest in the issue. • Conflicting claims of ownership over Indigenous lands can be exacerbated by major resource developments. • There is a suggestion that FPIC could be applied at each stage of a resource development, which would create uncertainty for long-term investments. We are working with the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) to help clarify these issues and develop an industry position for the ICMM members on this important issue. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 27 Making a positive contribution to society We develop partnerships that promote social and economic development and benefit the broader community. Why this is a focus area Nationally and regionally, we contribute taxes and royalties to As a large organisation, we believe we have an economic governments that in turn provide infrastructure and services to and social responsibility to make a positive contribution to their constituents. Additionally, we often develop infrastructure the communities, regions and countries where we operate. that provides local communities and businesses with benefits such as airports, roads, community childcare centres and Our broad socio-economic contribution medical clinics. At a Group-level, we are an active participant in industry and sustainable development forums, such as the ICMM, Training and employing local people is important to us. However, and we are a member of the World Business Council our ability to have a significant impact on unemployment is for Sustainable Development. limited by the nature of our operations as typically we require highly skilled people with relevant industry and technical We seek to understand our socio-economic impact on local experience. We make a broader economic contribution through communities and host regions through our participation indirect employment, where we focus on building the capacity in the ICMM’s multi-stakeholder Resource Endowment of local businesses to provide us with a diverse range of services initiative (REi). The REi aims to enhance the mining industry’s and products. socio-economic contribution to the countries and communities where organisations like BHP Billiton operate, by better We voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, understanding the factors that either inhibit or promote calculated on the average of the previous three years’ pre-tax social and economic development that are linked to profit, in community programs that aim to have a long-lasting large-scale mining projects. positive impact on people’s quality of life. This includes implementing new and supporting existing community projects. We engage with governments on a range of policy issues and also play a role in advocating transparent and ethical governance, through our own actions and in discussion with opinion leaders. Community Investment Target Community Investment Expenditure by Geographic Region* 250 Australasia 58% South America 29% Africa 8% 200 30 North America 5% 65 Asia <1% Europe <1% 150 165.5 US$ million 149 100 * Excludes expenditure from foundations and trusts. 50 UK-based charitable company Community Investment Expenditure by Program Category* Expenditure (Less UK-based charitable company) 0 Target General Infrastructure 25% Community Support FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 (capacity building) 20% Education and Training 18% Arts 9% Health 8% Sports and Recreation 6% Environment 5% Disaster Relief 5% Small Business Development 4% * Excludes expenditure from foundations and trusts. 28 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Addressing infant health in our host communities People In developing countries, including those in which we operate, child mortality remains high, and children continue to die from preventable causes. Early childhood represents a critical ‘window of opportunity’ to shape a child’s long-term healthy development. Our UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities, is providing US$25 million to the Window of Opportunity project to assist in improving the health of Environment women and infant children in four districts in South Africa and one district in Mozambique. The project is being led by international non-profit organisation Program for Appropriate Technology in Health (PATH) and is focused on improving critical services that will directly reach 750,000 women and children. Community development programs During FY2012, our voluntary community investment Our community development programs are focused on totalled US$214 million*, comprising cash, in-kind support Society improving the quality of life of people in our host communities. and administrative costs and included a US$65 million contribution to our UK-based charitable company, Each community development project is required to be BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities. linked to a Community Development Management Plan. The plans are developed in consultation with local stakeholders The cash component of our FY2012 community investment and formulated from data gathered from an impacts and of US$128.6 million comprises: opportunities assessment and a social baseline study that • direct investment in community programs; includes key quality-of-life indicators. In FY2012, as part of • contributions to the Group’s charitable foundations, excluding a GMC key performance indicator, all controlled operations BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities; Governance developed and implemented Community Development • the Enterprise Development and Socio-economic Development Management Plans in compliance with our Community GLD. components of our broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Community development projects are selected on the basis (BEE) programs in South Africa. of their capacity to have a positive impact on quality-of-life Excluding the contribution to BHP Billiton Sustainable indicators for the relevant community and enhance the Group’s Communities, 51 per cent of our expenditure was invested licence to operate. Projects must have documented objectives in local communities, 38 per cent was invested regionally specifically linked to the achievement of long-term sustainable and the remaining 11 per cent was invested in national community development and improvements in indicators or international programs in countries where we operate. identified in a social baseline study. We monitor progress by tracking changes in these indicators every three years. In FY2012, through BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities, Prior to approval, community projects are required to we also contributed US$1 million to disaster relief, to support be assessed in relation to anti-corruption requirements, rebuilding infrastructure following the 2011 Mozambique and are implemented in accordance with the BHP Billiton floods and the Horn of Africa famine disaster relief in Ethiopia. Code of Business Conduct. Helping communities generate livelihoods FY2012 – A selection of our community development programs CSG and FY2012* Asset/Field Country Project Objective (US$) Petroleum – Trinidad Turtle Village Trust Promote community-based nature and heritage tourism through 80,134 Angostura and Tobago infrastructure development and environmental protection to improve the conservation of ecosystems. Aluminium – South Africa University of Zululand Enhance childhood education, particularly of rural children, through 250,000 Aluminium Early Childhood establishment of an early childhood development science centre. South Africa Development Centre Stainless Steel Colombia Health Care Enhance the health care services in Alto San Jorge through a monitored 2,475,935 Materials – Services donation aimed at improving infrastructure and equipment endowment Cerro Matoso (since July 2009). Base Metals – Chile Rural Drinking Water Contribute to a better quality of life for Indigenous communities 62,899 Escondida by partnering to provide basic infrastructure. Metallurgical Australia Great Barrier Understand the accurate assessment and prediction of the cumulative 483,122 Coal – BHP Billiton Reef Foundation impacts of major threats, such as climate change and water quality, Mitsubishi Alliance on the Great Barrier Reef. * The expenditure represents BHP Billiton’s equity share, for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 29 Making a positive contribution to society continued Supporting the local business community The BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance’s (BMA’s) ‘Local Buying Program’ is designed to assist small local businesses to engage in the competitive supply of goods and services to BMA, located in Queensland’s Bowen Basin, Australia. The Program, which commenced in June 2012, requires suppliers to register their supply capabilities (goods and services) on a website, which is then accessed by BMA to source and procure items locally. A portion from each transaction will be allocated to a community foundation, which will then be used to build local business capability through activities like industry training and development. Supporting employee contributions Local procurement In addition to the social programs directly supported by the Due to the scale of our operations, we create a strong Group, many of our employees make a valuable contribution demand for products and services in areas where we operate. to their local communities by giving their personal time and We recognise that supporting local and regional businesses expertise to a range of activities. One of the most significant to meet this demand can bring potential benefits to our ways we support the efforts of our employees engaged in host communities and regions. This is why in FY2012 a new community activities is through our global Matched Giving requirement was added to our Community GLD that requires Program, whereby the Company matches employee volunteering all operations to implement a local procurement plan that will hours, fundraising and donation efforts. In FY2012, we surveyed support local and regional businesses. Our approach is to source our employees to obtain feedback about the Matched Giving locally if a product or service that meets our requirements is Program. Overall, 83 per cent of respondents rated the program available. In FY2012, 45 per cent of our Group spend was with as good or excellent. local and regional suppliers. Local and regional spend, in this The Matched Giving Program aims to strengthen local context, refers to spend within communities in which we operate communities by supporting and encouraging employees who and the regions, such as states and provinces, where our volunteer, fundraise or donate to not-for-profit organisations. operations are located. In FY2012, more than 6,000 employees participated in the In Chile, the BHP Billiton Cluster Program, which commenced Matched Giving Program, volunteering a total of approximately in 2009, is successfully building new relationships with local 60,000 hours of their own time to community activities suppliers. The program was developed out of a broader important to them. Employee contributions benefited initiative by the Chilean Government to improve local economic more than 1,400 not-for-profit organisations, which received development; it sees participants from our Chilean operations US$7.7 million from the Group as part of the program. work with local companies to help them develop into Our annual Health, Safety, Environment and Community Awards world-class suppliers. By 2020, the goal is to develop more provides us with another way of recognising the contributions than 250 world-class suppliers, defined by their ability to export made by our employees to the care of their fellow employees, technology and knowledge-intensive services to other mining the community and the environment. countries and sectors of the Chilean economy. The program aims to increase local suppliers’ economic value, create lasting business and technological capabilities, and contribute to the region’s national long-term growth and development. Fostering local supplier development Matched Giving Distribution of Supply Expenditure* 8 Local and regional 45% National (excluding local and regional) 43% 7.7 External to home country 12% 6 US$ million 4 * Local and regional spend refers to spend within the communities in which we operate and the regions, such as states and provinces, 2 where our operations are located. National spend refers to spend within the home country of operation, excluding local and regional spend. 0 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 30 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Understanding and managing our human rights impact People We respect and promote fundamental human rights. Environment Why this is a focus area We use both public and private security providers to protect our We have a responsibility to understand our potential impacts people and assets. Our Security and Emergency Management Society on human rights and to mitigate or eliminate them. We are GLD requires private security providers engaged by BHP Billiton committed to operating in accordance with the United Nations to be signatories to or agree in writing to align with the (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers. Compact Principles. Our BHP Billiton Charter and Code of In addition to this, written advice is given to security providers Business Conduct, and the performance requirements detailed outlining our commitment to the VPs and the expectation for in our GLDs support this commitment. private security providers, or request for public security providers, to operate consistently with these principles. Our human rights due diligence process Our human rights due diligence process requires our operations In FY2012, we reported one human rights related security Governance to identify and document key potential human rights risks incident involving contracted security personnel. In November by completing a human rights impact assessment (HRIA). 2011, trespassers were found at a site in South Africa by a private This includes assessing performance against the articles of security guard service contracted to BHP Billiton. One of the the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global trespassers was apprehended by the security provider and died Compact Principles and host country legislation governing human before South African police attended the scene. In response rights issues. HRIAs must be verified through an engagement to this incident, we arranged for third-party subject matter process with stakeholders, validated by a qualified specialist experts to conduct an independent review, which incorporated every three years and internally reviewed on an annual basis. relevant aspects of the VPs. We are providing full support Where a HRIA identifies a material risk, a Human Rights to the South African police who are continuing to investigate Management Plan must be developed and implemented. the circumstances surrounding the incident. Selected employees and contractors receive training on how Security and country risk to comply with BHP Billiton’s human rights commitments. The nature and global reach of our business can result in our Detailed due diligence is undertaken in a range of sustainability people working in countries where there is potential exposure aspects, including human rights, for all significant investments. to personal and business risk. We require each country to be While non-controlled assets are not obliged to operate assessed for the degree of risk associated with visiting, exploring according to BHP Billiton standards, we aim to influence and operating within it and appropriate controls are developed their actions appropriately. to mitigate identified risks. Security and human rights Occasionally, it is necessary to provide armed security protection Our Security and Emergency Management GLD requires all our for the safety of our people. Firearms are only deployed under operations to identify and manage security-related material risks a set of approved rules of engagement and when it can be to our people and property. demonstrated that no other options exist to protect a human life, to carry out stewardship requirements (such as injured The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPs) livestock management) or as a means of last resort when assists organisations to maintain the safety and security of their threatened by dangerous wildlife. Criteria for the use of firearms operations through the provision of an operating framework that and rules of engagement must comply with the International upholds respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. Association of Oil and Gas Producers, ‘Firearms and the Use We have taken a leadership role in the advancement of the VPs of Force’ (Report number 320, Revision 2). at various levels and participate in activities, including working with industry associations and NGOs around the world to promote the VPs. In FY2012, we outlined the new requirements relating to the VPs, including an annual gap analysis utilising the VPs Implementation Guidance Tool and the development of improvement plans to close identified gaps. This analysis will further inform our security and human rights strategy in the future. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 31 Governance Pampa Norte – Chile Our success is driven by the decisions we take and how well we execute them. We adhere to our commitments and strive to ensure the best outcomes are delivered to our stakeholders. Our approach As a global business, we are subject to the laws and regulations In this section, we discuss our approach to: of countries in which we operate. We are also committed 1 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically. to upholding certain international standards and guidelines. We uphold ethical business practices and meet or exceed, where standards are less stringent than our own, applicable legal and other requirements. A key element of our governance approach is to regularly review our performance and publicly report our progress. We believe setting targets and measuring our performance against them are essential steps towards continuous improvement, promoting efficient use of our resources and focusing our efforts on the things that matter most. 32 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically Wherever we operate in the world, we strive to work People with integrity – doing what is right and doing what we say we will do. We care as much about how results are achieved as we do about the results themselves. Environment Why this is a focus area management system, where business conduct concerns can be At BHP Billiton, we believe that to maintain our position as one raised anonymously. Contact details for the service can be found Society of the world’s leading companies, we must commit to the highest on our website at . ethical business practices and governance standards in all our In FY2012, 492 cases* were recorded through the Business dealings. We strive to foster a culture that values and rewards Conduct Advisory Service. There were 66 instances regarding exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity harassment and equality in employment. All were reviewed, and and respect for others. We believe that consistent and proper formal investigations were conducted into 31, with six remaining business conduct creates loyalty and trust with our stakeholders. open as at 30 June 2012. Disciplinary proceedings, including Specific discussion on legal proceedings is available in section 8 termination, were instituted in 12 cases. If an individual is not of our Annual Report 2012. satisfied with the outcome of an issue raised with management, Governance they are directed to escalate the matter by contacting a more Upholding the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct senior manager, a Group Legal representative or the Business Founded on Our BHP Billiton Charter values, the BHP Billiton Conduct Advisory Service, so the matter can be assessed Code of Business Conduct represents our unqualified or investigated. Defined processes exist for the conduct commitment to uphold ethical business practices. All BHP Billiton of investigations. employees are accountable for acting in accordance with the Code of Business Conduct. Suppliers, contractors and partners * Cases recorded through the Business Conduct Advisory Service include working with or for us are also required to be informed of our Petroleum Onshore US business. and act in accordance with these requirements. We recognise that at times our people may find themselves in situations where complying with the Code of Business Conduct Business Conduct Advisory Service Enquiries by Category may appear to conflict with the ability to win or retain business. The Code of Business Conduct makes it clear that our people Inappropriate Workplace Behaviour 19% may not allow anything – meeting production, competitive Questions 17% Information Systems 10% instincts or even a direct order from a manager – to compromise Harassment 9% their commitment to working with integrity. In upholding the Theft or Misappropriation 8% Code of Business Conduct, our people can be confident they Conflict of Interest 6% are working in the right way. Fraud 5% Health and Safety 4% In 2011, key changes to anti-corruption legislation prompted Equality in Employment 4% Third Parties 4% a review of the Code of Business Conduct. This review was Alcohol, Drug and Tobacco Use 2% completed in January 2012, and the updated document continues Community 2% to provide clear expectations about behaviour. To ensure the Corruption 2% Unfair Dismissal 2% requirements of the Code of Business Conduct are embedded Other* 6% effectively across BHP Billiton, each business leader has the responsibility for ensuring that all employees and agency * Gifts, Meals, Entertainment and Travel, Accuracy of Records and contractors attend an annual face-to-face meeting to discuss Reports, Personal Information and Privacy, Intellectual Property, the Code of Business Conduct. A training and communication Communicating Externally, Property Misuse and Insider Trading. plan for each business and function is completed and executed each year. Business leaders report against these requirements on an annual basis and retain records of training undertaken. Business Conduct Advisory Service Enquiries by Region We have in place mechanisms to address stakeholder grievances Australasia 49% and concerns. Our operations maintain a register of concerns, Africa 20% complaints and relevant external communications. The Business North America 13% Conduct Advisory Service provides a further means for raising South America 7% Asia 5% concerns and is designed to facilitate the resolution of business Europe 1% conduct queries and issues. All stakeholders can access Undisclosed 5% the worldwide multilingual 24-hour hotline and online case BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 33 Reporting transparently and behaving ethically continued Anti-corruption Closure planning Regardless of the country or culture within which our people Closure planning is a key consideration in the planning work, our Anti-Corruption Group Level Document (GLD) and and development of our projects and operations. the Code of Business Conduct prohibit bribery and corruption Operations are required to produce Life of Asset Plans, in all our business dealings. Our procedures require appropriate which detail the activities to develop the resource, and Closure due diligence in selecting and engaging third parties, the Plans, which describe the proposed methods to rehabilitate maintenance of accurate and reasonably detailed records and remediate following those activities and address closure of expenditures, and the implementation and maintenance obligations. The Closure Plans provide the basis for estimating of specific approval requirements for corruption sensitive the closure costs and the associated accounting closure transactions. We also prohibit the making of facilitation and rehabilitation provisions. Detailed closure planning payments, which are payments involving small sums to requirements, including the issues to be addressed, accuracy low-level government officials to obtain routine services of cost estimates and risks to be assessed, are described in to which BHP Billiton is otherwise legally entitled. our Directional Planning GLD. Information on our closure and Following requests for information in August 2009 from the rehabilitation provisions can be found in note 18 ‘Provisions’ US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Group commenced to financial statements in our Annual Report 2012. In addition an internal investigation and disclosed to relevant authorities to our projects and operating assets, we are also responsible evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible violations for a number of legacy operations that are in various stages of applicable anti-corruption laws involving interactions with of decommissioning, rehabilitation or post-closure care government officials. The internal investigation is continuing and maintenance. and the Group is cooperating with the relevant authorities and In FY2011, we established an ongoing closure planning audit reporting the facts found in the investigation. It is not possible program, which focuses on the Closure Plan and associated at this time to predict the likely outcomes of the matter. closure cost estimate and closure valuation. Outcomes of these Assessing risk when entering a new country audits assist us to identify weaknesses in closure planning, We adopt rigorous assessment processes for every project we improve closure plans and cost estimates, and revise closure consider, regardless of its location. The performance measures planning governance processes. detailed in our Country Risk Management GLD stipulate that in Product stewardship countries with high or extreme governance risk, proposed new As our primary activities are in the extraction (and, in some activities that may expose the Group to a material risk issue – cases, processing) stages of a product’s life cycle, the majority such as a reputation, legal or business conduct impact – will be of the life cycles of our products occur after the products have assessed to ensure a tolerable risk profile. New activities may left our control. We recognise there is strong business merit include establishing new trade agreements; undertaking new in implementing product stewardship programs with other community investment programs; interactions with government participants in the life cycles of our products. We seek to officials; or obtaining new tenements, licences or acreage for work with those involved in the product life cycles to enhance a new region. Given the increasingly complex competitive and environmental and social performances along the supply chain regulatory environments in which we operate, our ability to and to promote responsible product use and management. engage effectively with governments will be central to ensuring This approach applies to all stages of the supply chain from shareholders’ interests are protected. product storage to transport, consumption, recycling and Transparently reporting taxes disposal of our products and by-products. Through our membership of the International Council on Our internal audits and management systems are central to our Mining and Metals (ICMM), BHP Billiton supports the Extractive approach to product stewardship. They allow environmental, Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a global initiative health and safety risks regarding employees, contractors to improve governance in resource-rich countries through and communities to be assessed and prevented or mitigated. the verification and full publication of company payments and government revenues from oil, gas and mining. We are In FY2012, we engaged in a number of product stewardship committed to supporting and cooperating in the implementation initiatives, such as the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), of country-level EITI Work Plans as our host countries progress Steel Stewardship Forum and Responsible Aluminium. For other the initiative. commodities, including copper and nickel, we participate in the stewardship programs incorporated within industry associations. In line with our support for the EITI, we have reported payments of taxes and royalties derived from resource development In the case of uranium, we promote, practice and follow on a country-by-country basis. We have presented the data the uranium product stewardship principles established by as the taxes and royalty payments that we make as BHP Billiton, the World Nuclear Association and the Australian Uranium such as corporate income taxes and royalties, and those that Association of which we are members. These principles include we collect on behalf of employees. Data is available on page 43 supporting the safe and peaceful use of nuclear technology of this Report. and promoting sustainable development for the whole industry. Product stewardship activities involving BHP Billiton range Our payments to governments in the past year, included from participation in national and international programs to the US$12.1 billion in company taxes, and royalties and certain transparency of allowing customers to physically audit our health, indirect taxes and approximately US$1.4 billion in taxes collected safety, environment and community activities. Our Uranium CSG on behalf of employees. More than 99 per cent of our payments voluntarily provided information on uranium and the nuclear fuel are made to 14 countries. Of these, our largest payments are cycle in the Olympic Dam Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). made in Australia, where we have the majority of our assets. 34 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 People Environment Code of Business Conduct training – Australia We take a shared concern across various aspects of the uranium Managing our suppliers life cycle where others have a direct responsibility. For example, Our contractors and suppliers have requirements in their Society BHP Billiton exercises direct control over the on-site packaging contracts consistent with Our Charter, Code of Business and storage of uranium. We share concerns about the safe and Conduct, Anti-corruption GLD and Health, Safety, Environment secure transportation, handling and storage of uranium from and Community GLDs. In our Supply ‘Source to Contract’ GLD, the mine site to Australian Government-approved overseas we specify that our suppliers align with these requirements, facilities. This is managed through a range of active controls and as well as with our zero tolerance of a number of human rights monitoring processes – including product security and transport issues, including child labour, inhumane treatment of employees arrangements – put in place by BHP Billiton, the overseas and forced or compulsory labour. All contracted suppliers are conversion facilities and the respective international authorities. categorised depending on their HSEC and business conduct risk and our level of commercial dependency, and a procedure Governance As a member of the ICMM, we have also committed to implementing the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, to engage with each supplier is developed appropriate to the which requires that we facilitate and encourage responsible level of risk. To confirm the implementation of our Supply ‘Source design, use, reuse, recycling and disposal of our products. to Contract’ GLD, during FY2012 we identified certain suppliers based on risk and business criticality and conducted facility visits Our coal operations have recently participated in a number to assess compliance with our zero tolerance requirements. of initiatives relevant to product stewardship, including consideration of international assessments, as well as external Customers and internal audits. Our coal operations have been the subject We generally sell directly to industrial customers, rather than of external evaluation by independent auditors appointed by through brokers and agents. Internal approval processes are in our customers with a view to providing consideration of the place to support our adherence to laws, standards and voluntary health, safety, environment and community activities undertaken codes related to marketing, such as advertising, promotion and by the operations. sponsorship. With the exception of diamonds, our product advertising is limited to industrial uses. Many of our products are required to have a specific material safety data sheet (MSDS). These MSDSs outline the relevant We made it a condition in FY2010 that, to do business with us, health, safety and environmental aspects of our products and all diamonds customers must be members in good standing of are provided to customers and the transporters of our products. the RJC and that they must show compliance to the RJC standards Managing the life cycle of uranium through the RJC certification system of third-party audits. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 35 Jansen Potash Project – Canada Appendix Our stakeholders 37 Performance data – People 39 Performance data – Environment 40 Performance data – Society 42 Performance data – Governance 43 Independent assurance report to the Directors and management of BHP Billiton 44 36 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Our stakeholders BHP Billiton identifies its key stakeholders and considers their expectations and concerns for all activities throughout the life cycle of the operations, in accordance with the Community Group Level Document (GLD). In addition to our sustainability reporting stakeholders, the groups listed below also include our broader stakeholder groups. Operations specifically consider any minority groups (such as Indigenous groups) and any social and cultural factors that may be critical to stakeholder engagement. Stakeholder Group Interest Engagement methods Investment community Includes debt and Analysts are located globally and assess the financial • Market and news releases. equity analysts, socially performance of BHP Billiton. Increasingly, non-financial • Analyst briefings on key issues (subject to applicable laws). responsible investment performance is also of interest, including corporate • Printed reports (Annual Report, Sustainability Report). analysts and corporate governance and sustainability. • Participation in external benchmarking initiatives. governance analysts. Shareholders A diverse group, with The creation of long-term shareholder value through • Annual General Meetings. significant representation a combination of consistent financial returns and • Regular printed and electronic communications. in Australasia, Europe, high-quality governance. They are also interested • Regular meetings with institutional shareholders South Africa and in BHP Billiton ensuring high-quality governance and investor representatives. North America. is an ongoing process and maintaining our focus • Access to investment community presentations. on continuous improvement and understanding shareholder concerns. Customers Generally other large Typically focused on reliability of supply; product • Regular communications with BHP Billiton Marketing. organisations. quality, cost and delivery; the full life cycle impacts • Technical support to assist with product use, either of our products; the downstream products made using in terms of process efficiency or product handling. BHP Billiton materials; materials and resource efficiency; • Product information, including material safety data sheets. and the management of final waste materials. • Visits to operations. • Technology exchanges with operations. • Participation in a range of stewardship initiatives through industry associations, such as the Responsible Jewellery Council and the World Nuclear Association Uranium Stewardship Working Group. Media Includes representatives A broad range of issues reflecting all • Media releases, briefings, presentations and interviews. from print, online stakeholder interests. and broadcast media. Business partners Includes organisations with BHP Billiton and our joint venture partners are interested • Joint venture boards and operating committees. which we have joint venture in ensuring that suitable governance mechanisms • Printed reports (Annual Report, Sustainability Report). arrangements. are in place. We engage with joint venture partners • Joint venture partner participation in Health, Safety, to ensure financial returns are delivered and risks Environment and Community (HSEC) audit programs. are sufficiently mitigated. Employees and contractors Our diverse workforce Matters concerning the health and safety of our • Regular performance reviews and employee comprises an average of workforce, working conditions and career development perception surveys. 46,370 employees and 78,813 are areas of interest. For employees and contractors • Direct communication through immediate supervisors contractors located in more who reside near our operations, it is common for and management. than 25 countries. any prevailing local issues, such as employment • Operation-based newsletters and general communications. opportunities, business creation, social infrastructure, • BHP Billiton portal. schooling and health care, to be shared with local communities. In many remote communities, housing • Asset and operation-based sustainability reports. and basic services and amenities are key to employee • Business Conduct Advisory Service. attraction and retention. • Participation in HSEC performance improvement initiatives. Local and Indigenous communities Most of our operations are Potential environmental and social impacts associated • Community consultation and engagement groups. located in rural and remote with our operations. A focus is to ensure opportunities • Participation in BHP Billiton activities. areas. We therefore have presented by our operations are optimised (for example, • Newsletters and targeted communications. a broad spectrum of local maintaining sustainable community development • Community perception surveys. and Indigenous communities opportunities after a mine closure). Our communities’ with interests and concerns. most important interests and concerns as identified • Support through local foundations (for example, in Chile, through stakeholder perception surveys are local Peru, Colombia and Mozambique). employment and business creation, support for social • Other operation-specific engagement developed as part infrastructure and programs, a desire for improved of operation Stakeholder Engagement Management Plans. community engagement mechanisms and improved environmental performance. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 37 Our stakeholders continued Stakeholder Group Interest Engagement methods Industry associations Includes commodity-specific A diverse range of issues relating to the sector • BHP Billiton engages with this group through ongoing associations, as well or commodity, such as environmental legislation, representation on specific committees and engagement as sector-specific safety standards and promotion of leading practice. during specific projects with industry associations, associations, at national both nationally and internationally, such as the and international levels. Minerals Council of Australia and the International Council on Mining and Metals. Suppliers Includes businesses local Supply agreements, payment processes and required • B HP Billiton performs a supplier segmentation based to our operations, as well as supplier standards. on HSEC, business conduct and commercial dependency large international suppliers. requirements. Based on this segmentation, we define the appropriate engagement through the supplier life cycle. Governments and regulators Includes governments National, regional or local legislative and regulatory • Group representatives attend selected events, such as and regulators at local, policy frameworks for the natural resources sector political party conventions, for the purpose of better regional, national and through the full project life cycle. They are also understanding the implications of public policy international levels. interested in market access, product stewardship, development on business operations. environmental performance, social policy and fiscal • Employees may participate in political processes regimes applicable to the resources sector. We respect as individuals, provided it is made clear that in doing the authority of governments and our operations so they are not representing BHP Billiton. are required to work within relevant legislative and • BHP Billiton will express its views to governments on regulatory frameworks at the local, regional, national subjects that affect the Group’s interests and operations. and international levels. This must be done in a manner that adheres to high standards of ethics and complies with the letter and spirit of the law. • We will not make political contributions in cash or in-kind anywhere in the world and will not participate directly in the activities of political parties. Non-government organisations (NGOs) Includes environmental, Ethical, social and environmental performance • Each operation identifies relevant local NGOs and social and human of existing operations, proposed operations includes mechanisms for engagement with them within rights organisations or closed operations. the asset’s Stakeholder Engagement Management Plan. at local, national and • At the corporate level, we regularly engage with relevant international levels. national and international organisations. The Forum on Corporate Responsibility includes leaders from a number of NGOs, including Oxfam Australia, Alliance for Responsible Mining (Colombia), International Alert (UK) and Centre for Social Markets (India). Community-based organisations A public or private non-profit Community-based organisations provide us with • We engage with community-based organisations through organisation that is a grassroots voice of particular interests or concerns our Stakeholder Engagement Management Plans. They are representative of a particular for the local community. often key members of our consultation committees and segment of the community can be recipients of our community investment. and is engaged in human, educational, environmental, recreational or public safety and community needs. Labour unions Labour unions are Issues raised by unions include workers’ rights and • We engage in direct communication with unions represented at many interests, collective bargaining opportunities, health as required. Prospective employees are made aware of our operations. and safety matters, remuneration, working hours of employment arrangements prior to joining the Group. and roster arrangements. 38 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Performance data – People (1) Region FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 Average Number of Employees (2) Number 46,370 40,757 39,570 40,990 41,732 Average Number of Contractors (3) Number 78,813 64,548 58,563 58,000 61,000 Employee Turnover (4) % 11.29 8.83 8.94 15.50 14.00 Duration Average Average Region Fatalities TRIF Rate (5) Employees (2) Contractors (3) Africa 2 2.6 43 10,311 11,734 Asia 0 1.8 21 1,114 1,933 Australasia 1 7.2 45 19,330 38,487 Europe 0 2.9 83 532 345 North America 0 4.7 27 4,166 2,830 South America 0 2.2 29 10,917 23,484 Total 3 4.7 42 46,370 78,813 % Turnover (4) % Employees by Employment Type (6) Total 11.29 Full-time 96.26 Male 10.82 Part-time 0.58 Female 13.56 Fixed Term Full-time 3.02 Turnover by Age Fixed Term Part-time 0.07 Under 30 10.91 Casual 0.07 30–39 11.75 Employees by Age Group (6) 40– 49 10.49 Under 30 17.96 Over 50 11.93 30–39 32.48 Turnover by Region 40– 49 27.90 Africa 11.18 Over 50 21.66 Asia 9.27 Australasia 13.79 Gender % Total Europe 11.42 Male Female Group % North America 8.82 Employees by Category (7) South America 5.81 Senior Leaders 90.39 9.61 0.83 (1) Data included in our People section, excluding Average Number of Managers 84.63 15.37 3.26 Employees, was collected through an internal survey covering July 2011 Supervisory and Professionals 76.81 23.19 35.02 to March 2012 and then averaged for a nine-month period. Significant changes to data after this period that would materially affect the average Operators and General Support 86.32 13.68 60.89 are included. (2) Average Number of Employees and Average Employees by Region include the Executive Director, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies and our share of proportionate consolidated entities and Number operations. Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent Safety Fines – Region Levied FY2012 of Fines basis. Employees of businesses acquired or disposed of during the year North America US$265,268 225 are included for the period of ownership. People employed by contractors are not included. South America US$8,186 1 (3) Average Number of Contractors and Average Contractors by Region include contractors engaged at our owned and operated assets, including Pension plans and medical schemes our Petroleum Onshore US business. Defined benefit pension schemes (4) Turnover is based on annualised average employee numbers, which include the Executive Director and 100 per cent of employees of all The BHP Billiton Group has closed all defined benefit schemes BHP Billiton operations, including our Petroleum Onshore US business. to new entrants. Existing defined benefit pension schemes Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis. remain operating in Australia, the Americas, Europe and Contractors are not included. (5) Average number of calendar days lost per classified injury (fatalities, South Africa. lost-time and restricted work). Defined benefit post-retirement medical schemes (6) Employees by Employment Type and Age Group are based on average employee numbers, which include the Executive Director and 100 per cent The BHP Billiton Group operates a number of post-retirement of employees of all BHP Billiton operations, including our Petroleum Onshore medical schemes in the Americas and South Africa. All of the US business. Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent post-retirement medical schemes in the Group are unfunded. basis. Contractors are not included. (7) Employees by Category is based on actual employee headcount as at Full actuarial valuations are prepared and updated annually 31 March 2012 and defined in footnotes 4 and 5. to 30 June by local actuaries for all schemes. Information on our pension plans is available in note 29, ‘Pension and other post-retirement obligations’, to the financial statements in our Annual Report 2012. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 39 Performance data – Environment FY2012 FY2011 Land Land – Footprint hectares 180,000 170,900 – Land – Area of Land Disturbed hectares 137,000 129,000 – Land – Rehabilitated hectares 43,000 41,900 Land – Set aside for Conservation hectares 25,100 25,100 Water Consumption Water Use – Recycled megalitres 178,000 176,000 Water Use – High-quality Total megalitres 148,000 152,000 Water Use – Low-quality Total megalitres 112,000 74,200 Energy Energy Use – Electricity (1) petajoules 111 117 Purchased Electricity by Primary Energy Source – Coal and Oil % 61 62 – Natural Gas % 6 6 – Hydro and Other Renewables % 30 30 – Nuclear % 2 2 – Other % 1 0 Energy Use – Coal and Coke petajoules 49 53 Energy Use – Natural Gas petajoules 52 44 Energy Use – Distillate/Gasoline petajoules 73 64 Energy Use – Fuel and Process Oil petajoules 1 1 Energy Use – Other petajoules 9 7 Energy Use – Total petajoules 295 286 Emissions GHG – Total Scope 1 & 2 millions of tonnes CO2 -e 40.2 40.8 GHG – Scope 3 – Use of Sold Products millions of tonnes CO2 -e 340 314 – Coal Products millions of tonnes CO2 -e 260 254 – Petroleum Products (2) millions of tonnes CO2 -e 80 60 Other Emissions – Total SO2 tonnes 70,000 62,700 Other Emissions – Total NOx tonnes 71,700 62,800 Other Emissions – Total Fluoride tonnes 984 978 Ozone Depleting Substances tonnes 0.2 0.3 Mercury – Total Hg Emissions tonnes 0.8 0.9 Recycling General Waste – Recycled (on/off-site) kilotonnes 126 78 Non-Mineral Hazardous Waste: Total Recycled/Reused kilotonnes 58 103 Waste Hazardous Waste – Mineral Total kilotonnes 54,400 35,200 Non Hazardous Waste – Mineral Tailings kilotonnes 101,000 104,000 General Waste – Disposed On-site kilotonnes 96 63 Water Discharge – Total megalitres 197,000 204,046 – Ground Water megalitres 7,900 476 – Ocean megalitres 98,400 76,000 (3) – Surface megalitres 87,000 124,500 (3) – Third Party megalitres 3,700 3,070 Accidental Discharges of Water and Tailings (4) megalitres 0 0 (1) Data estimated from publicly available primary energy source data for electricity suppliers. (2) For petroleum in use, crude oil is assumed to be used as diesel fuel and liquefied petroleum gas is assumed to be used for non-transportation purposes. (3) FY2011 numbers restated to account for a discharge to surface given as ocean. (4) Data reported from potential environmentally significant incidents. 40 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 FY2009 FY2008 Chart Data Summary (1) Energy Use – Total petajoules 295 286 284 309 306 Energy Use – Electricity petajoules 111 117 115 116 123 GHG – Scope 1 millions of tonnes CO2 -e 20.2 19.8 19.5 21.4 22.8 GHG – Scope 2 millions of tonnes CO2 -e 20.0 21.0 26.5 27.8 29.0 Land – Area of Land Disturbed hectares 137,000 129,000 125,000 131,000 127,000 Land – Set aside for Conservation hectares 25,100 25,100 13,600 12,200 11,400 Land – Rehabilitated hectares 43,000 41,900 41,000 40,500 42,900 Water Use – High-quality from Environment megalitres 137,000 143,000 148,000 154,000 159,000 Water Use – Recycled megalitres 178,000 176,000 182,000 160,000 184,000 (1) Historical figures may not be comparable with prior year reports due to changes in international frameworks and measurement basis. GHG – Total Scope 1 & 2 Energy Use – Energy Use – Customer Sector Group Summary kilotonnes CO2-e Total petajoules Electricity petajoules Aluminium 15,800 126.0 68.9 Base Metals 5,690 37.3 17.4 Diamonds and Speciality Products 190 2.6 0.1 Energy Coal 3,250 12.7 2.5 Iron Ore 1,620 17.9 2.5 Manganese 2,770 21.9 6.8 Metallurgical Coal 7,130 26.6 4.6 Petroleum 1,900 25.0 0.1 Stainless Steel Materials 1,850 25.0 8.1 BHP Billiton Total (1) 40,200 295.0 111.0 (1) Total includes Minerals Exploration and Group Functions. Number Environmental Fines – Region Levied FY2012 of Fines Africa US$24,000 1 North America US$3,200 1 Carbon-based Energy Intensity Index GHG Intensity Index 120 120 100 100 80 80 85 84 % 60 % 60 40 40 20 20 0 Carbon energy intensity 0 Carbon energy intensity FY2011 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2012 BHP Billiton measures greenhouse gas emissions using the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The intensity indices are determined by dividing the annual greenhouse gas emissions or energy use by the annual units of production for individual assets, then aggregating the results for the Group. The base year for the indices is FY2006. Below 100 per cent indicates improvement. From FY2010, we revised our energy intensity calculations to reflect the total energy consumed to produce the purchased electricity used by our assets, from using the energy content of the purchased electricity only. Greenhouse gas intensity index calculation does not include the effect of changes in electricity generation factors that are outside our control. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 41 Performance data – Society FY2012 FY2011 Community Complaints Dust 82 40 Noise 94 51 Odour 16 22 Other 161 81 Training FY2012 FY2011 Cross-cultural Training Operations that conduct cross-cultural training for employees 30 32 Human Rights Training Employee 3,117 8,725 Contractor 6,785 10,811 Security Security employees 138 84 Security employees trained in human rights 99 61 Security contractors 1,625 1,671 Security contractors trained in human rights 1,270 1,196 Economic value Economic value for regional economies is generated through revenues, employee compensation and other operating costs, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and to governments. Economic value generated US$ million Economic value distributed US$ million Operating Employee wages Payments to Payments to Revenues (1) costs (1)(2) and benefits (1) providers of capital government (4) Payments to Wages and Economic value Revenue and suppliers, benefits Shareholder Interest Gross taxes retained (5) Region other income contractors, etc. to employees dividends payments (3) and royalties US$ million Africa and Other 6,505 4,595 750 496 82 591 (9) Australasia and Asia 43,470 14,196 4,249 3,518 58 8,990 12,459 Europe 3,203 1,884 211 1,854 109 147 (1,002) North America (6) 7,479 3,108 740 8 465 410 2,748 South America 12,359 5,460 965 1 41 1,724 4,168 Total 73,016 29,243 6,915 5,877 755 11,862 18,364 (1) Amounts include revenues and costs and are consistent with the Group’s financial reporting of elements comprising Underlying EBITDA. Underlying EBITDA is earnings before net finance costs and taxation, any exceptional items, and depreciation, impairments and amortisation. The amounts are determined on an accruals basis and extracted from the audited financial statements. (2) Operating costs relate to expenses recognised in the financial statements. They include expenditure paid to suppliers and contractors for materials and services and exclude employee wages and benefits, payments to governments, depreciation, amortisation and impairments. (3) This is interest expense on debt for BHP Billiton, determined on an accruals basis. (4) Comprises income tax and royalty-related taxes paid, royalties paid in-kind and production-based royalties accrued, which approximate cash payments. (5) Calculated as economic value generated less economic value distributed. (6) North America includes Petroleum Onshore US business. 42 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Performance data – Governance Taxes and royalty payments on a country-by-country basis (1) Taxes borne by Taxes collected BHP Billiton by BHP Billiton Country US$ million (2) US$ million (3) Asset/Field/Office Australia 9,113 914 Global Headquarters Petroleum – Bass Strait, Minerva, North West Shelf, Pyrenees, Stybarrow Aluminium – Aluminium Australia Base Metals – Cannington, Olympic Dam Stainless Steel Materials – Nickel West, Head Office Iron Ore – Western Australia Iron Ore, Head Office Manganese – Manganese Australia Metallurgical Coal – Illawarra Coal, BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance, BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal, Head Office Energy Coal – New South Wales Energy Coal, Head Office Chile 745 44 Base Metals – Escondida, Pampa Norte, Head Office United States 280 204 Petroleum – Gulf of Mexico, Onshore US, Head Office Base Metals – Base Metals North America Energy Coal – New Mexico Coal Colombia 437 9 Stainless Steel Materials – Cerro Matoso Energy Coal – Cerrejón Algeria 372 <1 Petroleum – ROD Integrated Development South Africa 211 112 Aluminium – Aluminium South Africa Diamonds and Specialty Products – Richards Bay Minerals Manganese – Manganese South Africa, Head Office Energy Coal – Energy Coal South Africa Peru 264 <1 Base Metals – Antamina Canada 148 33 Diamonds and Specialty Products – EKATI Diamond Mine, Head Office Brazil 158 <1 Aluminium – Alumar, Mineração Rio do Norte Iron Ore – Samarco United Kingdom 115 27 Corporate Centre Petroleum – Bruce/Keith, Liverpool Bay Aluminium – Head Office Trinidad & Tobago 119 1 Petroleum – Angostura Pakistan 111 <1 Petroleum – Zamzama Switzerland 41 <1 Marketing Office Singapore 12 <1 Corporate Centre Marketing Office Minerals Exploration Head Office Other 15 27 (1) The Group claims refunds of transaction taxes (for example GST/VAT and Fuel Tax) paid to suppliers for in-country purchases of goods, services and eligible fuel and also collects GST/VAT in respect of certain sales to customers as set out in the table. These amounts are not included in taxes borne or taxes collected. (2) Taxes borne by BHP Billiton are reported on an equity share basis for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations and include our Petroleum Onshore US business. They primarily comprise income tax and royalty related taxes paid, royalties paid in kind, customs and excise payments, payroll taxes paid, payments of Fringe Benefits Tax and production based royalties accrued, which approximate cash payments. Ancillary payments, such as licences, visas, sales taxes, stamp duty payment and land tax, are excluded. (3) Taxes collected and paid on behalf of our employees are also measured on an equity share basis, but only for those assets that we operate, and include our Petroleum Onshore US business. Where the payroll calendar year is different to the Group’s financial year, the most recent annual data has been used. BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 | 43 Independent assurance report to the Directors and management of BHP Billiton Our conclusions: a) Assured Sustainability Information – Limited assurance Based on the procedures performed, as described below, nothing has come to our attention that would lead us to believe that the Assured Sustainability Information for the year ended 30 June 2012, is not, in all material respects, prepared and presented in accordance with the GRI G3 Guidelines and ICMM Sustainable Development Framework (collectively the ‘Framework’). b) GHG Emissions – Reasonable assurance In our opinion, BHP Billiton’s reported GHG emissions of 40.2 Mt CO2-e (Scope 1 and 2) for the year ended 30 June 2012, is prepared in all material respects, in accordance with the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. c) V  oluntary Community Investment – Reasonable assurance In our opinion, BHP Billiton’s reported voluntary community investment of $214 million for the year ended 30 June 2012, is prepared in all material respects, in accordance with the basis of preparation as disclosed on page 29 in the Sustainability Report. d) G RI Application Level Based on the procedures performed, as described below, we concur with the assessment made by BHP Billiton, that the Sustainability Report 2012 is consistent with the GRI G3 application level A+. We have been engaged by BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Our assurance engagement is conducted in accordance with (BHP Billiton) and are responsible for providing: International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 • limited assurance in respect of the Assured Sustainability Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information identified below Financial Information (ISAE 3000), including all applicable ethical • reasonable assurance in respect of the GHG emissions and independence requirements. (Scope 1 and 2) and voluntary community investment. Limited assurance over the Assured Sustainability Information The Assured Sustainability Information, the GHG emissions Our limited assurance engagement on the Assured Sustainability (Scope 1 and 2) and voluntary community investment are included Information consisted of making enquiries and applying analytical in the Sustainability Report 2012 for the year ended 30 June 2012, and other evidence gathering procedures including: which comprises the Sustainability Report, Performance Data and • interviews with senior management and relevant staff at corporate referenced Case Studies (collectively the ‘Sustainability Report 2012’). and site level In addition, we have been engaged to perform a check of • enquiries and evaluation of the design and implementation BHP Billiton’s GRI application level as disclosed in the Sustainability of the key systems, processes and controls for collecting, Report 2012. managing and reporting the Assured Sustainability Information BHP Billiton Responsibilities • an assessment of the reasonableness of the assumptions BHP Billiton are responsible for the following: underlying the forward-looking statements set out in the • preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report 2012 Assured Sustainability Information in accordance with the Framework; the GHG emissions (Scope 1 • comparing the information included in the Assured Sustainability and 2) in accordance with the World Resources Institute/World Information to relevant underlying sources on a sample basis Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse • visits to 15 sites and remote reviews of eight sites. Gas Protocol (WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol); and the voluntary A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope community investment in accordance with the basis of preparation than a reasonable assurance engagement or an audit conducted as disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2012. in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and • determination of BHP Billiton’s GRI application level in accordance Assurance Engagements. with the GRI Guidelines. Reasonable assurance over the GHG emissions and voluntary The Assured Sustainability Information community investment The Assured Sustainability Information comprises Subject Matters Our reasonable assurance engagement involved obtaining evidence 1 to 4 of the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework and the over the GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2), and voluntary community following selected disclosures: investment, sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the amounts disclosed are free from material misstatement whether caused by Sustainability fraud or error. Assured Sustainability Report 2012 GRI application level Information Page Our work in relation to the GRI application level check was limited Diversity and equal employment opportunities 14, 39 to agreeing that the appropriate indicators have been reported Local and indigenous employment 13 on. We therefore do not provide any assurance on the amounts Industrial relations 15 or information presented. Fatalities 4, 9, 39 This report has been prepared for BHP Billiton. We disclaim any Total recordable injury frequency 4, 9, 39 assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report, or the Occupational illness and disease 4, 8, 9, 10 Sustainability Report 2012 to which it relates, to any person other Contractor management 35 than BHP Billiton, or for any purpose other than that for which Fly in, fly out (impacts on communities) 13 it was prepared. GHG emissions 4, 17, 18, 19, 40, 41 Energy use 4, 17, 18, 40, 41 Water 4, 20, 21, 40, 41 Environmental incidents 4, 40 Hydraulic fracturing 20, 21 Voluntary community investment 4, 28, 29,30 Community engagement 25, 26, 27, 37, 38 KPMG Product stewardship 34, 35 Melbourne Community development 24, 29 Conflict resolution (complaints) 25, 27, 33, 42 12 September 2012 Sustainability risk management framework 2, 3, 7, 32 Taxes and royalty payments to government 34, 42, 43 44 | BHP Billiton SUstainability report 2012 Sustainability ratings Voluntary initiatives and public commitments All up-to-date shareholder information is available online at View this Report as well Latest news as our Annual Report Reports and presentations and Summary Review. Company overview (including Our Charter, Structure and Governance) Online shareholder services Subscribe to receive news alerts sent directly – check your holding to your email address – register to receive electronic BHP Billiton produces a range of publications which are available shareholder communications in formats that allow shareholders to receive information in their preferred manner. View online, download or receive a paper copy – update your records (including by calling the relevant Share Registrar. address and direct credit details) BHP Billiton Limited – access all your securities 1300 656 780 (from within Australia) in one portfolio by setting +61 3 9415 4020 (from elsewhere) up a personal account BHP Billiton Plc – vote online +44 844 472 7001 (United Kingdom) +27 11 373 0033 (South Africa) Sustainable Development BHP Billiton Centre 180 Lonsdale Street Melbourne VIC 3000 Telephone 1300 55 47 57 (within Australia) +61 3 9609 3333 (outside Australia) Facsimile +61 3 9609 3015 Email for Sustainability Reporting feedback and enquiries: Email for Investor enquiries:
