What can fishermen do when they can no longer fish? After a tsunami destroyed the fishing industry in Tamil Nadu, India, residents needed new careers. ManpowerGroup™ created vocational training centers dedicated to transforming the workforce. Today, many graduates are earning seven times more as graphic designers than they did as fishermen. Find the hidden talent in people and you’ll find a sea of possibilities. Discover more at manpowergroup.com ManpowerGroup™ Solutions | Experis™ | Manpower | Right Management ® ® ManpowerGroup World Headquarters 100 Manpower Place Milwaukee, WI 53212 USA www.manpowergroup.com © 2011 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update TEACHING A MAN NOT TO FISH IS HUMANLY POSSIBLE Power that drives organizations forward. power that accelerates personal success. CONTENTS 1 | Our Credo 2 | We Have Entered the Human Age 3 | We Unleash Human Potential Letter from Jeffrey A. Joerres, Chairman and CEO 5 | ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 8 ManpowerGroup and Youth—Saving a Lost Generation of Talent 10 ManpowerGroup and Junior Achievement—Helping Young People Around the Globe Achieve Career Success 11 A Path to Opportunity 12 The Underleveraged Solution: Women and the Talent Crunch 14 2020 Women on Boards 15 Fortune’s 50 Most Powerful Women in International Business 16 Ready. Set. Work! Turning Disadvantaged Women into Confident Job Seekers 17 Opportunities Unlimited—Breaking Down Barriers for Canadian Women 18 30 Years of Pride for ManpowerGroup 20 It’s Ability, Not Disability That Matters 22 Project Ability 22 International Recognition for Manpower Chicago 23 Additional Recognition in the Community 24 Procurement / Supply Chain: People, Not Commodities 26 Human Trafficking 28 Disaster Recovery: Human Courage in the Face of a Crisis 31 The Path to Opportunity Made Safer for All 32 Restoring Hope in the Wake of a Tragedy 34 Empowering Young Woman with Independence and Dignity 35 Community Volunteer Service and Training 36 Long-Term Unemployed ManpowerGroup—Sweden Telge Jobstart 37 | ManpowerGroup and the Environment 43 | Governance: A Process that Ensures Good Corporate Citizenship 47 | Unleashing Potential in the Human Age 48 | ManpowerGroup Charitable Associations and Relationships POWER THAT BUILDS MORE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES. create high-impact solutions We power the world of work. When our deep understanding of human potential is connected to the ambition of business, a dynamic power is created. Power that drives organizations forward. Power that accelerates personal success. Power that builds more sustainable communities. We generate this kind of power by connecting the visions of clients, the motivations of people, and what’s now and what’s next in the world of work. We combine local expertise with a global reach to give organizations around the world access to and the ability to capitalize on unseen opportunities. As trusted advisors we nurture partnerships with everyone we work with, because their success leads to our success. Because of this, we create high-impact solutions to enhance the competitiveness of the organizations and the individuals we serve, so that they achieve more than they imagined. And by creating these powerful connections, we help power the world of work. ManpowerGroup Credo 1 We Have Entered the Human Age Macroeconomic forces, including the first truly global recession, rapid technological development, increasing velocity of change, shifting demographic landscape and the rise and fall in power of emerging and developed markets have converged to bring about a new age. We have entered The Human Age. Existing models and social systems have been strained to the point that they’re no longer sustainable. Business models need to be redesigned, value propositions redefined, and social systems reinvented. The resulting chaos and complexity of the Human Age means that there are new demands for innovation, productivity, and talent. The world has been reawakened to the real power of humans, and companies need to rethink the way they integrate corporate social responsibility into their business models. We have to balance profitability with sustainability. Businesses of all sizes must be agile enough to adapt to the ever-changing environment to effectively operate in a profitable yet sustainable way. Organizations must work to accommodate the demands of an increasingly transparent world, as they leverage their core capabilities to solve social problems in an innovative way to create solutions that are right for the world around us and right for their business. The expectations and needs of all stakeholders—clients, investors, employees, suppliers, communities, regulators and society as a whole— demand greater integration of social and environmental concerns into the operations of businesses. Increasingly, all stakeholders are greatly influenced by a company’s reputation and social performance. We need to engage with people on a human level. More than ever before, being a responsible company is seen as key driver of employee engagement, which is essential for an organization to unleash potential and have a competitive advantage. In a world where talentism is the new capitalism, or having access to the talent a company needs has become more critical than having access to capital, human potential now becomes the major agent of social innovation and economic growth. 2 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update jeffrey a. joerres chairman and ceo Unleasing Human Potential: ManpowerGroup’s passion for unleashing human potential to power the world of work brings our mission to life every day. Connecting people to meaningful work to help our clients win is a mission that was founded over 63 years ago and is as alive today, if not more, as it was at its inception over six decades ago. Earlier this year, we celebrated that legacy and re-energized our people with the introduction of a credo that provides a more robust articulation of our mission and vision and connects our people to what we stand for. Letter from Jeffrey A. Joerres, Chairman and CEO 3 People are at the core ManpowerGroup is making approaches. Such of our values, brand and a positive impact by bridging recognition has made the business—from someone’s the gaps between people sustainable way we operate friend, father, daughter, and jobs. on a daily basis more public and brother to another’s and more transparent, colleague or acquaintance As more clients, potential inspiring other organizations and everyone in between, we employees, analysts and to emphasize responsible connect people to work in others take notice of how practices. I am proud of the most human of ways. we conduct all aspects the ripple effect that our of our business, we have best practices have had on implemented practices and our suppliers and various A company’s social tools that will enable us to industries, stakeholders and responsibility can be more effectively align our communities worldwide. measured by its impact on the surrounding communities business strategies and in which it serves. We impact operations, empower more By unleashing the human the lives of thousands of individuals and organizations, potential of those people people every day: and provide improved whose work opportunities analysis and reporting. are most limited, we supply • Connecting over 600,000 innovative solutions to meet people to work each day; In 2010, we began the workforce needs of implementing a more organizations while at the • Training over systematic approach to same time enabling those 10 million people; sustainability and social individuals to achieve all that • Interviewing over 12 million responsibility data, metrics, is humanly possible. Yes, we people in 2010. analysis and reporting in are in the Human Age, and response to stakeholder that means helping men and So, while many organizations interests. The Global women all over the world have only recently started Reporting Initiative (GRI) find their voice as the world’s to focus on socially framework is a widely only source of inspiration, responsible sustainability; accepted standard for passion and innovation it has been the foundation consistently tracking our with a humanistic approach of our culture from the very goals and reporting progress to power businesses, beginning. Our ability to do across all responsibility communities and countries good while we do well is initiatives. Transitioning to for the benefit of all of us. I a hallmark of the DNA of the GRI guidelines am immensely proud to work ManpowerGroup. will be key as we strive for a company that, through for transparency with putting people to work, Our intrinsic value as an employees, clients, suppliers, makes CSR a natural part of organization is in equipping candidates what we do. people with the tools, and communities. opportunities and training they need to find work. In It’s no coincidence that this report, you will read ManpowerGroup is being about our core business recognized by a wide practices and our values, range of stakeholders for Jeffrey A. Joerres and the many ways our socially responsible Chairman and CEO 4 Letter from Jeffrey A. Joerres, Chairman and CEO ManpowerGroup and workforce development p ag e 8 | Ma npowerGroup an d Yout h — S a v in g a L os t G e n e ra t ion of Ta le n t pa ge 12 | The Underleveraged S olu t ion : Wom e n a n d t h e Ta le n t Cru n c h page 2 0 | It’s Ab ilit y, N ot Dis a bilit y T h a t M a t t e rs p ag e 24 | Procurement/Su pply Ch ain pa ge 2 8 | Dis a s t e r Re c ov e ry 5 Empowering the World of Work ManpowerGroup programs participants placements World of Work Programs 709 73,846 22,785 Rediscovering the World’s Most Valuable Resource Across the globe, the skilled workers that employers rely on to drive business success are proving elusive. ManpowerGroup’s 2011 Talent Shortage Survey found that one third of companies globally report difficulty filling open positions. In Japan, four out of five employers are having such challenges, as are over half of U.S. employers (a record level for the country in the six-year history of the survey) despite continuing high unemployment. There is a clear mismatch between the available workers in a given place at a given time and the needs of employers. Such mismatches hamper economies, societies and individuals, whose skills are in danger of becoming obsolete while they struggle to bridge the gap to employment. ManpowerGroup is a trusted resource for job seekers everywhere. Talented individuals from around the world—from petroleum engineers in the North Atlantic to call center associates in I n 2 0 1 1 , M an po wer Gr oup was r ecognized as t h e wo rld’s in dustr y lead er b y For tune M ag az in e, w h o n am ed the com p any in fir st place on it s 2 0 1 1 list of the Most Ad m ir ed Co mpan ies in t h e tem p or ar y help sector, an d rat ed M an po wer Gr oup num b er one in s o cial res pon s ibility. 6 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Malaysia—came to us for the opportunity to match their skills to the needs of leading organizations. Similarly, these same organizations rely on us as a vital source for the skilled individuals and other resources their organizations need to propel them forward. ManpowerGroup connected nearly 4 million people with permanent and temporary positions in 2010. Workforce Development is an essential aspect of helping organizations of all sizes, and in every corner of the globe, continue to succeed. It is also a desperately needed strategy that can help individuals achieve the skills that fit the needs of organizations worldwide. Sometimes that talent is discovered in places or within communities that are traditionally overlooked. Unlocking Human Potential ManpowerGroup takes a pragmatic approach to utilizing the talents of all workers. We look at an individual’s abilities first, and then we match those abilities with our clients’ requirements. The innovative solutions we provide to our clients mean we focus on identifying the best person for a position regardless of other circumstances that may stand in their way to gainful employment. In this way, we empower disadvantaged workers and increase labor market participation. Through programs initiated by local operations throughout the world, ManpowerGroup provides people from all walks of life with the skills and connections to employment opportunities that help them earn sustainable livelihoods. 7 U ne mploy m en t r a t e s a m o n g t he yo u n g ar e mor e s en s i t i v e t o e c o n o m i c s h o cks tha n ad u lt u n e m p l o y m e n t r a t e s an d o n e of th e tr av es t i e s o f t h e g l o b a l e co n o m i c cr isi s has bee n t h e i m p a c t o n yo u th unem p loy m en t l e v e l s . 8 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update reached record high levels economic u.s. youth unemployment rate of 13.1% instability manpowergroup and youth— saving a lost generation of talent Youth unemployment across the globe has reached record high levels. Former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown earlier this year called youth unemployment a “global epidemic” and an “unprecedented crisis.” Unemployment rates among the young are more sensitive to economic shocks than adult unemployment rates and one of the travesties of the global economic crisis has been the impact on youth unemployment levels. The greater sensitivity of youth unemployment rates to the business cycle means the projected recovery of youth employment is more uncertain than that of adults as economic instability continues. The latest statistics from the International Labor Organization (ILO) put the current global youth unemployment rate at over 81 million workers, or 13.1 percent. Perceived lack of opportunities for young people has been suggested as a contributing factor behind unrest in Egypt, Tunisia, England and other parts of the world as the new generation feels an increasing sense of hopelessness and pessimism about their future, and fuels the belief that success is more due to chance than hard work. Developed economies ignore youth unemployment at their peril. Of the 34 nations in the OECD, at least 16.7 million young people are not employed or participating in education or training. In fact, around 10 million of those youths aren’t even looking for work. As Juan Sormavia, ILO Director-General put it: “The weak recovery in decent work reinforces a persistent inability of the world economy to secure a future for all youth. This undermines families, social cohesion and the credibility of policies.” ManpowerGroup works with organizations around the world to help young people increase their opportunities for employment. And it can be done. Youth unemployment remains stubbornly high despite one in three employers reporting in response to ManpowerGroup’s recent 2011 Talent Shortage Survey, that they are having difficulty filling key vacancies. Clearly, employers need people with the right blend of skills. difficulty filling key vacancies ManpowerGroup Letter from Jeffrey A. and Workforce Joerres, Chairman Development and CEO 9 ManpowerGroup and Junior Achievement Helping Young People Around the Globe Achieve Career Success In 2009, Junior Achievement and ManpowerGroup launched a joint initiative to provide young people around the world with essential work-readiness skills. The program, a hands-on educational experience called JA Success Skills, teaches students precisely what they will need to find, secure and keep a job. More importantly, JA Success Skills provides students with the tools they need to develop the personal skills and strategies that will help ensure longterm career success. Students and volunteers in 13 countries currently participate in the JA Success Skills program. Jonas Prising, ManpowerGroup President of the Americas, was recently elected Chairman of Junior Achievement USA. ManpowerGroup’s commitment to empowering young people to achieve economic success made Prising a natural fit for the role. “I strongly believe in the JA mission of inspiring and preparing young people to succeed in a global economy. Junior Achievement and ManpowerGroup are well aligned in terms of the importance we place on businesses being able to attract and retain good talent. Junior Achievement seeks to support the business community by positioning future members of the workforce to effectively compete. ManpowerGroup, in turn, places those individuals with organizations where they can thrive, add value and help those institutions win in the changing world of work.” Because ManpowerGroup believes so strongly in the TOP: Jonas Prising, ManpowerGroup mission of Junior Achievement, including the group’s President of the Americas and Chairman of Junior Achievement USA. emphasis on entrepreneurship, financial literacy and work-readiness, we recently entered into a three-year sponsorship of the JA Success Skills program. 10 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Seguloul found his way to a program created by the Education for Employment Foundation, and supported by ManpowerGroup. A Path to Opportunity After graduating from university, Zakariae Seguioui’s future was uncertain. He lacked connections to get a good job. He was discouraged and faced the prospect of drifting into long-term unemployment. But Zakariae found his way to a program created by the Education for Employment Foundation, and supported by ManpowerGroup. EFE promotes youth employment opportunities in the Middle East and North Africa. It creates customized recruitment and training programs directly for employers, helping disadvantaged youth to get and hold sustainable jobs. ManpowerGroup provides technical assistance to EFE and makes long-term career skills training available to its program graduates. Today, Zakariae is launched on a successful career in BOTTOM: Volunteers from ManpowerGroup real estate sales and property management. With a solid conduct a Junior Achievement Success Skills understanding of the importance of lifelong learning, program in Shanghai. The program provides Zakariae has used ManpowerGroup training courses to high school students in 21 countries and territories with the skills they need to succeed build his computer skills on-the-job, and to expand his in the highly competitive job market. knowledge of project finance and budgeting. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 11 M an p ow er G r o u p cont in u es to buil d on its o v e r six d ecad es o f pi oneer ing an d le gacy of in n o v a t i o n to pr ov ide w o m e n w it h a b r idge to su s tainab l e employ m en t. pioneer and innovator in providing women with a bridge to sustainable employment SPIRIT OF INCLUSIVENESS The underleveraged Solution: Women and the Talent Crunch Since our company’s founding over 63 years ago, ManpowerGroup has constantly been a pioneer and innovator in providing women with a bridge to sustainable employment. When once women were extremely uncommon in the workplace, ManpowerGroup was instrumental in fostering a spirit of inclusiveness, and to help this key talent pool overcome barriers to employment—especially those that make it difficult to balance work and home life and otherwise compromise career growth. Today, women remain an undertapped source of talent despite the labor market desperately needing their skills. Reasons for this under-representation vary widely; women are still regarded as second-class citizens in some parts of the world and are discouraged from being educated, while even in developed economies, outdated people practices and work models are unintentionally preventing women from unleashing their potential to the benefit of us all. TYPISTS, STENOGRAPHERS AND BOOKKEEPERS women remain an undertapped source of talent women in the workplace ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 13 2020 Women on Boards ManpowerGroup’s commitment to diversity at the highest level has been recognized by the 2020 Women on Boards Campaign for having at least 20% of its board being comprised of women. More than a quarter (27%) of ManpowerGroup’s board of directors are women. Françoise Gri ManpowerGroup President of Southern Europe Named to 2011 Fortune Global 50 Most Powerful Women in Business List for eighth year in a row. Participant of the Women Leaders & Gender Parity Program at the 2011 WEF Annual Meeting. 14 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Fortune’s 50 Most Powerful Women in International Business Françoise Gri, ManpowerGroup President of Forum on Europe and Central Asia around Southern Europe, has been named to Fortune potential solutions to the economic crisis in magazine’s prestigious list of the 50 Most Europe. The only woman on the panel, she Powerful Women in International Business for recommended tapping underleveraged talent eight consecutive years, rising eight places to sources—especially women—to tackle skills the 31st position on the 2011 list. In addition mismatches. In addition, she participated in to leading the company’s French operations— a session of the Women Leaders & Gender ManpowerGroup’s largest single market—in Parity Program at the 2011 WEF Annual January 2011, Gri took on an expanded Meeting and the 2007 Global Summit of role to become ManpowerGroup President Women in Germany. of Southern Europe, the company’s largest region by revenues. Gri leads an organization Women account for 71% of of nearly 7,500 employees in the Southern ManpowerGroup’s 30,000 Europe region, across more than 1,300 offices worldwide full-time employees. and serving over 118,000 clients annually. “ManpowerGroup is a company that Gri uses her prominent role and significant recognized my abilities early on and provided cultural and social relevance to champion me with opportunities that I may not have the role of women in business. Gri has been had with many other organizations,” said Gri. recognized at the highest level with the award “I’m aware of few companies with a higher of the Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur percentage of women in leadership roles. In (equivalent to a knighthood) in 2009 and my experience, ManpowerGroup exhibits true the Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite foresight in this regard; we share the conviction (Order of Chivalry) in 2003. She works that helping women reach their full potential is closely with the French State Secretary for key to addressing the challenges that confront Employment on the “Plan for Poor Suburbs,” our organization, our clients and society. a program dedicated to youth employment, and collaborates with the French Ministry of “Smart organizations realize the roadblocks Labor on the role of women in businesses. that many women face, and that women As well as contributing to the publication represent an untapped talent pool that can help “Social Footprints”, which featured prominent companies achieve more in the Human Age. French business leaders who advocate for businesses to adopt a more human approach, “Similarly, as women develop their own career Gri published her own book in 2010. Titled plans, we can do much to ensure our own “Pleading for Responsible Employment,” it success—we must dare to be leaders. We called for an end to a bifurcated labor market need to be more deliberate in our pursuit that excludes young people and championed of positions that have traditionally been diversity in the workplace. Gri led a dynamic considered male-dominated positions such as discussion at the June 2011 World Economic finance, IT, science and engineering.” ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 15 Turning disadvantaged women into confident job seekers ManpowerGroup has joined forces with community organizations, including the United Way and Sojourner Peace House, to launch an initiative aimed at helping women who face persistent barriers to employment. Participants included victims of domestic violence, those with criminal backgrounds who were looking for an opportunity to turn their lives around, and women recovering from drug and alcohol problems. Launched in 2009, we named the program Ready.Set.Work! The goal of the program was to assist participants with job hunting techniques and to improve their confidence by creating a comfortable, nurturing environment for learning. Ultimately, we wanted to inspire the participants, increase their confidence, and provide them with tools and techniques they could rely on to pursue employment opportunities that would have otherwise eluded them. Ready. Set. Work! One-day workshops were held to help women break down the barriers to employment they faced. A motivational speaker opened the session, describing what would be accomplished during the seminar, including goal setting, personal presentation, resume writing, interview preparation and actual interview rehearsal. In short, participants learned what employers expect from interviewees and how they could maximize their opportunities to secure meaningful employment. At the conclusion of the most recent Ready.Set.Work! session, participants were overwhelmingly positive about the experience. Each of them indicated they would recommend future Ready.Set. Work! sessions to friends and co-workers. ManpowerGroup has joined forces with community organizations to launch an initiative aimed at helping women who face persistent barriers to employment. 16 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Opportunities Unlimited— Breaking Down Barriers for Canadian Women Canada’s Youth in Motion organization was founded in 1997 to help Canadian youth choose a rewarding career path. When the organization identified a need to create an internship and mentoring program for women, it was natural that they turned to ManpowerGroup, their workforce development partner for over 10 years. Called Opportunities Unlimited™, the program is designed to help women who encounter barriers to employment; those who participate in the program may include recent immigrants, victims of abuse, or school dropouts. Twice a year, Youth in Motion selects 15 women for a full-time paid employability skills training session. At the end of the four-week program, 12 participants are selected to advance to the next phase—a six-month paid work assignment where they will have the opportunity to be paired with a mentor. The program has proved highly effective. ManpowerGroup was so impressed with one of the graduates, Carmen Kong, that she was hired as a full-time market support specialist in Toronto. Helping Victims. Providing Opportunities. In Mexico City, victims of human trafficking can turn to Casa de la Mercedes, a shelter founded 17 years ago to help them escape the streets by providing a safe place to stay and the support they need to recover from their victimization. And thanks to the dedication and enthusiasm of the staff at Manpower Mexico, Casa de la Mercedes also provides residents with additional opportunities to rebuild their lives and restore their dignity. More than 30 members of Manpower Mexico volunteer at the shelter on a regular basis. They mentor residents, provide training and prepare them for job searches and success in the formal economy. This effort is changing lives, but a bigger impact may be on the Manpower Mexico team. They come to work every day with more pride in our company and more passionate about the role we play in the lives of individuals. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 17 The flags compelled Inger to find out more about the company. What she discovered was a company that was precisely the kind of organization she wanted to work for. The company was ManpowerGroup. 18 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update 30 Years of pride for manpowergroup Thirty years ago, Inger Riley was driving past developing relationships, making connections, a corporate office building in Milwaukee when and serving as a conduit that streamlined she noticed dozens of international flags communications with colleagues around the waving in the breeze. The sight intrigued her. world. She developed best practices for our After all, this native of Norway was already a introduction of the Predictable Performance citizen of the world. She first set foot in the System, helped spearhead translation of United States during her high school years as Skillware and helped coordinate the multia Foreign Exchange student. Then, following national certification of the UltradexTM more travel and meeting her future husband assessment system. Currently, she works in the United States, she settled in the with global teams in the company’s Strategic Milwaukee area. Client Management initiative, manages the Global Sales Mentorship program and The flags compelled Inger to find out more develops Strategic Client success stories. about the company. What she discovered was a company that was precisely the kind “I am proud to tell others about our company of organization she wanted to work for. The and how we connect people with the company was ManpowerGroup. opportunities of work—around the world. And beyond doing our business so well and And it turns out that Inger was precisely ethically, I am pleased that we focus on doing the kind of employee ManpowerGroup was good—including global special initiatives like looking for. She was smart, accomplished, our stand against human trafficking—and our outgoing and an exceptional communicator. global workforce development programs. All Inger earned her way into a newly created of this aligns perfectly with one of my most position in what was then a small international important personal charities, Women for marketing department. She then began a Women International, an organization that journey as a global liaison and cultural coach in helps female survivors of war become selfa variety of roles for our company. sufficient—one woman at a time—through training programs, micro loans and the “I was hired for my knowledge and interest adoption of a sponsoring ‘sister.’” in cultural learning and growing,” said Inger. “At that time, our global footprint was Since the day Inger first noticed the flags, much smaller than it is now. But under the we’ve moved our corporate offices a few leadership of Jeff Joerres, we have become miles to the south, revitalizing a part of truly a global organization.” Milwaukee’s downtown and building a LEED Gold certified world headquarters where we Inger’s work over three decades has been continue to proudly display the international key to ManpowerGroup’s growth. She flags. After all, they already helped us attract remains instrumental in helping our company Inger. We trust they’ll continue to attract navigate its way through cultural differences, people just as exceptional as she is. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 19 People with disabilities account for the world’s largest minority group, yet the majority of the workingage people with disabilites are unemployed—a population with potential to be unleashed. 20 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update provide a rich resource of under-tapped talent 650 million individuals world’s largest minority group It’s Ability, Not Disability That Matters According to a 2010 statement by the Director-General of the International Labor Office (ILO), one in 10 people globally, some 650 million individuals, lives with some form of disability. This makes people with disabilities the world’s largest minority group, with 70 percent of disabled women and men of working age. Unfortunately, the vast majority of working-age people with disabilities are unemployed. The ILO statement continues: “Mounting evidence points to the high economic costs of excluding people with disabilities from the world of work—the ILO has recently estimated that the cost of such exclusion can range from three to seven percent of a country’s GDP.” Furthermore, widespread unemployment among so many people with disabilities often results in a cycle of poverty that can exacerbate ongoing health issues, thus increasing levels of disability in its many forms. Yet, individuals with disabilities provide a rich resource of under-tapped talent that can help employers solve ongoing talent mismatches if they are given the opportunity and resources to contribute. With the Human Age firmly upon us, developing creative solutions that tap into all sources of talent is a winning solution for everyone, matching the employment needs of companies with valuable job skills. WIDESPREAD UNEMPLOYMENT 70% of disabled women and men of working age one in 10 people globally ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 21 Mike Van Handel (in yellow), ManpowerGroup’s ManpowerGroup’s Best Buddies team is the largest team from Chief Financial Officer, a passionate volunteer and outside California to participate and in the last three years has fundraiser with Best Buddies. raised nearly a quarter million dollars. Best Buddies ManpowerGroup’s willingness to give back to organizations that transform lives and communities filters through every level of our company. Our senior leaders are tremendous role models for the organization. A prime example is Mike Van Handel, ManpowerGroup’s Chief Financial Officer, who is a passionate volunteer and fundraiser for Best Buddies, a charitable organization that builds one-to-one friendships, and integrated employment and leadership development for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. As part of his involvement with Best Buddies, Van Handel—a keen cyclist—recruits a cycling team every year for an annual fundraiser. “We bike 100 miles along California’s Highway 1 from Carmel to Hearst Castle. Our team is the largest to take part from outside California, and in the last three years, we have raised nearly a quarter million dollars for Best Buddies,” says Van Handel. Project Ability Patrick Scoggins is one example of a talented implementation. While the job market continues individual who was provided with a bridge to to be challenging, it’s comforting to know employment. Patrick was helped to overcome that ManpowerGroup is helping others in my the barriers to work he faced by Project situation overcome the barriers to employment, Ability, a collaborative effort that leverages the one position at a time. I especially liked my resources of experienced community-based first assignment at the San Jose City College organizations, the expertise of California’s Bookstore because it allowed me to do what Department of Vocational Rehabilitation and I do best in the workplace: interact and relate ManpowerGroup. Together, we match the with customers.” employment needs of local employers through a process that identifies people with disabilities San Jose City College Bookstore Manager who possess job skills and competencies Gina Bonanno said, “Individuals like Patrick, required by employers. Project Ability was who were placed on assignments here first launched by our Manpower team in San performed extremely well, and I would definitely Jose, California and has also been rolled out in welcome them back for future needs. On a Boston and Houston, with additional markets, personal level, I find it very rewarding to help including Chicago, expected to implement the people gain valuable experience in program in the near future. the workforce.” Patrick says Project Ability helped him And Patrick is by no means an isolated to unleash his human potential: “I am example. Overall, more than 173 candidates grateful to the ManpowerGroup team and have been placed with approximately 180 everyone associated with Project Ability’s more in the talent pipeline. 22 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update International Recognition for Ryan (middle), sight-impaired, was assigned to create Manpower Chicago a new data file system at PepsiCo’s Data Management Organization department The International Committee on Employees with Disabilities (ICED) named the Chicago Manpower operation as a “Business of the Year Certificate Winner,” for its success in Additional placing youth with disabilities into summer employment. Recognition in the Community Working in partnership with the Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce’s Disabilityworks department, and funded ManpowerGroup was named through an ARRA grant from the Illinois Department of to the Leading Companies for Commerce and Economic Opportunity, Manpower Was Employees with Disabilities edition of able to place youth with disabilities into employment during Diversity Journal (2011), recognized for providing the most qualified the summer of 2010. candidate based on abilities and job skill sets, not on disability or any One individual, Ryan, who holds a degree from Loyola other diversity element University and is sight-impaired, was assigned to create a new data file system at PepsiCo’s Data Management ManpowerGroup was named Organization department. Ryan uses ZoomText, an Disability Matters Honoree by innovative assistive technology that magnifies his computer Springboard Consulting for screen. Given the opportunity to shine, Ryan performed so leadership in supporting people with disabilities in the workforce (2011) impressively that his position at PepsiCo was extended for an additional 12 months. ManpowerGroup was named Lead Employer of the Year by the U.S. Caminemos Juntos Business Leadership Network, based on the company’s exemplary (Let’s Walk Together) reputation in disability leadership worldwide (2010) A helping hand that guides job seekers toward their Manpower-Atlanta received awards goal of independence from the Tommy Nobis Center and the Center for the Visually Impaired In Mexico, establishing a livelihood is especially difficult for for its work with the Dialogue in those with disabilities and the elderly. In 2001, Manpower the Dark initiative in providing Mexico established the Caminenos Juntos (Let’s Walk employment to visually-impaired Together) program, designed to help candidates through individuals (2009) each step of the employment process. The program provides the counseling and assistance they need to Manpower-Montgomery, Alabama, secure a job and achieve the independence that comes won disability awards from the with a wage that will help support themselves and others. Montgomery Area Committee for Employment of People with Of course, we could not do it all ourselves. In the past 10 Disabilities, Easter Seals-Central years, Caminenos Juntos has paired more than 4,200 Alabama and the East Alabama disabled and elderly job seekers with more than 500 socially Committee for Employment of responsible organizations. People with Disabilities (2009) ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 23 M an p ow er G r o u p w i l l d e v e l o p su ppl i er ali gnment w it h o u r e t h i c a l a n d s o ci al busines s s tan d a r d s b y i n c o r p orati n g pri nciples an d p r a c t i c e s l i st e d o ppo s i te in th e s up p lie r a p p r o v a l p r o c e s s es . In September 2011, ManpowerGroup Chairman and CEO Jeff Joerres received the inaugural Lifetime Achievement Award from Corporate Responsibility Magazine. Joerres accepted the award and recognition of his dedication to high standards, transparency and sustainable business practices at the Commit!Forum in New York City. Being the first recipient of this prestigious award, Joerres was honored to be acknowledged in this capacity and began his acceptance remarks with, “This is not about me; this is about our people.” ManpowerGroup was also named to CR Magazine’s list of America’s most transparent large-cap companies, coming third among 11 other Business Service companies, and the only employment services firm named to this list. 24 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update engages a broad base of suppliers ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY AGAINST FORCED LABOR desired level of performance Procurement / Supply Chain: People, not commodities Operating in over 80 countries and territories around the world, ManpowerGroup engages a broad base of suppliers from across the globe. The company seeks assurance that the businesses and individuals it works with throughout its entire supply chain understand, share and commit to ManpowerGroup’s standards in the Supply Chain Business Partner Policy consistent with our culture and values. ManpowerGroup believes that its values should be reflected and embraced by all of its partners throughout the entire supply chain. We expect our suppliers to operate in a responsible and ethical manner, while limiting their impact on the environment. ManpowerGroup was the first corporation to adopt a zero tolerance policy against forced labor, child labor and human trafficking, in accordance with the Athens Ethical Principles, which means that we will not knowingly do business with any company that benefits in any way from the trafficking or abusive treatment of workers. ManpowerGroup will develop supplier alignment with our ethical and social business standards by incorporating principles and practices listed above in the supplier approval processes. The expectation is that, where there are differences, ManpowerGroup and the supplier will agree on an acceptable level of consistency and that the supplier will actively work toward achieving the desired level of performance. ManpowerGroup is prepared to terminate business with any supplier that does not demonstrate progress towards aligning with ManpowerGroup’s key business practices described above. ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY AGAINST HUMAN TRAFFICKING ethical business supplier ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 25 D avi d Arkl es s , Man po werGro u p P res i den t o f Co rpo rate an d Go vern m en t Af f ai rs , i s al s o Pres i den t o f th e Gl o bal En d Hu m an Traf f i cki n g No w! cam pai g n , wh i ch partn ers wi th th e bu s i n es s co m m u n i ty to pl ay a cri ti cal ro l e i n f i g h ti n g h u m an traf f i cki n g an d m o dern -day s l aver y. Human Trafficking Human trafficking is an insidious form of modern-day slavery. It is a widespread crime that forces an estimated 12.3 million people into forced labor or sexual servitude at any given time. It is present in every country and territory where ManpowerGroup does business, and is now the second largest illegal industry on the planet behind drug smuggling. The core of ManpowerGroup’s business is about connecting people from all walks of life with sustainable livelihoods, and we stand for the dignity of work and employment opportunities for all. The illegal and immoral enslavement of human beings is one of the most reprehensible crimes imaginable as these exploitative practices take away the basic human right to meaningful work. This runs contrary to our values as ManpowerGroup was the first company to sign the Athens Ethical Principles, which declare a “zero tolerance” policy for working with any entity which benefits in any way from human trafficking. ManpowerGroup has implemented these ethical principles throughout our company, thereby contributing to the eradication of human trafficking worldwide. Our effort to engage more companies in support of the Principles has resulted in more than 12,000 organizations signing up directly, or through the commitment of their industry federation. We have also secured the support of a number of global union organizations. In July of this year, David Arkless, ManpowerGroup President of Corporate and Government Affairs, was named President of the Board for End Human Trafficking Now! (EHTN), a Swiss-based organization which assists businesses in adopting zero-tolerance policies designed to prevent, and ultimately eliminate human trafficking. The company has 26 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update collaborated with the Not For Sale Campaign to develop community activism in order to fight enabling environments for human trafficking, and to promote consumer awareness and vigilance about forced labor in the manufacturing of consumer products. In addition to raising awareness of the issue, ManpowerGroup is also focused on prevention and has entered into numerous joint ventures to provide trafficked and at-risk persons with access to education and training to help them transition to decent, honorable work. Last month, ManpowerGroup joined forces with leading nonprofit organization Second Chance Employment Services to help battered and trafficked women re-enter the workforce. ManpowerGroup has teamed up with anti-trafficking organization Sport Against Trafficking to support its Row For Freedom campaign. Six ordinary women (pictured above with UK Prime Minister David Cameron) will row 3,000 miles across the Atlantic Ocean to raise money for charities that support the victims of human trafficking. Traveling from The Canary Islands to Barbados on a route previously used as part of the Atlantic slave trade, the team will row 24 hours a day—two hours on, two hours off—for an estimated 40 days. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 27 According to Munich Re, an insurance company, January to July 2011 was the costliest year on record in terms of property damage. 28 ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development destruction of jobs and careers creating a path to sustainable employment having to start over disaster recovery: Human Courage in the Face of a Crisis The devastating impact of natural disasters has dominated news programs and headlines throughout 2011. From New Zealand to Japan, from Thailand to Brazil, no region of the world has been left untouched by the forces of nature. Thousands of lives have been lost and property has been obliterated in an instant. Beyond the immediate tragic loss earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and landslides also cause huge economic disruption as they wipe out jobs, careers and entire industries. In many cases, primary wage earners may have been killed with disastrous results for families and communities. According to Munich Re, an insurance company, the six months to July 2011 alone meant 2011 was the costliest year on record in terms of property damage. While scientists debate the reasons for severe weather events, experts have identified the world has entered a new geological epoch—the Anthropocene or the Recent Age of Man—because of dramatic changes to the planet as a direct or indirect result of human activity. ManpowerGroup: Setting the Industry Standard When a powerful earthquake struck the coast of Japan on 11 March 2011, triggering a large tsunami, there was significant loss of life, disruption to communications and transportation links, and a meltdown at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. Because of ManpowerGroup’s robust disaster recovery plan, we were able to determine the most human and sustainable response to the situation, putting the continuity plan in motion so efficiently and effectively that it thereby became the standard by which all companies in our industry would respond to the disaster. ManpowerGroup CEO Jeff Joerres, was in constant contact with the company’s President of Asia-Pacific operations so he could provide the latest information to our 30,000 employees worldwide. Our Japanese team demonstrated extreme courage and commitment to resume business as usual as quickly as possible, handling every call in typical ManpowerGroup fashion – treating everyone in the most human way – with the highest sense of empathy, dignity and strong assurance of support. Their compassion, dedication and tireless efforts made us all proud to be part of ManpowerGroup. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 29 ManpowerGroup’s identification of the Human Age also recognizes the power of human potential; and we know better than anyone how critical a job is to a person who has lost everything and needs to rebuild their life. ManpowerGroup’s philosophy for investing in our communities has always been focused on the long-term view. This goes far beyond donating money. While financial donations are hugely valuable, our approach is to analyze the situation when disaster strikes in order to create a purposeful and intentional response that creates a path to sustainable employment and helps residents of impacted communities regain the dignity and independence of work. Our disaster recovery initiatives include providing short-term jobs for individuals when their place of employment is damaged or destroyed so they can continue to support their families and replace essential property like clothing. In the most dire situations, we also help survivors to develop new career paths through skills assessment and training when it is no longer feasible for them to return to their former line of work. 30 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update The Path to Opportunity Made Safer for All It has been six years since two Manpower Vocational Training Centers (MVTC) in India’s Tamil Nadu State opened their doors in a community devastated by the 2004 tsunami. It soon became apparent that many members of the community were unable to take advantage of opportunities at the MVTCs. Those from remote villages in the region found it difficult to travel, and women who did so sometimes suffered abuse from other passengers on crowded buses, making journeys unpleasant and deterring women from visiting the centers. However, representatives of United Way Worldwide (UWW) which runs a K-12 English school on the Tharangambadi campus that ManpowerGroup operates in partnership with Hope International, admired the work being accomplished at the MVTCs and encouraged the project manager to write a proposal to help increase accessibility to the Center for women throughout the community. After a successful application for funding, a small bus and a van were purchased. The vehicles provide a safer and more appropriate means of travel for women, allowing more of them to attend classes and explore the opportunities the MVTC might offer. In addition, the smaller van is able to negotiate the narrow roads leading to isolated villages, greatly increasing access to the community and expanded the ability of the MVTCs. These efforts are bearing fruit: The Centers in Tharangambadi and Nagapattinam have exceeded our original expectations, training nearly 8,000 people with 95 percent of our students going on to find gainful employment. Additionally, a micro-credit assistance program has helped to launch over 1,500 small businesses. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 31 restoring hope in the wake of a tragedy On 12 May 2008, a magnitude 8.0 earthquake struck Mainland China. It was the most devastating quake in the history of the People’s Republic of China, claiming nearly 70,000 lives and leaving over 15 million homeless. Among the countless buildings that were destroyed was Juting Central Elementary School in Shanxi Province, and the loss of its educational institution presented an additional challenge to the community as it began the long and difficult road to recovery. While attending to short-term needs in the aftermath of the disaster, such as providing tents and sleeping bags to accommodate those left homeless, ManpowerGroup simultaneously assessed long-term needs and made a substantial, lasting commitment to helping the community recover from the devastation. To help local residents build a better tomorrow, ManpowerGroup identified a critical need to aid in the reconstruction effort of the elementary school. The company committed to donating nearly $300,000 toward the reconstruction of the new school—the only elementary school serving Ningqiang County—which was duly inaugurated on 28 October 2009. However, this did not mark the end of ManpowerGroup’s efforts to assist the children in the region to achieve the education they need to succeed in the world of work. The new Manpower Ningqiang Elementary School receives frequent visits from ManpowerGroup China employees, offering personal assistance to the students. The school has excelled academically, with graduation results exceptional, and has won a number of awards due to its high standards of teaching and student health and safety. Yang Mingxing, a 12-year-old grade six student at the school, has been helped to unleash his human potential since entering the school doors in 2009. A child with a history of behavioral problems, Yang has prospered under the first-rate care of his teachers and with access to state-of-the-art educational facilities, he is now achieving excellent grades. In addition to winning second prize in the county’s student calligraphy contest, he has also represented the school at table tennis. “Thanks to the help of ManpowerGroup, I am able to study in such a wonderful environment. I take every minute to study well and equip myself to be skilled future talent for China,” he said. 32 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Following the destruction of the community’s only school building during the 2008 Central China earthquake, ManpowerGroup and its employees contributed to the construction of the Manpower Juting Elementary School in Ningqiang County. Completed in 2009, the school provides a contemporary and spacious learning environment for over 300 eager students. I n 2011, Manp ower Gr oup was nam ed t o the E thisp her e Institute’s Wor ld ’s M o st E thical C om p anies list for its prov en com m itm ent to ethical b usiness pra ctices, includ ing an outstand ing com m itm ent to ethical lead er ship , com p liance p r actices and cor p or ate s o cial r esp onsib ility. Manp ower Gr oup w as the only com p any in the staffing in d ustr y to b e nam ed to the list. ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 33 “The training I received has given me strength, independence and dignity. I am empowered now, and this is a dream come true.”—Sashikala Sivasanker commenting on the training she received at the Manpower Vocational Training Center. Empowering a Young Woman with Independence and Dignity Life in the village of Tharangambadi was never easy for Sashikala. Her husband left her just months after her marriage, and before he left, he took everything of value from the household. Sashikala was left with practically nothing—no possessions and, with just a rudimentary education, virtually no way to earn a living. But things would soon turn even worse. As the 2004 tsunami swept through her village, Sashikala and her cousin were trapped in their home. They survived only by standing atop a bed to keep their heads above water. Both felt relieved once the flooding receded, but as Sashikala waded outside to inspect damage to the home, she was electrocuted by a live electric wire dangling in the water. She hovered between life and death in the local hospital, and only after 30 days did she gain enough strength back to return to what was left of her home. 34 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Community Volunteer Service and Training For ManpowerGroup, our commitment to the communities in which we operate extends well beyond just writing a donation check to a charitable cause. Our long-term, creative commitment to unleashing the potential of people everywhere are a reflection of our unique and humanistic approach. All over the world, ManpowerGroup employees, partnering with community organizations, businesses and governments, engage in workforce development programs that make a positive difference in people’s lives. “I was thankful that I was alive,” recalled Sashikala, “but when I came home it was clear I had lost everything, my home, all of my possessions and—like many in the village—I had no way of earning a living. I was desperate. Thankfully, the Manpower Vocational Training Center was about to Charitable giving—of not just cash, but open, and it offered training that would help more importantly time and resources, me support myself. and volunteerism are deeply embedded the ManpowerGroup culture, and our “Today my life is better. I earn approximately employees are making a difference 2,500 Rupees a month and I am able to through local involvement and corporate support myself designing and making cards activities. Fortune Magazine’s annual and costume jewelry. The training I received Most Admired Companies list has has given me strength, independence consistently ranked ManpowerGroup as and dignity. I am empowered now,” said the number one firm in our industry in Sashikala, “and this is a dream come true.” the category “Social Responsibility.” ManpowerGroup and Workforce Development 35 Long-term Unemployed ManpowerGroup— Sweden Telge Telge Jobstart is a Jobstart two-tier program: Sodertalje is an industrial city situated approximately Program 1 30 kilometers south of Stockholm with a population Focuses on newly-arrived immigrants. of just over 80,000. The city is home to truck Every month immigrants are selected maker Scania AB and pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca also has a major presence there. Since the by the Municipality to participate beginning of the 2003 Iraq War, Sodertalje has also in this facet of the program. Each welcomed more immigrants from Iraq than the U.S. individual goes through a curriculum and Canada combined. that consists of Swedish language Assimilating Iraqi immigrants into Swedish society studies, learning about Swedish posed many challenges however; the local culture and help finding a job. The economy struggled to absorb such a large influx goal of the 18-month program is to of newcomers and, as a result, welfare costs get 70 percent of the participants out began to escalate. Sodertalje officials contacted of welfare and into sustainable jobs. ManpowerGroup with the goal of creating new, innovative solutions to help integrate the group more fully into Swedish society and move them Program 2 from welfare to the workforce. Is designed to assist immigrants who Together, local officials and ManpowerGroup have graduated from the Swedish decided to launch a new company, studies curriculum, as well as longManpowerGroup Telge Jobstart (MTJ), which term unemployed Swedes. A team would help new immigrants, as well as long-term of job coaches and competencies unemployed native Swedes, find jobs. And the program is working; 50 percent of our participants experts provide individual coaching to find jobs. This success has encouraged local develop job-finding skills. The program municipal officials to double the original 30 results have been impressive in the participants assigned by the Municipality each first year, and as mentioned above, month. Since the start of MTJ, the program has MTJ has doubled the number of provided jobs for nearly 250 long-term unemployed. Iraqi immigrants comprise 95 percent of the participants in the program, admitting program participants. 60 participants each month. 36 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update ManpowerGroup and the environment For over 63 years, our tradition of responsibility to the communities we serve means we constantly strive to reduce our environmental impact and continue to learn more and better ways to go beyond compliance with the environmental laws and standards that apply to us. As today’s workforce demands transparency, ethics and sustainable innovation from employers in the Human Age, ManpowerGroup continues to implement green initiatives that enforce our environmental performance, policies and reputation. 37 Our Environment, Health and Safety Our global network’s Management conservation efforts resulted System—a Fixed and in saving nearly 36,000 Flexible Framework reams of paper, as well as recycling more than Most of ManpowerGroup’s environmental initiatives 1,000,000 pounds of paper and plastic products, are realized at the local level, in response to local and national needs. The initiatives include employee safety and environmental stewardship. On a global basis, 2,300 ManpowerGroup’s Environment, Health and Safety and more than Management System (EMS) is a fixed and flexible framework printer cartridges. that applies the principles of Reduce/Reuse/Recycle. We began to track data in 2008 and continue to find ways to share knowledge and replicate what we learn from the most successful programs across our entire network. The EMS is a significant step in that direction. Over the next years and Named one of Newsweek months, as the EMS is more fully implemented, evaluated 1 magazine’s Greenest and improved, we will better meet stakeholder expectations No. Big Companies in and contribute to more sustainable communities and an improved environment in which to live and work. America, ranking No. 26 among 500 U.S. public Our operations around the world are conducting business companies and No. 1 in a sustainable way that, given our extensive global reach, in the professional has a significant cumulative effect. In 2010, our global network’s conservation efforts resulted in saving almost services category. 36,000 reams of paper, as well as recycling more than one million pounds of paper and plastic products, and more than 2,300 printer cartridges. ManpowerGroup continues to be recognized for its ongoing efforts to minimize its carbon footprint, For the Also in 2011, third consecutive year, we were named one of Newsweek we were named to the magazine’s Greenest Big Companies in America, ranking Dow Jones No. 26 among 500 U.S. public companies and No. 1 in the professional services category. Sustainability Index Also in 2011, we were named to the Dow Jones for the fourth year running. Sustainability Index for the fourth year running. The DJSI is the gold standard in recognizing corporate sustainability leaders and evaluates corporations based on a variety of criteria including climate change strategies and energy consumption. 38 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Employee Health and Safety ManpowerGroup is committed to the highest standards of health and safety. In adopting these standards, we seek to create a workplace and work systems that enable all employees to feel safe and secure. ManpowerGroup endeavors to take appropriate measures to provide a safe working environment for all staff personnel, temporary associates, contractors and consultants. We focus on compliance with health and safety legislation within our own business operations and also apply this same standard as a matter of priority when reviewing whether to place associates, contractors and consultants in a client’s work environment. ManpowerGroup’s Employee Health and Safety Council (EHS Council) was formed in 2008 to establish and encourage improved safety at the company’s global, regional and country levels. The Council’s role has been redefined as part of our 2011 Environment, Health and Safety Management System (EMS). Council objectives include sharing and developing best practices and analysis. The Council considers issues such as the following: inventory of safety programs, EHS statistics and recommended improvements to reduce the number and severity of workrelated injuries and illness. Results are to be reported to the company’s management and board of directors each year as part of the EMS and CSR overview. The work of the Council is expected to contribute to overall Company objectives, including employee and associate well being, risk mitigation, cost efficiencies and improved Brand experience and reputation. We have put processes in place and strive to adequately assess and control the health and safety risks arising from the company’s work activities. Adequate resources are made available to provide information, instruction, training and, where necessary, supervision, for all colleagues on an ongoing basis. ManpowerGroup and the Environment 39 World Headquarters Update Since being recognized by the U.S. Green Building Council with Gold LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification for our world headquarters, we have continued to enhance the building’s environmental efficiency, and we are measuring other offices’ efforts to conserve resources throughout our global network. These efforts are good for the environment, but they are also good for our bottom line. In the last few years, we have instituted systems and practices throughout our headquarters that have helped us be better corporate citizens and environmental stewards. Among the highlights: In late 2010, facility improvement measures were identified and implemented using an advanced building management system. Many of our headquarters building’s mechanical systems were programmed to reduce their run time and the building was switched to gas heating. This resulted in a reduction of energy use by 15.1% for January 2011 to September 2011 when compared to the same period in 2010. In 2010, by analyzing the building’s mechanical schedules and adjusting the lighting control system, we were able to realize a 6.4% reduction in energy use as compared to 2009. To encourage individual recycling of paper, each desk has a personal collection bin for paper. To empty the “ In 2010 , b y a n a l y z i n g personal bins, recycle/shred bins are located in all work areas. 298,626 lbs of paper were shredded and the b u ild ing ’s m e c h a n i c a l recycled in 2010. sche du les an d a d j u st i n g t h e To encourage the recycling of plastic, glass and li ght in g con t r o l s y s t e m , w e aluminum, each break room and conference room we r e ab le t o r e a l i z e 6 . 4 % has a blue “recycle only” container. The estimated re du ction in e n e r g y u s e a s weight of the plastic, glass and aluminum recycled in 2010 is 12,000 lbs. compa r e d t o 2 0 0 9 . ” All cardboard is separated from regular trash and recycled. The estimated weight of the cardboard recycled in 2010 is 100,000 lbs. In order to reduce our impact on the environment, a decision was made to stop providing Styrofoam cups and to stock break rooms with ceramic cups. Our estimated reduction in Styrofoam cups contributing to landfills is 241,000 cups annually. 40 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Our French Headquarters Opens the Door for Business Our recently-opened French country headquarters is located in an area of economic development near Paris, France. The building is intended to be an example of worldclass functionality and an environmental showcase, thereby satisfying the French HQE (High Environmental Quality) eco-building requirements. Efforts to meet and in some cases surpass the requirements include the following: • Construction involved extraordinary efforts to reduce pollution typically associated with major construction sites. • The building was designed to maintain environmental performance over the long term, encourage the recycling of commercial waste, and reduce the consumption of natural resources through efficient use of energy-saving, sensor-enhanced lighting, heating and cooling systems. • The building and the surrounding landscape were designed to achieve harmony between the building and its urban environment, thereby creating quality outdoors spaces and enhancing its surroundings. ManpowerGroup and the Environment 41 Right environmental model With 210 offices in 54 countries and territories, serve. They named the initiative Green@ Work, Right Management—the talent and career and the team leaders developed 4 key areas of management expert within ManpowerGroup— conservation focus: understands the impact it can make to conserve resources. The best efforts for environmental • Computers and lighting improvement are generally those which unleash • Paper, printing and copying human potential for innovation—along with a spirit of collaboration, competition and fun. Right • Heating and cooling Management’s approach has been to encourage • Vending and hospitality areas local teams to address unique environmental challenges and in addition to some of the The initiative is designed so each of Right anticipated benefits, the cross-functional teams Management’s regions work on one focus area have engaged with colleagues across Right per quarter. Teams are identified at the regional Management’s global network. Encouraging local and local level, and it is these team members leadership of the efforts has uncovered a number who establish objectives and practices that will of colleagues who had leadership skill and help them achieve each quarter’s conversation potential that may have gone unnoticed in their goals. Ongoing communication within each region day-to-day roles. ensures ideas and best practices are shared and implemented. Green @ Work team members In 2009, Right Managment identified conservation developed an electronically-distributed quarterly objectives to help the organization become newsletter for colleagues worldwide that highlights more efficient, cut costs and enhance office green initiatives, as well as providing an engaging environments and the communities which they forum for the sharing of conservation practices. Oslo’s Green Machines When colleagues in ManpowerGroup Norway’s Oslo office need to travel to meet with clients or attend company functions, they do so in a small fleet of electric cars. The zero emission-vehicles are a welcome relief for city dwellers and in Oslo, drivers of electric cars enjoy free parking privileges throughout the city, as well as free battery charging. They also cost, on average, up to 30 percent less to operate. The vehicles prominently feature our corporate logos, reinforcing ManpowerGroup’s environmentally friendly corporate citizenship to clients, candidates, and everyone else in this bustling city of almost one million people. 42 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update governance: a process that ensures good corporate citizenship Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics promotes honest and ethical conduct throughout the organization, as well as provides a mechanism to report unethical conduct via the ManpowerGroup Ethics Hotline to help preserve the culture of honesty and accountability throughout the Company. Letter from Jeffrey A. Joerres, Chairman and CEO 43 43 Diversity ManpowerGroup considers diversity in the workplace to be essential, not only because it is just and engages all segments of the Code of Business potential workforce, but because it is in our best interests and those of our clients. By placing a premium on diversity, businesses create Conduct better discussions, introduce fresh perspectives and make more and Ethics sustainable profit. Organizations can continue to create and share knowledge and innovation only by We are all expected to do the right things and to do remaining open to the ideas of all, them well. We share these expectations with our and by reflecting the diversity of a partners and suppliers and others that are part of the truly interconnected world. work we do at ManpowerGroup to benefit all our stakeholders. ManpowerGroup defines diversity as differences of race, national The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, revised origin, religion, cultural background, and introduced in December 2010, forms the basis for gender, age, disability, sexual a shared understanding of the importance of sound, orientation and gender identity. ethical practices in all of ManpowerGroup’s dealings, We expect and promote mutual a prime example of the ManpowerGroup Experience. respect and understanding between people with different personal We have a shared responsibility to do the right thing situations or backgrounds. for all stakeholders and to protect our Company’s reputation. One of the most important steps is that all employees must complete periodic training related to this Code and Company policies. The Global Ethics Compliance Officer has designated training programs for our benefit. Because we want to help ensure compliance with this Code, all employees worldwide (other than associates), and all members of the Board of Directors are required to complete and return a compliance report and certification on an annual basis. Profiles in Diversity Journal named Mara Swan, ManpowerGroup Executive Vice President, Additionally, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Global Strategy and Talent, as a Woman Worth is available on our website in 17 languages so that all Watching for 2011. The publication recognizes stakeholders can easily understand our standards and women executives who are blazing new trails in business and the organizations who expectations of one another. Ethisphere magazine had demonstrate their commitment to advancing this to say about our updated Code: “The Code is very women into leadership. truly awesome. Learning aids are absolutely top-notch.” 44 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update Data Privacy As the world leader in innovative workforce solutions, ManpowerGroup helps companies and individuals to navigate the changing world of work. People are central to our business and we take our responsibility for ensuring the privacy and protection of personal and sensitive information very seriously. To ManpowerGroup, privacy is more than complying with privacy and data protection laws; it is about doing the right thing for the four million people that find jobs through ManpowerGroup every year and the 400,000 clients we serve. The following are our Global Data Privacy Principles that guide our protection of personal and sensitive information. We respect the privacy of individuals through the following means: 4 4 We tell the individuals who engage with us what personal information we collect, and why we collect it. 4 4 Where appropriate, we respect personal choices about our collection, use and sharing of information. 4 4 We collect, use and retain only personal information that is relevant and useful to our business interactions. 4 4 We use reasonable efforts to keep personal information accurate and up-to-date. 4 4 We use information security safeguards to protect personal information. 4 4 We limit access to, and disclosure of, personal information. 4 4 We retain only the personal information that is needed to fill our business and legal obligations. 4 4 Where appropriate, we offer individuals the ability to view and update the information we have about them. 4 4 We provide an opportunity for people to ask questions and register complaints. Governance: A Process that Ensures Good Corporate Citizenship 45 Training / Lifelong Learning ManpowerGroup believes continued learning is important for all of our employees and associates, and we strive to ensure that everyone in our organization has ready access to development opportunities at all times. We provide training and career development opportunities through a variety of resources, but the foundation of our educational program is our Global Training and Development Center, which provides free online training to to anyone that registers with us around the world. The award-winning program has successfully enhanced the skills of over 10 million people worldwide, and there are currently over 3,600 courses available to our employees, ranging from IT courses to general business skills. The Global Training and Development Center is also utilized by many of our clients around the world for their own staff, as they see the benefits it provides to the people we place on assignment in their organizations. Our employees and associates find it to be a convenient way to upgrade their skills and continue to develop their careers, through the convenience of access to the TDC from anywhere, any time. As their skills and credentials increase, so do their options to qualify for more advanced positions and earn higher salaries. With more than four million people placed into jobs each year, ManpowerGroup’s lifelong learning philosophy and educational tools are a vital source of work-ready employees for our clients around the world. Social Media Framework ManpowerGroup thrives on a culture of innovation, and we constantly track shifting trends and dynamics. One of the trends we have monitored for several years is technological revolutions and how they were allowing work to be done in new ways. We saw something very significant happening, and as the use of social networks increased, it became clear that “social networks” was something of a misnomer; they were more like “commercial networks” for companies because of the business potential these platforms offer. ManpowerGroup has provided a social media framework that unleashes our people, not a limiting “protocol” that hamstrings them. A framework allows for fixed and flexible components, balancing the appropriate degree of governance with the flexibility to exercise creativity. From the outset, we clearly conveyed what we were trying to achieve by harnessing the power of social networks, and equipped our employees to use these platforms effectively and responsibly. ManpowerGroup uses social media to further our ability to collaborate and innovate, and to reach previously invisible potential talent. And our CEO Jeff Joerres is one of only six Fortune 500 CEOs who leverages a Twitter account to get his message out. 46 ManpowerGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Update unleashing potential in the human age At ManpowerGroup, our ability to do good while doing well is a key competitive differentiator. Fortune magazine this year named ManpowerGroup to the list of the World’s Most Admired Companies: ranked number 1 within the temporary help space. We help organizations and individuals capitalize on new and unseen talentdriven opportunities, so they can achieve more than they ever imagined. We are ManpowerGroup. We are a company built for solutions and speed. We are a company of compassion. We are a company that can help organizations and individuals alike understand that in the Human Age it is not about technology, systems or money. From this point forward it is the talent, ambition and imagination of diverse range of people that will be the key building blocks of growth. It will be human potential itself that will be the catalyst of change and the global driving force—economically, politically and socially. More details about ManpowerGroup’s corporate social responsibility initiatives can be found on our company Web site at: http://www.manpowergroup.com/social/social.cfm 47
