2011 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND ACTIVITY REPORT My personal convictions... B eing proactive on sustainable development and going beyond the mere respect of regulations is today a necessity. I firmly believe that enterprises that anticipate the major social and environmental challenges of the future will be more successful than those that do not. My personal conviction is that the long-term success of our Group will depend on the reinforcement of our policies based on the protection of the environment, the respect of people and innovation in two areas: Nutrition-Health and Plant-Based Chemistry. Concerning Nutrition-Health, our Group’s ambition is to create nutritional and sustainable solutions from glucides, fibers, proteins, lipids and extracts that are derived from plant-based raw materials and processed in our biorefineries. Roquette offers its customers a broad range of ingredients that seek to improve the nutritional, functional and technical properties of the products they offer to consumers. The challenges are clear, and consumer needs from all countries remain diverse: from nutritional requirements or food shortages to diseases related to obesity or the aging of populations. With the growing scarcity and volatile prices of fossil resources, the development of plant-based chemistry has become a strategic necessity. Tomorrow, plants will be increasingly used to produce the molecules that society needs. Roquette is at the forefront of this major transition. We must not blindly advance forward, as we are well aware of the consequences that can arise from this approach, notably in terms of the availability of arable land. It is a true debate. In many cases, a complementary approach can achieve the right balance, with the same parcel of land devoted to different uses, since each part of the harvested plant can be used. Similarly, biorefineries can serve highly varied markets. We have invested a lot and continue to invest in research internally, but we are convinced that to succeed, the path lies through collaborative development and innovation through networks. Thus, our microalgae research program for Nutrition-Health works with some fifteen partners, universities and private entities, as does our research program in Plant-Based Chemistry. Our investments in research and development may seem quite bold, but they are in line with the trends and developments in our world today. At Roquette, whether as shareholders or employees, we are all convinced that rising to these challenges will be the key to the long-term success of our enterprise. Marc ROQUETTE Chairman of the Roquette Group Our Vision: Become a leading global player on identified markets, for biorefinery-based solutions and products 2 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 1 The Roquette Group Interview with G. TALBOURDET and Ph. OLIVIER P. 6 Our values Key figures 2011 P. 8 Our history P. 9 Governance P. 10 International expansion P. 13 Our business P. 14 Local raw materials P. 16 Our CSR commitment P. 17 Listening to our stakeholders P. 18 Respect Major events P. 20 2 A culture of innovation Constant innovation P. 24 Nutrition-Health P. 26 Trust Plant-Based Chemistry P. 30 3 A culture that respects the environment Solidarity Environmental conservation P. 36 Continuous improvement P. 38 Eco-citizen initiatives P. 45 Our principles of action 4 A social and societal culture Building a career at Roquette P. 48 Developing our managerial culture P. 49 Anticipating needs in skills P. 49 Innovation Reinforcing the diversity of profiles P. 50 Sharing a meaningful project P. 53 Developing our safety culture P. 55 Supporting local communities P. 56 5 Evaluation and Performance Passion for the job Our approach to progress P. 60 A responsible enterprise P. 62 Our performance indicators P. 64 Acknowledgements P. 67 Commitment to achieve Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 3 1 THE ROQUETTE GROUP The adventure starts in 1933: Roquette Frères The great potato starch producer of the North (Lestrem France) 4 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 C reated in 1933 by Dominique and Germain ROQUETTE, the Roquette Group transforms renewable resources such as corn, wheat, potatoes, peas and microalgae. It produces more than 700 products from these plant-based raw materials, aimed at five sectors: Human Nutrition, PaperCardboard, Pharmaceuticals-Cosmetics, Chemistry-Bioindustry and Animal Nutrition. THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Interview with G. TALBOURDET and Ph. OLIVIER INTERVIEW WITH GUY TALBOURDET AND PHILIPPE OLIVIER The Roquette Group is a family-owned business whose of agricultural raw materials that are located closest to our shareholders are all members of the Roquette family. Is factories. For the entire Roquette Group, the vast majority this an advantage in terms of the Group’s approach to of our raw materials are produced locally. sustainable development? We reinforce our collaboration with the agricultural sector because we are well aware that our responsibility extends Guy Talbourdet, Chief Executive Officer: throughout the entire life cycle of our products, from the The Group’s approach to sustainable development derives agricultural raw materials to the product’s final use. from its core values. In this way, the shareholders are real We also work with a network of service providers located stakeholders in its implementation. The Roquette family near our factories, notably for transport, maintenance and is attached to the enterprise: many shareholders in the investment works. In this way, the Group indirectly creates third and fourth generation witnessed their parents’ strong a lot of jobs. involvement in the family business and live in Lestrem or in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais, where the company was founded. Our local presence is also an asset when it comes to They therefore know all the social, environmental and understanding and responding to the demands of economic challenges involved in developing a territory. consumers whose habits regarding food can vary a great They see how growth and the balance of the three pillars deal from region to region. of sustainable development, People, Planet, Profit, are needed to maintain a successful and independent enterprise. Does your local commitment extend to involvement in In concrete terms, the Group’s family shareholders accept the communities around you? the technological challenges involved in relatively long lead times to bring products to market. The levels of profitability PhO: Each factory, and each subsidiary of our Group, defined by the shareholders correspond to what is required contributes to local projects or finances them, either to maintain the family independence while deploying a directly or indirectly, because our employees and those of strong policy of reinvestment in the enterprise. our suppliers are all members of local communities. We work in collaboration with the elected officials to Why do sustainable development projects sometimes achieve the right balance between the development of require more time? the community, the creation of jobs and the industrial footprint. Philippe Olivier, Reliability and Sustainable Development Corporate Director: You spoke about your suppliers but what are the new Establishing a culture of sustainable development demands from your customers? in an enterprise is not done in a day. It makes more sense and is more effective to work over a GT: Up until the end of the last decade, the Roquette longer period in order to mobilize the maximum Group was a relatively secret enterprise. We were used number of employees at all the levels and in all the to “doing” without necessarily “talking”. Now, our functions. Sustainable development lies at customers’ expectations go beyond the quality the heart of the corporate strategy. of our products and their price. They concern For example, we have decided to elements that must guarantee the institutional equip our Beinheim factory with a Roquette brand. geothermal installation to develop the use of renewable energy sources. It is Our customers question us more and more a world first that represents a very big regularly on our engagements to Corporate investment. Social Responsibility (CSR). For example, their criteria to establish sustainable relations include the various aspects related to our The Roquette Group is becoming more business practices, our environmental international. How is it anchored in footprint, our relations with employees and the territories in which it produces and the communities in which we operate. sells its products? We must move forward with them, anticipate their questions, respond to their many GT: To start with, we work with suppliers requirements, and be flexible. Guy TALBOURDET 6 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Interview with G. TALBOURDET and Ph. OLIVIER Have your customers urged customer demand as well as to you to communicate about the Our Mission: the evolution of our society, which Group’s approach to sustainable To serve men and women is demanding more and more products that respect society and development? and transform agricultural the environment. raw materials into PhO: In terms of CSR, our customers were initially focused products that are directly In your opinion, what are the on social responsibility, notably or indirectly used in food, responsible and sustainable with respect to the principles issued by the International Labor health and consumer and innovations of tomorrow? Organization. capital goods, with an Four years ago, we decided to approach based on the PhO: We listen to market begin publishing a Sustainable principles of sustainable expectations and we develop, Development Report. From the for example, alternatives to very first edition, this report has development. bisphenol A and phtalates, been highly appreciated by our products whose risks have been customers, our shareholders, our noted in various studies. We are suppliers and our employees. This report also lists our also making advances in starch-based substitutes for engagements under the United Nations Global Compact, certain petrochemical molecules used in specialty markets. which offers a common framework for companies Another very promising sector for the future is microalgae. committed to sustainable development. Their potential is far from being fully evaluated, and we are Today, we are also making progress to reduce the carbon convinced that their field of development for human food footprint of our products. We have chosen to go beyond is immense. what is asked and work on Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) in Roquette’s major asset is its biorefineries, which allow order to measure the total impact of our products on it to work in perfect symbiosis on both Nutritionthe environment without limiting ourselves just to the Health and Plant-Based Chemistry, which are becoming problem of carbon. We plan to integrate these LCA into our complementary rather than competitive. approach on progress and innovation. What are the future challenges for the Roquette Do innovation and the search for new products Group? and processes also help promote sustainable development? GT: To continue to thrive, our Group must adapt regularly to the market and confront major challenges. GT: Of course. Taking into consideration the challenges of sustainable development Today, we are facing three such challenges: before developing a new product is the best the new European Common Agricultural way to guarantee the actions of Roquette Policy, the globalization of financial in this area over the long term. This markets, notably with the speculation in approach also helps generate new ideas agricultural raw materials and energy, for developing the range of products and and, of course, the increased competition services we offer our customers. that now includes players from new horizons, new geographic areas, and also Our researchers work to anticipate future new business sectors. needs and new markets. This is what we have done recently, for example, we We must therefore be innovative and recently launched a whole flour made know how to turn constraints into from microalgae, for use in human strengths. food, a product and market that did Our ambition is to meet these challenges not exist before! This is what we call by succeeding in our mission: disruptive innovation. To serve people by offering the best of We must always remain attentive to nature . Philippe OLIVIER Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 7 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Key Figures 2011 KEY FIGURES 2011 3 Billion € in global sales 86% achieved outside France, the Group's base 18 7 Million tons of agricultural raw No. 2 industrial sites in European starch industry materials 4 million tons of corn European leader in maltodextrins 10 production sites in Europe 1.9 million tons of wheat European leader in raw materials for 2 production sites in the USA 1 million tons of potatoes injectable products 6 production sites in Asia 0.1 million tons of peas European leader in cationic starches nearly 6,700 employees throughout 3% of sales devoted to No. 5 in world starch industry the world Research & Development Some 4,600 in Europe An international network of laboratories More than 1,500 in Asia More than 300 people dedicated to World leader in polyols About 600 in America Research & Development 8 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Our history OUR HISTORY “Who could have imagined that the little starch producer founded in 1933 at the Lestrem site would give birth to the remarkable international industrial complex that is the Roquette Group today, with its 6,700 employees in Europe, Asia and America?” Marc Roquette, Chairman Once upon a time in the North... The adventure started in 1933 when two brothers, Dominique and Germain ROQUETTE, then grain agents in Lille, created the company Roquette Frères, the big starch producer of the North and began construction on a potato starch plant at Lestrem, a small village in the North of France. In 1946, the workshops began working on another interesting cereal grain: corn. Other renewable raw materials would subsequently be added to Roquette’s activity: wheat in 1956, peas in 2005 and microalgae in 2008. Germain ROQUETTE, one of the founding brothers, and Adam Grünewald, a brilliant Beyond the frontiers engineer, whose rigor, inventiveness and energy came to bolster the courage and daring The years from 1958 to 2000 marked the group’s first of the two pioneers in 1933. wave of expansion outside France, with the acquisition or construction of European industrial sites in Spain, Italy and Nearly 80 years of existence England. To date, Roquette remains an independent family-owned In the 1980s, the Roquette Group set its sights overseas business, one of the world leaders in the starch industry. A with its first factory on the American continent. pioneer in Research & Development with its first laboratory As of 2000, the group’s global expansion strategy began in 1951, the Roquette Group has made innovation a looking east, with acquisitions notably in China, Korea, constant priority for future development around NutritionJapan and India. Health and Plant-Based Chemistry. In the DHAINE family, there was the grandfather, then the father, and now the son... André, Denys and today Jérémy, all three employed at Roquette Denys Dhaine: My father, André, began in 1948 at the Without any qualifications, I began as a lab assistant Jérémy Dhaine: Already when I was young I dreamed of factory in Lestrem, where he worked for 38 years. right after turning 18. When I was given the opportunity working at the factory. Mr. Grünewald called him Captain and his colleagues to work in the boiler room, like my father, I jumped at I left a job at a flour mill to join Roquette. I’ve been given Ch’marin because he used to work in the navy. the chance! I took courses at the technical school in Lille the post of operator in the glucose plant and I hope with He spent practically his entire career in the boiler room, and received my diploma. First I was a roundsman, then all my heart to have a long career at this company. where he saw the boilers grow in size at the same pace a tabler, and I was a shift supervisor when I retired after What I really like about this company is its ability to as the factory. 42 years. I witnessed quite a lot of changes over the years, always go further, and that nothing is impossible, even As a child, I remember that he would come home covered especially in terms of the working conditions, which imin coal dust, from shoveling coal into the boilers, which is proved a great deal. I am proud to have followed in the changing the course of the Lys River! That makes me what they had to do at the time. footsteps of my father, proud of the work I accomplished confident about the future. With the new technologies, it’s a lot cleaner today, and and proud to see my son, in turn, give the best of himself My dearest wish is to advance to a position in … a lot healthier! to this same company. the boiler room, of course ! Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 9 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Governance GOVERNANCE At the head of the Group, Marc ROQUETTE represents the third generation of the family. In 2004, he succeeded Dominique ROQUETTE, son of one of the two founding brothers. The stability of the family shareholder base and the financial independence of the Group contribute to the implementation of its strategy of sustainable development and investment. The Board of Directors Governance evolved The Board of Directors determines the strategic, economic, The ambition of the Roquette family is to retain control of financial, technological and social orientations of the a successful Group that enjoys an excellent reputation and Group and oversees their implementation by the General is ranked among the top world leaders in its sector. In order Management. to adapt to the needs of its growing shareholder base, its system of governance underwent a major transformation Its mission is to ensure the long-term development of the in December 2011: the merger-absorption of the holding company and its activities. As a collegial body, it acts in companies from the different family branches. the social interest and serves the common interest of the shareholders. As of 31 December 2011, the Board consisted Now, all shareholders are on the same footing and all of nine members. directly hold shares in Roquette Frères. Francis Edouard Guy Miguel Angel Pascal WALLART ROQUETTE ROQUETTE PUIG PAYET-GASPARD 10 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Governance THE AUDIT COMMITTEE THE COMMITTEE OF NOMINATIONS AND REMUNERATIONS This committee assists the Board of Directors, examines the It meets to decide on recruitment, nominations and the accounts of the Roquette Group, controls the missions of the remuneration of directors. account auditors, evaluates risk and oversees internal auditing. Christophe ROQUETTE Guy ROQUETTE Chairman Francis WALLART Chairman Bernard YON Edouard ROQUETTE Bernard YON Christophe ROQUETTE Pascal PAYET-GASPARD Domenico Bernard Marc Christophe CARBONE YON ROQUETTE ROQUETTE Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 11 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Governance GOVERNANCE AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2011 SHAREHOLDERS 200 Members of the ROQUETTE family ADMINISTRATORS Marc ROQUETTE Domenico CARBONE Edouard ROQUETTE Pascal PAYET-GASPARD Miguel Angel PUIG Christophe ROQUETTE Francis WALLART Guy ROQUETTE Bernard YON Romuald MARESCAUX, Microbiology – Phycology Technician CHAIRMAN Marc ROQUETTE (Lestrem France) VICE-PRESIDENT Edouard ROQUETTE GENERAL MANAGEMENT Guy TALBOURDET Jean-Bernard LELEU CEO Jean-Marc WILLEFERT Deputy CEO & Vice-President, Research, Deputy CEO & Vice-President Innovation and Development Europe 12 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I International Expansion INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION The Roquette Group’s global expansion policy has long been based on a mix of industrial sites, sales offices and agents. Currently present in more than 100 countries, the Group pursues its deployment and strong growth in geographic areas through an industrial policy of broad scope. The Roquette Group today includes 18 industrial units, in their field of expertise. It remains open to industrial and a network of laboratories for research and applications, commercial opportunities that will allow it to continue its and some 30 sales offices. Its industrial sites are located in world-wide development. Europe, America, Asia and India. Its international presence Deployment in Southeast Asia is further bolstered by its nearly 70 sales agents around the In 2011, the Roquette Group launched a new sales world. organization in Southeast Asia. The logical consequence This world-wide presence serves to respond to the needs of its strong growth in the region, Roquette Singapore and expectations of our customers, who insist on the same is now broadening its activity with teams in Malaysia, level of quality wherever they do business. Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam, countries until now handled by sales agents. Its teams are being Multiplying new markets reinforced primarily through local recruitment and will The Group reinforces its presence throughout the world seek to actively cover this emerging region of more than by entering into partnerships with enterprises recognized 500 million inhabitants. 18 industrial sites nearly 30 sales offices shanghaI Delft Keokuk Vecquemont jakarta Tokyo Manila Allroed Queretaro Guangzhou Osaka Barcelona Nanning Benifayo kuala lumpur Vic/Aisne Moscow Lestrem Qingdao Istanbul Gurnee Lianyungang Cassano Beijing San Francisco Geneva Klötze Beinheim ESPOO Frankfurt Mumbai CORBY Wuhan SINGAPORE Bangkok Ulsan Seoul Merville Hô-Chi-Minh CALAFAT Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 13 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Our business OUR BUSINESS Our industrial units transform renewable raw materials (corn, wheat, potatoes, peas or microalgae) to obtain more than 700 products aimed at five industrial sectors: human nutrition, paper and cardboard, pharmaceuticals and cosmetics, chemistry and bioindustry, and animal nutrition. The Roquette Group thus promotes the concept of the integrated biorefinery. Raw materials used The Roquette Group, partner of the agricultural 1% world 14.5% 57.5% Each year, the Group transforms 7 million tons of agricultural raw materials, including 3.5 million tons of local French origin, representing a total of 800,000 hectares of cultivated land. For many years, it has maintained privileged relations with 27% its suppliers, most of whom are located close to its factories to promote local sourcing within a small logistics radius. Corn Wheat Potatoes Peas Sales by product range The richness of a molecule 9% 24% 11% Our biorefineries extract and separate the components of 4% corn, wheat, potatoes and peas, which are then transformed into more than 700 products. The main component, starch, made from molecules of glucose, is a tremendous source of energy. It is marketed in its native form or in derivative forms. This diversity of raw materials, combined with Roquette’s 23% 29% manufacturing processes, allows the Group to develop products adapted to the needs of the market. Starches Sugars and Soluble Fibers In Human Nutrition, for example, our products are used Polyols Fermentation and Fine Chemistry in infant formula, beverages, soups, breaded products, Fibers and Oils Proteins and Derivatives cheese, jams, confectionary, chewing gum, ice cream, to name but a few. Sales by sector of application In Pharmaceuticals-Cosmetics, our products can be found in toothpaste and beauty creams, as excipients for 10% syrups and caplets, or as the active principle for injectable 14% 48% products. In Animal Nutrition, our products enrich pet food and feed for livestock. Among applications in Paper-Cardboard, our products 12% are used as adhesives for cardboard and to improve the 16% softness and resistance of facial tissues and the print Human Nutrition quality of books, etc. Animal Nutrition In the Chemistry-Bioindustry sector, our products are Pharmaceuticals and Cosmetics Paper and Corrugated Cardboard employed notably in the treatment of metals, in wall Chemistry and Bio-industry adhesives and as additives for concrete. 14 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Our business Products present in our daily life Sweet and creamy for your pleasure! Sorbitol keeps toothpaste soft ! Glucose avoids crystallization in ice creams. Sorbitol retains water and prevents toothpaste from drying out. Without corn gluten, your egg yolks would turn A pulpy and delicious tomato sauce! pale! The pigments naturally present in corn gluten help reinforce the The new starch from peas improves the pulpy texture of tomatoes. color of egg yolks. Well-glued packaging means well-transported Wood turns green! products ! Corn and pea-based adhesives are used to manufacture Glucose syrups and starches are our alternative solutions for reducing crates and cartons for packaging. formaldehyde emissions from adhesives for wood materials. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 15 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Local raw materials LOCAL RAW MATERIALS The quality of our products relies on agricultural raw materials of irreproachable quality. For years, the Roquette Group has worked in close partnership with its local farmers, cooperatives and other suppliers... A strong presence in the territory Waxy corn, an example of close collaboration with The various factories of the Roquette Group are all strongly farmers anchored in their respective territories and purchase The production of waxy corn dates back to the 1970s. Waxy cereals from local suppliers. is a relatively new type of corn that is rich in amylopectin, For the Roquette Group, stable sourcing means developing one of the two key components of starch. Forty years ago, a long-term relationships with suppliers and optimizing few kilos of waxy corn seeds were imported from the USA for transport from numerous local collection points. testing in Italy. The small test field was located in the middle of the park of an old abbey to keep it isolated from the Train and barge are the preferred methods of transport pollen of other plants. Since then, the Group’s agronomists in order to reduce the carbon footprint of logistics. each year test new varieties to propose to farmers. Privileged When necessary, road transport by truck is used for short relations have thus promoted the loyalty of farmers – in distances. In addition, the Roquette Group optimizes its certain cases up to three generations now – and improved logistics routes in order to minimize transport of empty the profitability of this sector for sourcing. containers. Waxy corn also plays an important role in the Roquette Each year, numerous audits are carried out on the silos of our Group’s international expansion strategy. It was introduced accredited cereal producers. These diagnostic inspections in China in 2005 with the same approach and the same contribute to the improvement of the infrastructure success as in Europe. After a first phase testing different and help ensure that our network of collection points varieties, Roquette China’s agronomists have established is optimized and properly maintained throughout the direct contracts for the procurement of waxy corn for two territory. Local sourcing serves to limit transport between years now. The agronomists monitor agricultural production storage points and loading platforms, and thus avoids any in close collaboration with the farmers from the big cerealdelays in loading. producing provinces close to the industrial Lianyungang site. “Understanding the needs of the other has allowed us to forge a real mutual trust.” Martin MIGONNEY, Director General of the NORIAP Cooperative, cereals supplier to Roquette France How long has the Noriap Cooperative been a Is sustainable development integrated into your yields and quality. supplier to Roquette? activity? Yes, of course! Sustainable development is integrated Over time, has the relation between Noriap and The first contacts date back to the 1980s, for wheat Roquette evolved? starch first in Vecquemont then in Lestrem via Agro into all the activities of the cooperative. We developed a very active policy regarding tools to Our simple seller-buyer relationship has evolved towards Picardie, which has since become Noriap. We began to a more technical partnership, in which the needs of the deliver corn to Lestrem in 1987, then peas to Vic-surassist decision-making, which we made available to agricultural producers to enable them to optimize their buyer are integrated into the way the members of the Aisne as of 2000. cooperative produce their wheat. resources (using less and in a more efficient manner), Over the course of these exchanges, we have made a lot This transition to a relationship of customer and supplier, while retaining the two fundamentals: yield and quality of progress together in the definition and the respect where each is a co-contributor to the development of of the product. of technical specifications. In the beginning, it was not the sector, has led us to encourage exchanges such as More than half of cereal shipments are handled by train always easy to integrate the demands of a specialized site visits, meetings and the sharing of results, audits, or water to reduce the number of trucks on the roads. industrial company into our working processes. But by Furthermore, we deliver within a radius limited to 200 etc. Our two groups have been greatly enriched by working together, sharing analyses and results, we could km, which improves the carbon footprint of our activity. this relationship, which has jointly contributed to the each understand the needs of the other, and over time We manage each year more than 5,500 test fields to creation of value both for Noriap producers and for the this forged a real mutual trust. improve our seeds and raise our members’ production Roquette Group. 16 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Our CSR commitment OUR CSR COMMITMENT Sustainable development poses fundamental challenges, both in terms of social and societal issues as well as environmental and economic performance. The Roquette Group remains strongly committed to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The Ethics Charter Since 2009, the Ethics Charter has been the document of reference that defines the convictions, the responsibilities and the commitments of the Group, as well as the spirit in which it seeks to manage its activities. This charter reflects the ambitions of the Senior Management and Board of Directors to affirm the Group’s values and principles of action: Respect, Trust, Solidarity; Innovation, Passion for the job and Commitment to achieve. It provides the employee with guidelines to clarify professional conduct and choices, notably in situations of dilemma or uncertainty. The Code of Conduct Going beyond the legal requirements to promote the Group’s values and principles of action. The Code of Conduct lists the operational practices and principles of the Ethics Charter: Respect of the law and regulations, Our adherence to SEDEX Protection of the social rights of employees, SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data EXchange) is a not-for-profit Good business practices, organization for companies committed to improving the Respect of the environment, ethics performance of their production and distribution Prevention of conflicts of interests, chains. Management of information, Adherence to this initiative involves participating Protection of the assets of the Roquette Group. in a platform for exchanging information on social responsibility and performance. Certain multinationals The Ethics Committee from the agrofood sector have joined the AIM-PROGRESS In addition to the Ethics Charter and adherence to the consortium in order to promote good ethical practices with United Nations Global Compact, the Roquette Group their suppliers. To this end, they rely on the SEDEX platform, has also had an Ethics Committee since 2009. Under the which applies the principle that an audit for one is an audit auspices of the Reliability & Sustainable Development for all. Roquette has been part of SEDEX since 2006 and in Dept., the Ethics Committee is composed of representatives 2012 engaged in audits of two of the Group’s sites: Lestrem from the different regions plus one external member. (France) and Lianyungang (China). Guiding professional conduct and behavior, in particular in situations of dilemma or ethical uncertainty Lori Hale, Member of the Ethics Committee and Project Coordinator at Keokuk (USA) What is the role of the Ethics Committee and how involving all the levels and the functions. The Ethics Committee meets twice a year, and more does it perform its function? All the regions are represented, which gives a frequently if the need arises. In 2011, it was called upon The creation of the Ethics Committee reflects multicultural perspective to best guide the enterprise three times to respond to questions from the different the commitment of the Group in terms of social and the professional conduct and behavior of each regions. Ethical issues or questions can be submitted responsibility and ethics, notably at the level of the employee, in particular in situations of dilemma or directly to a member of the committee or by e-mail to decision-making process. It acts transversally by ethical uncertainty. the following address: ethics@roquette.com Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 17 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Listening to our stakeholders LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS The Roquette Group has identified all its stakeholders: customers and suppliers, employees and shareholders, public and private partners... Taking their expectations into account allows to adapt the method of dialogue with each of the parties. Here are a few examples: Listening to the customer As part of its constant efforts to improve customer relationships, the Roquette Group ran a satisfaction survey ORGANIZATION in 2011 to listen to customers, respond to their expectations and identify areas for improvement. Conducted with 7,000 people in 108 countries, the study sought to determine how customers perceive our offers and services, around six major themes: the Group’s product range; its sales teams; its agents and distributors; the DIALOGUE technical support it provides for development; logistics; and the handling of complaints. SHAREHOLDERS SOCIAL PARTNERS The results of the survey show a particularly high overall SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS satisfaction rate of 95%. FINANCIAL This study on our strengths and weaknesses highlights ASSOCIATIONS STAKEHOLDERS INSTITUTIONS that the most important criteria for our customers involve SCIENTIFIC GOVERNMENT logistics, sales and product issues where the Roquette AND INDUSTRIAL MEDIA AND PUBLIC Group’s performance received high scores. PARTNERS PARTNERS The areas where customers would like to see improvements concern: Stakeholders are individuals or groups of individuals that influence or are influenced by -The development of innovative solutions in partnership the activities of the enterprise. with the customer, -Responding to requests for market information, and -Improving the way we handle complaints. The action plan established around these priority issues involves all employees of the Group and is accompanied by an ambitious campaign to raise awareness among employees. A common approach with suppliers Under its Common Agricultural Policy, the European Union will cease to subsidize the potato starch industry as of mid-2012, leaving the market and competition as the only regulating factors. Since this announcement at the end of 2008, and in order to continue a healthy potato starch activity, the Roquette Group has worked closely with its potato suppliers to prepare for the transition towards the new system. Working closely with farmers helps to prepare a sustainable future for the potato Our Vecquemont factory (France) was until recently starch sector in France, following changes in European regulations. supplied by nearly 1,200 potato producers. 18 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Listening to our stakeholders The latter are now organized into two cooperatives that enterprise. For this, internal supply the Vecquemont starch production plant. The result communication and exchange is a better synergy between the sector’s actors and the are essential. French and European authorities. In parallel, the Roquette Group has intensified its efforts to develop sales of potato starch and derivative products on sustainable markets in order to ensure our supplier partners a profitable activity, even after the change in Exchange with the local communities European regulations. Excerpt from the speech of Mr. Tang GuoHai, Assistant to the mayor of Lianyungang, during the 10th anniversary celebration of Roquette Asia. Dialogue with shareholders Testimonial from Hervé Roquette, Shareholder and Employee (…) Ten years ago, the Roquette Group planted a seed of the Roquette Group of hope in the Development Zone of Lianyungang to launch its activities in Asia. Over the past decade, it has The company’s relationship with its shareholders is a taken root in China and grown at an incredible pace… determining factor, and the latter are sensitive to this Roquette’s Lianyungang factory has become the Roquette privileged connection, which goes well beyond merely Group’s biggest production unit in Asia, one of the biggest providing legal information. Roquette maintains a close enterprises to arise from foreign investment and one of relationship with its shareholders in order to inform them the most important French investments in the province of and take into account the expectations of new generations Jiangsu. in the family. All these accomplishments bear witness to the In addition to two annual informational meetings, considerable efforts of Roquette that have contributed not appropriate site visits or training programs are organized only to the tremendous support of numerous institutional with the Senior Management and internal specialists. and strategic partners, as well as to a friendly collaboration The shareholders of an eponymous company are also with the municipality and the Technological and Economic ambassadors of the company in public life. Development Zone of Lianyungang. Since 2009, Lianyungang has improved its integration of resources and accelerated its development. We will increase our efforts to assist Roquette in Lianyungang. To provide new contributions to business and economic exchange, The Sustainable Development Report: a method we also sincerely hope that we will be able to develop our for dialogue and sharing good practices friendship and our cooperation with the Roquette Group Testimonial from Dennis Janssen, Coordinator of the Safety, (…). Health, Environnement Program (Keokuk USA) The Sustainable Development Report is a very professional and very practical document. It highlights the actions of the Roquette Group and shows readers the considerable work done by the enterprise at a global level. When you go through this document and you read an article on a subject for which you have devoted numerous hours, you begin to understand that in each unit another person has made the same efforts. And if you multiply this by the number of workshops and subjects, you get a pretty clear picture of the considerable amount of work that we carry out. The Roquette Group makes very specific efforts to bring together our international community in order to define common objectives in line with the priorities of the enterprise. Thanks to this, it will be stronger and more efficient. Most of our employees are highly invested in their Tang GuoHai, assistant to the mayor of Lianyungang, pays tribute to 10 years of work, but they need to be assured of what is needed for the harmonious relations between the Roquette Group and the community of Lianyungang. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 19 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Major events ASIA ROQUETTE SINGAPORE extends its operations with the opening of sales offices in Malaysia, USA Indonesia, the Philippines, End of the labor action Thailand and Vietnam at Keokuk. A new CHINA contract is ratified, Launch at Lianyungang of the putting an end caramel coloring production to the lock-out unit of the SETHNESS ROQUETTE FOOD INGREDIENTS joint venture GROUP Acquisition of stake in GROUP ASIA AGI, a French specialist Ceremonies of the 10th ROQUETTE actively of hydrocolloid-based anniversary of participates in 1st solutions ROQUETTE ASIA European Congress on Plant-Based Chemistry FRANCE Announcement of the opening at Lestrem of a production unit for food ingredients derived from microalgae, dedicated to GROUP SOLAZYME ROQUETTE Acquisition of stake in AMILINA, a NUTRITIONALS Lithuanian starch producer, to serve the Baltic and Nordic markets 20 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 THE ROQUETTE GROUP I Major events MAJOR EVENTS OF 2011 GROUP Renewal of our adherence GROUP to the United Nations Global Compact ROQUETTE develops its internal collaborative GROUP networks by bringing together experts from its different sites: Change in governance in December 2011 with the 1st Meeting of the Group's Engineering Network merger-absorption of holding 1st Meeting of the Group's Safety Network companies that represented the different family branches 1st Research Innovation Development Forum, which on this occasion celebrated 60 years of Research at ROQUETTE DENMARK ITALY Opening of a new Construction begins on subsidiary at Allroed a production unit for biosourced succinic acid at the Cassano site, dedicated USA to REVERDIA™, ROQUETTE ROQUETTE AMERICA venture with DSM inaugurates its new Innovation Center at Geneva Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 21 2 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION Tilo MOTTSCHALL, Quality and Laboratory manager at the site of Klötze (Germany) 22 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 R esearch, innovation and development are part of the DNA of the Roquette Group, which has always responded to the evolution of the market, often anticipating changes. The human and technological expertise put into application are in line with the high ambitions of the Roquette Group, one of which is to rank among the most innovative enterprises in the areas of Nutrition-Health and Plant-Based Chemistry. A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Constant innovation INNOVATION AT THE HEART OF THE ENTERPRISE Innovation has been the backbone of the Roquette Group’s development and growth since the 1950s, when its first research laboratory was launched at Lestrem (France). To support its research activities, the enterprise employs more than 300 people, and devotes 3% of its annual turnover. Thanks to its global network of application laboratories, it makes every effort to offer products with new functions or alternative solutions that are more respectful of human health and the environment. CONSTANT INNOVATION The Roquette Group innovates continuously to create new The efficiency and performance that products and solutions adapted to the needs of consumers. we seek come from sharing skills and Its research activities are primarily based in France at Lestrem. Over the past several years, five other application ideas thanks to our way of working laboratories have been added (USA, China, Japan, India collaboratively within our global and Italy). business networks. The research relies on numerous areas of expertise, including chemistry, biochemistry, phycology (the science Jean-Bernard LELEU, Vice-President, Research, Innovation and Development of algae), microbiology, toxicology, etc. Multidisciplinary teams skilled in state-of-the-art technologies and equipment design, test, analyze and develop innovative solutions, products and processes that are more respectful of people and the environment, as well as more economically sustainable. Numerous research contracts with universities, laboratories and other partners from People Technologies around the world allow Roquette to benefit from studies and other works in complementary areas of expertise. They allow the Group to keep up with the latest scientific and technical knowledge. The Roquette Group’s innovation strategy focuses on Experts in multiple Laboratories, Pilots, designing new products and solutions from renewable scientific disciplines Preindustrial Units resources in two main activities: Nutrition-Health and Plant-Based Chemistry. Nutrition-Health creates sustainable solutions for nutrition and health. It responds to the specific nutritional needs of populations and offers innovative solutions based on glucides, fibers, proteins, lipids and other extracts. It relies on Scientific results validated by clinical studies and renowned experts. Plant-Based Chemistry is an integral part of our approach Expertise to develop the group’s economic and environmental performance through the use of renewable resources. It offers new biosourced chemical intermediaries with improved properties and functions. It also works on new methods of production, such as biotechnologies, to substitute existing chemical compounds with molecules from plant-based origin. Lastly, it develops natural polymers and other materials with special properties Partners and functions, all from plant-based resources. 24 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Constant innovation 6 Innovation to meet the major challenges application laboratories New ways of working are needed to confront the next big challenges, which include the recent rapid expansion of (USA, France, Italy, India, China, Japan) the Group’s international presence. In this spirit, we are building world-wide research networks and reinforcing our local presence in the different regions. The Group is also developing synergies between the sales & marketing teams and the application laboratories in order to develop greater proximity with customers. On the strength of its experience with current partners such as DSM and Solazyme, the Roquette Group is reinforcing this type of win-win collaboration to mutually develop expertise. Innovation to respond to the needs and concerns of society Research & Development is a key priority to respond to the needs of our customers and to the evolution of the market. By offering products with exceptional nutritional qualities, designing innovative functional ingredients with strong health benefits, and developing sustainable alternatives to petrochemistry, the Roquette Group responds to the demands of consumers who are more and more concerned about their health and well-being and that of the environment. These are top priorities for the Roquette Group. A few examples of recent and historic innovations are Yves BOURTEEL, Rheological Expert (Lestrem France) illustrated on the following pages. State-of-the-art technologies and equipment are used by our multidisciplinary teams. Patents at Roquette, a sustainable, renewable and integral product! This is the story of a small company, Roquette More than 74 years later, this same company This long, proactive and dynamic policy of inFrères & Cie., which submitted on 15 April 1937 has submitted its 4,667th patent covering a dustrial intellectual property development has its first patent protecting a sweet, comestible variant strain of Schizochytrium with high led Roquette to be ranked No. 1 in France for product, for use in confectionary, pastries and productivity in DHA (Docosahexaenoic acid, a patents filed in the agrofood industry1, a clear other products, presented in the form of a white family of omega-3). reflection of its culture of innovation. paste, with a consistency analogous to butter, This latest success reflects the strategic, technisuch that it can be put in breads or dough and cal and geographic diversification of the Group, --------------------------------can also be kneaded or spread. having been developed by a team of inventors 1 Source : the Patent Panorama of the French agrofood from Roquette France and China! industry 2010 www.frinnov.fr Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 25 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Nutrition-Health NUTRITION-HEALTH ÂÂ The story of a small grain of corn, an example of historic innovation Parenteral nutrition Parenteral nutrition, or intravenous feeding, corrects or prevents A sacred grain for the American Indians, discovered by imbalances in nutrition of patients with severe or chronic intestinal Christopher Columbus, known for five centuries in Europe problems. under the name of wheat in Turkey, Spain and even Italy, corn is today cultivated on the five continents. Its role in LAL TEST daily life, however, is often still not fully understood. (Limulus Amebocyte Lysate Test) It is from corn that we produce glucose for the injectable The limulus polyphemus, also known as the horseshoe crab, is a living solutions that are widely used in hospitals for intravenous fossil that has not evolved for over 500 million years. Its longevity is rehydration and parenteral nutrition of patients. Glucose is obtained from starch extracted from corn grain and due to the properties of its blue blood, which coagulates in the presfractioned (hydrolyzed) into glucose monomers. ence of endotoxins. This characteristic is used in the LAL test in order to prepare the reactive material that detects the presence of bacterial Since 1894, scientific advances in hydrolyzation techniques endotoxins in a solution. These are pyrogenic substances, i.e. they proand purification processes have led to the production voke a potentially harmful increase in body temperature following paof a quality of glucose that is exempt from all pyrogenic renteral injection. Thanks to the LAL test, rabbits are no longer needed substances. This purity avoids the reaction of fever in the for apyrogenetic testing. The limulus is a protected species, and the patient. taking of blood is done under strict control, after which the crabs are For many decades, the Roquette Group has been the returned to their natural sea environment. This practice contributes to leading manufacturer of apyrogenic glucose. To consolidate the protection of the species. its position and maintain excellence, a completely new production unit equipped with the latest technologies has been built at the Lestrem site (France) in 2011. Apyrogenic glucose is defined in the monographs of the customer, they are placed in solution and repackaged in pharmacopeia, which describe specific tests such as the sterile pouches or flasks. LAL test. These serve to verify production circuits as well In this way, corn is at the origin of the molecule of life, as to control the product to ensure it conforms to the glucose, a raw material used in post-surgery and trauma expectations of customers. care as a source of energy. Several tens of thousands of tons The batches of crystallized apyrogenic glucose are are delivered throughout the world for the satisfaction of packaged in sacks or in big bags. Upon reception by the our customers and the well-being of patients. Each day 1.5 million people in the world receive The story of a small grain of corn that became the molecule intravenous drips with LYCADEX® PF produced in our of life factories at Lestrem (France) and Keokuk (USA) 26 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Nutrition-Health ÂÂ Promoting research with DigestScience We are partners of DigestScience and we seek to play a major role, in an action of good corporate citizenship, to promote The DigestScience Foundation was created at the initiative of clinical research and protect doctors and researchers in the North of France to promote research on diseases of the digestive system and nutrition . the health of people. The Roquette Group is one of the founding partners. Marc ROQUETTE, Chairman of the Roquette Group The scientific community considers this association for medicine and nutrition as a leading force for sustainable progress in the treatment of these pathologies. Works by The second call for proposals (2011-2012), for an amount the experts who launched this foundation have brought of 500,000 euros, targeted the “handling of intestinal flora the region of Lille, in the North of France, to the forefront of in the domain of health and disease”. The four winning the research world. To support these efforts, the Roquette teams, led by Laurent Debarbieux of the Pasteur Institute Group has made a five-year pledge to provide 300,000 of Paris (France), embarked on an innovative project: The euros a year to DigestScience. At the time of its creation, interactions between bacteriophages and bacteria in studies on the impact of our polyols and fibers on oral intestinal flora (still little understood at the digestive level). and intestinal microbiotics had been done for many years, Given that bacteriophages are viruses that are exclusively notably with teams of researchers involved in the origins of directed against bacteria and represent the most numerous DigestScience. biological entities on the planet, these phages play a Over the past three years, DigestScience has launched primordial key in microbial equilibrium. This ambitious two calls for proposals, organized several workshops project is expected to lead to numerous applications, and and congresses, published bimonthly newsletters, and the initial results are expected in 2012. provided therapeutic education with the support of a dedicated nurse. The foundation each year also organizes High level workshops an athletic competition for the benefit of research, the Many themes have been addressed since 2009. The latest Testathlon, which is well known to Roquette’s employees in being: Inflammation, Hypersensitivity and Abdominal France, who often receive the trophy for most participants Pain: mechanisms and recommended conduct (June from a single company. 2011). Useful calls for proposals DigestScience finances cutting-edge research programs For more information: www.digestscience.com on digestive disorders and human nutrition. The European calls for proposals are managed by a high level scientific council. The first call for proposals (2009-2010), for an amount of one million euros, sought to promote cutting-edge research in chronic Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD), cœliac disease and the immunological and/or inflammatory aspects of intestinal dysfunction. The winning team (Prof. D. W. Hommes et al, University of Leiden, Netherlands) took an innovative and original therapeutic approach: it employed stem cells from bone marrow (mesenchymatous stromal stem cells), possessing a high power of proliferation and differentiation in various tissues, for the treatment of IBD. The first results of the phase 1 clinical study (Duijjvestein et al., GUT, 2010) are very encouraging for the treatment of Crohn’s disease. Sophie NESVADBA and Pascale HENO (Lestrem France) DigestScience each year organizes the Testathlon, a sports event in which more than 250 employees from the Roquette Group's French sites participate. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 27 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Nutrition-Health ÂÂ How to innovate in nutrition without sacrificing taste and enjoyment? These days, consumers want foods that taste great, but they are also increasingly aware of the need for a healthy and balanced diet. Yes, it’s possible to please the taste buds while savoring a few cookies or an ice cream and still protect your waistline and your health! With microalgae, an innovative solution is now available thanks to the creation in 2011 of the Solazyme Roquette Nutritionals joint venture. Microalgae, an innovative source of nutrients Microalgae are single-cell algae that feed on a carbonated source and can be produced in a controlled and secure environment. Discovered centuries ago but only recently applied for industrial purposes, microalgae include several hundreds of thousands of species. They are known for their extraordinary intrinsic composition: proteins, lipids (including omega-3 and omega-6), a wide range of vitamins and minerals, various pigments, etc. Cultivating microalgae at industrial scale In order to offer a product for the agrofood industry on a large scale, the big challenge was to select the right strain of microalgae and identify the optimal conditions for The whole flour obtained from microalgae can replace lipids in a broad range of cultivation. applications: cereal and fine bakery products, beverages or frozen desserts. The decision was made to cultivate the microalgae in a reactor, to avoid changes in climate and other conditions associated with an uncontrolled environment. This approach also presents the undeniable environmental advantages of preserving natural resources. A unique, new whole food ingredient SRN, a pioneering joint venture in The whole flour obtained from microalgae combines microalgae proteins, lipids and fibers. The lipids in this flour have a very interesting nutritional profile, close to that of olive oil. This food ingredient is a great solution to improve the In November 2010, Solazyme Inc., a California-based company nutritional properties of many food applications, notably specializing in oils and renewable bioproducts, and the Roquette cereals and bakery products, beverages or frozen desserts. Group formed the joint venture SOLAZYME ROQUETTE NUTRITIONALS It offers very low content in saturated fats and contains (SRN) to combine their skills and technologies. Specialized in food no trans fatty acids or cholesterol. It considerably reduces ingredients derived from microalgae, SRN is based in San Francisco. calories while providing fiber and proteins. Best of all, it offers the same mouth feel and same consistency as a A first production run, with capacity of 300 tons of whole flour, was solution rich in fats. Thanks to these characteristics, the launched at the Lestrem site (France) for SRN, which is planning to possibilities for innovation are endless. begin marketing the product in 2012. Production capacity for this Microalgae offer tremendous opportunities for innovation unit will eventually be raised to 5,000 tons a year. in nutrition without sacrificing taste or enjoyment, while improving the well-being of consumers. 28 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Nutrition-Health ÂÂ Healthy beverages Beverages for the Nutrition-Health market continue to be developed. Consumers are demanding beverages with less sugar content, fewer calories and greater nutritional benefits for their health. With the specific properties of NUTRIOSE® fiber, notably its solubility and neutral taste, the Roquette Group has developed a new beverage concept that is rich in fruits and entirely sugar-free, thanks to a NUTRIOSE® blend that replaces the sugar that is usually added. The taste, sweetness and texture of this beverage are fully comparable to the traditional sugared drink, but with 75% fewer calories. Furthermore, the NUTRIOSE® fiber is recognized as a natural food ingredient. It can be produced from two renewable raw materials: corn or wheat. This flexibility adds to the natural advantages of this ingredient. The solution is always guaranteed to be gluten-free. The international strategic consulting firm FROST & SULLIVAN has just awarded the Roquette Group the 2011 “European Food Fiber Ingredients Customer Value Soluble NUTRIOSE® fiber replaces added sugar, reducing calories by 75% without Enhancement award for its soluble NUTRIOSE® fiber. compromising taste. This distinction is the latest to reward the Group’s strategy of continuous improvement, in particular on the scientific validation of the nutritional and health properties of its ingredients. ÂÂ Plant-based proteins, a response to the challenges of aquaculture According to forecasts by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), aquaculture is expected to show strong growth in the coming decades, as increasing consumer demand for fish puts greater pressure on natural fish stocks. Fish meal and oil are the primary ingredients for fish food. The rise of fish farming has increased demand for these raw materials, which traditionally come from fish capture, where production is sluggish. Through its range of proteins derived from the fractioning of peas, potatoes, wheat or corn, the Roquette Group provides alternative solutions to fish-based raw materials. Plant-based proteins represent a highly digestible protein source that responds to the nutritional needs of fish farming. Furthermore, they provide a response to the problem of the sustainability of the aquaculture sector. In the short term, aquaculture can rely on ingredients from The scientific studies confirm that it is possible to substitute 75 to 90% of fish meal in renewable plant-based raw materials such as proteins, while aquaculture food with a blend of plant-based protein sources without negative effect on preserving marine resources. the fish or its environment (Source INRA). Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 29 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Plant-Based Chemistry PLANT-BASED CHEMISTRY ÂÂ A new plant-based floor covering for our babies New step for POLYSORB® ID37 How can we protect young infants from the potential In 2011, this product was successfully registered under the European toxicity of everyday products such as floor coverings, REACH regulation, which provides Roquette the right to produce which often contain phtalates? This problem is regularly more than 1,000 tons. The Roquette Group can now promote the discussed in establishments where children are present, product on a large scale and sell it on all markets. such as day-care centers. Now there are new and highly innovative solutions that can contain up to 75% renewable materials. A floor covering made from PVC (polyvinyl chloride) can be The plant-based plastifier produced by the Roquette produced in this way. It is flexible and homogeneous with Group is a derivative of isosorbide, a biosourced diol excellent resistance to wear even under strong traffic. obtained by dehydration of sorbitol (a derivative of The big innovation is the use of a plastifier produced by glucose). Isosorbide can be used for the manufacture of our Group that is 100% plant-based, POLYSORB® ID37, specialty polymers such as polyesters, polycarbonates, which is entirely made from renewable raw materials. and polyurethanes. Thanks to its rigid structure, it is the It is a green alternative to traditional plastifiers such as only biosourced diol that improves resistance to heat, phtalates. It is completely non-toxic and poses no danger to ultraviolet (UV) light, and to chemical products. It whatsoever to human health or the environment, so it can confers excellent optical and mechanical properties to the be used in absolute safety, notably for floor coverings for materials obtained. day-care centers. With isosorbide (for which the Roquette Group is the world Thanks to these non-toxic and innovative characteristics, leader), a whole range of biosourced derivatives is being the Roquette Group received the “Agrobiobase 2011 brought to market. Isosorbide can not only substitute prize for its biosourced molecule at the Green Chemistry for potentially toxic molecules (such as Bisphenol A and for 2020 congress in France, the first European congress phtalates) but it also provides remarkable additional devoted to plant-based chemistry. properties to the polymers. 30 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Plant-Based Chemistry ÂÂ Shoes that leave a biosourced footprint Choosing the right shoes is important for the individual but also for the environment. The soles of shoes are often made with polyurethane. This elastomeric polymer is currently produced from different compounds, notably adipic acid from fossil resources. This can be advantageously replaced with succinic acid made from plant-based matter, which significantly reduces the carbon footprint. For each type of shoe, a reduction of CO2 emissions can thus be calculated. This can vary from 1 to 8 kg of CO2 per pair of shoes, according to its type (reduction of 1 kg of CO2 for a pair of street shoes or running shoes, reduction of 8 kg of CO2 for a pair of ski boots; these carbon estimates are based on calculations by Reverdia™ with life cycle analyses of biosourced succinic acid and different shoe models). A 100% biosourced molecule Biosourced succinic acid, Biosuccinium™, is a product offered by Reverdia™, a joint venture of Roquette and Royal DSM N.V, a Dutch multinational company specializing in life sciences and material sciences. Reverdia™ is the exclusive proprietor of the technology developed, which is based on a highly advantageous yeastBiosourced succinic acid can replace components of fossil origin, serving to based fermentation process. This process considerably reduces the consumption of energy compared with the significantly reduce the carbon footprint of shoe soles. traditional method, which means lower CO2 emissions. In 2011, DSM and Roquette announced the construction of an industrial production unit for biosourced succinic acid with a capacity of about 10,000 tons per year. The new unit at the Roquette site in Cassano (Italy) is expected to enter production in the second half of 2012. Initial feedback from the market is very encouraging and indicates that the choice to invest in renewable alternatives to fossil raw materials and develop biotechnological Reverdia™, a successful processes is beginning to bear fruit. collaboration launched in 2008 Biosourced succinic acid will allow customers in the chemicals industry to opt for an alternative with a lower environmental footprint for a vast range of applications. The fruitful cooperation between DSM and Roquette began in 2008. In 2010, a demo production unit was set up at the Roquette site Our exclusive fermentation process in Lestrem (France) and today is running at full capacity. will significantly slash saline That same year, DSM and Roquette announced the creation of and other emissions and improve their joint venture, Reverdia™. The new industrial production unit for biosourced succinic acid at the overall environmental footprint Roquette’s Italian site will have a capacity of 10,000 tons, making of finished products. it the biggest in Europe! Rob van Leen, Director of innovation at DSM Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 31 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Plant-Based Chemistry ÂÂ Pea starch: an alternative solution to replace borax and boric acid In cardboard applications, borax and/or boric acid are widely used in the adhesives for the corrugated joints. Since 2008, borax and its compounds have been classified as CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and Reprotoxic). The main concern is that the adhesives become “reprotoxic” (toxic for reproductive health), if the concentration exceeds 5% for boric acid and 8.5% for borax. In order to protect employees, the cardboard industry has developed formulas with liquid solutions so that handling of the product is kept to a minimum. To go even further, and considering that the residues of borax and other derivatives in cardboard have been analyzed with contents inferior to 0.1%, the Roquette Group has developed in its applicative research laboratories a formula that would eliminate the need for borax entirely. VECTOR® N-7152, a pea starch produced in our factory at Vic-sur-Aisne (France), can be used in adhesives for cardboard. It has been judged as effective as borax for all types of gluing and, best of all, it allows productivity to remain at the same level as that obtained with boraxbased formulas, notably in maintaining the speed of the machines manufacturing the cardboard. Corrugated cardboard for lightweight, solid and recyclable packaging Cardboard is a recyclable material based on renewable raw materials. In Europe, 80% of cardboard is recycled. The structure of corrugated cardboard is similar in design to that used by Gustave Eiffel to construct the famous tower that bears his name. It is this structure that gives such a level of rigidity to this lightweight material. The average weight of 1 m2 of cardboard is only 530 grams. Its construction helps protect goods during transport, thanks to its capacity to absorb impact. This is one of the primary functions of packaging: to reduce losses during transport. Without the right packaging, for example, some 50% of food products would be damaged or destroyed in transport. Last but not least, cardboard helps contribute to the notoriety of the packaged product, because it allows for highly attractive printing. In Europe, 22 million tons of cardboard are produced annually. 32 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE OF INNOVATION I Plant-Based Chemistry ÂÂ GAÏALENE®: innovative and sustainable solution for plastics Did you know that your waste basket can be made out of plant-based plastics? Our research teams have designed a range of plant-based plastics from grafted modified starches, offering innovative and sustainable solutions for the plastics industry. Launched at the end of 2010, this range called GAÏALENE® constitutes a sustainable plant-based alternative for applications such as packaging, small bottles, electrical appliances, indoor furniture or the automotive sector. Plant-based solutions in response to the growing scarcity of fossil resources Unlike the plastic materials usually derived from fossil resources, GAÏALENE® resins are made from agriculture crops grown locally. Our plant-based resins contain more than 50% plantbased materials. Thanks to their composition, our resins represent a significant and direct reduction in petrol and ©James Bort / La Société Anonyme gas consumption, compared with traditional fossil-based Philippe STARCK (Société STARCK) and Bruno MEURA (Société ELISE) plastics, thus helping to preserve scarce fossil resources The ElisebyStarck waste basket is made with GAÏALENE® resins. for future generations. The content of this biosourced material is guaranteed and certified for each type of resin for short, medium, and long-term applications, just like with a label delivered by the Association Chimie du Végétal plastics made the old way. They also offer the advantage (association for plant-based chemistry) in France. of being easily transformed with the processes that already exist at plastics companies, but at lower temperatures than A low environmental footprint those required usually. GAÏALENE® resins respond to today’s growing environmental concerns, in particular those linked to the For our customers, the new GAÏALENE® increase of greenhouse gas emissions and global warming. plant-based resins constitute a real solution The capture of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the air in the resin, for innovation, at a time when consumers are and the fact that the synthesis from starch only requires a few steps, together help contribute to a particularly low becoming more and more demanding and carbon footprint. Emissions in CO2 equivalent are reduced sensitive to sustainable development in by 65% compared with those of polyolefins, the family of their daily environment. synthetic polymers most often used for plastic materials. Jean-Marc CORPART, Director of GAÏALENE® The environmental data for these resins result from evaluations done under the ISO 14 040/44 standard for life cycle analyses and have been certified by an independent, external source. Furthermore, these resins are fully GAΪALENE® named recyclable during their production and at their end of BIOMATERIAL OF THE YEAR 2011 life. They thus constitute a renewable resource that can be used for the production of new plastic objects. In March 2011, five months after the launch of its new plant-based resins, the Roquette Group was honored at the Biowerkstoff congress Innovation in the service of the customer on biosourced materials in Cologne (Germany), where it was awarded The resins also present unique and advantageous technical the innovation prize for its GAÏALENE® plant-based resins. properties, for example their soft and pleasant feel, which This prize is an official recognition by the German and international will enable new concepts and designs. plastics industry of our capacity to innovate. It also reinforces our While they are derived from green resources, GAÏALENE® image as a new supplier to the plastics industry. resins are not biodegradable. This means they can be used Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 33 3 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT Flos solani tuberosi (Potato flower) 34 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 T he Roquette Group’s strategy is founded on innovation and industrial development that respects the environment. To preserve the natural balance of our biosphere, which is necessary to preserve life, the enterprise seeks to protect our planet’s natural capital by reducing the impact of our activities on the world around us. A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Environmental conservation PRESERVING THE NATURAL CAPITAL, A PRIORITY The main objectives of our environmental strategy involve monitoring environmental performance, reducing emissions, optimizing our processes, using renewable energy sources, researching the “cleanest” new technologies and reducing the impact of our logistics chain. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION ÂÂ Preserving water, in quantity and quality For example in Romania, the biological treatment station is currently being modernized, which will multiply its capacity Controlling water consumption to treat effluent by five. The Roquette Group’s industrial activities require water, Emissions into the natural environment are under particularly which is used in extracting the components of cereals. strict controls, and are tracked daily by independent It is therefore necessary to manage this resource in a organizations throughout the world. sustainable manner. Our sites' teams also regularly check for the absence of For this reason, Roquette regularly studies new ways to limit dangerous substances in the environment. water use. For example, under a program to be initiated in 2012, condensation from evaporation will be collected and reused, according to water quality. The water will be either reused directly in the same process, or in a different circuit that uses water of lesser quality. This will reduce the volumes sent to the water-treatment station, which will also promote a better understanding of the dimensions needed for the Group’s future water-treatment stations. Process optimization is a constant and essential challenge. As with their energy plans, all of the Group’s industrial sites will continue and intensify their plans to reduce water consumption. Controlling our water consumption The new treatment station at the Calafat site (Romania) will be operational in 2012 is a clear economic and ecological and will increase the current treatment capacity by a factor of five. necessity for several reasons, notably to protect the natural environment and to preserve the water resources we need Going beyond the objectives of the to cultivate our raw materials European directive and transform them in our factories. The European Water Framework Directive (WFD) defines environmental objectives to improve the quality of aquatic environments. For industrial Agnès FIEVET, Group Energy and Environment Expert groups, these objectives involve a mandatory reduction, or even complete cessation, of emissions of dangerous substances in water. “Cleaner” waste In 2011, the Roquette Group’s factories in France, ahead of their EuroThe Group has been treating its effluent since the 1970s, pean counterparts, began checking for any substances that might be when it installed the very first treatment station in the North found in emissions after going through the treatment station. Measureof France region, at its Lestrem site. ments as precise as one microgram per liter were carried out under the Because it transforms plant-based raw materials, Roquette WFD guidelines, and no dangerous substance was found. In our ongoing can use biological methods to treat its effluent at the various desire to reduce our impact on water, our continuous improvement program will continue to seek ways to improve the quality of our emissions. sites of the Group. Improvements are continuously made to optimize our internal water-treatment stations. 36 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Environmental conservation Allegato 6: Mappa di ricaduta dell’odore ottenuta dall’applicazione del modello globale DOC N°: LOD RT-82/09 Allegato6 Mappa di ricaduta dell’odore ottenuta dall’applicazione del modello globale LOD srl Laboratorio Olfattometria Dinamica ÂÂ Reducing dust emissions and limiting odors For all its sites, the Roquette Group implements different technologies to reduce dust emissions from the handling of cereals and the production of powdered products. For odors, the site at Cassano (Italy) has done extensive Curve of odor levels around the factory of Cassano (Italy) analyses that allowed it to map the areas of olfactory 12000 impact around the site and to determine the origins of meters odor emissions. Thanks to the knowledge obtained from this cartography, targeted investments have been decided 10000 and the projects launched to reduce odor pollution. Pozzolo Formigaro ÂÂ Anticipating and reducing noise pollution 8000 The Roquette Group takes into account the question of Cassano Spinola noise when designing its new installations. For example, for Novi Ligure Roquette Italia 6000 the construction of the wood chipper for the new biomass boiler at Beinheim (see page 41), the building was specially designed to dampen noise from the chipper. Furthermore, the chipper was designed with extra capacity so that the 4000 full weekly production can be achieved during the day and the chipper can be stopped at night and on the week-end in order to respect the tranquility of the neighborhood. ROQUETTE ITALIA S.p.A. 2000 Serravalle Scrivia ÂÂ Reducing the quantity of waste and recycling Pagina 1 di 1 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 meters it to create value The Roquette Group aims for zero waste by optimizing manufacturing processes and by recycling even the smallest waste. To improve the energy efficiency of our production sites, the methanization of effluent has been developed at most of the European sites. In 2011, the decision was made to construct a methanizer on the Italian site of Cassano. It will allow the site’s effluent to be turned into bio-gas, which in turn will power a gas motor to generate “green” electricity, thus reducing the carbon footprint of the site. Methanizers produce less granular mud than traditional treatment stations. In this way, value is generated from the effluent of the French factories of Lestrem and Vecquemont. These will in turn be used to prime other methanizers at the different European urban or industrial water-treatment stations. In the USA, the factories continue to develop systems to identify, measure and reduce waste. Before the start of the logistics chain, for example, an approach has been developed to define a second use for materials not directly used in the process (for example packaging). The idea is not only to define a new usage but also to set up an organization and method to ensure a second life for these The biomass boiler at Beinheim (France) has been designed to reduce the noise materials rather than to simply scrap them. generated by the chipping of tree trunks. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 37 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT The environmental policy of the Roquette Group plays 194 GWh, or roughly 40,000 tons CO2 equivalent. This a key role throughout the production process. For this, third plan to reduce energy usage was validated at the an approach of continuous improvement has been end of 2011 and will be progressively implemented by implemented for many years on the existing installations, the operations teams throughout 2012. It will be fully on the processes and on the logistics chain. operational in 2013. The latest plan relies primarily on reducing steam consumption and on a number of improvements to reduce ÂÂ Optimizing energy consumption consumption of electricity on the ventilation circuits. Each year, the Group studies and implements For all European factories, the expected drop in volumes improvements to limit the consumption of energy. of natural gas consumed will represent an emissions reduction of 11,000 tons of CO2. A third energy plan for the European units As part of its continuous improvement of energy Spray towers that use less energy performance in Europe, Roquette launched studies for a Spray drying is a technique used to transform a liquid into new energy plan in the second half of 2011. a dry product in powdered form. During dehydration by This study was initiated by the Energy & Environment spray, the liquid is pulverized into fine droplets, in a vertical Expertise Center and developed by the technical managers cylinder in contact with a current of hot air in order to from the European factories. evaporate the water. The previous plan led to annual energy savings approaching This technique offers numerous advantages, such as the Alain BOULANGER, Technician at the Energy Dept. of Lestrem (France) The third energy plan for the European units should reduce emissions by 11,000 tons of CO2. 38 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement speed of drying. It also preserves the technical properties and organoleptic qualities of the product. However, good ventilation is necessary because dehydration represents a non-negligible proportion of annual energy consumption. Different optimization solutions were studied, but the option retained concerned regulating ventilator speed with a frequency variator. This allows the air flow to be perfectly adapted to the operating conditions of the spray tower. This modification was successfully tested on three different spray towers, leading to annual energy savings of 2,700 MWh, or a reduction in emissions of 243 tons CO2 equivalent. Other equipment located at different sites of the Group will undergo a similar modification. A sustainable process in wheat starch The Roquette Group has developed a new technology for the separation and production of wheat starch. The new system was recently installed at the Corby site (UK) as part of a 25% capacity increase. This process significantly improves yield as well as energy The new process developed for wheat starch at the Corby site (UK) saves energy. efficiency. Consumption of steam and electricity has been reduced by about 10% per ton of starch produced, compared with the old process. Other improvements are expected, notably regarding the optimization of water consumption and production of effluent. In parallel, the new process uses equipment that is smaller in size than the old system, which improves the hygiene, safety and cleanliness of the workshop. Furthermore, the equipment installed is similar to that at the other sites of the Group, which helps rationalize maintenance. Improvements in energy use at Gurnee (USA) At our American site in Gurnee, various energy-optimization measures were put into place in 2011. The hydrogenation reactors have been covered with a removable thermal insulation that helps prevent heat loss, thus saving 2.1 GWh per year. This also improved working conditions for the operators by lowering the temperature in those workshops. A second improvement was to install a regulator on the boilers that adjusts to the rate of smoke. The savings totaled 8.3 GWh per year. These improvements help cut emissions by about 2,000 tons CO2 equivalent per year. They also will be duplicated Ronald J. COOGAN, Operator at Gurnee (USA) at other sites of the Group. The installation of a regulator on the boiler helps reduce energy consumption. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 39 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement ÂÂ New sources of energy Ever vigilant to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment, the Roquette Group helps limit global warming by using new and renewable energy sources. Beinheim, to slash it use of fossil fuels by 75% Two major investments in the production of thermal energy from renewable sources are being developed at the Beinheim site (France): the geothermal and biomass projects. Both are exclusively thermal, offering energy yields significantly higher than cogeneration and able to cover more than 75% of the steam requirements for the industrial site. The geothermal project is a world first: It involves a production center for thermal energy derived from heat that is drawn from deep within the earth. It is the first time the technology is being used for industrial purposes. The Beinheim site’s high energy deep geothermal project involves two wells between In the subterranean granite of the Soultz-sous-Forêts 2,500 m and 3,000 meters in depth in order to pump out water at 170° C. region in France, the temperatures can reach 170°C. The ambitious project calls for the construction of a thermal production unit, the drilling of two wells between 2,500 and 3,000 meters in depth, and pipes to carry the heated water the 17 kilometer distance between the Beinheim site and Rittershoffen, where the wells are located. Geothermal An abundant resource production is scheduled to begin in 2015 and is expected for the planet to cut the site’s dependence on natural gas by providing 24 megawatts of energy (out of the total of 90 megawatts Transforming subterranean rock into a thermal exchanger would provide the planet with a practically unlimited source of energy. required) and save 39,000 tons of fossil CO2 per year. In coming decades, global energy demand is expected to soar This project was born from the shared ambition of three inexorably. Fossil fuels that pollute the atmosphere with carbon groups long involved in the research of renewable and dioxide (CO2) will no longer be able to meet this surging demand. sustainable energy solutions: the Roquette Group, the It is therefore vital to find new sources of energy that are preferably Groupe Electricité de Strasbourg and the Caisse des non-polluting and renewable. Dépôts, which joined forces to create the company ECOGI Geothermal energy from hot, fractured rock is a potential solution to (Exploitation de la Chaleur d'Origine Géothermale pour this planetary challenge. Underground rock is continuously heated l'Industrie) with the support and the guarantees of the by the thermal flows of our planet. At a depth of 40 km below the ADEME (Agence de l’Environnement et de la Maîtrise de earth’s crust, the temperatures reach 1,000°C. We are living atop an l’Energie), the Alsace Region and SAF Environment. energy stock that is practically infinite. Even after the factory has drawn the energy it needs, the To understand just what this means, 1 km3 of rock cooled to just 20°C water will still be at a temperature of 70°C when it exits liberates as much thermal energy as the combustion of 1,275,000 the site. This means it can be used for greenhouses or tons of petrol! other purposes. In this way, this project offers tremendous Source : www.geothermie-soultz.fr potential for the further development of the local economy. 40 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement Biomass energy from wood: A straw boiler at the Calafat site The second investment for the production of thermal The Calafat site (Romania) has also launched a biomass energy at the Beinheim site was launched at the end of project with a boiler fueled by straw, scheduled to be 2011: a boiler fueled by wood biomass. operational in spring 2012. As with the geothermal project, the biomass system also Until now, the Romanian unit has been completely benefits from the support of the ADEME. This installation dependent on fuel oil for its energy. This investment will provides more than 50% of the site’s steam needs and each slash its fuel oil requirements by about 75%. year will save 29,000 toe (tons of oil equivalent) in gas and The boiler will be fed a few tons of wheat straw per hour. 75,000 tons of fossil CO2 per year. The boiler will also be compatible with other types of Annual consumption represents 150,000 tons of woodcellulose, such as corn stalks. It will be equipped with the energy produced locally within an average radius of 100 latest technologies to obtain a quality of smoke that has km. The sourcing of the combustible wood has been little impact on the environment and is compatible with validated as sustainable by the regional authorities. It is the environmental standards of the country. made up of logs, branches and wood chips from forests, To secure its sourcing for straw, contracts have already saw mills and other sources. been signed with the local farmers, who also supply our The installation for combustion is equipped with a filter to corn, thus reinforcing our ties with these partners. respect strict dust emissions standards and to recover the calories. Our biomass project helps reinforce the local ecosystem, with numerous partners and suppliers of agricultural raw materials via this new sourcing of wood. Clément ROBERT, Director of the Beinheim site (France) The straw boiler at the Calafat factory (Romania) will reduce its dependence on fossil fuels Creating value from bio-CO2 The Beinheim site (France) each year generates 100,000 tons of CO2 of plant-based origin released during alcoholic fermentation in the production of bio-ethanol. Instead of immediately releasing it into the atmosphere, the CO2 is now purified and liquefied in a new unit constructed at the Beinheim site by Carboheim (a subsidiary of the Belgian group ACP), which started operations in 2011. It can be used as a substitute for CO2 of fossil origin in different applications. For example, it can be used as an Taking samples for Quality Control during the reception of wood to feed the biomass additive in carbonated beverages or as an accelerator for boiler at Beinheim (France). growing vegetables in greenhouses. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 41 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement ÂÂ Life Cycle Analysis The Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) is an indispensable tool for Through such efforts, starch producers are working sustainable development. It determines a product’s total together to develop a common approach and methodology impact on the environment throughout its life cycle. The to determine the environmental impact in areas most objective of an LCA is to find ways to reduce this impact pertinent to the industry. The current study will provide wherever possible. LCA data for some 20 product families. The methodology Roquette started with an internal study of its products. used by Roquette for its work is fully compliant with that The methodology and tools for calculation were based developed by the European starch industry. on current standards and guidelines for good practices. This study provided results for some 20 product families (glucose syrup, powdered Sorbitol, etc.) ÂÂ The ANTARES approach: Doing what we PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) was called in to audit the already know better work. Following the audit, an assurance opinion was issued by PwC, certifying that the methodology conformed with ANTARES is our program for continuous improvement. It the ISO 14040/44 standard and the results conformed to seeks to find solutions around four main pillars – technical, the approach developed. social, organizational and economic – and involves all actors in the enterprise. The results obtained are being used in the context of Roquette’s policies of continuous improvement and When it was launched in 2010, this program targeted just reduction of the environmental impact of the enterprise, in the production units, but today it has been extended to the response to the demands of our customers. business functions, such as Purchasing and Engineering. The Roquette Group has also participated in a study led Below are a few examples of results from the ANTARES by the Association des Amidonniers et Feculiers (AFF), the program: European starch producers association, with the help of a At the Lestrem site (France), it is necessary to clean a starch company that specializes in LCA. Expected for mid-2012, dryer each time the product in the circuit is changed. This the results of this new study will be based on average task, which used to take up to 13 hours a week to perform, production data from 12 European starch producers and has been completely revised according to the Single more than 30 production sites. Minute Exchange of Die (SMED) method. Now, eight hours LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS 42 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement per week is sufficient. The ultimate objective is to bring this is reduced. Very easy to use, NIR spectroscopy allows down to five hours. operators who are not lab experts to perform frequent Optimizing this operation represents a major financial analyses. This information helps optimize manufacturing gain for the enterprise because of the reduced cleaning circuits and reduce the consumption of energy and times and the concurrent increase in productivity. It also ingredients. represents a real benefit in terms of improved working Throughout 2011, the Quality Control Dept. at the Lestrem conditions. For example, the operator’s movements site (France) has accelerated the development of such through the workshop to complete the cleaning operation projects. With the help of a student intern (see interview have been halved (fewer steps to go up and down) and page 50), this has made it possible to handle more of the certain manual tasks have now been automated. many requests for analyses from the different production In the Sweeteners unit at the Benifayo site (Spain), units of the site and to provide technical advice to the other displaying the daily pollution indicator in the workshop Quality Control laboratories of the Group regarding the has encouraged the personnel to get more involved and choice of equipment. take responsibility. The end result has been a significant drop in emissions. The reduction of more than 1,600 tons of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) recorded in 2011 also represents a big drop in energy consumption at the station. The operator of the treatment station is responsible for updating the indicator and participates in the TOP 5 meeting (see page 49), providing ideas for improvements. Teamwork is reinforced, with better reactivity of operators and managers. The involvement of operators and managers is the keystone for success with the ANTARES approach. This is not limited to purely technical aspects, which have been the priority up to now; it extends to the organizational, economic and social aspects, such as working conditions. Jean-Christophe CAILLIAU, Environmental Control & Analysis Dept., Lestrem (France). Franck MORALY, Director of the Group Industrial Performance Project NIR spectroscopy serves to perform analyses without the use of chemicals. ÂÂ Innovative technologies, more respectful The Process Studies Department prepares for the future of the environment During the design and development of new processes, the Roquette Group studies ways to reduce the consumption Infrared spectroscopy, a tool to reduce the impact on of water and energy. the environment The strategy of the Process Studies Dept. is to prepare for Near Infra Red (NIR) spectroscopy is a technique for the future. For this, the choice of new processes is based physical-chemical analysis that has been used for over on new technologies that require less treatment and less a quarter century at Roquette to control the quality of waste. products. These new manufacturing processes naturally tend to rely This alternative technology has the advantage of being on what are known as disruptive technologies, i.e. radically non-destructive and can be performed without chemicals. different innovations that replace existing technologies. Safety is improved and the impact on the environment These studies are done at the start of the project. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 43 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Continuous improvement ÂÂ Reducing the impact of our logistics activity Reducing the environmental impact of the logistics chain is a clear objective in the fight against climate change. For this, the Roquette Group favors alternative transport methods combined with optimize loads for trucks. Alternative solutions to road transport The Roquette Group is committed to making available innovative solutions that are respectful of the environment. It develops alternative methods to road transport, such as river or rail transport, as well as combined transport. For example, the usage rate of combined transport with road/rail/roll-on & roll-off ship (*) in relation to road transport departing from the Cassano site (Italy) has increased considerably in recent years. It reached nearly 28% in 2011, compared with less than 22% in 2007. These sustainable transport methods respond to the three pillars of sustainable development: -In economic terms, the market prices for these methods remain competitive with road transport; -Environmentally, they use less energy and produce fewer River transport is a sustainable alternative transport method. Historically, the Roquette greenhouse gas emissions; Group has sought to locate its factories close to rivers. -Socially, they present a lower risk of accidents. -(*) roll-on/roll-off ship: ship used to transport loaded trucks and other vehicles, with one or more access ramps. A new river terminal for the Lestrem site Optimizing the load factor of trucks In partnership with the Artois Chamber of Commerce and Industry, In terms of logistics, one of the major challenges for the the Roquette Group actively supports the Navigable Waterways Group is reducing the number of trucks on the road. This of France, with the construction of a terminal for loading and requires improving the load rate of trucks while respecting unloading cereals and products for animal nutrition at the port of the regulations in application. Bethune, which is close to the Lestrem site (France). This terminal In Spain, for example, optimization has led to: gives the Group access to the future channel of Seine-Nord, and to its cereal storage platforms as well as those of the sea port of Dunkirk. -a 60% reduction in unfilled quantities for bulk liquid The installations at the port of Bethune allow the enterprise to tankers significantly improve the safety, quality and productivity of its river -an increase of more than 3% in the loaded quantity of transport operations. bulk powders. These improvements are the result of precise tracking Barges and trains to serve customers of loads by operators and the extensive deployment of optimization tools throughout the Group. These tools For its customers in the animal nutrition sector, the Roquette make it easy to identify the optimal load, according to the Group has moved towards alternative methods to road transport, products and the pallet sizes. notably for proteins, fibers and oils, which represent a considerable volume of goods. In France since 18 January 2011, the agrofood sector has The development of river and rail transport has helped reduce our been authorized to use trucks of 44 tons with five axles. carbon footprint, as well as to offer our clientele an innovative resThe Roquette Group has worked with its main partners to ponse to their demands. Today, nearly 400,000 tons of products per promote the use of this type of truck. The initial results are year are transported to our customers in animal nutrition by river very encouraging in terms of optimization, notably for bulk and/or rail from our sites of Lestrem and Beinheim (France). liquid where the load rate has been improved by about 10%. 44 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A CULTURE THAT RESPECTS THE ENVIRONMENT I Eco-citizen initiatives ECO-CITIZEN INITIATIVES Whether in eco-citizen actions, developing technologies ÂÂ The recycling of mobile phones that are more economical, or debating ideas on sustainable development, the Roquette Group actively supports collective or individual initiatives that seek to reduce our At the end of their life, mobile phones pose a real threat to impact on the environment. the environment when they are thrown out or lost because they contain polluting materials. To reduce this ecological impact, they need to be recycled. At Roquette’s four French ÂÂ Virtualization and electronic exchange in sites, mobile phones are regularly collected for recycling the service of sustainable development through the association GREENPHONE, in partnership with an enterprise of social insertion that helps people find jobs. The Roquette Group has invested in Information and Thanks to these collection drives, some 800 used mobile Communication Technologies (ICT) that help protect the phones, both personal and professional, have been recycled. environment by reducing the need to use paper, ink and This eco-citizen initiative has also provided a jobless person physical storage space. In addition to generating less employment for 10 months. waste, these technologies of “virtualization” and electronic exchange also offer economic and other practical benefits. ÂÂ Participating in debates to raise awareness Exchange of electronic data The Group’s first Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) system In September 2011, Marc Roquette participated in a was set up in 1999. This channel for transmitting information Debate on Exceptional Ideas in Lille (France). The event has been progressively deployed at a large number of was organized by the Center for Young Directors, in honor our stakeholders (customers, carriers, suppliers, banks, of Lester Brown on the occasion of the release of his latest Customs offices). While paper invoices are still required, book World on the Edge . This agro-economist is a research electronic data exchange is developing fast today thanks pioneer on sustainable development and has been named to new fiscal legislation on virtual data in many countries. by the international press as one of the 100 most influential To date, 20% of our customer invoices are transmitted by people in the world. EDI, i.e. without paper. A few key points from Marc Roquette’s presentation: Associating the customer to the reduction of paper printouts Lester Brown raises consciousness without being an extremist (...) His work restores hope and offers solutions. Since 2010, others vectors for communication with our The latter are the fruit of amazing advances in technology customers have been put in place. For example, we now (...) Each year, 300 million tons of petroleum products are offer customers a catalogue of services for sending used in factories for organic chemistry. But starch can invoices. From sending a paper invoice with one copy also be used to obtain certain products that are currently maximum, to sending it by e-mail with or without paper, produced with fossil resources. or making invoices available via a Web portal, we offer our customers a number of ways to reduce paper printouts. This also extends to other documents such as certificates of analyses and delivery notifications, for which e-mail is now the general method of transmission. In 2011, nearly 60,000 certificates of analyses were sent via the Internet from our European and American subsidiaries. Virtualization of centralized printing The printing of management reports consumes a particularly large amount of paper. These can be virtualized on a computer file that is stored on digital media and managed for the period during which they must be retained. In practice, the user can consult the necessary document from his or her workstation and print only the relevant parts needed. This good practice, already in place in Italy and the USA, is currently being deployed in France. It has already helped save 2.3 million sheets of A4 paper. An exceptional meeting between Lester Brown and Marc Roquette. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 45 4 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE Lilian HUANG, Human Resources Dept., Shanghai (China) 46 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 UNE CULTURE RESPECTUEUSE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT I ??? S ince its creation, the Roquette Group has based its success and development on the professional engagement of its people and their commitment to the enterprise. In parallel, each entity within the group is anchored in its territory and is engaged with the local community. A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Building a career at Roquette EMPLOYEES AS ACTORS OF THE ENTERPRISE The Roquette Group’s culture is profoundly based on the human dimension. Our values of Respect, Trust, Solidarity, and our principles of action – Innovation, Passion for the job and Commitment to achieve – can only exist through the commitment and actions of each member of the group. To involve each employee in the development of the enterprise, we rely on a strong and structured Human Resources policy that embraces the diversity of our economic and social environment. BUILDING A CAREER AT ROQUETTE ÂÂ Promoting career development Employees have the possibility to develop their skills throughout their career, not only in their current sectors but ÂÂ Seniority and loyalty rewarded in other areas of the business as well. Each year, numerous The Roquette Group believes in the importance of employees benefit from training programs. An employee employees who contribute every day to the life and in production wants to try out purchasing? No problem! An development of the enterprise. Generations come and go, IT technician wants to move to sales? That’s possible, too ! but the spirit of the enterprise remains fundamentally the This allows for a real mix of populations. The enterprise same: a spirit of respect, trust and solidarity. listens to its employees, who can at any time express their The Group is highly committed to its employees, and the ambitions, their projects or their desire to switch jobs or same holds true in return for the employees, who year develop their careers. after year show their loyalty to the enterprise. As proof, the average level of employee seniority for the Group is more than 12 years, and even higher for the older sites in France, Spain and Italy. OUR EMPLOYEES SPEAK OUT What differentiates ROQUETTE from other companies The year 2011 was marked by the 10th anniversary and what motivates you to work there? of Roquette’s industrial presence in Asia. Nearly 120 A sampling of responses from our employees employees received recognition and awards for their loyalty to the enterprise since it began industrial operations in Roquette has a higher sense of because I believe in the company’s ethics than my previous employer. values, which are reflected in China in 2001. It is interesting to note that for all companies (Japan) its commitment to quality, its implanted in China, employee turnover is statistically high The spirit of a family business range of products, innovation and and average seniority relatively low. We can therefore be remains present and provides a responsibility towards people and very proud of the loyalty of our employees at our Asian feeling of safety. (France) natural resources. (Indonesia) sites. Its long-term strategic approach, Each day is unique and offers combined with its transformation new challenges, with the ability to program, gives it confidence in the rely on colleagues who share their new challenges for the future. knowledge and help us to give the (Finland) best of ourselves. (UK) “Diversity is respected and The enterprise is sensitive to social encouraged, I can offer my opinion, issues, close to its people, attentive to their needs and their safety at work. work autonomously and make (Italy) decisions. (USA) An international company with This is a family business, with working conditions that are more strong solidarity and an appetite advantageous than those at local for innovation. Its values and its companies. (Turkey) practices make me want to work here for a long time. (China) A Group that promotes a spirit of cooperation, a sense of engagement This is a multicultural enterprise, and satisfaction in its sphere of with an international presence that influence. (India) allows me to be in contact with people in other countries. (Mexico) The high quality of the people who work here helps me to learn A solid enterprise with a relaxed every day, and helps me to develop Roquette Asia employees who have been with the company for 10 years were honored working atmosphere. (Germany) both personally and professionally. with a giant wall display composed of their photos as a testimony to the company’s “I like to work at Roquette (Spain) gratitude for their contribution to the development of the Roquette Group. 48 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Developing our managerial culture and anticipating needs in skills DEVELOPING OUR MANAGERIAL CULTURE ÂÂ Mobilizing the management, a source of efficiency In a world where change is constant, the ability to mobilize all members of the company represents an essential strength. To this end, managers meet at various occasions to develop a global vision of the enterprise, share information and work on transversal themes. -The Senior Management Meetings (SMM) bring together the Roquette Group’s senior managers twice a year at Group level and in each of the regions (Asia, America and Europe). Senior Management Meetings are an important moment for top managers to share -The Horizon meetings gather all the managers at a site the global vision of the enterprise. to review the major events and key figures of the past year, and to share the strategy and the vision of the enterprise. The first initiative seeks to develop Pépins (young potentials), i.e. to hire young graduates and tailor a special orientation for them. Through different missions, they will ÂÂ Listening and sharing with employees learn the objectives, the challenges and the fundamentals Communication in the production units has always existed. of their future job while discovering others business areas of As part of our continuous improvement program, dialogue the enterprise. Multiple technical and managerial training between employees has been reinforced with special programs are also available. Each Pépin is followed by a management meetings called TOP 5 and TOP 15. mentor who defines and monitors their missions and by a The TOP 5 end-of-shift meeting is a special moment during reference contact with whom they can discuss and share. which the operators and the shift supervisor meet for 5 They are assigned to their definitive post at the end of 18 minutes before the end of their shift. This exchange serves months at one of the Group’s sites. to discuss, consolidate and analyze the results obtained The second initiative concerns Seniors in France. These during the shift, notably in terms of productivity, quality and are employees aged 45 and over, who represent 43% of safety. In the same spirit, the Top 15 are 15-minute meetings the workforce. The senior action plan seeks to anticipate organized for the day shift, when the day supervisor and the the development of professional careers. Thus, each senior teams discuss operations and the overall functioning of the who so desires can request an interview on the second workshop. part of his or her career. This is a chance to examine their professional career, their desires and the opportunities for During the TOP 5, we discuss what went well internal mobility and talent development. and above all what did not function correctly. The idea is to make progress, to always improve our daily jobs. Distribution of the workforce of French sites by age Jérémie DESFOSSEZ, Bagger (Lestrem France) 57% ANTICIPATING NEEDS IN SKILLS ÂÂ Accompaniment adapted to all phases of professional life Different types of career assistance are proposed to 16% 14% 13% employees of the Roquette Group in all the regions and at any time in their professional career. Two new initiatives have been put in place. < 45 years old Ages 45 to 49 Ages 50 to 54 Ages 55 and over Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 49 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Reinforcing the diversity of profiles “An internship is an interesting bridge between school and the professional world” Justine FRANCOIS, Apprentice Lab Technician at Lestrem (France) What is the context for your mission at Roquette? What was this experience like, and what did it What is your view of internship and how do you After an internship of 10 weeks to obtain my technical give you? see your future? diploma in Chemistry, I was given the chance to I feel well integrated into the enterprise and I Internship is a really interesting bridge between continue my experience at the Quality Control Dept. work in a good atmosphere. Professionally, it is an school and the professional world, which, in my of Lestrem. I am now proud to have been offered a opportunity to discover a lot of techniques and acquire opinion, must continue to be developed. professional contract in preparation for a professional a lot of knowledge in the domain of spectroscopy. My I hope to be able to put my training to good use and to degree in Processes in chemistry and sustainable colleagues want to share their experience with me continue my experience at this company, working on development at the University of Lille. and in return, my ambition is to provide them with the environment. new ideas. ÂÂ The transmission of knowledge: training in Number of hours of training per employee and per year internship 57 Apprenticeships can be a great way for young people to begin their careers, but they are also an excellent 43 opportunity – and a challenge – for the enterprise. Indeed, it is a way to prepare for the company’s future needs by 30 transferring knowledge and know-how and by integrating 24 and developing new skills. Bringing in young people with 20 22 22 23 internship contracts is a way to participate in their training, 14 to teach them the business and to integrate them into the life and culture of the enterprise at which they may one 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 day be hired. In this context, 12 interns were invited to the Lestrem site (France) in 2011. Asia America Europe ÂÂ Training to optimize skills For the Roquette Group, developing the skills of its REINFORCING THE DIVERSITY OF PROFILES employees is a strategic objective. Each year, the Group devotes a budget of several million Sustainable development means encouraging diversity euros to training. and fighting discrimination in all its forms. The diversity of Training is based on two fundamental principles: teams, in terms of age or social, ethnic or cultural origin, is -Equal opportunity: all employees of the Group must be a source of great richness and constitutes a fundamental given the chance to participate in training programs to objective of social policy. develop their skills; -Pertinence: the enterprise establishes training programs ÂÂ Promoting international mobility that respond to its immediate or future needs for skills. In 2011, the number of expatriates moving from American Each site deploys its own training program on the themes and Asian regions to France increased significantly. An of its choice. For example, Roquette Russia has developed expatriate mission has several objectives: to establish the training programs on the acquisition and development Group’s procedures and working methods following new of communication skills. In Asia, training focused on the acquisitions, to transmit the Roquette culture to the new reinforcement of managerial skills. In the USA, the priority employees, and to train a local replacement at the end of was given to safety. the expatriate’s mission. This important investment in skill optimization serves to Some 20 employees were involved in this type of mobility prepare for the company’s future and the businesses of in 2011, not counting those who accepted foreign missions tomorrow. of shorter duration. 50 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Reinforcing the diversity of profiles ÂÂ Demystifying the physically or mentally Employing a person who is physically challenged or mentally challenged SACHa, Savoir Accompagner Chaque Handicap , in France Catherine* has worked 35 years at Roquette. Since 1998, she has suffered from a (accompanying each type of disability) visual deficiency, a problem that has been aggravated over time. After a few years coming to terms with her physical challenge, and with the help Under the aegis of the Reliability & Sustainable Development of Roquette’s medical-social services, she filed with the MDPH (Maison DéparteDept. and assisted by the Human Resources functions, the mentale des Personnes Handicapées) to be recognized as a worker with a phySACHa working group was launched in 2009 at Lestrem (France). sical challenge, a status known in France by the acronym RQTH. Her dossier was Retrospective accepted in 2009. 2009: Composed of people from different sectors of the Since then, things have moved fast: an ergonomics specialist redesigned her enterprise and supported by the medical-social services, workstation, with some special touches such as software to zoom in on text, a porthis group of contact persons for the physically or mentally table magnifying glass, a big computer monitor, and specially adapted lighting. These modifications were co-financed by Roquette and the AGEFIPH (Association challenged received training from APFETH (Action pour de gestion du fonds pour l’insertion des personnes handicapées). Favoriser l’Emploi des Travailleurs Handicapés). She also benefits from assistance for mobility. An association makes available to 2010: Formalized in a letter addressed to each Roquette her a car and driver to take her to and from work. employee in France, the General Management makes the Being physically challenged is difficult to accept in the beginning,” Catherine commitment to promote insertion of the disabled. says. “Above all, it is the way others look at you that makes you feel less worthy. I The actions of SACHa in 2010 and 2011 have adapted my life to my physical challenge. I learned a lot about myself, and -Active participation in the National Week for the today I take things in perspective. I can do things I would never have dreamed I Employment of the Physically or Mentally Challenged in could do, and in the end, this test has made me stronger.” France, with the organization of various events designed to * to respect her desire for anonymity, we are not using her real name demystify the issue of disability and highlight the richness of diversity, in line with the company’s values: Respect, Trust and Solidarity; Employment rate of the physically or mentally challenged in France (minimum legal rate 6%) -Campaign to raise awareness among HR teams in France, led by Fabienne LIAGRE, management consultant specializing in issues involving the physically or mentally challenged; 4.3% 4.5% -Promotion and intensification of collaborative work 4.0% with local businesses: continuation of existing services (maintenance of green spaces, repacking of pallets) while promoting new actions such as the preparation of buffets by the ESAT (Etablissement et Service d’Aide par le Travail) of Hazebrouck for internal events. 2009 2010 2011 “The medical-social services are the first point of contact to which the employee can turn for questions related to the physically or mentally challenged” Matthieu LALLEMAND, Company Doctor, and Isabelle DUHOO, Social Assistant: Perspectives on the theme of disability Have you observed any changes in the way the What are the blocking points? job. The qualifications are never revised. physically or mentally challenged are perceived at ID: Reticence, fear of taking that step to request RQTH. ID: We act exclusively in the interest of the employee. Roquette? We assist the employee in returning to their job, if there The earlier the reflection, the more effective the ML: At the Lestrem site, over the last two years we have was a break, as well as in the administrative steps or approach. observed an increase in requests for formal recogniin personal matters. We develop a relationship of trust. Is monitoring reinforced for workers who are tion as a worker with a physical or mental challenge, physically or mentally challenged? or RQTH. The various actions taken to raise awareness What are the results in terms of employment? ML: The doctor is free to set the frequency of visits. have allowed us to demystify the physically or mentally ML: 100% of employees who are physically or mentally There is no need to reinforce follow-up if the modifichallenged. A lot remains to be done but we do not challenged have remained employed, sometimes with, cations have gone well. But our door always remains want to apply pressure on such a serious subject. depending on the case, a change or adaptation of the open. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 51 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Reinforcing the diversity of profiles The objectives of SACHa for 2012: To increase efficiency and be even more proactive, the SACHa group will now be organized in four sub-groups, each in charge of developing one of the four axes defined in the group’s mission, by implementing action plans on the following objectives: -Informing and raising awareness about the physically or mentally challenged within the enterprise (creation of a dedicated Intranet site), -Maintaining the employment of employees with physical or mental challenges (by adapting their workstations, for example), -Opening more recruitment of the physically or mentally challenged, -Continuing the collaboration with partners that specialize in helping disabled persons. Awareness raised at the European sites about disability Since 2000, the Italian site of Cassano has also implemented actions to promote employment of the disabled, notably through recruitment and studies on integration, training plans and the ergonomics of workstations, etc. The Cassano site currently employs 21 workers who are physically or mentally challenged, thus respecting the legal minimum rate of 7%. Frédéric Smagghe, Polyols Unit Director, and Thierry Leroy, HR Manager (Lestrem, In Spain, a campaign to raise awareness has also been France). On the occasion of the National Week for the Employment of the Disabled 2011, launched at Benifayo. In the context of support provided the SACHa group invited the French employees to take part in activities and events in which they could place themselves in the position of a disabled person. each year to a local association, people with physical or mental challenges have been invited to the site. A large panel of employees from different departments at the site We must continue to progress. participated in this meeting, which was considered by all We must all act to ensure that the parties involved as a particularly enriching and gratifying support and integration of the exchange. The ambition has been expressed to renew the operation in 2012, around new activities. physically or mentally challenged is an even greater reality for tomorrow . The SACHa Group The association for disabled persons SOM I ESTEM visiting the site of Benifayo (Spain). 52 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Sharing a meaningful project SHARING A MEANINGFUL PROJECT ÂÂ Communication to accompany growth For example, French-speaking managers who are newly Our communication needs to be ever more structured and hired or promoted take part in an Integration Seminar at Lestrem (France). This gives them a transversal vision of the our messages and actions must be clear and coherent, both different functions and business sectors of the enterprise externally and internally. To this end, numerous actions are as well as its organization. engaged and regularly renewed. The Group Communication Plan, a perfect example of collaborative work Communication plays a key role in the Group’s development and strategy. Given the broad range of communication actions, the Group has established a Communication Committee to oversee external and internal communication to ensure a common and coherent approach. The latter has developed a Group Communication Plan, linking all communication actions from the different management units and regions to precise communication objectives in line with the Group’s strategy. The result of significant collaborative work, the Group The integration seminar is an important time for new managers to discover the Roquette Communication Plan coordinates communication on an culture. ever more numerous and varied set of subjects as well as on the ever increasing demands from our stakeholders (employees, customers, partners, the media, etc.). This ÂÂ Listening and encouraging dialogue approach allows all the management units to share a structured and formalized vision. It has also created a very Dialoguing with the social partners dynamic relationship between all the actors involved in communication. Ratification of a new labor contract at Keokuk (USA) On 23 July 2011, Roquette America and the local labor We evolve at great speed in this era of union ratified a new labor contract at Keokuk, thus ending communication. The key words of this a lock-out that began at the end of September 2010 after new era and the key success factors the two parties failed to reach agreement on the new are: creation, dialogue, being open to contract. everything, working collaboratively with As a result of the breakthrough, more than 200 members from the local union were once again able to head back to multiple partners. the factory after a week of safety training. Marc ROQUETTE, Chairman The new labor contract was the result of negotiations on ÂÂ The importance of on-boarding developing the skills and expertise of each employee, with the goal to continuously improve Industrial Performance. All new employees benefit from an orientation program Another objective is to promote teamwork and cooperation, to help them start their new job. This can take different while contributing to a work environment that is peaceful, forms, depending on the site, region, business sector or productive and secure. responsibilities of the new arrival. The objective is to: -Introduce new employees to the company’s culture, Several actions have been put in place to improve values and principles of action, its Ethics Charter and its collaboration and communication, to establish a culture Code of Conduct, of change based on trust, to share values, to promote the -Give them the tools they need to understand what is exchange of ideas and discuss problems and solutions. expected of them in their new job, Regular meetings between the management and the local -Monitor their integration to ensure the respect of the union are organized to promote and facilitate exchanges company’s rules on hygiene, quality, safety and security. and sustainably reestablish the social dialogue. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 53 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Sharing a meaningful project Gender equality at Roquette Distribution of Men/Women in the Group's workforce, per region in 2011 In France, the management and the labor unions in 2011 worked together on a formal agreement on gender 3,458 equality at the workplace. The objective is to reaffirm the principles of equality and define the priorities for action. In Spain, guaranteeing the equality of men and women in terms of working conditions and remuneration 1,093 444 978 constitutes the main objective of the gender equality plan 357 implemented at the Benifayo site. The plant was awarded 130 the SELLO D’IGUALDAD ( label of equality ) for the second consecutive year, in recognition of its social engagement. MEN WOMEN The labor union of the Lianyungang site in action... Europe America Asia The labor union of Roquette China was launched in 2006. It plays a key role in maintaining harmonious working relations and protecting the rights of employees. Its main actions include: -Maintaining balanced relations between the personnel and the enterprise, and helping to resolve any conflicts; -Developing an innovative spirit among the personnel and promoting creativity (organization of challenges and competitions); -Organizing professional training programs on themes such as knowledge of chemistry, raising awareness on safety, or foreign languages; -Reinforcing communication to enable the enterprise to listen to its employees; Véronique LECLERCQ and Jean-Michel BOGAERT, Works Dept., Lestrem (France) -Monitoring working conditions, hygiene and health. The Roquette Group reaffirms the principles of gender equality. As a reward for all these actions, the labor union of Roquette The roundtables have spoken! China received the distinction of Municipal Advanced Unit from the local government. The ambition to listen to employees and gauge perception has led the Group to organize some 50 roundtable discussion Listening to employees sessions, as well as individual interviews, at the Group’s four French sites. In order to develop a culture of dialogue, Roquette More than 600 employees representing all areas of the has deployed a number of initiatives to listen to what enterprise have thus freely expressed their thoughts with the employees have to say. help of an external facilitator. The themes addressed include the company’s vision, its image, its current operations and Pulse , a survey at Group level future development, the role of the employee, his/her The objective of this survey is to assist the Group’s ongoing contribution and engagement, and the sense of reciprocity, transformation by regularly measuring the evolution both as currently perceived and as desired. of working methods and employee expectations. A The results of these exchanges reveal a strong attachment representative sample of employees chosen at random to the enterprise and to the Roquette family, and a positive from throughout the Roquette Group was sent an image of the company as a family business that is free and electronic survey to ascertain their concerns and identify independent, even if some concerns have been expressed opportunities for improvement. regarding its future evolution. The personnel appreciate and recognize the strong human values of the company. Among the 740 employees contacted, 60% responded to They are also open to change but express the need for the survey. The findings confirmed: stronger involvement in the Group’s projects. A document -Their motivation, their strong level of engagement, their summarizing the results of these roundtables has been confidence in the capacity of the Group to attain its sent to each employee in France. An action plan is being objectives, implemented to respond to the expectations expressed by -A heavy workload and difficulty to discern priorities. the employees. 54 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Developing our safety culture DEVELOPING OUR SAFETY CULTURE Evolution of TF1 at the Roquette Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 The safety of people is an absolute priority for the Roquette Group. At each of its sites throughout the world, the Group RESULTS 5.2 3.7 3.1 2.0 is committed to offering its employees and subcontractors a safe work environment. Accidents are never unavoidable, Over three years, the number of accidents and the primary objective is to protect the people with an has been halved ultimate target of zero accidents. The involvement of one and all: a necessity All employees can and must engage in individual or employees as well as by the external enterprises working collective actions to reduce the frequency of accidents. at the sites, with a participation rate of more than 80% in The Group’s good safety results come from the active France and practically 100% in Spain. involvement of each and every member of the team. This year, our safety culture has progressed thanks to the The development of a safety culture in the USA role played by the managers and the safety committees New actions have been put in place at the Group’s in the management of safety. The application of safety American sites to improve safety results and meet the new management tools at all sites (safety audits, safety briefings, challenge set for 2016. All managers of Roquette America assessments of accidents and near misses, etc.) and the have participated in a two-and-a-half day training program networks of safety facilitators have helped reinforce this to raise awareness, take responsibility and commit to safety positive trend. performance. Every employee, whether at home, at work, The first Group safety meeting took place in November 2011 or traveling, must ask three questions: What do I plan to do at the site of Keokuk (USA). This meeting was an opportunity today? Are there any safety risks? If yes, what precautions to share good practices and unveil the Group’s new objective must I take? This brief checklist must allow the individual for accidents with lost time: TF1 inferior to 1 in 2016 (TF1 to do their job without risk to their safety. A new slogan has is the frequency rate corresponding to the number of been posted at the two American production sites: Safety accidents with lost time per million hours worked). first in every action we take… No one gets hurt today! At the end of 2011, the rate of accidents with lost time The annual safety week at the European sites was zero at the American sites of Gurnee and Keokuk. In 2011, a coordinated action on pain prevention, called Handling, Ergonomics and Well-being at Work, was An important fire drill at Lianyungang (China) deployed at all European sites. The objective is to raise To test the capacity to manage a fire, the fire brigades of awareness about the important role each employee plays Jiangsu province conducted a major simulation exercise in safety and risk prevention. The action focused on four at the Lianyungang site. The site’s volunteer firefighters key values of safety: professionalism, the involvement contributed extensively to the success of this exercise, of each employee, leading by example, and recognition. which provided an excellent opportunity to enrich their This action was successfully followed by the European experience in managing emergency situations. Learning the acts that can save lives: a demonstration during the safety week at Benifayo More than 200 firefighters and 40 fire trucks were mobilized for a major fire exercise at (Spain). the Lianyungang site (China). Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 55 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Supporting local communities SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITIES The education of children, training of young people, promoting the benefits of sports, helping the physically or mentally challenged, the disadvantaged or victims of a natural disaster, these are among the many examples that reflect the Roquette Group’s commitment to the territories in which it operates. Group Following the catastrophic consequences of the earthquake that struck Japan on 11 March 2011, all of the Roquette Group’s sites mobilized to collect funds for humanitarian associations such as the Japanese Red Cross and to pledge support for their Japanese colleagues. USA Helping people in financial difficulty, promoting education and health, these are among the objectives of Big River United Way , a local community group in Keokuk to which the employees of Roquette America provide extensive financial support. This action of good corporate citizenship has been crowned with the award for “most generous donor”. Spain To promote the benefits of sports, the Benifayo site organized a bicycle race that attracted more than 400 professionals, amateurs and Roquette employees. The factory served as both the point of departure and the finish line for the race, called the Marcha Cicioturista La Ribera – Roquette. China Roquette Asia is continuing its partnership with the Shanghai Association of Apprentice Bakers, which helps orphans and disadvantaged young people to train to become bakers. The company provides financial support for the equipment of the training center and supplies Roquette products for use in the training practice. It also sponsors the Shanghai Charity Carnival dedicated to the Children’s Health Foundation, which helps children afflicted with congenital heart disease to live normal lives. 56 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 A SOCIAL AND SOCIETAL CULTURE I Supporting local communities Mexico The mission of the association IAP Manos Capaces (Capable Hands) is to offer the physically or mentally challenged the opportunity to work in a protected workshop. They make cakes with products supplied by the Roquette Group, which are then sold for the benefit of the association. Roquette Mexico also provides technical and financial support for this operation. Germany Roquette Germany provides financial support to a charity organization in Frankfurt that helps the physically or mentally challenged to develop their lives in their environment. Rooms made available by the city were adapted to serve as special day-care centers. Italy Working with the schools of Cassano and Serravalle, Roquette Italy has organized competitions with the production of a film Mais... si gira! (Corn... we’re rolling !) to raise awareness among the young about our business, our activity and its impact on the territory where they live. India Roquette India provides financial support to VIDYA , a non-governmental organization that assists disadvantaged women and children in the regions of Delhi and Mumbai. United Kingdom Bicycling some 450 kilometers in three days from Lestrem (France) to Corby (UK) – that’s the challenge accepted by 18 employees from the two sites in order to raise funds for charitable works in the region of Corby and for the British Heart Foundation. France The site of Vic-sur-Aisne has focused its efforts on students, from primary school to university, to help them discover the world of industry, the businesses of the Roquette Group and the different applications of its products. Numerous employees from the Beinheim site participated in the Brumath races for the benefit of the Telethon. For the sixth consecutive year, the employees of Lestrem, Vic-sur-Aisne and Vecquemont have turned out in droves to represent Roquette at the Testathlon, a sports event organized by DigestScience (see page 27). Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 57 5 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE Carlos CLIMENT RUTIA, Operator at the Benifayo site (Spain) 58 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 F or the past four years, the Roquette Group has formalized its engagement in Corporate Social Responsibility by publishing an annual report on sustainable development, by signing the United Nations Global Compact and by reinforcing its commitment to improve the quality of its products and the protection of its know-how. This year, it has adopted the methods of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to review and reinforce its indicators. EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I Our approach to progress OUR APPROACH TO PROGRESS IN QUALITY, SECURITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT Under its new policy on Safety, Quality, Security and the Environment deployed in 2011, the Roquette Group does everything it can to satisfy its customers and develop its activity in the most secure and sustainable manner possible. Its approach to progress extends from the quality of its products to the protection of its intellectual property, all the while managing risk. ÂÂ Improving quality 75% of the Roquette Group’s sites are certified safe for food products. The objective Improving satisfaction in the handling of complaints is FSSC 22000 certification for all our sites As part of its program to improve the customer relationship, the Roquette Group has engaged in a major study to Xavier DURIEZ, Group Quality Manager improve the way it handles complaints. A working group has been established, with members specializing in quality, logistics and sales from the different Safety certification for animal feed regions, to review good practices and reconsider the system for managing complaints in order to provide In addition to GMP+B2 certification, which for several better assistance to customers and improve their level of years has already covered the sites of Lestrem (France), satisfaction. Vecquemont (France) and Cassano (Italy), European Feed Ingredients Safety Certification (EFISC) was delivered in The basic objective is to develop a dynamic and harmonized 2011 to these same sites, in light of their activity in animal system of practices throughout the Group that can be nutrition. implemented rapidly and efficiently in 2012. A commitment to quality to ensure the safety of food A voluntary approach to certify our production of products bioethanol In line with the Roquette Group’s strategy on quality, the The Beinheim site (France) has received 2BSvs certification ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 standards have been deployed (Biomass Biofuels Sustainability Voluntary Scheme) for the at the majority of the Group’s production sites. The production of bioethanol from sustainable biomass (wheat application of these standards has led to the renewal and corn). of the corresponding certifications or the accreditation This certification demonstrates, via independent of FSSC 22000 certification on food safety. The respect verification, the respect of the sustainability criteria set of these standards is formalized by the renewal of the forth in the European Directive 2009/28/CE, a directive corresponding certificates. In addition, certain sites have on promoting use of energy produced from renewable obtained certification under the FSSC 22000 guidelines. sources. Here are a few examples: In England, with the implementation of the new process at the Corby site (see page 39), several studies have been completed to revalidate compliance in terms of food safety (method: HACCP Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point). Thanks to this approach, the Corby site received FSSC 22000 certification. This now provides our customers, who are primarily English, with assurance of control over product safety comparable to that provided by certification from the British Retail Consortium (BRC), for example. In the USA, the Gurnee site is actively preparing for the renewal of its ISO 22000 certification in view of its qualification for FSSC 22000 certification in the spring The Gurnee site (USA), already certified ISO 22000, is engaged in the approach for of 2012. FSSC 22000 certification 60 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I Our approach to progress ÂÂ Protecting our interests In a tough economic climate where innovation, expertise, prudence and boldness are critical to a company’s survival, the protection of the Roquette Group’s interests against malicious acts is indispensable. Stealing information or assets, extortion of funds, identity theft, cybercrime – these are just some of the challenges for the Group’s security management system. To prevent is to protect, and to plan is to progress! To this end, a multi-disciplinary working group has been established to review security, develop expertise and align our practices at all the Roquette Group’s sites. The working group seeks to position the security of the enterprise’s interests, its viability and its development by implementing rules, tools and a campaign to raise awareness. Protecting the company’s heritage constitutes the main objective of the security system implemented for the entire Roquette Group. ÂÂ Managing operational risks For more than four years, a Risks Committee has brought together directors from the subsidiaries and from the regions of America, Asia and the REC (Roquette Emerging Countries) as well as the directors of the support functions to oversee the management of risks within all the entities and management units of the Roquette Group. Among other things, the committee assumes overall responsibility for highly critical or transversal risks. This approach to risk management relies notably on an annual updating of risk cartographies that identify all risks within the organizations and that cover the operational processes as well as the support functions. Assessed according to their frequency, their gravity and their degree of control, the identification of major operational risks can then give rise to action plans that can The Lianyungang site (China) has been certified Highly Protected Risk since June 2011. be monitored in terms of prevention and protection. In this way, the reduction of sources of risks and their intensity (tangible and intangible) is also managed. The coverage and management of industrial risks and responsibilities are organized jointly with the Group’s insurers and are measured according to level of protection: HPR (Highly Protected Risk), PR (Protected Risk) and NP (Non Protected Risk). More than 50% of the Roquette Group’s production units benefit from classification as a protected or highly protected risk, a figure that rises to 60% for the installations of Lestrem (France). The management team at the factory in Corby (UK) received certification as Highly Francis VAN DEN NESTE, Group Risk Manager Protected Risk” on 17 June 2011. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 61 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I A responsible enterprise A RESPONSIBLE ENTERPRISE “We need business to give practical meaning and reach to the values and principles that connect cultures and people everywhere.” Ban Ki-moon, Secretary General of the United Nations ÂÂ Supporting the Global Compact Launched in July 2000, the United Nations a voluntary initiative for businesses, founded Global Compact is a set of policies and a practical on public responsibility, transparency and framework for companies that have made a information open to all. commitment to sustainable development and Since September 2009, the Roquette Group has responsible business practices. adhered to the United Nations Global Compact It is not an instrument of regulation but rather and communicated its 10 general principles. 1 2 3 Businesses should support Businesses should make sure that Businesses should uphold the and respect the protection they are not complicit in human freedom of association and the of internationally proclaimed rights abuses. effective recognition of the right human rights. to collective bargaining. Page 17 Page 17 Pages 17, 53, 54 4 5 6 Businesses should support the Businesses should support the Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced effective abolition of child labor. elimination of discrimination and compulsory labor. in respect of employment and occupation. Page 17 Page 17 Pages 17, 50 to 52 7 8 Businesses should support a Businesses should undertake precautionary approach to initiatives to promote greater environmental challenges. environmental responsibility. Pages 17, 36, 37 Pages 17, 36, 37, 40 to 45 By respecting these 10 9 10 principles, the Roquette Group acts as a responsible corporate citizen. Examples of these Businesses should encourage Businesses should work against actions are marked with this the development and diffusion corruption in all its forms, logo throughout the pages of of environmentally friendly including extortion and bribery. this report and indicate the technologies. principle to which the action Pages 17, 38 to 44 Page 17 corresponds. 62 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I A responsible enterprise ÂÂ Measuring performance with the GRI Reporting on sustainable development consists of measuring a company’s performance in this area through the use of pertinent performance indicators and then communicating the results to the internal and external stakeholders. To prepare its Sustainable Development and Activity Report, the Roquette Group has chosen to adopt, in part, the methodology of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Created in 1997 at the initiative of the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), the GRI is a nongovernmental organization that works as a network, whose role is to work for sustainable development and to promote the preparation of reports on the environment, social responsibility and governance. It regularly develops and distributes guidelines to assist companies in producing these reports. Its framework for reporting on sustainable development is the most widely used in the world. This framework includes the G3 Guidelines , which set the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental and societal performance. Among the reasons for which it can be used: -To measure and evaluate performance in relation to the laws, rules, codes, standards of performance and volunteer initiatives, -To demonstrate an organization’s influence on stakeholders’ expectations, -To compare, over time, the performance of one or more organizations. ÂÂ Financial evaluation In a report dated 15 March 2012, the Standard & Poor's (S&P) ÂÂ Indicators that conform and are pertinent ratings agency assigned the Roquette Group an ALong Term rating (seventh level out of 20 in the S&P Long Term The French Law n°2010-788 of 12 July 2010, on the national chart) for 2011. Citing strong operational and economic engagement for the environment (the so-called Grenelle II performance as well as a prudent and solid financial policy, Law), and whose methods of application are expected to S&P judged the group’s outlook “stable”, reflecting the be defined by decree in 2012, formalizes the obligation to confidence in the Group’s future accorded by its partners. publish non-financial information (according to specified In parallel, S&P confirmed the Group’s A-2 Short Term thresholds). rating, which it has held for many years, the third-best level Initiated in 2010, Roquette’s working group this year on a scale of seven. continued its mission to ensure that our practices comply S&P also affirmed the Roquette Group’s capacity to with the law and, in order to evaluate the pertinence of our confront the volatility and cyclical activity of the market for indicators, to reinforce their reliability and transparency starch and its derivatives in a difficult economic context, and formalize the methodology and procedures for thanks its products with high added value, its geographic analysis, reporting and consolidation. diversification and its development towards new markets. Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 63 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I Our performance indicators OUR PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL 2011 2010 GRI INDICATORS ENERGY Energy consumed Electricity GWh (1) 2,063 2,044 EN3 Evolution of toe for 1 kt of starch produced Natural gas GWh 7,451 7,651 EN3 Heavy fuel ton 5,110 507 EN3 Domestic fuel m 3 881 642 EN3 254 243 Coal + Pet Coke kt (2) 345 323 EN3 Wood kt (2) 16 EN3 216 Ton of oil equivalent (toe) t/kt of starch 243 216 EN3 2009 2010 2011 Energy produced Electricity GWh 1,414 1,279 EN3 Biogas GWh 59 26 EN3 WATER Evolution of COD per kt of starch produced Pumping Rivers 103 m3 64,172 59,948 EN8 Aquifers 10 m3 3 12,470 12,553 EN8 2.25 Urban network 10 m3 3 12,314 11,337 EN8 2.23 Water restored 103 m3 29,022 28,068 EN10 COD emissions t/kt of starch 2.25 2.23 EN21 1.98 AIR 2009 2010 2011 t eq.(3) CO2 /kt of CO2 emissions starch 597 579 EN16 SO2 emissions t/kt of starch 0.31 0.30 EN20 NOx emissions t/kt of starch 0.58 0.75 EN20 Dusts t/kt of starch 0.25 0.24 EN20 Evolution of tons equivalent of CO2 emitted per kt of starch produced WASTE 613 Dangerous t/kt of starch 0.87 0.67 EN22 597 Non dangerous t/kt of starch 58 21 EN22 Revaluated (except field spreading) t/kt of starch 19 12 EN22 579 t eq. 100% DS Field spreading /kt (4) 28 30 EN22 2009 2010 2011 (1) GWh : GigaWatt per hour (2) kt : 103 ton (3) eq. : equivalent (4) DS : Dry Substance 64 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I Our performance indicators SOCIAL Evolution of the Group's workforce 2011 2010 GRI INDICATORS 6,500 6,600 6,700 6,200 WORKFORCE (Except Joint-Ventures calculated in full time equivalent at 31 December) Breakdown of the workforce by geographic zone Europe 4,598 4,451 LA1 America 602 594 LA1 Asia 1,462 1,543 LA1 2008 2009 2010 2011 Group 6,662 6,588 LA1 Europe America Asia Breakdown of the workforce by type of contract Indeterminate Duration Contracts Fixed Term Contracts (CDI) and Temp workers 2011 2010 GRI Europe 4,296 4,170 LA1 Europe 302 281 LA1 America 596 559 LA1 America 6 35 LA1 Asia 1,458 1,518 LA1 Asia 4 25 LA1 Group 6,350 6,247 LA1 Group 312 341 LA1 PROFESSIONAL EQUALITY (CDI enrolled at 31 december) Workforce: Men 5,006 4,914 LA13 Workforce: Women 1,468 1,458 LA13 Including % managers 13.5% 12.6% LA13 Including % managers 14.2% 11.8% LA13 Training: hours/employee 31.3 28.0 LA13 Training: hours/employee 29.7 29.2 LA13 Ratio Women/Men 29.3% 29.7% LA13 Movements of personnel per region in 2011 NEW HIRES / DEPARTURES New hires 661 546 LA2 310 Resignations 334 299 LA2 276 248 Terminations 110 55 LA2 135 Deceased 7 12 LA2 121 97 Retirees 77 84 LA2 EUROPE AMERICA ASIA INSERTION OF DISABLED WORKERS New Hires Departures Disabled workers (1) 146 138 LA13 ABSENTEEISM Absenteeism (illness) (2) 3.0% 3.2% LA7 CONDITIONS OF HYGIENE AND SAFETY Frequency Rate of accidents with lost time Frequency of accidents at work 5.20 Accidents with lost time (3) 2.0 3.1 LA7 3.70 3.10 Accidents with and without 6.8 7.1 LA7 lost time(4) 2.02 Gravity Days lost 1,141 2,177 LA7 2008 2009 2010 2011 Rate of gravity (5) 0.10 0.20 LA7 (1) Figures for Europe (2) Figures for France (3) Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked (4) Number of accidents declared per million hours worked (5) Number of days lost (not including the day of the accident) per thousands of hours worked Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 65 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I Notes NOTES 66 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE I Acknowledgements ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We thank all the employees and stakeholders who have contributed to the preparation of this Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011. ÂÂ Teamwork ÂÂ Your opinion matters to us! Design, creation, editing and production: Please feel free to write to us at the following address: Anne LAMBIN Marie-Gabrielle BAILLY Roquette Frères The editors from each of the Roquette Group's sites Reliability & Sustainable Development Management Emmanuelle BRISSE (TRANSITIONS) 1, rue de la Haute Loge Photographic credits: 62136 LESTREM Gonzague DIERS FRANCE Steve MESENBRING Tel : + 33.3.21.63.36.00 Mélanie SERGHERAERT and the Photo library of the D3C e-mail : developpementdurable@roquette.com Fabienne THUILLER David TRINH and the Internal Communication Correspondents of the Group External photography: ÂÂ For further information James BORT Patrick JAMES Christophe JUMEZ www.roquette.com Printing and Paper: Printing Department of the Lestrem site (France). The paper used in this report comes from sustainably managed forests. Legal information: The information contained in this document is accurate, to the best of our knowledge; however, all indications, recommendations or suggestions are provided without any guarantees, stated or implied. In addition, none of the information provided in this document may be considered as permission or incitement to infringe on any patent. Any partial or total reproduction of the contents of this document is strictly forbidden unless prior written authorization has been provided by Roquette Frères. Roquette Frères S.A. 2012/06 Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2011 I Roquette 67 Innovation Center and University Campus of Roquette America (Geneva USA)
