UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS June 2012 Christensen & Co. Architects a/s Date 1. June 2012 Member since 2010 Address: Bragesgade 10B. DK-2200 Copenhagen Denmark Contact Names: Michael Christensen, founder, director. Heidi Pedersen, Public Relation & Executive Assistant 2 Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of Christensen & Co. Architects. We believe that good architecture applies to all aspects of a building. Neither design nor function, economy nor process should be considered separately, but holistically together. Good architecture makes a difference. Architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness make buildings that actively can change people’s lives. Michael Christensen, director and founder Christensen & Co. architects. 3 Short Description of the Company Christensen & Co. Architects (CCO) was established by Michael Christensen in 2006. After playing a central role at acclaimed Danish architectural company Henning Larsen Architects for 10 years, the last 5 years as Partner and Director, Michael realised the dream to start his own practice. CCO won two major competitions including a university campus in Stockholm, Sweden, within its first year of business. CCO has developed a number of sustainable, low-energy projects with very ambitious environmental agendas. Our ambition is to constantly challenge architectural methods and processes. We believe that the surprising, unique and characteristic solutions occurs when factors such as program, location, function, culture or climate, challenges the architectural intention; Sustainability through integrated design. In 2009 CCO finished Denmark´s first public CO2 neutral building; Green Lighthouse for the University of Copenhagen. In 2011 Green Lighthouse recieve LEED Gold certificate. Throughout our six years in business, we have consolidated our reputation as an innovative company, with a visionary approach to sustainable architecture. We are 50 architects, design engineers and administrative staff. The office is situated over three floors and we employ architects from all over the world. 4 Response to the four issue areas At the centre of our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is our architectural philosophy; to create buildings that are healthy for both people and the environment. As a consultancy company we aspire to advise our clients to make well founded decisions. To implement and introduce sustainable solutions for the future. We adhere to the 10 principles of Global Compact by following the four issue areas as stated below. HUMAN RIGHTS In our business approach we follow the Human Rights principles, as described in the 1948 General Assembly Universal Declaration of Human Rights. All of our current projects are in Scandinavia and we take outmost care and precautions to ensure that Human Rights are upheld throughout all stages, and all links in the supply chain, of the projects we are involved in, as well as in the collaborations within which we engage. LABOUR At Christensen & Co. architects we comply with the labour standards as described by the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. There is complete freedom of association at Christensen & Co. architects, as well as the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. There is a staff representative at the office, chosen in a wrote among all employees. ENVIRONMENT The end user and the environment is a focal point for the practice. Being an architectural company our most important output is our buildings. Our main aim is to create buildings with a healthy indoor climate and to respect the environment, during the building process as well as in considerations for the life cycle of the building, combined with respect for the existing area within which we are building. ANTI-CORRUPTION Promoting close cross culture collaboration between the various disciplines within the building industry, the sub contractors and our supply chain, ensures a healthy working climate. Where corruption is not permissible. 5 Practical actions OUR APPROACH At CCO we have an open community spirit within the company. Our foundation is based on dialogue and in recognizing the social responsibilities of the practice. We encourage communication and broad collaboration within the office, as well as a close collaborative cooperation with external partners on the projects. Ensuring that our knowledge is updated with the latest research, in order to give the best possible advise to clients. A prerequisite for a successful building is respectful collaboration between all parties included. We believe in ambitious and challenging collaborations where dialogue is key and the collective aim is high from the outset. ACTIVITIES We focus on measuring the performance of the sustainable buildings. The Sunhouse, climate friendly nursery, which is build over Active House principles, is part of a study to see how the nursery performs. We hope to learn from the success and failures, in order to ensure that we do not repeat mistakes. We also have a keen interest in how the various energy initiatives work. At the nursery the staff has been inspired by the building to tech the children about the various green features. We aim to continue this approach on future projects, to keep visiting the buildings after handing over to the end user. ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN We design our buildings for longevity and to improve life for the end user. There has to be a clear relationship between the design and the behaviour of the end user, part of our commitment is to share the concept behind the design with the users in order for them to be able to use the building to its maximum. In a building with numerous sustainable and low-energy technical functions, there has to be a close relationship between design and end user. In the past year we have begun internal office seminars; a morning of knowledge sharing where our experiences on the projects are shared for all. We invite external speakers, to these seminars to enlighten us on any new methods on a given subject. Subjects has so far included; user participation, workshops and future learning and research environments. We aim to continue these internal seminars in the future. 6 Measurement of outcome Two of our projects, with a very high factor of low energy technology, are being monitored for performance in a couple of very exciting studies. Green Lighthouse and The Sunhouse, a climate friendly nursery. Both are energy+ buildings, and both have a number of new innovative energy technologies incorporated which are being closely monitored. The architectural concept for Green Lighthouse is the sundial and to achieve carbon neutrality, a number of green design features were incorporated to reduce energy use and provide a healthy indoor environment for students and faculty. The building itself is oriented to maximize its solar resources, while windows and doors are recessed and covered with automatic solar shades to minimise direct solar heat gain inside the building. The energy concept consists of a new type of solution using district heating to operate a heat pump, thus producing less CO2 by using district heating instead of electricity. The district heating ensures a far more efficient use of energy, since the district heating is based on renewable energy sources. The energy concept ensures optimal use of renewable energy, by using the sun, for cooling in summer and to improve pump operation in the winter. Heating is expected to be composed of 35 percent solarand 55 percent from the heat pump with the rest directly from the district heating network. The majority of the electricity for lighting, ventilation and pumps are provided by the 45 m2 of solar cells on the roof. Approximately 50 percent of the building’s energy will be covered by renewable energy. Green Lighthouse has been in use since 2009, and after the first year adjustments were made to the ventilation system and the photovoltaic panels, resulting in a rise in the buildings performance levels, the monitoring of Green Lighthouse is ongoing. The parties involved in the project are the Danish Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, the University of Copenhagen, the City of Copenhagen, COWI, Hellerup Byg, the window producers VELUX and VELFAC and Christensen & Co. architects. The Sunhouse in Hoersholm, north of Copenhagen, is developed in close collaboration with engineers Rambøll and contractors Hellerup Byg. The nursery is developed in a strategic partnership consisting of; Hoersholm Municipality, VKR Holding and Lions Children house. is also being monitored. Not just for high level technical issues, but also on a day to day level, parents and staff can follow the performance levels on screens at the entrance. The building is 7 continued // very compact and is designed as a triangle, with two long facades facing south east and south west. The windows along these facades, combined with the roof lights, allow more than three times as much light to enter compared to a standard building, ensuring a healthy indoor climate at all times, summer and winter. The nursery has also been equipped with a series of renewable technologies to enhance its performance even further. Strategically positioned on the southern facades of the roof are 50 m2 of solar collectors providing heating and hot water (backed up by a heat pump), and 250 m2 of photovoltaic panels to generate electricity. The nursery opened its doors for staff and children in the summer 2011, and is approaching the first year landmark. Staff at the nursery are teaching the children about energy, sustainability and the sun and why this is important. They have bought a small solar cell which they use when teaching about the number of high level technology incorporated in the nursery and the children are growing their own vegetables, all of this should help providing the next generation with basic knowledge regarding sustainable living. Sunhouse climate friendly nursery 8 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON CHRISTENSEN & CO. ARCHITECTS PLEASE GO TO OUR WEB SITE www.christensenco.dk
