2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS GLOBAL COMPACT Introductory letter On behalf of DAVEY BICKFORD Group, I reaffirm my support to the 10 principles of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT. More particularly, this year I am pleased to communicate on our global Anti-Corruption policy, our Labour and Human Rights policies and our Environmental policy. In that respect Davey Bickford express its intent to advance these principles within its sphere of influence, and to make a clear statement of its commitment to its stakeholders, its customers and its employees. Daniel DEGOVE President DAVEY BICKFORD SMITH SAS p.2 Content DB Group Anti-Corruption Policy Daniel DEGOVE, President Davey Bickford Group DB North America Procedure Kevin MULLOWNEY, Vice President Davey Bickford North America Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Parité entre les hommes et les femmes au sein de la société Michel GAZIANO, Human Resources Director Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Amélioration des conditions de travail du personnel Michel GAZIANO, Human Resources Director Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Processus de certification environnementale ISO 14001 Laurent DOUHAISENET, Plant & Industrial Director Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. p.3 • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. p.4 • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DB Group Anti-Corruption Policy • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT In September 2012 DAVEY BICKFORD reviewed and definitely fixed its global anti corruption policy. Going forward this policy has been confirmed in all branches of the Group for immediate enforcement. Here attached: • The President communication dated Sept. 14th 2012 on this policy. •The North American branch related internal procedure. ANTI-CORRUPTION p.5 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DBNA Anti-Corruption Strategy • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT DAVEY BICKFORD North America, headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah is pleased to confirm that we support Principle 10 of the UN Global Compact with respect to AntiCorruption and the leadership required to create the value system and culture supporting the principle. With this commitment, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence, and make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and our customers. We also pledge to take part in the activities of the UN Global Compact where appropriate and feasible. Today, we are engaging in complete employee training that encompasses the doctrines of the UN Global Compact Principle 10 and through this, implementation of the Principle, monitoring and adherence to the Principle, and later, auditing of the effectiveness in the North American infrastructure. Contained in this document can be found, 1) Our overall strategy, 2) Our current policies in force and, 3) Our 2012 and 2013 Compliance Training program plan. Sincerely yours, Kevin M. MULLOWNEY Vice President, Sales & Business Development DAVEY BICKFORD North America ANTI-CORRUPTION p.6 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DBNA Anti-Corruption Strategy • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Sources De Graaf, G.( 2007) CAUSES OF CORRUPTION: TOWARDS A CONTEXTUAL THEORY OF CORRUPTION , PAQ SPRING ANTI-CORRUPTION p.7 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DBNA Anti-Corruption Policies • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT DAVEY BICKFORD North America Employee Handbook • All employees receive at time of hire • Revised handbooks issued to ALL employees as amended • Complete document is available upon request as well as DAVEY BICKFORD corporate Code of Conduct. ANTI-CORRUPTION p.8 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DBNA Anti-Corruption Policies • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT DAVEY BICKFORD North America Employment offers contain section 1.6 All potential employees receive at time of recruitment Signature by new employee REQUIRED as a condition for hire Complete document is available upon request as well as DAVEY BICKFORD corporate Code of Conduct. ANTI-CORRUPTION p.9 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DBNA Anti-Corruption Training • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT DAVEY BICKFORD North America implementing training in 2012 All employees will be required to complete the training Training provided by WeComply www.WeComply.com Web-based training Flexible content based on the needs of the organization Why this training for the company? • It’s the LAW • Prevents and Detects Improper Conduct • Defenses to Liability, if needed • Mitigates Federal Sentencing Guidelines Why this training for employees? • It Helps Them Understand and Follow the Law • It Fosters Trust and Loyalty • It Supports a Culture of Integrity Course plan for 2012  ANTI-CORRUPTION p.10 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR DBNA Anti-Corruption Training • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Mandatory Courses 2012 / 2013 2012: Ethics and Compliance Essentials This course is, in essence, a Code of Conduct Training course for organizations that do not have a formalized Code of Conduct. It covers all of the most important legal/ethical/compliance principles that organizations face — including conflicts of interest, information security, electronic communications, anti-competitive conduct, alcohol and drug abuse, and many others — but without reference to a Code. Global Anti-Corruption This course explains the central principles of the major anti-corruption laws and conventions, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the new UK Bribery Act and others. It provides detailed guidelines, FAQs and alerts for employees in marketing, sales, operations, business development and finance to ensure that they will recognize and respond appropriately to corrupt activities and practices wherever they conduct business. Antitrust Essentials This course describes (1) the basic legal principles of antitrust and the antitrust-related problems that can occur in the real world when dealing with colleagues, customers, suppliers, competitors and others, and (2) civil and criminal antitrust penalties and the importance of compliance. The course is intended to help employees recognize red flags — situations that present a risk of antitrust violations and legal liability — and deal with them appropriately and legitimately. 2013: Business Gifts and Courtesies This course teaches employees what they need to know about giving and receiving gifts, entertainment and other courtesies in the business context. It explains which business gifts and courtesies are appropriate and which are inappropriate, as well as how to handle questionable situations. Conflicts of Interest This course describes the most common workplace conflict-of-interest situations and the circumstances in which they arise. It is intended to train employees of all types of organizations to learn to recognize and avoid conflicts of interest, particularly with regard to handling personal, financial and family interests, dealing with customers and suppliers, and handling offers of gifts and entertainment. Fraud Detection and Awareness This course describes the most common types of fraud used to divert money from business organizations. The course helps employees (1) gain an awareness of corporate fraud so that it may be detected and prevented or minimized, and (2) understand their responsibility to comply with the law and report misconduct. Travel and Expense Reimbursement This course guides employees in making prudent financial decisions in arranging for business travel and incurring other business-related expenses. It explains which costs, charges and travel arrangements are reasonable and which are unreasonable as well as how to avoid incurring unnecessary expenses for which employers will not provide reimbursement. ANTI-CORRUPTION p.11 Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT LABOUR Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p.12 • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR Parité entre les hommes et les femmes • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Un accord a été mis en place au sein de la société et entre en vigueur à compter du 1er janvier 2012. Cet accord a une durée déterminée de 3 ans. Une commission de suivi est mise en place, composée de représentants de la direction, membres de la commission « Egalité Hommes/Femmes », des représentants des salariés. Celle ci se réunira au moins une fois par an et sera chargée d’examiner le bilan intermédiaire des réalisations du présent accord. LABOUR p.13 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR Parité entre les hommes et les femmes • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Les trois domaines d’actions relatifs à la parité entre hommes et femmes: 1) Accès à la formation professionnelle Action 1 : Renforcer l’accès à la formation pour les femmes pour toutes les catégories socioprofessionnelles Action 2 : Faciliter l’accès à la formation à l’initiative du salarié en utilisant les dispositifs tels que DIF, CIF et autres. Un catalogue des formations diffusable via le DIF (non limitatif) sera proposé en 2012. 2) Accès à des évolutions de qualification Action : Augmenter la qualification des salariés en veillant à un équilibre Hommes /Femmes de ces promotions 3) La rémunération Action : Viser à équilibrer les rémunérations au travers d’actions de qualification du personnel et par le biais d’ajustements quand nécessaire pour la population Homme ou Femme en fonction des problématiques identifiées.  Dans chaque domaine d’action, l’objectif de 2012 est de réduire l’écart entre les hommes et les femmes de 10%. LABOUR p.14 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR Amélioration des conditions de travail • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Un accord a été aussi mis en place pour améliorer les conditions de travail du personnel. Il est entré en vigueur depuis le 1er Janvier 2012 pour une durée déterminée de 3 ans à compter de la signature. Une Commission de Suivi est mise en place, elle sera composée de représentants de Direction, groupe de travail de pénibilité et de représentants des salariés. La Commission se réunira semestriellement et sera chargée d’examiner le bilan intermédiaire des réalisations de cet accord. HUMAN RIGHTS p.16 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR Amélioration des conditions de travail • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Les quatre domaines d’actions de la prévention de la pénibilité: 1. L’adaptation et l’aménagement de postes de travail Plan d’actions relatif à la réduction de l’exposition à la manutention manuelle de charges: Action 1 : sensibiliser à la réduction de la manutention manuelle de charges par des formations à l’ergonomie les personnes susceptibles d’intervenir sur l’adaptation et l’aménagement des postes de travail. Action 2 : réaliser les études de poste approfondies sur les 12 postes exposés à la manutention manuelle de charges. Action 3 : mettre en œuvre les améliorations préconisées par les études de poste. Plan d’actions relatif à la réduction de l’exposition au bruit Action 1 : effectuer la cartographie des postes pour lesquels les résultats aux mesures de bruit réalisées par le sonomètre de l’entreprise sont égales à 85 dB. Action 2 : réaliser des études de poste approfondies suite aux cartographies de bruit. Action 3 : mettre en œuvre les préconisations proposées par les études de poste. HUMAN RIGHTS p.17 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR Amélioration des conditions de travail • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT 2. le développement des compétences et des qualifications Action 1 : augmenter la qualification des salariés pour permettre une répartition du temps de travail sur différentes affectations et ainsi réduire l’exposition à des postes à critères de pénibilité. Action 2 : Formation gestes & postures pour les salariés affectés au poste de manutention. 3. l’aménagement des fins de carrière Action 1 : Mener les entretiens de seconde partie de carrière. 4. le maintien en activité en cas d’arrêt Action 1 : Pour les cas d’inaptitude nécessitant l’aménagement d’un poste de travail ou le reclassement d’un salarié à un poste différent du poste initial d’affectation, le recours à une aide externe (AIST, CARSAT, ARACT, SAMETH) sera mis en œuvre. Action 2 : Mettre en œuvre des visites de pré-reprise pour les cas d’absence supérieure à 1 mois (avec l’accord du salarié).  Un plan d’action détaillé est élaboré et 100% des actions planifiées sur 2012 seront réalisées. HUMAN RIGHTS p.18 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • ANTI-CORRUPTION • LABOUR Certification environnementale ISO 14001 • HUMAN RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT Démarche de certification environnementale ISO 14001 du site d’Héry. Extrait de communication internes: ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and p.20 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
