2011 Teradata corporate social responsibility report Teradata’s policies and processes to help our customers, community, and employees understand our past performance and continuing commitment to corporate social responsibility 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO Communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 About This Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.0 Teradata. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2.0 Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 3.0 Industry Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 4.0 Human Resources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 5.0 Quality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 6.0 Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 7.0 Teradata Cares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 8.0 Environmental Responsibility. . . . . . 30 9.0 Global Manufacturing Processes . . . 39 10.0 Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 11.0 Reporting Parameters . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 2 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report CEO Communication To advance our efforts in corporate social responsibility, (GRI 1.1) Teradata continues its partnerships and memberships with several research, planning, government, and industry Teradata Corporation continues to promote a culture of organizations that address global sustainability. During global sustainability – within our organization and through2011, we met our aggressive five-year EPA Climate Leaders out our ecosystem of customers and business partners. goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 45%. This year, we have advanced our programs and initiatives We are proud to announce that in two years, we met and to make an even greater positive impact on our community, exceeded our five-year goal; achieving a cumulative 52.1% environment, and customers’ bottom lines. reduction in our greenhouse emissions intensity target. We Because it is Teradata’s mission to provide leading will be developing a new goal in 2012 and will report this analytic data solutions, we continue to push the limits of goal in our 2013 CSR report. performance – while allaying the economic impact to our We are honored to report that for the third year in a row, customers. Our goal is to maximize the computational Ethisphere Institute named Teradata one of the ‘World’s power they require, while minimizing the corresponding Most Ethical Companies.’ Furthering our commitment to consumption of space and energy. ethical behavior and human rights, Teradata became a This year, we launched the Teradata Extreme Performance formal signatory to the UN Global Compact during 2011. Appliance – which introduced all-SSD storage technology to We have supported the principles that underlie the Global the data warehouse industry. Because these devices deliver Compact for the past several years, and have historiup to 22x higher storage performance, our customers cally aligned our business and operations in ways that require fewer drives for the same level of performance as foster those principles. In becoming a signatory, Teradata current HDD-based systems. These improvements reduce strengthens this pledge – affirming our commitment to the floor space requirements by 94% and energy consumption ten principles of the UN Global Compact covering human by 87% – an economic, as well as an environmental, boost rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. for our customers. Looking more broadly at our ecosystem, this past year we The newest model of the Teradata Active Enterprise Data developed a self-audit program and assessment tool to Warehouse also greatly improves energy consumption. increase transparency between our Code of Conduct and Announced in April 2011, this platform model yields up to a our suppliers operations. Audits of production facilities and 73% reduction in electricity usage compared to servers of corporate procedures are now required of all our tier one five years ago. By dramatically reducing energy usage for direct manufacturing suppliers. the same system performance and floor space, Teradata Teradata has made great strides this year in ethics and in reduces our customers’ associated data center cooling and global sustainability, and we are pleased to highlight recent power delivery infrastructure. recognition: In addition to hardware improvements, we’re persistent in > Dow Jones World Index and the North America Index, as our focus to develop software that makes Teradata systems one of the world’s leaders in sustainability for the second run more efficiently. The current release of the Teradata year in a row. In addition, we were selected as a sector Database (Teradata 13.10) delivers greater efficiency and leader in the TSV Computer Services & Internet sector. performance – effectively 30% more processing power > 2012 Computer and Internet Sector Leader by the 13th on the same hardware, while consuming the same amount SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment as published of energy. 3 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report in the Sustainability Yearbook 2012. Through this About This Report assessment, Teradata improved from a Bronze Class member to a 2012 Gold Class Member. This is the fourth edition of the Teradata® corporate social responsibility (CSR) report. The first was produced in > NEWSWEEK Green Rankings 2011, where Teradata 2009. This report describes the policies, processes and ranked #42 among the top 500 U.S. companies, based performance of Teradata Corporation to help our customers, on environmental impact, management and disclosure. community, and employees understand our past perforOur Teradata employees likewise continue to demonstrate mance and continuing commitment to CSR as we develop good corporate citizenship and an ongoing responsibility to our plans for the future. support those in need in our communities around the world. The information provided is a reflection of 2011 perforIn 2011, nearly half of our worldwide employees completed mance. At this time, our next report, based on our 2012 over 15,000 hours of volunteerism, more than doubling the performance, is planned for release in 2013. However, this number of projects over 2010. During our annual Teradata schedule could be adjusted during 2012 and 2013. Days of Caring in August, employees around the globe joined together to support local community projects – This report also constitutes our Communication on Progress completing 200 projects in 44 cities with 1700 participants (COP) as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. For more volunteering over 2800 hours. We are proud of all our information about the UN Global Compact, please visit employees’ service to their communities, and highlight www.unglobalcompact.org. our Celebration of Caring award winners and key regional accomplishments in this report. The content and design of this report was derived from the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Working together in 2011, Teradata’s employees and Guidelines. For more information about the GRI, please visit our extended ecosystem furthered our culture of global www.globalreporting.org. sustainability. We demonstrated our commitment to the triple bottom line of people, planet, and profitability: increasing social responsibility through our community relations initiatives, and furthering ethical behavior through our practices and our behaviors, and lessening environmental and economic impact through our operations and analytic data solutions. In 2012 and beyond, we seek to make an even greater impact on our community, environment, and customers’ bottom line – making a positive difference in the world in which we live and work. Mike Koehler, President and CEO, Teradata Corporation 4 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1.0 Teradata > facebook.com/Teradata > slideshare.net/Teradata 1.1 Our Mission (GRI 4.8) > www.youtube.com/Teradata At Teradata Corporation, we strive to protect our environment. > www.flickr.com/photos/teradatanow As such, we conserve natural resources while complying > plus.google.com/u/0/b/113437383333777574401/# with all applicable local, national and international environmental, health and safety laws. We endeavor to instill Integrated Data Warehousing environmentally-aware practices throughout our operations, Data warehousing is the process of capturing, storing, and from our global corporate processes to the individual actions analyzing data to gain insight. This process is built on an of our employees and others working on our behalf. We enterprise data warehouse, which is a single, centralized, believe this is our social responsibility, and that sustainable application-neutral repository of an organization’s current business practices are good for our world and are right for and historical data. our business. Because of this belief, our company focuses > The Teradata® Purpose-Built Platform Family offers endits efforts on providing our customers with best-in-class to-end data warehousing platforms to meet customers’ products and services that are environmentally sustainable. specific analytical and budgetary requirements. These 1.2 Our Company platforms include: (GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.7, 2.10) > Teradata Active Enterprise Data Warehouse Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world’s leading > Teradata Data Warehouse Appliance analytic data solutions company, focused on integrated data > Teradata Extreme Data Appliance warehousing, big data analytics, and business applications. Teradata’s innovative products and services deliver data > Teradata Data Mart Appliance integration and business insight to empower organizations > Teradata Extreme Performance Appliance to make the best decisions possible for competitive advanEvery Teradata solution is purpose-built to customer tage. Visit teradata.com for details. specifications and designed to maximize return on investTeradata’s powerful solutions portfolio and database are ment, lower total cost of ownership, and deliver increased the foundation on which the company has built its leaderbusiness value through a range of options, price points, ship position in business intelligence and are designed to and features. address any business or technology need for companies of Teradata solutions establish the most comprehensive and all sizes. transparent view of the enterprise for smarter decision Teradata has a presence in more than 60 countries and on making and cut through the complexities of business the web at Teradata.com. Teradata’s social media links dimensions to drive results at any scale. include: > www.linkedin.com/company/Teradata > twitter.com/Teradata 5 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata’s Aprimo Acquisition data deluge for competitive advantage. And they have done Teradata’s acquisition of Aprimo, first announced in it with Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform. December 2010, was completed in early 2011. Aprimo is a Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform global leader in cloud-based integrated marketing software. Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform delivers a massively Together, the two innovators began driving the future of parallel processing infrastructure with a software solution integrated marketing, enabling corporations to optimize that embeds both SQL and MapReduce analytic processing marketing performance with more detailed, comprehensive for deeper analytic insights on multi-structured data and insights from a universe exploding with big data. new analytic capabilities driven by data science. Built not Marketing executives have been among the first to benefit only to store large volumes of data but also to process rich from the combined capabilities of Aprimo and Teradata. analytic applications in-database, Teradata Aster MapReAprimo resolves the top challenges for marketers such duce Platform is optimized for big data analytics. as integrating campaigns across proliferating digital and Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform uses an integrated traditional channels, the elimination of data silos that inhibit MapReduce analytics engine for embedded analytic proresults analysis and metrics – and proving ROI on marketcessing, simplifying enterprise access for big data analytics. ing. With its fully integrated suite, Aprimo services hundreds Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform uses a patented SQLof customers, including 36 of the Fortune 100. Among these MapReduce® framework so that any business intelligence are Target Corporation, Warner Bros. Inc., and Nestle S.A. tool that generates standard SQL or any business analyst Teradata’s Acquisition of Aster Data that knows SQL can immediately invoke the power of data In April 2011, to expand its presence in the “Big Data” science without having to learn programming languages marketplace, Teradata acquired Aster Data Systems, Inc., or new interfaces. This delivers breakthrough performance a leader in big data analytics. Teradata Aster provides tools and scalability on large data volumes, the ability to process that help its customers harness the power of emerging big relational data side by side with digital data of multi-strucdata, manage a variety of diverse semi-structured data from tured formats, ease of use for a new class of data science web sources, sensor networks, social networks, genomics, analytics and a choice of enterprise deployment options. and more. Combined with Teradata’s leading business anaUsing Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform, customers lytics and data warehousing solutions, customers can now report results such as: create new forms of analytical insight that no other single vendor can deliver, from greater depth of detailed data and > 740% return on investment over a 3-year period from faster time to value. greater analytic insight The Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform marries science > $2.4 million new player revenue from increased brand of data with the art of business. Whether it is labeled the trust/site integrity in year one “data deluge” or the “data tsunami,” the fact is that data > 60% faster analytic processing for 140 million anonyand particularly digital data is growing at exponential rates. mous user profile scores What is interesting about this trend is not particularly the > $1.37 million in increased advertising revenue growth of data, but rather the hidden value that can be attributed in year one found in this data by applying data science. Companies like > 70% cross-sell revenue increase with better insights to LinkedIn, Gilt Groupe, and Barnes & Noble have tapped the consumer preferences 6 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Target Industries high system availability, event monitoring, and easy integraTeradata products and services have broad appeal in tion into the enterprise. Teradata also offers a software almost every form of customer marketplace. Some indussubscription program that keeps customers up-to-date on tries that our customers serve include: communications, new product releases. media and entertainment, financial services, insurance, Active Data Warehousing retail, government and public services, healthcare, life As the foundation of enterprise intelligence, active data sciences, and pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, hospitality, warehousing drives valuable information into a company’s gaming, travel and transportation, utilities, and oil and gas. operations and to hundreds of front-line decision makers. Market Leadership It enables smarter, more competitive decisions through Teradata has led the data warehousing market since its near real-time information access and analysis, as well as inception, with more than 1,379 customers, notably: predictive analytics on customer or business activity. Active data warehousing supports both long-running strategic and > Nine of the top ten global commercial and savings banks short-running tactical queries. An active data warehouse > All of the top ten global telecommunications companies based on Teradata technology provides strategic and tacti> All of the top five global airlines cal intelligence throughout the enterprise. > Eight of the top ten travel and transportation companies Teradata Active Enterprise Intelligence™ Capabilities > Eight of the top ten global retailers Teradata Active Enterprise Intelligence™ capabilities On any given business day in almost every industry represent the power of active data warehousing, and refer throughout the world, well over a million users access a to the alignment of strategic and operational systems, Teradata data warehouse for precise and reliable intelpeople, technology and processes to make smarter, faster ligence to support business decisions. decisions throughout all levels of an organization. Through active data warehousing technology, professional services, Teradata® Database Software and applications, Teradata enables customers to convert The flagship Teradata Database software is regarded by their information into intelligence, and intelligence into customers and industry analysts as a superior choice for actions to respond to business events while they are analyzing data and processing increasing volumes and occurring. Teradata Active Enterprise Intelligence capabilicomplexity of queries without compromising performance. ties help our customers effectively maneuver across any Teradata’s processing architecture, combined with our complex and dynamic business environment with speed database software provides the foundation for our unique and confidence. ability to support and manage a wide range of data warehousing functions. These functions range from reports to Teradata’s Industry Leadership ad-hoc queries to data mining and simultaneous data loadIn 2011, Teradata was positioned as a leader by three ing, all from a single data warehouse that integrates data international IT analyst firms: from across the enterprise to drive smarter, faster decision > In the 2011 Data Warehouse DBMS Magic Quadrant making. The Teradata Database software, which operates issued by Gartner, in different operating system environments (including LINUX > In the 2011 Forrester WAVE for Data Warehousing, and and Microsoft Windows®), delivers real-time intelligence for customers with capabilities and features, such as support > In the 2011 Information Difference Study on Data for mixed workloads, the ability to handle thousands of conWarehousing current queries, robust and simplified system management, 7 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report > In May 2011, Gartner positioned Aprimo in the “Leader’s and finance with considerable depth and focus on the data Quadrant” of the “Magic Quadrant for Multi-Channel warehousing, enterprise data warehousing, and analytics Campaign Management” (MCCM) report. business. The Teradata leadership team sets the strategic > Teradata and some of its most innovative customers direction for the company and each member individually won top honors in 2011 in prestigious award programs drives the results in their areas of expertise. including Information Management Innovative Solutions Teradata sales employees are responsible for direct sales Awards, CIO 100 Awards, Gartner/1to1 CRM Awards, in current and new accounts within a defined geographic Excellence.GOV, the National Association of State CIOs, territory. These individuals work cohesively to engage in TechAmerica Foundation, NCDM Database Excellence quality customer relationships and to promote the Teradata Awards and Ventana Research Leadership Awards. portfolio of products. > For the fourth year in a row, Teradata was included in the InformationWeek 500. The magazine also ranked Professional Services provides client support from project Teradata in its “Top 12 Big Data Analytics Players.” management and high-end consulting to data modeling and business intelligence. Teradata Customer Services provides > Teradata was again named one of the “World’s Most support to our customers all around the globe. Ethical Companies” by The Ethisphere Institute. > Teradata was again listed in the Dow Jones Our Research & Development and Product Management Sustainability Index and the SAM Sustainability teams provide Teradata with software support and lifecycle Yearbook. development. Product Management employees also focus > Teradata was again listed in the FTSE4Good Index. on developing a strategy to build Teradata products. > Teradata was listed in the Newsweek Green Rankings Corporate infrastructure depends on our core associates list. in finance, human resources, legal, information technology, > Teradata was a recognized contender in Fortune’s marketing and operations. Infrastructure organizations “World’s Most Admired Companies” survey. provide support at both a corporate level and in the regions where Teradata does business, to ensure our engineering, 1.3 2011 Financial Performance sales and consulting organizations have the necessary (GRI 2.8, EC1) resources and assistance to ensure success. In 2011, Teradata achieved revenues of $2.362 billion. Sales were apportioned in the following manner: Americas 1.5 Teradata History and Development 61 percent, APJ 16 percent and EMEA 23 percent. Teradata’s (GRI 2.9) market capitalization was $8.11 billion at the end Teradata was formed in 1979 as a Delaware corporation. of 2011. For further financial information, please visit Our first product, the Teradata Database Computer, was Teradata.com/investor. utilized by Wells Fargo and AT&T, among others. We established a relational database management system 1.4 Organizational Structure on a proprietary platform in 1984. In 1990, we partnered (GRI 2.3) with NCR Corporation to jointly develop next-generation The Teradata organization is led by a senior management database systems. In 1991, AT&T Corporation acquired team of leaders (our “Leadership Team”) who bring an NCR and, later that year, NCR purchased Teradata. In average of more than 20 years of industry-related experi1995, Teradata was merged into NCR’s operations and ence to their positions. Their experience covers all aspects ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. of the business, from engineering and sales to marketing 8 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report In 1996, AT&T spun off NCR (including Teradata) to form 2.1 Board of Directors an independent, publicly traded company. In 1999, NCR The Board currently has nine Directors. Each Director consolidated its data warehousing business into a separate meets the independence standards of the New York Stock Teradata operating division. We continued our investments Exchange. The current Chairman of the Board is not an to extend the scope of our enterprise data warehousing Executive Officer of the Company. solutions, including improvements to our leading database software, ongoing development of new enterprise analytic The Board periodically reviews the size of the Board and software applications, and the provision of sophisticated determines whether any changes are appropriate, although support and professional consulting services. it is the sense of the Board that five to ten directors is adequate. However, the Board is willing to increase its size On October 1, 2007, Teradata completed its spin-off from in order to accommodate the availability of an outstanding NCR Corporation, and shares of its common stock began candidate. regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol TDC. Teradata also is a component The Board, with input from its Committee on Directors and member of the S&P 500. Governance, is responsible for periodically determining the appropriate skills, perspectives, experiences, and characIn 2009, Teradata celebrated its 30th anniversary. teristics required of Board member candidates, taking into account the Company’s needs and the current makeup of In early 2011, Teradata finalized the acquisition of Aprimo, the Board. This includes assessment of the candidate’s first announced in December 2010. knowledge, experience and skills in areas critical to In April 2011, Teradata acquired Aster Data Systems, Inc., understanding the Company and its business; personal a leader in big data analytics, to help its customers harness characteristics, such as integrity and judgment; and, the the power of emerging big data. candidate’s commitments to the boards of other publiclyheld companies. Each Board member is expected to ensure 2.0 Corporate Governance that existing and future commitments to external boards (GRI 4.1-4.4, 4.6) do not materially interfere with the member’s service as a The Teradata Board of Directors is elected by the stockholdDirector of the Company and that he or she devotes the ers to govern the affairs of the Company. The Board selects time necessary to discharge his or her duties as a Director the Leadership Team, which is charged with the conduct of of the Company. the Company’s business. Having selected the Leadership 2.2 Committees Team, the Board acts as an advisor to Leadership Team Currently, there are four Board committees: Executive members and monitors its performance. The Board reviews Committee; Audit Committee; Compensation and Human the Company’s strategies, financial objectives, and operatResource Committee; and, Committee on Directors and ing plans. Governance. The Board believes the current committee The Board also plans for management succession of the structure is appropriate. From time to time, depending upon Chief Executive Officer, as well as other Leadership Team the circumstances, the Board may form a new committee or positions, and oversees the Company’s governance and disband a current committee. compliance efforts. The Board appoints members of the committees on an annual basis. The Committee on Directors and Governance, 9 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report with consideration of the desires of individual Directors and Charter also details how the Audit Committee addresses input from the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the matters related to financial reporting, independent accounBoard, recommends to the Board the assignment of Directants, audits, internal controls, risk assessments, and other tors to various committees. Vacancies in the committees reports and issues. will be filled by the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Directors and Governance, with input from 2.4 Shareholder Communications the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Under the Teradata Bylaws, qualified stockholders may submit proposals to the Corporate Secretary in advance of Only independent Directors may serve on the Audit the annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, stockholdCommittee, the Compensation and Human Resource ers wishing to communicate with the Audit Committee Chair Committee, or the Committee on Directors and Governance, or any of the Company’s other non-employee Directors may and at least one member of the Audit Committee must do so by contacting the Corporate Secretary. The Corporate have accounting or financial management experience, as Secretary will forward any communications as directed by defined by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission the stockholder. rules and/or as required under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. Additionally, a member of Please see the Corporate Governance page of the Teradata the Audit Committee may not sit on more than two other website at Teradata.com (select “Company & Careers” Audit Committees of other public companies, unless the then select “Corporate-Governance”) for more information Board determines that such commitments would not impair about the Company’s corporate governance standards his or her effective service to the Company. and practices, including the Company’s: Articles of Incorporation; Bylaws; Board member profiles; Governance 2.3 Conflicts of Interest, Standards of ConGuidelines; Charters for each of the Board’s Committees; duct, Reporting, and Controls Statement on Director Independence; Securities Transac(GRI 4.6) tions by Board members; Code of Conduct; and, how The Board determines on a case-by-case basis whether anyone may communicate with the Board. In April 2010, the a conflict of interest exists with respect to Directors. Each Board adopted a Compensation Recovery Policy, such that Director must advise the Board of any situation that could members of the Company’s Leadership Team are subject to potentially be a conflict of interest and will not vote on any forfeiture of the difference between the compensation they issue in which he or she has any interest other than solely receive and the compensation they would have received in as a Director of the Company. Each member of the Board of the event that publicly-disclosed financial statements of the Directors reviews and receives training on, and certifies his Company later are restated. Also in April 2010, the Board or her compliance with, the Company’s Code of Conduct on adopted Executive Stock Ownership Guidelines, which an annual basis. As set out in its Charter, the Audit Commitprovide that members of the Leadership Team are expected tee: reviews, approves, and monitors the Company’s Code to own at least a specified minimum number of shares in the of Conduct initiatives and compliance, including as applied Company; the specified number of shares varies depending to all senior financial officers of the Company and all memon the executive’s level/position; this initiative is intended bers of the Leadership Team; and, oversees the Company’s to better align the interests of the Company’s Leaderprogram for monitoring the Company’s compliance with ship Team with those of stockholders and the Company’s laws and regulations and the Company’s ethical standards, long-term success. Information concerning these two Board including receiving reports on all significant ethics and comactions is publicly-available through the above-referenced pliance matters and investigations. The Audit Committee Corporate Governance web page of Teradata.com. 10 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3.0 Industry Involvement efforts to build sustainable competitive advantage through (GRI 4.13) our human capital strategy. Our human capital strategy is a strategic business goal and is aligned with Teradata’s 3.1 The Green Grid business objectives. The Human Resources organization Teradata is a member of The Green Grid, a global conis led by the Vice President of Human Resources, who is sortium dedicated to advancing energy efficiency in data a direct report to the CEO, and holds an important position centers and business computing ecosystems. In furtheron the Teradata Leadership Team. Our Chief Human ance of its mission, The Green Grid is focused on the Resource Officer is a female. The Human Resources following: defining meaningful, user-centric models and organization is comprised of experienced leaders who metrics; developing standards, measurement methods, drive global HR strategy and initiatives through Centers of processes, and new technologies to improve data center Expertise, including compensation, benefits, staffing, HR performance against the defined metrics; and promoting the operations, communication, and talent management, and adoption of energy efficient standards, processes, measureHR business partners, who provide HR leadership to guide ments, and technologies. Visit www.thegreengrid.org. and support our business operations. Each global region, 3.2 ASHRAE our R&D and Customer Services organization, and our infrastructure organizations have a dedicated HR Director We are a member of the Technical Committee (TC) 9.9 to partner with them to execute HR initiatives. To support the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Airlocal business operations, HR consultants are located in our conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). We support ASHRAE’s largest countries around the globe. mission to be recognized amongst all areas of the data-com industry as the unbiased engineering leader in HVAC and Teradata’s HR strategy is not only to remain competitive an effective provider of technical information for the datain the global high tech employment market, but to be an com industry. Visit www.ashrae.org. employer of choice for our dedicated employees. Human Resources has implemented global policies and procedures 3.3 ITI that allow our employees and the business to operate in a The Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) is the compliant, safe, inclusive, and non-discriminatory environpremier group of the nation’s leading high-tech companies ment. Additionally, we strive to provide a work environment and is widely recognized as the tech industry’s most where our passionate employees are encouraged and able effective lobbying organization in Washington, in various to focus on our customers. foreign capitals and the World Trade Organization. Teradata considers ITI membership important and essential to our 4.2 Employment (GRI 2.5, 2.8, LA1) electromagnetic interference (EMI) compliance program and potentially to the product safety and environment At the end of 2011, Teradata employed approximately aspects of Teradata hardware products. Visit www.itic.org. 8,600 employees in 42 countries around the globe. We are headquartered in the United States, and we operate within 4.0 Human Resources a three-region structure. There are approximately 4,100 employees in the Americas region, approximately 2,800 4.1 Overview employees in the Asia-Pacific-Japan (APJ) region and Our Human Resources organization is chartered with approximately 1,700 employees in the Europe, Middle providing strategic global leadership to guide Teradata’s East, Africa (EMEA) region. 11 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report The nature of Human Resources work requires that the 4.4 Collective Bargaining Agreements (GRI LA4) organization meet certain requirements to conduct proper employment practices around the globe. In the United Teradata maintains compliance with local country regulations States, we comply with all standards set forth by the regarding collective bargaining and has recognized unions Department of Labor (DOL). The DOL provides employand/or workers’ councils in those countries where union/ ment laws and standards for operating a business in the worker representation is the traditional employment model. United States. To ensure legal compliance, Teradata human resources follows all applicable laws and standards 4.5 Employee Communications (GRI LA5) mandated by the DOL. Appropriate notice is provided regarding operational Outside of the U.S., Teradata maintains relationships with changes, not only for those employees covered by collecthe following agencies to ensure proper work and employee tive bargaining agreements, but for all Teradata employees. practices while operating in other countries: Teradata keeps employees informed through regular updates posted on the employee intranet. Hundreds of other > European Union (EU) – The EU has worked with compavaluable resources are made available to employees on nies in Europe to establish overarching agreements that the Teradata intranet. CEO Mike Koehler posts quarterly apply to business operations and managing employees. webcasts to update employees on company news and Teradata Human Resources complies with these laws future business initiatives. and standards while operating in European Union countries. 4.6 Career Development (GRI LA10) > Workers’ councils (found in countries around the world) – Representation requirements of workers’ councils vary Teradata operates a global organization dedicated to with each foreign countryTeradata Human Resources providing learning opportunities to both Teradata manageworks with local workers’ councils within country entities ment and employees. Teradata Learning formats include as required to maintain a positive relationship with employinstructor-led training (deployed globally), web-based trainees and with the countries in which we are operating. ing, facilitated distance learning (combination of self-paced and virtual classroom), and virtual workshops and webcasts. 4.3 Employee Turnover Employees have access to numerous resources that help (GRI LA2) enable their success. Extensive learning opportunities Teradata emphasizes the importance of low employee are offered for employees through Teradata University, an turnover by reviewing this data on a regular basis. Beyond online learning resource unique to Teradata. Teradata the statistics, Teradata makes sufficient efforts to meet University is a dedicated learning management system the needs of all employees. However, when an employee (LMS) that provides 24/7 access for every employee to decides to separate from Teradata, an exit interview is conposition-related, certification-specific, or personal improveducted. This process allows Teradata to acquire valuable ment opportunities. Course materials enhance knowledge feedback from employees. Teradata uses this information of Teradata products and services, competitive trends and to assess employment conditions within the company to analysis, methodologies, processes, tools, partner solutions further its efforts to meet employee needs. and products, project management, professional skills, internal and external certifications, and technical skills. 12 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Through this program, Teradata provides a professional > Preparing annual succession plans that focus on the certification program that supports industry standard cerdevelopment of potential candidates for critical leadertifications. In 2011, Teradata employees completed 80,398 ship positions. courses for a total of 425,749 training hours. > Consciously developing future leadership through on-thejob activities, mentoring, special projects, and rotational 4.7 Tuition Assistance (GRI LA10) assignments. Providing education and development opportunities for > Providing specific management development programs employees is an important priority for Teradata. Aside through Teradata Learning, including a highly specific from internal professional development, Teradata offers learning curriculum for managers and rising leaders. This a tuition assistance program for eligible employees. In addiprogram includes an inventory of management and leadertion to the considerable number of educational opportunities ship styles, 360-degree review by subordinates, peers, provided through Teradata University, the company encourmanagers, and highly focused leadership sessions. The ages collegeor graduate-level education that supports curriculum enables managers and rising leaders to fully both Teradata’s business priorities and the development of understand the Teradata vision and charter, and adapt it to business-critical skills or knowledge for Teradata employees. their own specific businesses, and sub-organization culture. National Merit Teradata Scholarships 4.9 Performance Management Process (GRI LA12) Not only do we offer tuition assistance to employees, but we provide tuition assistance and scholarships for their children All employees participate in the annual Performance as well. Every year, Teradata provides scholarships to chilManagement process, which is an ongoing process to dren of Teradata employees who are selected as National enhance individual and organizational performance through Merit Scholarship winners. Students enter this academic the monitoring, measuring, reporting, and rewarding of competition in the fall of their junior year of high school by performance. It’s what connects the work of the business, taking the Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test/National the team and the individual employee to the company’s Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT). Since vision, mission, and strategic objectives. 2008, 14 national merit scholarships have been awarded by Performance Management information is provided to guide Teradata. employees in this collaborative process between the indiTeradata International Scholarship vidual and their manager. Our performance management Since 2010, Teradata expanded support to children of our process is driven by effective objective setting, ongoing international employees through Teradata International dialogue captured in a quarterly reviews, and an annual Scholarships by offering annual scholarships to students who review summary that assesses an individual’s overall excel both in the classroom and their community. 10 internaaccomplishments against business and development objectional scholarships have been awarded by Teradata through tives. Employees are provided overall guidelines related the program. to their role in the Performance Management process, to assist their annual preparations and further their success. 4.8 Leadership Development (GRI LA11) 4.10 Diversity (GRI LA13) Management development is an important part of Teradata’s culture for emerging leaders. It’s an ongoing process that Teradata shared Values form the foundation of our business includes: relationships with each other, our customers, our partners, 13 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report and our suppliers. They define a global, consistent frameprofessional skills through educational and cultural opporwork within which we conduct business. We use Teradata tunities within the company and/or the community. These shared Values to direct our behavior and guide our deciglobally-chartered affinity organizations are supported by sions as we strive to achieve our business objectives. Teradata and provide a number of benefits to the business: Integrated into our shared Values is Teradata’s commit> Assistance with recruiting and retaining diverse ment to diversity. Teradata complies with laws governing employees. discrimination, but goes beyond compliance and to focus > A resource pool of committed, engaged associates. on inclusion of the rich backgrounds our employees provide. > Representation of Teradata as an involved community Teradata is firmly committed to growing and fully leveragcitizen. ing diversity in all aspects of our business. We create an > Assistance with language and cultural support for environment where differences are valued, supported and customers, business partners and other employees. encouraged. And we believe in the power of diversity. That’s because we’ve seen what happens when people from > A source of educational information on diversity topics. diverse backgrounds and experiences combine their unique > A focused communication channel for constituency talents to unlock bold new ideas. At Teradata, we value the issues. unique qualities, abilities and perspectives each person Supplier Diversity Program brings to solving customer business problems. With our Teradata recognizes the need for and the benefits of Teradata guiding principles as a foundation, we build worksourcing and stimulating the growth of Small Businesses, ing relationships based on trust and respect that extend to Minority, Women and Veteran-owned business enterprises our customers, partners, suppliers, and the communities in (diverse suppliers) and, consequently, has adopted a which we live and work. proactive policy of promoting the use of such businesses We believe in understanding and respecting differences as sources of supply. Teradata believes that by including among all people. This concept encompasses but is not diverse suppliers in our sourcing strategy adds value to limited to human differences with regard to race, ethnicity, our business by providing us with a competitive advantage religion, gender, culture, and physical ability. Teradata is which allows us to invest in the economic success of committed to being a globally inclusive company where all disadvantaged businesses across the country. We further people are treated fairly, recognized for their individuality, encourage our suppliers to work with qualified diverse promoted based on merit, performance and opportunities, suppliers as often as possible to fulfill our contractual needs and encouraged to reach their full potential. and further promote the success of such diverse businesses. Teradata believes that by having this approach in Every individual at Teradata has an ongoing responsibility sourcing will develop stronger communities where we live to respect and support a globally diverse environment. and where we work and thereby creating a solid foundation We are engaged in building and nurturing a diversityfor supplier diversity success across the nation. As stated friendly, inclusive environment, one that seeks out, by Teradata’s President and CEO... welcomes and values diverse people, diverse thinking and “It is Teradata’s policy to ensure that Small Businesses, diverse solutions for our business. Teradata recognizes Minority-owned, Women-owned, and Veteran-owned several Business Resource Groups as part of its diversity businesses are sought to participate as suppliers, environment. Business Resource Groups (BRGs) contractors, and subcontractors of goods and services encourage employees to enhance their leadership and 14 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report to Teradata; and comply with regulatory agency requireAll newly-hired employees (including employees of comments and with federal, state, and local procurement panies newly acquired by Teradata) are oriented to the regulations and programs...” Company’s shared Values, Behavioral Qualities and Code of Conduct as a part of the Company’s new-employee proIn October 2009 Teradata launched the company’s comcess, they must complete the Company’s Code of Conduct mercial Supplier diversity program – a complement to training module shortly after their employment start-dates Teradata’s already active government supplier diversity (or merger dates for employees of newly-acquired compaprogram. Since this program has been implemented nies), and, upon their completion of that module, they must Teradata has made great strides in the successful utilizacertify that they have read, understand and will comply with tion of diverse suppliers nationwide by growing the spend the Company’s Code of Conduct, and they must disclose percentages to 13.10% by the end of year 2011 in both Tier I all potential conflicts of interest they may have. In addiand Tier II spend. tion, all Teradata employees, individual staff contractors, officers, Leadership Team members and Board members 4.11 Employee Ethics and Compliance are required to complete a supplemental Code of Conduct Training (GRI HR3, SO2, SO3) training and certification module on an annual basis. The Teradata shows its commitment to integrating ethical busiCompany’s online Code of Conduct training modules ness practices throughout the Company’s global workforce include: information on key ethics and compliance areas by offering various ethics and compliance learning opportuthat are the most relevant to Teradata; state-of-the-art/bestnities, requiring certain amounts, levels, and subject-areas practices video-audio scenarios; questions/answers; and, of ethics and compliance training, and requiring various links to the Company’s Code of Conduct, Ethics Guides, ethics and compliance certifications from all employees, and Ethics Helpline. officers, Leadership Team members, and Board members. All employees of the Company also are required to complete These communications, training programs, and certificamandatory periodic environmental, health and safety comtions focus on the Company’s: shared Values; desired pliance training, and all managers and facilities coordinators Behavioral Qualities; compliance with laws requirements; are required to complete more-advanced periodic environcompliance with policies requirements; Code of Conduct mental, health and safety compliance training. Employees commitments; environmental, health and safety compliance; who deal with government contracting and governmental respect for human rights; commitments and practices to officials/representatives in the United States are required avoid and eliminate corruption; and, how to raise ethics and to complete periodic training on, and certify compliance compliance concerns and questions, and report potential with, supplemental ethics and compliance requirements ethics and compliance violations, without fear of retaliation that apply to those subject-areas. Employees who deal and on a confidential and anonymous basis. They also with non-U.S. transactions or matters that involve non-U.S. expressly cover the Company’s standards of conduct and governmental officials/representatives, officials/representarequirements of all Teradata people to avoid, address, and tives of governmentally wholly-owned or partially-owned not tolerate any forms of discrimination, harassment, or enterprises, officials/representatives of public international retaliation and include training regarding sexual harassagencies, or books-and-records for non-U.S. transactions/ ment/discrimination and non-discriminatory Performance payments are required to complete additional training Management practices and compensation planning for on, and certify compliance with, supplemental ethics and managers. compliance requirements that apply to those subject-areas, 15 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report including compliance with the U. S. Foreign Corrupt Pracemployees who raise issues or make violation reports in tices Act , the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, good faith. The Teradata Values and Code of Conduct anti-bribery and anti-money-laundering policies and laws. document emphasizes personal and corporate integrity Employees who deal with imports, exports or distributions and exemplifies the Company’s commitment to integrity, of technologies/information that are subject to boycott, ethics and compliance in all words, decisions and actions of anti-boycott or embargo laws/restrictions also are required the Company and its people, and reinforces that Teradata to complete additional training on supplemental ethics and people should ask questions and obtain guidance before compliance requirements that apply regarding those subject acting if they have any doubt about whether something areas. Additional ethics and compliance training programs they propose to do might violate the Company’s Code of are presented to Company employees at various team Conduct, Company policies or the law. meetings and to various subject-matter-focused audiences Teradata ethical standards and commitments are set and on a continuous basis; members of the Company’s Leaderreinforced from the top of the Company and are comship Team, next-level Leadership Council, Law Department municated and applied to all managers, team leaders, and financial controls organizations also receive periodic employees, and business partners. The Company’s Values ethics and compliance training on key subject-areas that are Statement and Code of Conduct document includes ‘tonerelevant to their roles and heightened responsibilities. at-the-top’ messages from the Company’s Chief Executive In connection with the subject-areas noted above, as well Officer and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The as several other key ethics and compliance subject-areas, Company’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer is a the Company Ethics and Compliance Office publishes member of the Company’s top senior management Leadersubject-matter-specific Code of Conduct supplemental ship Team. Managers, team leaders and Leadership Team materials, which are referred to as ‘Ethics Guides.’ The members are held to even higher ethical standards and Ethics Guides are used in the Company’s ethics and compliscrutiny, and expressly have additional obligations under ance training programs and are available to all employees the Company’s Code of Conduct to set, maintain, reinforce, from the Company’s employee web site. and exemplify a pervasive culture that reflects the Company’s commitments to integrity, ethics, and compliance. The Teradata Values and Code of Conduct document and Teradata Ethics Guides themselves include and are used as Managers are required, under the Company’s Code of learning and training aids. In addition to stating the ComConduct, to consider integrity, ethics, and compliance in pany’s shared Values, Behavioral Qualities and standards all performance evaluations and decisions regarding hiring, of conduct, those documents include explanations of why retention, compensation, and promotion of employees. those Values, Behavioral Qualities and standards apply, Managers are provided with ethics and compliance tools so answers to frequently-asked-questions, real-world-based that they may have reinforcement discussions and learning scenarios-and-guidance, red-flags/warning-sign listings, sessions with employees, such as regarding real-world sceexplanations of the Company’s ethics and compliance narios and lessons-learned discussions resulting from the processes, details on how employees can raise ethics Company Ethics and Compliance Office’s periodic distribuconcerns and questions and report suspected violations tion to management of ‘Ethics in the Headlines’ summaries through a variety of channels (including through a toll-free/ and such as discussions resulting from the Company online Ethics Helpline, which can be used on a 24X7 conEthics and Compliance Office’s periodic distribution to fidential and anonymous basis), and information about the management of thought-provoking ‘Ethics Quotes.’ Ethics Company’s policy of not tolerating any retaliation against and compliance reminders and reinforcement messages 16 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report frequently also are included in the Company’s employee 4.12 Teradata Code of Conduct (GRI 4.8) e-newsletters, employee web sites, kick-off meetings, leadership council meetings, and ‘town-hall’ meetings and Teradata integrates ethical business practices throughout webcasts. The toll-free telephone number for the Teradata the Company, its global workforce and with respect to its Ethics Helpline appears on most Teradata employee supply-chain and other business partners by adopting, identification badges and mention of that fact is included in publishing, communicating, and training based on a written the Company’s Code of Conduct training programs, so that Code of Conduct. all employees will have, and know they have, access to the All Teradata people (e.g. employees, independent staff conCompany’s ethics and compliance guidance and reporting tractors, officers, and directors) and Teradata entities (e.g. resources at all times. the parent company, as well as all Teradata subsidiaries, During 2011, approximately 9,000 different Teradata people affiliates, branches, business groups, and teams) worldwide (employees plus individual staff contractors and members are subject to the Teradata Code of Conduct. In addition, of the Board of Directors) received ethics and compliance Teradata has adopted numerous subject-matter-specific training, including anti-discrimination, anti-harassment, antipolicies and procedures, as well as subject-matter-specific bribery, anti-corruption, data privacy, information security, Code of Conduct supplements, known as “Ethics Guides”, environmental, health and safety, training, for over 50,000 that apply to all Teradata people and entities which deal person-hour of ethics and compliance training during the with those subject matters and that provide more particular year (i.e., an annual average of more than five hours per guidance and details on standards of conduct relevant to person). In recognition of the quality and effectiveness of those subject areas. it implementation of its compliance training, during 2011, The Teradata Code of Conduct and the Company’s related Teradata received the Kaplan EduNeering “Knowledge policies, procedures and Ethics Guides include: duties to Summit Achievement Award” as the top company globally in respect human rights and employment/labor rights and the category of “Compliance” training and communications. laws; commitments and practices to avoid, eliminate and Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical Companies have zero-tolerance for corruption; commitments to environFor each of the past three years, Ethisphere Institute has mental, health and safety standards, laws and regulations; named Teradata one of the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’. and, how to raise ethics and compliance concerns and The independently-assessed criteria for this recognition questions, and report potential ethics and compliance includes the following: Corporate Citizenship and Responviolations, without fear of retaliation and on a confidential sibility; Corporate Governance; Innovation that Contributes and anonymous basis. They also expressly cover the to the Public Well Being; Industry Leadership; Executive Company’s standards of conduct and requirements of all Leadership and Tone from the Top; Legal, Regulatory and Teradata people to avoid, address, and have zero-tolerance Reputation Track Record; and, Internal Systems and Ethics/ for any forms of illegal or improper discrimination, harassCompliance Program. Teradata has achieved this recognition ment and, retaliation against anyone. based on performance assessments for the 2009, 2010 and 2011 calendar years. As we move forward, Teradata remains At a high level, our Code of Conduct commitments are: committed to meeting or exceeding the high standards 1. We conduct business ethically and in compliance with established by these ethics criteria in our all of our operations our Code of Conduct and Policies. throughout Company and across the world. 2. We seek guidance and report concerns and violations. 3. We respect others. 17 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4. We comply with laws. Compliance and Ethics (SCCE), and the Ethics & Compli5. We compete fairly. ance Officers’ Association (ECOA) and has aligned its Code of Conduct, Ethics and Compliance program initiatives, 6. We avoid conflicts of interest. and related policies, procedures, and Ethics Guides with 7. We protect assets. standards and best-practices from those organizations 8. We protect data. and with the criteria for nomination to and selection for the 9. We keep accurate records. Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical Companies listing and Dow 10 We apply our Code of Conduct and Policies consistently. Jones Sustainability Index listing. 11. We do the right thing – always. Under the Teradata Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the Company’s vendors must commit to and certify compliance Teradata also has adopted the standards of conduct with the principles set out in the Teradata Code of Conduct established by: the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and the EICC Code of Conduct with respect to all of their (EICC) Code of Conduct; the United Nations (UN) Global Teradata-related dealings, including with respect to all Compact; the International Labour Organization (ILO); the Teradata Requests For Proposals (RFPs) and all contracts Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Developwith Teradata. Under the Teradata Code of Conduct various ment’s (OECD’s) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; Teradata entities, business organizations and teams may the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Rules of adopt supplemental standards of conduct and related poliConduct to Combat Extortion & Bribery, Rules on Combatcies and procedures, but they must be at least a stringent ting Corruption, Guidelines on Agents, Intermediaries and as Teradata global company-wide ones and must comply Other Third Parties, and Guidelines on Whistleblowing; with all applicable laws and the underlying principles the Online Privacy Alliance; and, the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor embedded in the global Code of Conduct. This enables Framework for privacy protection. Teradata has embedthem to establish organization-specific specific and/or ded the key principles which underlie these standards into location-specific standards of conduct that are higher than the Teradata Code of Conduct and the Company’s related the Company’s global policies and procedures. policies, procedures, and Ethics Guides. Among other things, these standards and principles require and reinforce our As summarized in more detail in the section above regardcommitments to: respect for human rights; commitments ing employee ethics and compliance training, the Company and practices to avoid, eliminate and have zero-tolerance for implements extensive training and communications related corruption; respect for the environment; sustaining resources; to its Code of Conduct and related policies, procedures and, that no form of illegal or improper discrimination, harassand Ethics Guides, and the Code of Conduct and Ethics ment or retaliation by Teradata people, suppliers or other Guides themselves include various best-practices learning business partners will be tolerated by the Company. aids. The Teradata Code of Conduct is available to anyone at all times through the Teradata website at www.teradata. In 2011, Teradata became a formal signatory to the UN com (select “Company & Careers” then select “CorporateGlobal Compact. This report also constitutes the Teradata Governance” then select “Code of Conduct”). The Code of Communication On Progress (COP) that Conduct and related policies, procedures and Ethics Guides is a part of our obligation as a signatory are available to all Teradata employees at all times through to the UN Global Compact. Teradata also the Company’s internal/employee web sites. And, as set is a member of the Ethisphere Council, out in the Code of Conduct document, anyone can contact the Business Ethics Leadership Allithe Teradata Ethics and Compliance Office and/or other ance (BELA), the Society of Corporate 18 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report identified resources, including the Company’s always-availCompany’s Ethics and Compliance initiative, additionally able multiple-language Ethics Helpline, to report a Code of are periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Conduct violation or other ethics and compliance violation Board of Directors. or to raise a Code of Conduct compliance or other ethics and compliance issue, question or request at any time. 4.13 Teradata Values and Behavioral Qualities Teradata regularly, globally, and systematically audits/ The Teradata shared Values are broad core principles that monitors/ reviews the compliance of its entities with the are used to guide all Teradata people and teams in all of standards of conduct established by the Company’s Code their Teradata-related acts, decisions, and words. These of Conduct and related policies, procedures, and Ethics high-level Values, and the actionable Behavioral Qualities Guides. It utilizes internal controls personnel and internal that arise from them, foster behavior and a company culture auditors to verify such, as well as external independent that not only comply with legal and ethical standards, but auditors where appropriate. Through or in coordination additionally help Teradata achieve its other business objecwith the Teradata Ethics and Compliance Office, Teradata tives and aspirations. Where our Code of Conduct or related conducts inquiries and investigations into all instances policies, procedures, or Ethics Guides do not address a where potential compliance exceptions have been reported particular issue, Teradata people are to use our shared or otherwise have been identified as a result of auditing/ Values and Behavioral Qualities for directional guidance in monitoring/reviewing for controls and compliance, including determining the right thing to do. Our shared Values and those regarding environmental, anti-fraud/corruption, conBehavioral Qualities therefore serve as foundations for our flicts of interest, human rights and import/export/anti-boycott Code of Conduct commitments, and are included in the compliance, as well as other forms of financial-related and Company’s Values and Code of Conduct document (which non-financial-related potential misconduct. is available through the Teradata.com website. The Teradata Ethics and Compliance Office periodically The Teradata shared Values also serve as the basis for the reviews the status and handling of all such matters, as overall direction of the Company and as evaluation criteria well as the programmatic aspects of the Teradata Ethics for the Company and its Leadership Team, collectively and Compliance initiative, with the Teradata Ethics and and individually, not merely with respect to ethics and Compliance Committee. The Teradata Ethics and Complicompliance, but with respect to developing and running ance Committee is comprised of certain members of the the entire business, and with respect to establishing and Leadership Team, including the Chief Executive Officer, the maintaining the culture of the Company. They are to be Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Ethics embedded in and underlie everything done and aspired to and Compliance Officer, and determines for all significant be done at Teradata. inquiries/investigations if a violation has been committed, The Teradata shared Values are: what disciplinary actions will be imposed and what remedial actions should be taken to prevent recurrences. The Chief INTEGRITY – We are committed to the highest standEthics and Compliance Officer makes such determinaards of integrity and ethics. At Teradata, we do the right tion for all non-significant matters, but reviews the results thing – always. with the Ethics and Compliance Committee. The status, PEOPLE FOCUS – We believe our employees distinguish handling, and determinations for all inquiry/investigaus. We respect individual differences and strive to build a tion matters, as well as the programmatic aspects of the supportive work environment. 19 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report OPEN, TRUST-BASED ENVIRONMENT – We strive to 5.0 Quality create an environment of openness and trust within Teradata and with our customers, partners and suppliers. 5.1 Teradata Quality System (GRI PR1, PR5) CUSTOMER DEDICATION – We are passionate about our Delivering solutions and services that provide value to customers and their success with our solutions. our customers is critical to Teradata’s ongoing success. A key component in the value we bring to our customer is RESPONSIBILITY – We demonstrate responsibility in all the quality of our solutions and services. In support of this, aspects of our business endeavors. We are committed to everyone in Teradata has a shared responsibility to ensure the communities where we work and live. that their daily activities deliver quality to the next step in the INNOVATION – We foster an environment of continuous process and, ultimately, to the end customer. innovation to deliver greater value to our customers. Teradata is committed to providing solutions and services The Teradata Behavioral Qualities arise from the Teradata that meet or exceed customers’ expectations, are free of shared Values and help translate the directional guidance defects, comply with all applicable standards and regulaprovided by those Values into a list of actionable charactertory requirements, and offer greater value than those of our istics that are sought from all Teradata associates, teams, competitors. Teradata will ensure that product and process and business partners. They reflect the types of behaviors standards (ISO, CMM/CMMI), certifications, and registrathat Teradata stands for, strives for, and expects of all tions are achieved; that quality initiatives are leveraged Teradata people. They apply not merely with respect to ethand integrated; and that environmental, health, and safety ics and compliance matters, but with respect to everything legal requirements are achieved, resulting in material Teradata people do in connection with the Company. improvements to the total business system. We will utilize and continually improve our global business process as a Our desired Behavioral Qualities are: means of delivering outstanding customer value. Trust Excellence Teradata also holds suppliers accountable for meeting Respect performance expectations in terms of quality, cost, delivery, Achievement integrity, environment, and innovation to consistently meet Dedication our customer’s requirements. Accountability The Teradata Quality Management System is comprised of Teamwork key processes, measures, and controls required to fulfill the Attitude intent of the Quality Policy, which is to: Teradata and its people are committed to applying the > Consistently meet or exceed the quality expectations of Teradata shared Values and exemplifying our desired our customers. Behavioral Qualities in all of their Company-related deci> Continuously improve processes that allow all employees sions, words, and conduct. to do their jobs right the first time. 20 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata’s Program Realization Process is a corporate-wide Their core purpose is to help organizations improve their process overseeing all program activities, from the concepsoftware engineering capabilities and to develop or acquire tual stage through lifecycle management. Its purpose is to: the right software, defect free, within budget and on time, > Involve all necessary corporate functions/organizational every time. Visit www.sei.cmu.edu. levels at the right time. > Require management decisions at appropriate points. 6.0 Stakeholders (GRI 4.14-4.17) > Provide a framework of order and parallelism to sustain Teradata has always reached out to its most important Teradata’s portfolio management while ensuring faster assets – its stakeholders. These include but are not limited time to market and the highest quality. to: customers, investors, employees, suppliers, the different Formal process management methods (fully documented communities in which we live and the organizations that with measures and improvement activities) are used to support those communities. maintain this process as well as other business and quality processes within Teradata (See Figure 1). 6.1 Customers Our customers allow us to exist because of their trust in our 5.2 Carnegie Mellon-SEI Partner Network company and their valuable feedback. They are the industry Teradata is a general member of the SEI Partners Network powerhouses that are outpacing their competitors. They join and an SEI Advisory Board Member. The Partner Advisory with our partners to form a worldwide collaborative network Board provides advice to the SEI regarding its direction connecting every industry, market, and geography with and activities. The Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering application-specific expertise and proven best practices. Institute (SEI) works closely with organizations, industry, and Teradata actively seeks partnerships with other leading academia to continually improve software-intensive systems. Program Realization Major Subprocesses Pre-Sales Support > SW Development Post-Sales Support > HW Development Major Subprocesses Major Subprocesses > Sytem Engineer Certification > Customer Benchmarking > Information Development > Controlled Deployment > SW Maintenance > Customer Briefings and Delivery > Emergency SW Fix > Order Validation > Subcontract Management > SW Patch Release Finance and Administration (Financial Management, Capacity Planning, Facilities Management, Purchasing) HR Management (Skills Assessment, Training, Staffing, Objective Setting, Performance Management, ASAT) Quality (Audits, RMP, Key Learning, Best Practices, TRP, Defect Prevention, SW Qual Management, Customer Sat) Program Management (Requirements Management, RFC, Project Planning, Development Realization Assessment) Engineering (Design and Debug, Peer [Code/Design/Document] Review, Complexity, Coverage, SCM, Testing) Figure 1. Teradata Processes. 21 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report innovators in software, technology, and integration services Management, Demand Chain Management, Supply to provide customers with end-to-end analytic solutions. Chain Intelligence and Teradata Warehouse Miner. AA PAC consists of license holders and end users Via a series of integrated processes, we have been turning who come together to provide insight into new busitransactions into relationships throughout the life of the ness strategies, processes, and functionality with an product. These best-in-class processes include but are not eye toward adding business value to the analytical limited to: applications. > World-class, passionate professional and customer > The Teradata PARTNERS User Group Conference service associates, coupled with the Teradata Global & Expo provides educational sessions to increase Support Center, an interactive Teradata @ Your Service technology and product knowledge. Customers share website, software updates on demand, and the Teradata real-life experiences while gaining insight from industry Education Network. keynote presenters. The event provides an opportunity > Teradata PARTNERS User Group, which is made up of to network with colleagues and industry experts, and to thousands of customers active in data warehousing and examine and discuss the latest data warehousing trends its associated technologies and products. Its members and technologies. come together each year to share their experiences, > Teradata uses its customer satisfaction program to successes, and challenges at the annual Teradata provide each account team with performance scores PARTNERS User Group Conference & Expo. Within the and commentary from their customers. Furthermore, the PARTNERS User Group are several subgroups: company uses the feedback from customers, obtained – PARTNERS is governed by a Steering Committee of via questionnaires, to provide Teradata management customer representatives who provide leadership on guidance into positive areas that can be leveraged and behalf of all Teradata customers. negative areas that need improvement. When a ques– The Product Advisory Council (PAC) was formed tionnaire is completed, results are sent to the account to work closely with Teradata to gather customer team for review and action, where appropriate. Each requirements – both shortand long-term – and to quarter, results are reviewed by marketing research, focus on key product and service issues. The PAC and aggregate results and recommended actions are also facilitates a comprehensive product and service presented to the Teradata leadership team and area enhancement request (ER) process that equitably leaders. represents the entire customer base. > Aprimo has multiple forums by which customers are able – The Service Focus Team (SFT) works closely with to provide feedback on product and processes within the Teradata on key issues regarding support services company. First we have a series of formal meetings that and other areas that fall beyond the scope of product include: Aprimo Marketing Summit Customer Advisory enhancements. The SFT represents the concerns of Board, User Groups by Vertical, Aprimo Product CusTeradata customers and gathers feedback to make tomer Focus Groups and the Aprimo Analytical Product service improvements. Advisory Council (AAPAC). We also allow customers – The Analytical Applications Product Advisory Counto provide feedback directly to our product team via a cil (AA PAC) provides advisory input for product scheduled meeting with their account rep and a repredevelopment direction to Teradata analytical applicasentative from the product development team. Finally, tions, including integrated Marketing, Relationship customers are able to provide feedback at various touch 22 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report points with Aprimo through an online survey adminiswebsite that provides virtual employees with direct links tered by Mindshare Technologies. Some of the touch to the information, tools, and tips that allow them to work points include: Contract Signing, Implementation Design effectively “anytime, anywhere.” Sign-off, Customer Care Handoff, Quarterly Review, We believe our people around the globe who dedicate their (Customer) Fiscal Year End, and a quarterly Overall time and talents to Teradata and who are so passionate about Satisfaction survey. our customers’ success are key to our continuing success. > Teradata Aster gets strategic input on product, services, and support from its customers throughout the year via To attract the passionate professionals of the future, Teradata questionnaires and product review calls. In addition, maintains contact with the following U.S. universities: there is an annual customer advisory board (CAB) East Coast: meeting conducted in conjunction with PARTNERS where a large number of Teradata Aster customers are > Bentley in attendance. > Drexel 6.2 Investor Relations > Stevens Teradata is committed to serving the best interests of its Midwest: shareholders. Teradata’s investor pages, located at Teradata. > IUPUI com, enable investors to find key shareholder information > Miami of Ohio and financial reports, which can help put Teradata Corpora> Purdue University tion’s financial performance into perspective. > Rose Hulman 6.3 Shareholder Communication > Sinclair Community College Stockholders are encouraged to communicate with the > University of Dayton Audit Committee Chair or any of the company’s other > University of Illinois non-employee directors by contacting Teradata’s Corporate > University of Indiana-Bloomington Secretary at 10000 Innovation Drive, Dayton, OH 45342. > Wright State University The Corporate Secretary will forward any communications > University of Wisconsin – Madison as directed by the stockholder. > University of Akron 6.4 Employees Southeast/DC Area: Employees are Teradata’s most valuable asset. This > Georgia Tech includes all individuals employed by Teradata, both regular > North Carolina State full-time and part-time individuals. At Teradata we know it’s our people that make us great. We are committed to keep> University of Georgia ing employees informed through regular communications > James Madison University from leadership and by providing them with open channel > Virginia Tech to provide feedback. In addition to an ongoing idea genera> University of Virginia tion program we participate annually in local and national Southwest/West Coast: employee engagement surveys to give management a view > San Diego State University of our workplace culture. As ongoing support for our virtual workforce, we created Workplace Connection, a dedicated > University of California – Berkeley 23 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report > University of California – Irvine employee skills, facilitates teamwork, and helps employees > University of California – San Diego understand and appreciate the interdependence between > University of Southern California our company and the communities where we live and do business. > Stanford > Harvey Mudd Teradata focuses our corporate-giving resources and > Carnegie Mellon Bay Area Campus employee-volunteer talents on three key areas: Texas: 1. Improving education to help build tomor> Texas A&M row’s technologists and business leaders who understand the possibilities that technology > Baylor provides. Canada: Interest among youth today in science and technology is > University of Waterloo diminishing. Teradata Cares is dedicated to countering this trend by nurturing and developing young people’s interest > University of Calgary and education in the STEM disciplines (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics). In addition to preparing 7.0 Teradata Cares today’s youth for life in the modern world, this approach also (GRI SO1) develops our industry’s future technologists and business At Teradata, it’s the people who make our company great, leaders. One of Teradata’s most strategic partners is FIRST and their commitment to excellence extends far beyond (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technolthe company. Teradata Cares, the Teradata Community ogy). Founded in 1989, FIRST’s mission is to inspire young Relations program, administers all of Teradata’s community people to be science and technology leaders by engaging investment programs and is committed to building strong them in exciting mentor-based programs that build science, and vibrant communities, improving quality of life and makengineering and technology skills; that inspire innovation; ing a positive difference where we live and work. and that foster well-rounded life capabilities, including Our global focus is on education in Science, Technolself-confidence, communication and leadership. In addition, ogy, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). This focus Teradata also supports programs like Junior Achievement, develops student interest in technology subjects that will that benefit the business community by ensuring that the lead to a strong future workforce, and it creates opportuninext generation of business leaders is well-poised to pursue ties for employees to engage with students in their local careers in business. communities. Teradata Community Relations engages in 2. Helping the environment by supporting grant-making that is consistent with this educational focus global sustainability. and our technological competency. Teradata strives to comply with all applicable workplace health and safety requirements and regularly monitors its Teradata’s grant guidelines are available at achievements in these areas. Also, Teradata has impleTeradata.com/t/community-relations. mented recycling programs, utilizes recycled products 7.1 Community Relations Areas of Focus (such as paper) and has implemented various energy At Teradata, we believe that volunteering shows the power and resource conservation programs at multiple facilities. of the human spirit, fuels individual passions, develops Teradata’s green family of products boosts energy efficiency, enabling more output with less consumption. The entire 24 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report platform leverages energy-efficient processors and cabinet unique opportunity to not only be a volunteer, but also to designs. Finally, in our volunteer efforts, our employees lead, inspire, and motivate colleagues to get involved. participate in neighborhood clean-ups, restoration projects, Teradata Cares provides training, support and tools to assist and assist with disaster relief. these passionate employees to further our efforts around 3. Strengthening neighborhoods and communithe globe. Community Champions are also a critical part ties where Teradata has a presence. of Teradata’s Annual Days of Caring. Currently, over 45 Through Teradata Cares, Teradata employees donate their Teradata Community Champions are located in the following time and expertise to improve communities around the cities: Atlanta, Auckland, Beijing, Bogota, Boston, Buenos world. Teradata’s employees also volunteer their time as Aires, Canberra, Charlotte, Chicago, Columbia, Delhi, board members for nonprofit organizations, participate in Denver, Dublin, Dusseldorf, El Segundo, Giza, Gurgaon, social service programs and lend their considerable experiHelsinki, Hyderabad, Islamabad, Istanbul, Karachi, Kuala ence to many community organizations. Lumpur, London, Manila, Melbourne, Mexico City, Miamisburg, Minneapolis, Moscow, Mumbai, New York City, 7.2 Employee Involvement Peachtree City, Prague, Raleigh, Reston, San Diego, San Each employee at Teradata has their own passions and Mateo, Singapore, Seoul, St. Louis, Sydney, Tokyo, Toronto, skills that can benefit the world around them. Through and Warsaw. Teradata Cares, we encourage people to support their personal passions or find new ones through multiple volunTeradata Annual Days of Caring teering opportunities in the cities where they live or while Each August, Teradata employees around the globe are they are attending Teradata events. invited to participate in the annual Teradata Days of Caring, during which employees join together to support local comVolunteering Policy munity projects. In 2011, employees, families, customers, As part of its commitment to give back, Teradata provides and partners completed 200 projects in 44 cities with 1700 employees four days a year during normal working hours to participants volunteering over 2800 hours. volunteer in their local communities. Teradata encourages employee community engagement in volunteer organizations Community Service Grants by offering a variety of opportunities to give back. In 2011, Teradata Cares also provides Community Service Grants over 4500 employees completed over 15,000 hours of volto encourage civic volunteerism by providing funds for unteerism. Since the launch of Teradata Cares in May 2008, volunteer projects performed by teams of five or more over 35,000 hours of volunteerism have been completed. employees. Community Service Grants must be used to purchase supplies and materials for the performance of a Community Champions specific, one-time, hands-on project to be completed by The Community Champions program provides employees the employee group that requests the grant, or donations the opportunity to promote an ethic of service in their local in support of teams raising money for various causes. community. Community Champions embody the values Examples of this type of project might include the purchase of Teradata and are the leaders of change. Working with of lumber or hardware to build a fence around a school Teradata Cares in their local offices, they are integral to playground; the purchase of bathroom fixtures to renovate a mobilizing the corporate community and leveraging our homeless shelter; the purchase of flowers, shrubbery, and highly-skilled workforce to make a significant and positive mulch to landscape around a community center. impact on the community. Community Champions have the 25 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Examples of 2011 Community Service Grant projects include Dragon Boat races to raise money for breast cancer in Sydney, supporting schools with computers in Mexico City, building a kindergarten music room in Augsburg and river clean-up in Dayton. River clean-up in Dayton, OH Dragon Boat Team, Sydney, Australia Installing Computers, Mexico City In 2011 in San Diego, Teradata employees, partners and customers built over 125 bicycles and donated them to children at the local Boys and Girls Club. In addition, volunteers at the event also hand-tied 64 blankets for Project Linus, to provide to children in hospitals. Kindergarten project, Augsburg, Germany Teradata Cares at Events In addition to projects near their homes, Teradata leverages customer events to engage not only our employees but also our customers and partners. At the Teradata PARTNERS User Group Conference held annual in various cities, projects are completed to support those local communities. 26 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report At the 2011 EMEA Teradata Universe, our European 2011 EMEA Teradata Cares Employee of the Year – customer conference, Teradata Cares supported, Talita, an Michael Leuenberger, Duesseldorf, Germany organization in Barcelona that helps children with disMichael is founder and chair of Global Biking Initiative. This abilities. Through Teradata and customer donations, the charity collects funds for different humanitarian charities organization received over $9000 to support programs. in 18 countries worldwide. As chair, Michael organizes an Dollars for Doers annual international, one week long, cycling event taking place in Europe with hundreds of participants from 20 counTeradata’s Dollars for Doers volunteer service grant protries. He has volunteered over 300 hours in 2011. Through gram provides financial grants in support and recognition his efforts, 700 people have raised more than quarter of a of employees who volunteer with nonprofit organizations. million Euros for humanitarian projects worldwide. Once an employee has been actively involved with an organization and has performed at least 50 hours of volunteer 2011 APAC Teradata Cares Employee of the Year – service during the previous calendar year, they may apply Srikanth Voorakaranam, Hyderabad, India for a volunteer grant. The nonprofit organization is required Srikanth has been supporting education projects for to verify the hours served. underprivileged children by volunteering an average of 300 Celebration of Caring Awards hours per year with Asha for Education since 1996. As an In 2008, Teradata Cares launched its “Celebration of Caring active volunteer, Srikanth actively gives back by working Awards”. Teradata employees are nominated annually for with volunteer teams, mentoring new volunteers, organizing their personal involvement in helping to improve the quality fundraising and awareness events, and perform site visits of life for others. The Celebration of Caring Awards recogto interact with children and teachers. In his role at Teradata, nize and honor Teradata employees whose volunteer efforts he travels often but always finds ways to volunteer during best exemplify dedication to the well being of the people in the weekends and virtually via email/phone/web during the their communities. In addition, the charities that our winners week. He offers his skills by creating presentations, content support also receive grants from Teradata. for websites, proposals, publicity materials, annual reports, and represents the organization in Corporate Giving forums 2011 Celebration of Caring Award Winners organized by other companies. 2011 Americas Employee of the Year – Darla Marburger, Reston, VA 2011 Teradata Cares Team of the Year – Aprimo TASC In 2011, Darla initiated, led, and executed the Rise from This global team sponsors events, primarily in Indianapolis the Ashes Drive charitable event. She coordinated the and Raleigh, for various charitable organizations. In 2011, efforts of 30 volunteers collecting household goods to help TASC raised over $14,000 for a variety of charities such the victims of the wildfires that destroyed 1500 homes in as Women’s shelter, Special Olympics, American Cancer Bastrop County Texas. Darla’s event was adopted by the Society, Breast Cancer Foundation, U.S. Armed Forces, organization Serve A Village, allowing donors to receive tax School supplies, Food Drives, and the Lymphoma Society. credit for the aid they provided. She also was involved in a They also adopted 2 needy families for the holidays. They service expedition to South Africa where she collected chilbelieve that participating in these activities are not only dren’s clothing, school supplies, first aid provisions, hygiene great opportunities to give back to the community but supplies, and baby blankets for a small village where 60% have helped greatly in getting team members to know one of the population is impoverished. another after the Teradata acquisition. 27 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report children’s interest in math, science and technology careers. Around the globe, support of STEM initiatives includes local science fairs, science and technology programs, Girls in IT programs, and mentoring programs. Our support of FIRST includes FIRST Lego League and FIRST Robotics Competitions at state, regional, and team level in our local communities in California, Georgia, Ohio, North Carolina, and South Carolina. In addition, Teradata awards annual Teradata FIRST Scholarships to outstanding senior participants on the teams we support. 2011 Teradata Cares Office of the Year – Dayton, OH Teradata University Network The Dayton office employees have volunteered close Mastering the challenges of tomorrow’s dynamic busito 1000 hours on over 40 service projects to a variety of ness and IT environments will require a combination of charities in 2011. Their fundraising efforts included collecttechnical expertise and practical, hands-on training – and ing more than $3500 for victims of the tsunami in Japan that’s exactly what students experience through Teradata and more than $3000 for cancer research from a book sale University Network (TUN). and relay event, In addition, they raised nearly $2000 for an area charity consortium, $1120 from bake sales, and Teradata works with a dedicated board of academics to $850 for charity for Special Olympics. They were a vital ensure faculty at universities around the globe have free contributor to the regional blood and tissue center, helping access to the necessary tools to prepare future generato raise money, pack supplies, participate in blood drives, tions of technologists and business leaders. The academic and manage events to fight cancer. Their impact is spread board that drives this unique teaching portal is composed out across the community offering financial and manpower of leading practitioners and renowned academics recruited resources to organizations ranging from animal shelters, from around the world, united by their dedication to sharing nursing homes, and area nature arboretum to track and innovative, proactive applications of authentic technology field events for disabled youth, food kitchens and science for data-driven decisions. fairs. Several Dayton employees act as leaders in the Teradata’s goal is to train students to be break-through community for the specific charity they represent, educating thinkers and doers who use data to create business value. the office on opportunities for involvement. Their mission to help out in as many ways as possible is carried out by the entire office. “TUN is a win-win, win-win, win-win 7.3 Investing in Our Future situation. Teradata is increasing brand In addition to the financial support we provide communities awareness and thought leadership, through our volunteer efforts, Teradata also makes investments in programs in support of our strategic focus on students get leading-edge skills, education. professors are more effective and employers receive skilled recruits.” Strategic Grants Barb Wixom, Program Director of MS MIT at the McIntire Teradata’s focus on STEM education is evidenced through School of Commerce, University of Virginia our support of programs and events that encourage 28 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report In 2011, the TUN Board began a Curriculum initiative to develop some recommended standards for teaching business intelligence and the undergrad, graduate and executive education levels. Preparing the next generation of data analysts and scientists for current and future career opportunities is our primary focus. Currently, TUN is providing access to software and resources to over 3,000 faculty members from 1641 schools in 90 countries. 7.4 Teradata Cares: Community Spotlights Indianapolis, Indiana Light the Night – The TASC Team in both Raleigh and The Teradata Aprimo office in Indianapolis brought with Indianapolis participated in the Light the Night walk benthem to Teradata a strong history of giving back. Through efitting the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. In total, 22 their TASC committee, Team Aprimo Serving Communities, people walked 2 miles and raised $6225.00! they coordinate activities in both Raleigh and Indianapolis. Now with the support of Teradata Cares, they were able to increase their impact on the community. Polar Plunge – Each year, employees are “Freezin’ for a Reason” in the Polar Plunge benefitting the Special Olympics Indiana. The Polar Plunge consists of running into the frigid waters of Eagle Creek Reservoir and immersing yourself. Aprimo participants raised $830. Susan G Komen Race for the Cure – In April, team members participated in the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure Monumental Marathon – On Nov 5th, Teradata Cares in Indianapolis. Participants were able to participate in a 5K TASC team participated in the Indianapolis Monumental Half competitive run, a 5K walk, a 1 mile family walk, or “Sleep Marathon (13.1 miles) and 5K (3.1 miles). Teradata Cares in the Cure.” Thirteen employees participated and raised a sponsored a mile marker on the race course and monies total of $2298. raised benefitted the Indianapolis Public Schools. Manila, Philippines The Teradata office in Manila opened in 2008 and became a global consulting center in 2010. Their newly established Women of Teradata chapter started Manila’s participation in Teradata Cares in 2011 with two large projects. Building Lives of our Future Leaders Today – The Women of Teradata wanted to help the Bagong Tanyag Elementary School and the school kids who wanted to study but did not have enough money to support their needs 29 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011. The EPA’s goal was to give direction, guidance and the tools for companies to become aware of the importance of understanding their impact on the environment. A major part of the program was to educate companies on what greenhouse gases are and the importance of tracking and reporting a company’s greenhouse gases. Over the past two years, Teradata has worked with the EPA as apart of the Climate Leaders program to review our GHG inventory and develop our Inventory Management Plan (IMP). Through this process, our Inventory Management Plan was with books and materials. They decided that providing externally verified through the EPA program in 2008-2010 workbooks to the schools would not just help the kids today, to assure that our processes of gathering our emissions but will be helpful for the future class since the public school based data was correct and repeatable. Being a part of the usually recycles the workbooks for the following school EPA Climate Leaders program demonstrated our company’s years. On September 3rd, 28 participants worked presented commitment to reducing our impact on the environment a program on readiness skills and provided over 500 books through a corporate-wide goal to reduce emissions. Going to the students. forward we will continue to use the same GHG inventory tools and IMP to track our impact on the environment. He Cares Mission – In December, The Women of Teradata Manila celebrated the season of Christmas with the 256 In 2009, Teradata developed a worldwide, corporate-wide street children of He Cares Mission Center in Quezon City. inventory for its GHG Emissions for 2008. The Emissions This successful event involved the participation of over were for a full year 2008 and continue to serve as our base 60 employees raising PHP 15,000.00 and collecting toys, year in our EPA Climate leaders reporting process. We also books, clothes, and slippers for the children. All volunteers have provided our emissions for 2008-2011. See tables 1-4. enjoyed the spirit of giving and handing out gifts to the In 2010, Environmental Protection Agency Climate Leaders children. It was a wonderful holiday celebration! program officially approved Teradata’s aggressive five-year goal to reduce its worldwide greenhouse gas emissions 8.0 Environmental Responsibility intensity by 45 percent. The greenhouse gas emissions intensity calculation is based on facility energy usage and Our commitment to environmental responsibility is evident the number of Teradata Purpose-Built Platforms shipped in our people, products, and processes. per year. With regards to our goal progress, based on our 8.1 Environmental Program Membership 2009 emission results as compared to our 2008 baseline, (GRI EN3, EN4, EN7, EN16, EN17) we achieved a 33.6% reduction in our energy intensity goal. Greenhouse Gas Management Program We are well on our way to achieving our goal through the To manage the risks from greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EPA program. from our operations and identify cost-effective mitigation opportunities, Teradata joined the U.S. Environmental During 2011, we completed our reporting process for Protection Agency (EPA) Climate Leaders program in calculating our progress against our announced goal of 2008. However, late in 2010, the EPA announced that the 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions intensity. This agency would be winding down the program in September process was completed after our 2011 CSR (2010 results) 30 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report report was completed. We are very pleased to announce Region Direct Emissions Indirect Emisthat we have met and exceeded our goal in that in 2010 we (metric tons CO2 sions (metric achieved at cumulative 52.1% reduction in our greenhouse eq) tons CO2 eq) emissions intensity target vs. 2008! In just 2 years, we were USA 498 13049 able to advanced pass our 5 year goal. We will be commuInternational 0 2769 nicating a new goal in 2012 and will report this goal in our Table 1. 2008 Base Year Emissions 2013 CSR report. FSTE4Good Index Region Direct Emissions Indirect Emis(metric tons CO2 sions (metric In 2008, Teradata was selected eq) tons CO2 eq) as a member in good standing of USA 521 14251 the FSTE4Good Index, which is International 0 2837 an innovative series of real-time Table 2. 2009 Emissions indices designed to reflect the performance of socially responRegion Direct Emissions Indirect Emissible equities. (metric tons CO2 sions (metric eq) tons CO2 eq) The Index is created and managed by global index provider USA 724 15754 FTSE Group and covers five markets: United Kingdom, International 0 2993 Europe, Japan, United States, and Global. Four tradable and five benchmark indices make up the FTSE4Good Index Table 3. 2010 Emissions series. A committee of independent practitioners in socially responsible investment (SRI) and corporate social responRegion Direct Emissions Indirect Emissibility (CSR) review the indices to ensure that they are an (metric tons CO2 sions (metric eq) tons CO2 eq) accurate reflection of current CSR best practices. USA 504 17068 EPA SmartWay Transport Program International 0 3037 Teradata has been a member of the SmartWay Program Table 4. 2011 Emissions since 2008. SmartWay is an innovative collaboration between the freight industry and government to reduce 8.2 Dow Jones Sustainability Index air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, improve fuel For the second year, Teradata was selected for one of the efficiency, and strengthen the freight sector. famous Dow Jones Indexes, this one identifying the world’s SmartWay Transport’s goals are to reduce the impact of leaders in sustainability. Included in both the World Index freight transport on the environment, and to help our partand the North America Index, Teradata was also selected ners see the rewards to their business. Working together, as a sector leader in the TSV Computer Services & Internet we aim to reduce: sector. We increased our scores in each of the economic, environmental and social dimensions. Based on thorough > Fuel consumption from trucks and rail delivering freight. analysis of corporate economic, environmental and social > Operating costs associated with freight delivery. > Emissions of CO2. > Emissions of NOx, PM, and air toxics. 31 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report performance, this annual index is the largest global 8.4 Newsweek Green Rankings analysis of corporate sustainability leadership. In addition In 2011, Teradata was awarded inclusion to the Newsweek to recognition as one of the world’s top companies, being Green Rankings in the Top US 250 companies. Specifically, named to this index encourages investment companies to Teradata was ranked #42 in the United States. The rankings consider Teradata. are available at Newsweek.com/green. The rankings were developed based on surveys of the 500 largest US firms. The The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index comprises more information was prepared by leading CSR environmental than 300 companies identified as the top 10 percent of the research and analytical firms Truscost and Sustainalytics. leading sustainability performers among the largest 2,500 Some of the data points included were to assess companies’ companies in the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market environmental footprint (including greenhouse-gas emisIndex. Companies on the North America Index represent the sions and water use); management (including environmental top 20 percent of the highest performers. policies, programs, and initiatives); and disclosure (including “Being recognized in this rigorous external benchmark further company reporting and involvement in transparency initiareinforces our commitment to continue to be a sustainability tives). Underlying data are drawn from a variety of sources, leader. Making sustainability practices a part of the corpoincluding the companies themselves, and vetted for reliability. rate operating philosophy continues to make good business sense,” said Bruce Langos, Chief Operations Officer, 8.5 Virtual Office Program (GRI 2.8) Teradata Corporation. At the end of 2011, Teradata had 10,264 employees and Launched in 1999, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes are contractors around the world, more than 19% work virtually. the first global indexes that track the financial performance This not only allows Teradata as a company to lessen the of the leading sustainability-driven companies worldwide. impact of its people in terms of fuel consumption, but it also When selecting the top performers in each business sector, allows our employees the flexibility of working from home, a Dow Jones reviews companies on several general and factor that helps us attract and retain high-quality people. industry-specific topics related to economic, environmental and social dimensions. These include corporate governance, 8.6 Paper Conservation environmental policy, climate strategy, human capital Teradata Annual Report and Proxy Statement development and labor practices. The indexes are compiled In 2008, Teradata was one of the first companies to take annually by Dow Jones and the Zurich-based Sustainable advantage of the SEC-approved “Notice and Access” (N&A) Asset Management Group. More information is available at policy, which allows companies to send notices to all www.sustainability-indexes.com. shareholders that the company’s Annual Report and Proxy Statement are available electronically, while also providing 8.3 The Sustainability Yearbook 2012 an opportunity for shareholders to request paper copies. Teradata was name the 2012 Computer and Internet Sector This policy significantly lowered the required number of Leader by the 13th SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessprinted copies of both Teradata’s Annual Report and the ment as published in the Sustainability Yearbook 2012. Proxy Statement that were printed and mailed to shareholdSector Leaders are chosen by those companies who score ers. Since 2008, Teradata has printed on average 35,000 the highest in each of the 58 sectors. Teradata was also copies of each report per year, which equates to a 87% selected as 2012 Gold Class Member through the assessreduction from the 275,000 copies that would have been ment. Last year Teradata was a Bronze Class member. required per year without N&A. 32 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata Magazine Business Cards Teradata Magazine is printed by a vendor that is commitIn addition to our marketing collateral, our employee ted to environmentally sound practices and has achieved business cards and letterhead have remained ecofriendly. status with its state (Minnesota) as a Very Small Quantity Our business cards for Teradata Corporation are produced Generator (VSQG) of hazardous waste. Furthermore, the from FSC-certified, 100% recycled/post-consumer waste hazardous waste that is generated is put to use through a material. We purchased 962 pounds of this material in 2011. fuel-blending program and burned as a fuel; non-recyclable Additionally, our letterhead is FSC-certified, 80% postand non-hazardous wastes are used to fuel an energy plant consumer waste material. We purchased 240 pounds of this to generate electricity. These actions reduce the consumpmaterial in 2011. tion of fossil fuels. Our vendor is a member of the EPA’s Promotional Items SmartWay Transport, EPA Energy Star Partner, and DepartIn 2011, total eco-friendly units purchased on the promoment of Energy Better Buildings Better Plants programs. tional website were 18% of total sales. New items added Teradata Magazine is printed in a “Zero Direct Landfill this year included BPA free reusable drinkware, notebook Waste Facility” with more than 98 percent of its waste being paper made with stone, lunch coolers, and solar powered recycled and the remainder being burned for beneficial use technology. This resulted in an additional increase in the to generate power. purchase of eco-friendly, green items from 1% of total purchases in 2008 to 8% in 2009 to 18% in 2011. Recognitions: Office Products 1. 2012 Energy Star Partner of the Year Award recipient In 2011, 26.5% of Teradata’s total spend on office products 2. 2011 International Energy Professional Development was on Recycled/Remanufactured items, up 2.3% from Award – AEE Association of Energy Engineers 2009. An additional 3.6% was on items with other green 3. 2010 CenterPoint Energy Customer of the Year for attributes (e.g. Energy Efficient, Refillable, Reduced Harsh energy efficiency Chemicals, etc.). In addition, Teradata switched from non4. 2009, 2010, 2011 Xcel Energy Process Efficiency Winrecycled copy paper to 30% recycled paper in 2009. In 2011, ners as top customers for energy efficiency 100% of Teradata’s spend on cut sheet paper was consid5. 2010 What They Think Award – Environmental Initiative ered green up 20% from 2010. This increase in recycled Award Winner – sponsored by paper usage equates to 59 fewer trees used vs virgin paper alternative and a net energy savings of 24 million BTUs! 6. 2011 Corporate Energy Management Regional Award – AEE – Association of Energy Engineers Technical Manuals 7. Energy Star Partnership Logo – First printer granted In 1999, Teradata, then a division of NCR, started to move permission to use Energy Star logo in magazines they its technical manuals from printed paper that shipped along print. The magazine continued with its commitment with the product to electronic distribution available by printto environmentally friendly practices including water on-demand or electronic media. Table 3 illustrates how this soluble ink that is safer for workers than solvent-based moved created more than a 98% reduction in printed sheets, ink, elimination of paper address labels as well as cover from 11,000,000 (the equivalent of 1,137 trees) in 1999 to letters and polybags for employee copies 2080 (22 trees) in 2010. 33 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8.7 Indirect Procurement Industry, government, and consumers are simply demandTeradata Corporation continues to develop sustainable initiaing vast increases in computing and internet capability. The tives in its procurement philosophies. result? The power consumed by IT equipment and the data center infrastructure to support it has exploded to the The Teradata RFP is a sustainable RFP. It contains an point where the amount spent on electricity by IT and data entire section inquiring about potential business partners’ centers grew almost 56% from 2006 to $6.6 billion by 2011.1 sustainable programs in the areas of ethical, social, and In addition the emissions levels due to data centers are environmental policies. These are criteria that Teradata will forecast to triple over their 2007 levels. These challenges closely consider when determining awards for new business. are occurring despite the advancement in performance per watt enabled by the processor chip industry. 8.8 Product Environmental Performance (GRI EN6, EN26) Another long emerging trend that is driving the explosion Product Development Sustainability in data center growth is the enormous amount of data Requirement generated in the world. This phenomenon has been labeled As a business value driver, Teradata R&D will continuously as “Big Data” by the industry and it is created by the vast search out and leverage technology alternatives in our increase in data sources and data uses worldwide. This hardware and software that can improve performancewould include sources such as internet use patterns and per-watt, reduce cooling requirements, and shrink the floor click streams, wireless call routing data, automobile senspace needs in data center environments as part of our sors, etc. This flood of data requires an enormous increase product designs. in the equipment to store the data and to analyze it. The data center industry in which our products operate has Not only is power a problem, but cooling and space requirebroad concerns. Energy consumption rates are skyrocketments are growing as well. According to Gartner Group and ing, and many organizations are experiencing shortfalls in Liebert Group the growth in energy consumption drives the data center capacity for power, cooling, and space. While at same level of growth in cooling demands for the data center the same time responsible companies are driving to reduce essentially doubling the cost and emissions impact of IT their environmental impact and reduce overall energy costs. equipment. The “real estate” in corporate data center floors According to leading industry research firms Gartner Group is some of the most expensive space on the planet due to and IDC, the amount of power required to operate and the extensive infrastructure required there. cool data center equipment is a key issue with the chief Efficient Data Warehouse Computing information officers of major corporations. Awareness of the As shown over the last five years, Teradata has uniquely critical nature of data center power and cooling became top leveraged key IT industry technology to deliver the same of mind back in 2006 and a majority of the IT community industry-leading data warehouse capability while dramatinow believes that power and cooling issues will impact cally decreasing power, cooling, and floor space demands. their companies’ purchasing decisions. While the economic Teradata has demonstrated that we are an industry leader conditions can impact the enthusiasm for green initiatives in our use of the industry standard multiple-compute core at times, all users of IT equipment remain intensely focused technologies for microprocessors that are so important to on the cost savings that are enabled by smaller, more vastly improving compute performance per watt. energy efficient equipment. 1 http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/01/technology/data-centers-using-less-power-thanforecast-report-says.html# 34 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report A vast majority of system and solution providers to the data Extreme Data center choose to use general purpose standard industry The Teradata Extreme Performance Appliance leverages equipment, not equipment specialized for particular computthe capability of scaling up in both the data size per node ing tasks as are the Teradata systems. As a result Teradata and the number of nodes to build a warehouse appliance solutions are relatively more efficient than the mainstream that scales from 23TB (terabyte) to over 186PB (petabyte) of the data center industry. Key to Teradata’s capability here of user data. This enables customers to affordably perform is the Platform Family in which a range of systems have business analytics on large amounts of data such as with been purpose built to meet the needs of specific industry deep archive data. By using large numbers of very high segments and applications. capacity disk drives, the user trades off a lower performance for a much lower cost per TB of storage, and, at the For instance, the Teradata Active Enterprise Data Waresame time, vastly reducing the footprint and energy required house (EDW) is targeted for the broad enterprise wide per unit of storage. For example, an entry sized system of needs of many users and workload types. In fact, this 91TB of user data with the Teradata Extreme Performance platform can deliver the same data warehouse capability as Appliance requires just 15% of the floor space and just 10% the Teradata products of five years ago while demanding of the energy of a high performance Teradata Active EDW 75% less power and cooling and occupying 80% less data system with the same capacity of user data. center floor space. In addition, the hybrid storage capability was introduced in 2011 to further enhance the Active EDW Extreme Performance platform’s efficiency in performance delivery. Teradata The Teradata Extreme Performance Appliance introduced hybrid storage optimizes the performance of solid state the use of all SSD storage technology to the data waredrives (SSD) with the efficient storage capacity of hard disk house industry. In actual use with Teradata systems, the drives (HDD) through the intelligent tracking and movement SSD units demonstrate an overall 22 times higher storage of data based on its usage pattern. A hybrid storage based device performance than the conventional hard disk drives 6680 can provide up to four times the performance level of (HDD) used throughout the industry today. So with the use the previous generation without any increase in energy or of SSD technology far fewer storage drives are required to floor space. This provides our users an efficient path for the provide the industry-leading data warehouse performance speed needed for today’s business analysis challenges. from Teradata. As a result of the savings in the number of storage drive units, a Teradata customer can reduce the Teradata introduced their Data Warehouse Appliance required floor space by 94% for the same level of perforplatform products in 2009 that enable customers with mance over the current HDD based systems. Likewise smaller numbers of users and user data to perform high the energy required for the same warehouse performance performance analytics with a simpler computer system that is reduced by 87% compared to the current HDD based saves energy and floor space compared to other Teradata Teradata system. and industry alternatives. Teradata is also leveraging the improvements in disk drive storage to bring energy and The Big Data challenges described earlier includes the floor space savings to our customers. The Teradata Data analysis of high volumes of data which lacks the structure to Warehouse Appliance 2690 released in 2011 introduces the be efficiently addressed with a standard relational database. smaller form factor 2 ½” hard disk drives that reduces the It would require a large sized, power hungry platform, floor space per unit of data capacity for the system by up to Teradata began to offer in 2011 the Aster Data Appliance 50% along with a significant reduction in electrical power which is optimized to analyze these large volume unstrucper unit of data. tured data efficiently with a smaller, lower power system based on industry approaches such as MapReduce. 35 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Server Virtualization For example, the newest model of the Teradata Active The virtualization of servers and storage is allowing the whole Enterprise Data Warehouse, announced in April, 2011, IT industry to more efficiently use the IT resources in the data provides Teradata customers with up to 73% reduction in center. Virtualization means that one large, highly utilized electricity usage for the same capability data warehouse as server is able to support the workload typically provided with compared to servers of five years prior. That’s enough KWh multiple under-utilized servers by acting like multiple virtual of energy saved by one typical system to power 50 U.S. servers. This process enables a data center to replace a homes for one year. By dramatically reducing energy usage large number of lightly used servers with a smaller, more for the same system performance and required floor space, efficient set of fully utilized servers. Teradata also has reduced associated data center cooling and power delivery infrastructure by similar ratios. Teradata adopted the virtualization approach to our basic product architecture in 1996 as a path to full utilization of In addition, Teradata has adopted a energy per perforthe Teradata platform (servers and storage). Virtualization mance metric for data warehouse energy efficiency. It’s techniques have been a key enabler to Teradata’s ability to based on the amount of data warehouse performance effectively leverage the escalating performance capability of provided by a Teradata system (as calculated by Teradata’s multiple core processor technology. Teradata hybrid storage own measure of data warehouse performance, potential, has also introduced the virtual storage capability that enables called TPerf). The Kilowatt per TPerf (KPT) efficiency metric customers to efficiently assign more frequently used data is the amount of energy (in KWh) consumed in order to to high performance, low power SSD storage and less used provide a 100 TPerf level for a system. Over the last five data to larger disk storage units that are more energy efficient product generations, Teradata has improved its total KPT on a watt per megabyte basis. rating by over a factor of 6X, and with the release of the Teradata Active Enterprise Data Warehouse 6650 alone, Software Efficiency Improvements KPP decreased by 73% over the earlier Active EDW 5450 Teradata 13.10, the current release of the Teradata Dataproduct. This measurement shows that our products enable base, features software improvements that deliver up to our customers to do more with less. 30% performance improvement over previous generations. As a result, our customers are able to perform more The Cooling Door processing on the same hardware with the same energy Starting with the Active EDW 5400 platform generation consumption. We continue to focus on developing software and continuing with every model and generation of the that makes the Teradata systems run more efficiently and Teradata Platform Family, each Teradata platform features perform more useful work on the same system hardware. the patented cooling door. This innovative door design allows data centers to run up to five degrees warmer while Product Stewardship maintaining the required air temperature within the cabinet, Teradata recognizes that responsible product stewardship thereby reducing cooling energy requirements up to 25%. begins with our product designs and specifications. From With increasing concerns about data center power usage, product conception to final disposition, Teradata not only this savings is an advantage for our customer base. designs our products to meet or exceed all applicable safety and health standards, but also strives to improve the Data Compression environmental design of our products, with a goal of maxiThe Teradata Database software provides a range of data mizing opportunities for environmental efficiency, recycling compression features that shrinks the amount of storage an/or reuse. space required to contain a data table. The extent that a 36 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report data table can be compressed depends upon the data patongoing compliance. As a result, Teradata is fully compliant terns that make up that table. The compression factor can with the EU RoHS Directive and similar legislation in other reach 3X or greater for data with highly repeatable patterns, parts of the world, including regulations applicable in China such as phone call information, where popular area codes and California. repeat often. It’s estimated that the typical Teradata user can enjoy an average compression factor of 2X. 8.10 Product Recycling (GRI EN26) Teradata introduced a hardware based compression capaEnd-of-Life Activities bility in 2011, that enables a Data Warehouse Appliance to With technology progressing at lightning-fast speeds, it achieve compression ratios of up to 10X automatically and seems there is more obsolete computer hardware to without requiring valuable processor resources. In typimanage every year. Teradata, through technology like cal usage, the hardware compression will conservatively multi-generational coexistence, has helped to extend the provide a 3X to 4X compression factor. life of data warehouse systems. Even so, all systems must be replaced eventually. Teradata established a program Data table compression enables a Teradata user to avoid in 1996 to extend the life of those replaced systems and to purchasing additional data storage, resulting in substantial mitigate the environmental impact of disposal. energy savings. For example, a user with an average 2X compression factor would require approximately 44% less The Teradata Used Equipment program collects all trade-in total disk storage space for the same amount of user data; systems and systems returned to our leasing partner, GE since Teradata systems require balanced storage and Capital. These systems are then recycled in one of four server configurations; this would reduce the required total ways: system size by 44%. Therefore, the total system also uses > Systems are disassembled and reused as spare parts 44% less power and cooling energy to support the system. to service the installed base of systems around the On an average system, this results in 8 KWhs of continuous world. This helps minimize the amount of new products power savings – enough to power an average U.S. home for purchased over the service life of our products. nearly five days. > Systems are reconfigured and sold for customer use. This allows customers to: 8.9 Product Environmental Compliance RoHS Compliance – upgrade discontinued platforms with the same generaTeradata complies with the European Union Directive on tion of equipment the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (EU RoHS), which – purchase larger upgrades to meet growth limits the use of certain substances, such as lead, mercury, requirements cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls – purchase systems as test and development platforms (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in electrical and electronic equipment placed on the European All systems to be resold go through rigorous testing to community market. ensure they are stable and meet the same standards as new equipment. The refurbishment effort includes reconfigPrior to the effective date of the EU RoHS Directive, uring the system and updating firmware, wiping data from Teradata implemented comprehensive due diligence, order the drives, replacing UPS batteries, and stress-testing the control, and parts management processes to ensure initial system for several days. compliance and we continue to do so in order to assure 37 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report > Systems are reconfigured and redeployed internally for their product if a CED is subject to the waste recycling enhanced R&D and lab systems. This sustains the life fee and to submit an annual report that makes recycling of the systems, keeps our labs updated, and lowers our information available to consumers. The act prohibits CEDs capital costs. from sale in California if the device is prohibited from being > Systems beyond their economic and functional life are sold or offered for sale in the European Union under the recycled. RoHS Directive. (2002/95/EC) Health and Safety Impact Over the last eight years, Teradata has reused more than (GRI EN2 PR2, PR9) 2300 nodes and 5.1 petabytes of disks in 28 different There are no known incidents of non-compliance with countries. The units are often shipped in recycled crates regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and boxes reclaimed from new hardware shipments. and safety impacts of Teradata products and services. Finally, when the time comes, all hardware is shipped Furthermore, since becoming an independent publiclyto our recycling center, where it’s disassembled and traded company in 2007 and through the date of this report, de-manufactured. Teradata-controlled global facilities and operations had no fines or penalties incurred for non-compliance with We have recycled several times the amount of equipment environmental compliance, pollution control, or occupational that has been reused. Here the equipment is broken down, safety and health regulations. Over that same time period, sorted and shredded into various materials categories like Teradata Corporation did not experience any non-monetary drives, circuit boards, wire, plastics, metals, etc. for further sanctions, notifications of permit or licensing violations, refining. Our recycling partner and all of its suppliers, right administrative orders or warnings issued by governmental down to the refineries and smelters, are ISO 14001:2004 agencies responsible for enforcement of environmental certified and meet or exceed all federal, state, and local compliance regulations or ordinances, nor has Teradata environmental standards and practices. ever incurred any significant fines or non-monetary sancEU WEEE Compliance tions for products, services, or environmental law/regulation non-compliance. Our equipment decommissioning and recycling programs are compliant with international recycling legislation, such 8.11 Release Process Restrictions as the European Union Directive on Waste Electrical and (GRI PR2, PR3, EN28) Electronic Equipment (EU WEEE), as well as other applicaAs a part of our release processes, we ensure that all of ble e-waste laws and regulations in other parts of the world. our products do not emit hazardous resources or waste Products that are affected by the EU legislation are labeled byproducts. Further, all regional, country, and local safety in accordance with the Directive. regulations and codes are strictly followed during the product development process. The following regulatory California Waste Recycling Act standards are tested during our release process: USA, California SB20, amended by SB50, established the Canada, Europe, Europe Global, Japan, Australia/New Electronic Waste Recycling Act of 2003. The act requires a Zealand, and Taiwan. A product cannot be released unless retailer selling a covered electronic device (CED) in Califorit has passed all current regulatory standards. All approprinia to collect a waste recycling fee from the consumer and ate UL certification and environmental labeling is present on transmit the collected fee to the State Board of Equalization. our products. The act requires manufacturers to inform retailers selling 38 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8.12 Product Transportation (GRI EN29) 9.0 Global Manufacturing Processes In 2011, Teradata logged 850,196 miles carrying 1,718 tons (GRI HR2, HR3, HR5, HR6, HR7) of hardware equipment on American highways delivering 9.1 Supply Base our products to our customers’ data centers. All shipments (EN26) were ground-based; Teradata did not ship any products to Vendor Managed (owned) Inventory (VMI) U.S. customers by air. There are no other environmental Teradata has set up programs with Tier One suppliers to impacts of transporting our products. With the introduction locate equipment for sale close to our final assembly locaof Appliance Product Teradata is shipping more nodes per tion. Under this program, the suppliers ship bulk quantities cabinet than ever before. This allows our customer’s more of product to local hubs near a manufacturing site, rather processing power with a smaller foot print resulting in less than sending discrete customer shipments. Of course this weight system to transport. process saves us in inventory holding costs, but when we look at it through an environmental lens, we see significant 8.13 Product Packaging (GRI EN26) environmental savings. We are pleased to report that Teradata continues to work with its vendors to reduce the 100% of our manufacturing suppliers participate in the VMI amount of product packaging used when shipping our program. Our EMS partner, Flextronics, is the administraproduct into and out of the factory. tor of our wood crate recycling program, which allows the company to reuse crates after the equipment is unpacked at Teradata has worked with our manufacturing suppliers to the customer site. This program continued to operate very implement environmentally-friendly programs regarding efficiently in 2011. Flextronics also has a facility energy savTeradata equipment, including the reuse of crates and palings team that focuses on reducing the amount of energy lets and the recycling of other shipping materials (such as used by the local facility where our product is built. cardboard and plastic). We’ve also turned to bulk packaging for drives, controllers, and drive modules for use with 9.2 Teradata Code of Conduct for Suppliers (GRI 4.8) Teradata systems. Instead of using one mini-pallet/box per product, they use a multi-pack container that holds up to 12 As mentioned earlier, Teradata Corporation, its employees, products. In 2011, this vendor used 724 of these multi-pack and partners have adopted the Teradata Code of Conduct. containers for our product. This resulted in a savings of In addition, we have has also adopted the standards of con8,688 individual min-pallet/boxes. duct set forth in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. Together, these standards, Our products ship in wood crates. In 2003, we started to where applicable, constitute the Teradata Code of Conduct put processes in place to reuse crates; In 2011, we recycled for Suppliers. 648. Total to date for the program is 1,769 crates. Each The Teradata Code of Conduct crate is about 30 cubic feet. Therefore, through this program Teradata expects and requires its business partners, includwe have recycled over 53,070 cubic feet of wood. ing its suppliers, to comply with or exceed the standards of conduct set forth in the Teradata Code of Conduct with respect to all of their Teradata-related dealings. For more information, see section 4.12 of this report or view the entire Teradata Code of Conduct online at Teradata.com/t/ code-of-conduct. 39 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report The EICC Code of Conduct our manufacturing partner in terms of its ability to assure an Additionally, Teradata requires its business partners that are ethical supply chain. These partnerships are another way also electronic industry suppliers to comply with or exceed our customers can be sure that we partner with the leading the standards of conduct set forth in the EICC Code of edge suppliers in the world. Conduct with respect to all of their Teradata-related dealings. The areas covered in the Code of conduct are: Labor, 10.0 Facilities Health and Safety, Environmental, Management Systems, (GRI SO1) and Ethics. Further details concerning the EICC Code can 10.1 Teradata Environmental Health and be found at www.eicc.info. Safety (EHS) Program Teradata is committed to protecting the environment and the In combining these two Codes of Conduct, we are able health and safety of its employees, contractors, and vendors to reach out to all Tier One suppliers, not just those in the as well as the communities in which it operates. In 2009, as electrical industry. We are pleased to report that all of our part of that commitment, Teradata developed a global EnviTier One suppliers have signed an agreement stating that ronmental Health and Safety (EHS) program. This program they are in compliance with the Teradata Code of Conduct provides guidance on implementing and complying with for Suppliers. basic environmental, health, and safety procedures within In 2011, as a part of the our Teradata Code of Conduct our facilities and complying with regulatory requirements. for Suppliers program and as a result of our adoption of The EHS policy and procedures are based on established, the EICC Code of Conduct, we developed an self-audit well-recognized international standards and regulatory program for our tier 1 direct manufacturing suppliers. One requirements that apply to Teradata locations worldwide. of the tenets of the EICC Code of Conduct is to periodically The program requires that all employees and onsite contracassess production facilities and corporate procedures tors comply/review the EHS program procedures every for adherence to the code. With regards to this process, three years. In addition, onsite audits and assessments Teradata has developed an assessment tool based directly are to be conducted every three years on a rotational basis. on the standards of the EICC Code of Conduct. The There are two components to the EHS program – the EHS completion of this assessment is a requirement for tier one Management System (EHSMS) which explains the overall suppliers of Teradata. EHS program and 19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) This audit program is directly based on the EICC self-audit which contain the guidelines and procedures to be followed tool. Teradata performed an audit through this program in for specific areas of EHS. 2011, and achieved an excellent grade in both the CorpoThe successful implementation of this program requires rate and facility audits. We are now working with our tier each Teradata location to have a designated Site EHS one vendors to complete these audits. We look forward to Coordinator. This person will serve as the primary contact reporting on the progress in 2012. for EHS matters and “take charge” of the facility should an 9.3 Flextronics: Our EMS Supplier emergency situation arise. Flextronics has the 140001 Environmental Management Oversight of Teradata’s EHS program falls under the comCertification for the manufacturing site(s) that we employ. pany’s COO office. In 2010, we have continued this program We are proud to be a partner with this company. Flextronand perform the necessary facility audits to ensure we are in ics is also a founding member of the Electronic Industry compliance with our program. Citizenship Coalition. This only increases our confidence in 40 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10.2 Facility Information with employees, and involvement within the community. To Teradata operates in 23 facilities in the United States (an fulfill this commitment, Teradata will work to establish and increase of 25%), 22 of which are leased. Teradata’s only maintain sustainable practices by: owned facility is our San Diego campus in Southern California. > Increasing employee awareness of sustainability issues through formal and informal communications. In 2008, Teradata Corporate Real Estate embarked on a > Promoting ownership, responsibility, and accountability for quest for greater sustainability. As a starting point, policies sustainable performance and continuous improvement. and procedures were created to govern how our sustainability program would be implemented in our facilities, with an initial > Establishing procurement policies that support regional focus on the United States. sourcing, recycled content, reusable materials, and Energy Star certifications where economically feasible. In 2009, the program was implemented globally. In 2011, 23% > Continuously improving sustainable performance through of the 97 sites Teradata occupies are located in the US. During compliance auditing, measurement, and reporting. 2011, Teradata continued its sustainability commitment to compliance and provides up-to-date information on its internal 10.3 Facility Locations (GRI EN5, EN6, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN 23, EN24) facilities website that helps promote green living to all Teradata employees and contractors. The company’s primary research and development center is located in San Diego, California, comprised of 480,000 sf. Teradata is committed to complying with all applicable Table 5 lists Teradata locations we track emissions and their health, safety, and environmental laws, regulations, and corporate function. None are located near protected areas standards in delivery of services to customers, interactions of high biodiversity value. 41 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Unit of State / Rentable MeasureBuilding Address 1 City Province Country Space Use Area ment San Diego, CA, 17095 Via Del Campo SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA USA R&D 460,689 SQF United States (17095) El Segundo, CA, 100 N. Sepulveda EL SEGUNDO CALIFORNIA USA R&D 49,012 SQF United States Boulevard Miamisburg, OH, 10000 Innovation MIAMISBURG OHIO USA OFFICE 60,000 SQF United States Drive Mumbai, MH, Hiranandani MUMBAI Maharashtra IND OFFICE 29,624 SQF India – Winchester Business Park Building SecunderMunicipal No. 1-8SECUNDERAndhra IND R&D 29,010 SQF abad, AP, India 382, 386, 388, 389, ABAD Pradesh – HYDERABAD 436 and 443, Sardar Patel Road Pune, MH, India Tower XII, PUNE Maharashtra IND OFFICE 22,020 SQF Cybercity, Magarpatta City West Columbia, 3245 Platt Springs WEST SOUTH USA OFFICE 13,813 SQF SC, United States Road COLUMBIA CAROLINA Prague, Czech Na Strzi 65 PRAGUE – CZE OFFICE / 10,104 SQF Republic – City STORAGE Empiria Building Rome, Italy Via Valentino MazROME – ITA OFFICE 2,723 SQF zola 66/ Via Erminio Spalla 41 Dublin, Ireland Santry Demesne, DUBLIN – IRL OFFICE 2,616 SQF Swift Square Lahore, Punjab, Block-C-1, Gulberg-III LAHORE PUNJAB PAK OTHER 2,605 SQF Pakistan – Commercial Building No. 31/A Melbourne, VIC, 606 St Kilda Road MELBOURNE VIC AUS OFFICE 2,464 SQF Australia Santa Clara CA, 2055 Laurelwood SANTA CALIFORNIA USA R&D 7,725 SQF United States Road CLARA Table 5. 42 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10.4 Facilities Environmental Impact Teradata diverted materials from local landfills through Through a study conducted as part of our membership in aggressive resource management and recycling proEPA Climate Leaders program, Teradata learned we are in grams, resulting in the reduction of operating costs. The compliance with the use of ozone depleting substances in our range of environmentally sound business practices that products and processes. Also, because Teradata has only were cited as reasons include: innovative reuse and office and light assembly operations, NOx, SOx and other air recycling; resource conservation; conducting employee emissions are presumed to be minimal and, therefore, are education programs; buying recycled-content supplies not estimated or tracked. Teradata has not evaluated any for the workplace; and managing electronic waste contribution of fugitive emissions. Our data centers are laid responsibly. Throughout 2011, 161 tons or 64% of the out with a hot/cold aisle scheme, server virtualization was total waste stream was diverted from entering the landfill. implemented and plans are in place to migrate to a lights out Conservation efforts include: environment. This in conjunction with the added a ducted > Paper Conservation: Paper Conservation: Teradata return system has increased cooling efficiencies. diverted 13 tons of waste office paper from the landfill During calendar years 2008-2011, Teradata’s operationally in 2011, saving the equivalent of 221 trees and 91,000 controlled sites disposed of no hazardous waste. In 2011, gallons of water that would have been required for proTeradata recycled 20,747 pounds of universal waste (CRTs, cessing raw pulp into paper. This also includes more than fluorescent lamp, and household batteries). Teradata neither a 60% reduction in the amount of paper used in 2009. imported nor exported any hazardous waste at sites within The San Diego facility also participates in Shred-It’s paper Teradata’s operational control. Additionally, during this shredding program, through which it saved the equivalent reporting year, there were no significant spills or releases of of 92 trees. This resulted in an overall decrease in paper hazardous waste from Teradata’s operationally controlled recycling of 5% over 2009. This was due to the reduction facilities. of paper used within the San Diego facility. Teradata did not have any intentional discharge of waste > Metal Scrap and Other Recycling: In 2011, Teradata water other than into municipal waste water disposal systems. diverted 58 tons from the landfill consisting of: metal Teradata does not recycle or reuse water, because Teradata scrap, including light and heavy iron, electronic scrap, only withdraws water from municipal sources for human batteries, monitors and circuit boards. The majority of support and HVAC heat rejection. the metal scrap generated through the Teradata San Diego location is electronic scrap. Teradata San Diego 10.5 Facilities Update: Rancho Bernardo also recycles other waste streams, including aluminum (San Diego) cans, plastic bottles, fluorescent lamps, construction Our San Diego facility continued its commitment to the debris, and toner cartridges. The amount of metal and community to be a sustainable partner. Here are some other recycled material generated was reduced by 65% highlights at San Diego facility from the past year: over 2009. San Diego, California > Green Landscaping: Teradata’s San Diego landscapers are required to recycle all of the green waste that is > Teradata was honored for its innovative green business generated by this facility. An arborist recycles all wood practices through the 2009, 2010 and 2011 Waste from landscaping clean up. Reduction Awards Program (WRAP), sponsored by the California Integrated Waste Management Board. 43 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report – Irrigation controllers with integrated weather stations The conservation program includes the following energy have been installed to minimize the water used for improvements to the facility: irrigation. These controllers allow for different plant > Server Virtualization: replaced 319 old servers and material and landscaping conditions to factor into storage systems by leveraging virtualization technolwatering schedules. By minimizing watering times, ogy, fewer servers were needed to perform the same Teradata has reduced irrigation water consumption by workload. 10%. The San Diego site increased its green recycling > CRTs are being replaced with LCD monitors. These LCD by 18% over 2009. monitors use about 20% of the energy of the old CRTs. > Energy Conservation: In 2010, Teradata received > Prior installation of a Building Automation System (BAS) an incentive check from San Diego Gas and Electric to control campus lighting and heating, ventilation, and Company (SDG&E) for $250,000 for aggressive energy air conditioning (HVAC) systems continues to reduce conservation and innovative green business practices. the energy needed to maintain the building environment. As a result of its conservation efforts, Teradata now BAS controls operation times and limits individual zone saves 2.5 million kilowatt-hours of energy yearly, which is thermostatic adjustments, ensuring affective climate sufficient to power more than 200 homes for one year. control without zone competition. BAS also controls the “Teradata is committed to sustainable business practices activation of waterside economizers that allow Teradata that are good for the environment, while contributing to corto minimize compressor operating times during the porate profitability. Our investment in conservation paid for summer and can also be used for heating over the winter. itself within one year,” said Scott Gnau, chief development As a building envelope measure, specially coated glass officer, Teradata Corporation. “Our customers, investors and window treatments were installed to reduce thermal and communities are increasingly looking to Teradata to transfer. The energy savings are about 250,000 Kwhs identify and adopt innovative green business practices annually with this system. across our business.” > Prior installation of state-of-the-art lighting that utilizes energy-efficient T8 fluorescent lamps, compact fluoresSDG&E offers companies financial incentives, design cents, and LED technology has significantly reduced assistance, performance audits and training to build greater energy usage. To supplement the T8 lamps, we installed energy-efficiency into their operations. SDG&E’s energy parabolic reflectors, deep louvers, and electronic management initiatives provide a wide range of customized ballasts. The energy savings are about 195,000 Kwhs solutions to help lower electricity and natural gas costs and annually with this lighting system. solidify the bottom line. The energy-efficiency and demandresponse initiatives plus relevant equipment are designed Hyderabad, India to help reduce energy usage; lower operating costs and In November 2011, Teradata R&D India relocated its generate real savings. Hyderabad site to a modern office building in a dedicated IT Park. This will assist in reducing overall power consumption, “We are committed to helping all of our customers take a and in particular the power consumption associated with proactive approach to energy conservation,” said Caroline the diesel operated back up generator. The diesel operWinn, SDG&E’s vice president of customer services. ated generator in the old facility was used regularly due to “Through our various energy-efficiency incentive programs, frequent power outages by the local electricity provider. The we can help customers save energy and put money back in new facility has dual external power sources, should one their pocket.” supplier fail. 44 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Miamisburg, Ohio – New Site 11.0 Reporting Parameters One of the most efficient HVAC systems on the market has GRI 3.1 This report covers Teradata Corporation’s fiscal been installed for the Teradata new Miamisburg building. year 2011 unless otherwise specified. The system is called a Water Source Heat Pump (WSHP) system. GRI 3.2 This is the fourth sustainability report for Teradata. The WSHP system consists of a number of heat pump units GRI 3.3 Teradata plans to issue updated reports annually. connected to a common recalculating water loop. WSHP units on this loop exchange heat with the loop by rejecting GRI 3.4 For questions regarding this report, please heat to the loop (for those units in the cooling mode) and contact E. Alan Lord, Program Manager, extracting heat from the loop (for those units in the heating Sustainability, 3245 Platt Springs Road, West mode). A Cooling Tower and High Efficiency Natural Gas Columbia, SC 29072. Boiler will remove and add heat as required, to maintain GRI 3.5 Teradata conducted a review of its internal the loop temperature within the proper temperature range. processes based on the G3 GRI index and deterEfficiencies include: mined which indicators/areas were applicable to > Variable Speed Pump and Fan Motors – These motors our company today. From this process, we also save energy by operating at optimum levels. learned what we can work on to become a more sustainable company. > Heat Recovery – Energy is recovered from exhaust air and then re-used to heat or cool the space. GRI 3.6 Teradata is a global company, and this report covers all of Teradata Corporation. However, in some > CO2 Control – The Carbon Dioxide (CO2) levels are congeographic areas, individual limitations to specific stantly measured to ensure the correct amount of outside areas may be required based on how Teradata is air is conditioned and introduced into the building. aligned. 10.6 Ongoing Data Center Operations GRI 3.7 Teradata is a global company, and this report covTeradata continues efforts to conduct efficient data center ers all of Teradata Corporation. However in some operations leveraging strategies for virtualization and elimiareas, individual limitations to specific areas may nation of older infrastructure to reduce and manage energy be required based on how Teradata is aligned. consumption. As a result of these efforts, we were able to GRI 3.8 This is the fourth sustainability report from avoid the deployment of 130 new physical servers in 2011 by Teradata Corporation. Our 2011 operations were building the servers in our existing virtual infrastructure. This compared against our 2010 operations. directly results in an ongoing annual energy consumption avoidance of about 219,000 kWh. Going forward, we are GRI 3.10 There are no effects from re-statements of making plans to eliminate 30 to 35 older servers either with information provided in earlier reports. new virtual severs or more energy efficient physical infrastructure where necessary. This would result in additional GRI 3.11 There are no significant changes form previous energy savings ranging from 130,000 to 191,000 kWh’s reporting periods in scope, boundary, or meaannually going forward. surement methods applied in the report. GRI 3.12 See Table 6 at the end of this report. 45 2011 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report TERADATA.COM GRI Teradata GRI Teradata GRI Teradata GRI Teradata Indicator Report Indicator Report Indicator Report Indicator Report Section Section Section Section number number number number 1.1 Inside cover 3.13 11.0 EN16 8.1 HR7 9.0-9.2 2.1 1.2 4.1 2.0-2.4 EN17 8.1 SO1 7.0; 10.0 2.2 1.2 4.2 2.0-2.4 EN19 10.3 SO2 4.11 2.3 1.4 4.3 2.0-2.4 EN20 10.3 SO3 4.11 2.4 1.2 4.4 2.0-2.4 EN21 10.3 PR1 5.1 2.5 4.2 4.6 2.0-2.3 EN23 10.3 PR2 8.10;8.11 2.6 1.2 4.8 1.1; 4.12; 9.2 EN24 10.3 PR3 8.11 2.7 1.2 4.13 3.1 EN26 8.6; 8.8; PR5 5.1 8.10; 8.13, 9.1 2.8 1.3; 4.2; 8.5 4.14 6.1-6.5 EN28 8.11 PR9 8.1 2.9 1.5 4.15 6.1-6.5 EN29 8.12 2.10 1.2 4.16 6.1-6.5 LA1 4.2 3.1 11.0 4.17 6.1-6.5 LA2 4.3 3.2 11.0 EC1 1.3 LA4 4.4 3.3 11.0 EC2 8.1 LA5 4.5 3.4 11.0 EN3 8.1 LA10 4.6;4.7 3.5 11.0 EN4 8.1 LA11 4.8 3.6 11.0 EN5 10.3 LA12 4.9 3.7 11.0 EN6 8.8; 10.3 LA13 4.10 3.8 11.0 EN7 8.1 HR2 9.0-9.2 3.10 11.0 EN8 10.3 HR3 4.11, 9.0-9.2 3.11 11.0 EN9 10.3 HR5 9.0-9.2 3.12 11.0 EN10 10.3 HR6 9.0-9.2 Table 6. The Best Decision Possible is a trademark, and Teradata and the Teradata logo are registered trademarks of Teradata Corporation and/or its affiliates in the U.S. or worldwide. Teradata continually improves products as new technologies and components become available. Teradata, therefore, reserves the right to change specifications without prior notice. All features, functions, and operations described herein may not be marketed in all parts of the world. Consult your Teradata representative or Teradata.com for more information. Copyright © 2009-2012 by Teradata Corporation All Rights Reserved. Produced in U.S.A. EB-5902 > 0812 46
