Cleveland Clinic Health System 2012 United Nations Global Compact Report ■ A communication on progress to our community Cleveland Clinic Health System 2012 United Nations Global Compact Report A communication on progress to our community CONTENTS Letter from our CEO 2 About This Report 3 We Are Listening 5 2011 Highlights Caring for Patients and Caregivers 9 Our Commitment to Community 15 Focus on the Environment: Food 21 Putting the UN Global Compact to Work Human Rights and Labor Standards 25 Environmental Stewardship 29 Anti-Corruption and Transparency 39 Who We Are Organizational Profile 43 By the Numbers: Cleveland Clinic Facts 44 Awards and Honors 45 Governance, Commitment and Engagement 46 Our Stakeholders 48 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Index 49 Cleveland Clinic hosts weekly farmers markets during the summer to bring fresh produce to employees and the community. 1 Cleveland Clinic 2012 United Nations Global Compact Dear Friends, We are pleased to present our third Cleveland Clinic United Nations Global Compact, Communication on Progress. This is our first report using guidelines developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). These guidelines are used by more than 3,000 organizations in 60 nations. They record progress in human rights, labor, environmental, anti-corruption and corporate citizenship issues. They promote better economic, environmental and social conditions. Cleveland Clinic has a number of achievements to report for 2011. These include being awarded an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year by the United States Environmental Protection Agency for the second year in a row. We remain optimistic about sustainability despite some adverse external indicators. Nationally, the economic outlook for healthcare is challenging. We face an aging demographic, rising rates of chronic disease, and falling reimbursement from all sources. To meet these challenges, we are finding ways to do things better, faster and at a lower cost. We have measurably improved the quality of our care, reduced complications and improved the patient experience. We have near, midterm and long-term strategies to meet GRI guidelines going forward. In the present, we observe the highest standards of transparency, accountability and integrity, aggressively pursue energy conservation and comprehensive recycling, as well as provide support for local food producers. Looking ahead, we plan to strengthen our adherence to environmental guidelines, expand our use of renewable energy sources, and expand the green space around our facilities. Over the far term, we are committed to sustainable growth and the integration of human rights, environmental responsibility and corporate integrity across the full range of our activities. We share the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. They reflect our commitment to sustainability: environmental stewardship, diversity, community engagement, fairness and integrity. They promote the exchange of best practices among enterprises, and reinforce good citizenship and responsible stewardship of the environment. In 2008, Cleveland Clinic became the first healthcare provider to sign the United Nations Global Compact. In 2012, we continue to support its goals and aspirations. Thank you for your close and thoughtful reading of this year’s United Nations Global Compact, Communication on Progress. I hope it will inspire you to improve our world. Sincerely, Delos M. Cosgrove, MD CEO and President Cleveland Clinic 2012 Communication on Progress 2 About this Report UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative This report is intended to provide a summary of Cleveland Clinic’s progress in the areas of environmental sustainability, diversity, fairness and integrity. It includes information on our business, governance and management, our stakeholders and the work we are doing in advancing the 10 universal principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This, our third consecutive Communication on Our reporting process annually identifies significant Progress (COP), reflects our work in the calendar changes in reporting scope and re-evaluates inclusion year 2011. Readers will note that this year, for the of components of our operations. As in prior years, first time, we are following the Global Reporting this report is limited to our North American operaInitiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines. Cleveland Clinic tions that are wholly owned and operated. Affiliated, is only the second U.S. healthcare provider to adopt divested, partially leased and international operations this international gold-standard reporting process. are excluded from this report based on the degree of our shared control over these operations and This report was compiled with the participation information availability. In future years we hope to of stakeholders throughout the organization, with include our international operations as appropriate, direct contributions from the following key internal following the GRI reporting scope guidelines. structures that contribute to upholding the principles of the UN Global Compact: Data was gained following GRI Indicator Protocols, • Community Outreach such as measurement techniques, bases of calcula• Compliance Office tions, including assumptions and techniques • Office of Diversity underlying any estimations applied to the compila• Environmental Health and Safety tion of the Indicators and other information in the • Executive Administration report. Cleveland Clinic will not pursue an external • Facilities, Construction and Real Estate assurance for this 2011 report; however, internal • General Counsel assurance may be performed. • Government Relations For more information regarding this report’s • Office for a Healthy Environment content, contact Cleveland Clinic’s Corporate • Human Resources Communications Department at 216.444.0141. • Internal Audit • Office of Patient Experience • Quality and Patient Safety Institute • Supply Chain Management • Wellness Institute 3 Cleveland Clinic About this Report About the United Nations Global Compact ■ Human Rights The United Nations Global Compact brings together Principle 1: Businesses should support and UN agencies, labor, civil society and governments to respect the protection of internationally proclaimed advance 10 universal principles in the areas of human rights. human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that Through the power of collective action, the United they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Nations Global Compact seeks to mainstream these 10 principles in business activities around the world ■ Labor Standards and to catalyze actions in support of broader UN Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the goals. With 5,000 stakeholders from more than 120 freedom of association and the effective countries, it is the world’s largest voluntary corporate recognition of the right to collective bargaining. citizenship initiative. For more information, please Principle 4: Businesses should uphold visit: www.unglobalcompact.org. the elimination of all forms of forced and The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, compulsory labor. support and enact, within their sphere of influence, Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the a set of core values in the areas of human rights, effective abolition of child labor. labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. About the Global Reporting Initiative ■ Environment The Global Reporting Initiative is the steward of Principle 7: Businesses should support the most widely used reporting framework for a precautionary approach to environmental performance on human rights, labor, environmenchallenges. tal, anti-corruption and other citizenship issues. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake The GRI G3 Guidelines offer globally recognized initiatives to promote greater environmental reporting guidance and are recommended for use responsibility. by the UN Global Compact. The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact correspond to the GRI Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the G3 performance indicators (found in the report development and diffusion of environmentally index) and serve to enhance our communication friendly technologies. with stakeholders, provide guidance on decisions related to reporting that enhance the rigor and ■ Anti-Corruption quality of the Communication on Progress, and Principle 10: Businesses should work against facilitate continuous improvement through an corruption in all its forms, including extortion incremental approach to reporting. and bribery. 2012 Communication on Progress 4 we are listening Cleveland Clinic listens to stakeholder concerns as well as patients’ hearts. Here, Maureen O’Malley MSN, RN, CNP, examines a patient in the Heart & Vascular Institute. 5 Cleveland Clinic We are Listiening Who needs Cleveland Clinic? Who do we serve? Who will be affected by our operational decisions? These are questions we needed to answer before moving ahead. Our first step was to identify our stakeholders and listen to their needs. We sought the views of patients, caregivers, Together with guidance from internal stakeholders, community leadership and voluntary and regulatory these findings shape the content and emphasis of agencies. We launched a broad, ongoing conversathis report, as well as enhance our efforts to better tion with our neighbors and communities. As a serve our communities with initiatives and commuresult, we know more, understand more, and can nications that are more responsive to their needs. do more to address the issues that are the most We also invite stakeholders to meet with leaders important, or “material,” of those we serve. and attend public events such as facility openings, talks, presentations and dialogues throughout the In preparation for this year’s reporting cycle, we year. (A list of our stakeholder groups can be found convened a series of focus groups with stakeholders on page 48.) to prioritize issues of importance to them. Based on the feedback from these sessions, we determined Understanding our Patients’ Experience that three key themes should be highlighted in this Through listening and responding to patient and year’s report: patient and caregiver safety, community caregiver feedback, Cleveland Clinic is progressively involvement and environmental stewardship. In improving its patient satisfaction metrics. No coming years, we plan to use similar focus groups stakeholder group is more important than our and other engagement strategies with stakeholders patients, for whom we strive to provide the best to improve our reporting. In addition to traditional experience through our interactions and care. focus groups, we also listened to stakeholders who To identify opportunities for improvement, a participated in community advisory boards at our statistically relevant 58 percent of eligible adult hospitals, contributed to patient experience focus hospital discharges at Cleveland Clinic are randomly groups or caregiver engagement surveys, provided sampled with the standardized national Hospital feedback through ombudsman processes, or engaged Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and in other hospital activities throughout the year. Systems (HCAHPS) survey. The survey is designed Another great source of feedback comes to us from and required by the Centers for Medicare and Sustainable Cleveland 2019, where a large crossMedicaid Services (CMS) for adult patients who section of the Northeast Ohio community convenes are discharged from medical, surgical and obstetric and collaborates to discuss and take action on social, hospital service lines. Patients rate their experience environmental and economic issues of local imporbased on a number of dimensions, including tance to develop a thriving and resilient region. We care, communications and hospital environment. actively participate in this forum, which informs Patients also provide an overall rating and our internal decision-making and prioritization. hospital recommendation. 2012 Communication on Progress 6 HCAHPS results from participating U.S. hospitals are posted by CMS at www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov. Cleveland Clinic also surveys outpatients with questions related to appointment scheduling, waiting time, courtesy, care, and overall assessment and recommendation. We value the results of these surveys and use them as learning opportunities to improve our patient services to deliver the best care possible. Patient feedback measures gathered from surveys and patient-reported care experiences are monitored through quarterly clinical institute performance reviews. These formal reviews vertically integrate from the executive level to front-line employees, which allow all parts of the care team to monitor survey scores, trends and feedback to identify priorities for improvement. The Office of Patient Experience collaborates with physician and nursing leadership to establish best practices and implement standardized protocols that ensure our caregivers deliver patient-centered care. Patients and families also provide direct feedback on their experience through our Ombudsman office, which helps investigate and resolve patient concerns, Taussig Cancer Institute caregivers listen as oncologist and Voice of the Patient Advisory Councils, comMikkael Sekeres, MD, MS, discusses patients’ progress prised of patients and families who work together on rounds in the Bone Marrow with caregivers to identify opportunities for improveTransplant Unit. ment. We monitor our own performance by polling our caregivers’ experiences as Cleveland Clinic patients and through mystery shopper programs. Top 10 Patient and Caregiver Priorities Patient Health and Safety (Social) Community Interaction (Social) Environmental Impacts and Programs (Environmental) Caregiver Health and Safety (Social) Community Benefit (Economic) Patient Education and Required Consent (Social) Economic Impact (Economic) Business Ethics (Social) Caregiver Training and Education Programs (Social) Governmental Funding (Economic) * Results from 2011 Patient and Caregiver materiality testing focus groups. ■ Patient Vote ■ Employee Vote Participant responses selected from among the GRI G3.1 Aspects. 7 Cleveland Clinic We are Listiening Rate and Recommend Hospital HCAPHPS Outpatient Provider Rate and Recommend Hospital (HCAHPS) Provider Recommendation & Access Outpatient Recommendation and Access 100 100 92 90 86 National Percentile 95 94 80 90 Mean Score 70 85 86 60 80 50 75 40 2008 2009 2010 2011 70 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year Year Recommend Recommend Provider Rate Appt When Wanted Provider Recommendation and Access – Rating and Likelihood to Recommend Hospital: Outpatient Services: Our outpatient surveys show Cleveland Clinic’s trended national percentile steady improvement in appointment scheduling ranking reflects the overall impact initiatives and recommended provider responses. have on patient-centered care. Cleveland Clinic’s commitment to a positive patient experience extends to visitors, too. Our therapy dogs serve as a comforting distraction for all ages. 2012 Communication on Progress 8 Caring for Patients and Caregivers Environmental services caregivers help to maintain immaculate, soothing surroundings throughout the Cleveland Clinic health sytem. 9 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights Patients First is the guiding principle of Cleveland Clinic. We strive to provide quality, compassionate care and service at every step. Putting patients first requires us to take care of the health and well-being of our caregivers, too. Cleveland Clinic was the first major academic medical including: the deployment of local resources to work center to make improving the patient experience a on key priorities; the partnering of local teams with strategic goal, the first to appoint a chief experience central resources to drive specific changes and officer, and one of the first academic medical centers improvements; and a focused performance improveto establish an Office of Patient Experience. ment infrastructure that partners clinical experts with performance improvement professionals. Cleveland Clinic’s strategic priorities leverage U.S. publicly reported data to help drive improvement A safe place to work and heal to patient care and outcomes across the health The personal safety and health of each caregiver, system. They are: patient and visitor is of utmost importance to • Patient Safety using measures that include patient Cleveland Clinic. It is our policy to maintain an safety indicators, hospital-acquired conditions, environmental health and safety program that infections and nursing quality indicators. conforms with and/or exceeds all applicable local, • Quality using measures that include mortality, state and federal environmental, health and safety readmissions and core measures. standards, and regulations. • Patient Experience using measures that include Within Cleveland Clinic’s Quality and Patient Safety both public and marketplace patient satisfaction Institute is a formal Environmental Health and survey results. Safety (EHS) team charged with the implementation and monitoring of safety management activities These priorities are tracked on enterprise-level at the main campus and family health centers. dashboards and regularly monitored by our executive In addition, each community hospital maintains team, leadership, clinical management and board of a written Environment of Care Safety Management directors. Quarterly meetings between local teams and Plan based on its management structure and executive leadership supplement routine team huddles individual needs. Enterprise safety leadership that focus on successes, challenges, opportunities regularly reviews changes in relevant regulations and next steps around these key measures. and standards, and assesses the need to make Quality of care is central to clinical excellence. changes to general safety policies, equipment, Cleveland Clinic uses a variety of tools and methods procedures, training and other activities to provide to achieve patient care and outcomes improvements, a safe place to work and heal. 2012 Communication on Progress 10 Measurable Quality Results from Focused Performance Improvement CCHS 30d Heart Failure Readmissions CCHS Patient Safety Indicators CCHS 30d Heart Failure Readmissions CCHS Patient Safety Indicators 140 250 120 100 200 Number Number 80 150 60 2011 Target = 75/month 100 40 2011 Target = 93/month 20 50 0 JanFe 11 M 1b-1 ar 0 ar Ap 11 M 1 ayr-1 Ju 1 Ju 1 -1 n-1 n MAp Ju Juay ner l-1 Au 1 g-1 Se 1 ovp-1 Oc 1 tN 11 De 11Ja Fe bM Au Se NOc De ly pt ovg t c c-1 Ja 1 n-1 2 2011 Cleveland Clinic is reducing heart failure readmissions Our Patient Safety Indicators — a set of measures toward targeted goals. that screen for adverse patient events — were significantly reduced in 2011. The responsibility for environmental health and tobacco products. Free tobacco cessation programs safety at Cleveland Clinic extends through the are made available to current caregivers who smoke entire supervisory force to every caregiver on the and desire to quit and get healthier. job. The prevention of accidents and injuries To encourage a healthy diet, foods with trans requires that each member of the organization fats and sugared drinks are no longer offered by accepts a full share of responsibility for safety. Cleveland Clinic cafeterias or in retail vending Only through a cooperative effort by supervisors machines. In addition, calories are listed for all and caregivers can an effective accident prevention prepared food items in our cafeterias and, to the program be established and preserved. extent possible, by our retail vendors. Caring for Caregivers Cleveland Clinic also offers caregivers: Cleveland Clinic is committed to the health and • Free use of onsite fitness centers, free memberoverall wellness of its caregivers. Over the past ships at Curves, and discounts at area fitness seven years, we have created a comprehensive clubs. Free group exercise classes, including culture of wellness. Our policies and programs are yoga, are held throughout the health system. designed to make healthy choices easier for our • Free access to Shape Up & Go!™, an online, caregivers, as well as offer recovery resources for team-oriented program to engage caregivers those whose well-being is compromised. and assist in tracking healthy behaviors. To create and maintain healthier caregivers, • Free nutrition counseling and Weight Watchers Cleveland Clinic was one of the first healthcare memberships. organizations to ban smoking on its campus, as well as implement a policy to hire no individuals using • Easy access to fresh produce at Cleveland Clinic Farmers Markets, which are open to the public. 11 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights Cleveland Clinic cares for caregivers, too. Here, Yoga classes relieve stress and promote employee well-being. • Access to spiritual care resources, caregiver • A robust employee development career assistance counselors, confidential assistance plan website. programs and CONCERN, a short-term caregiver • Blended learning opportunities: classroom, assistance counseling resource offering referrals online and on-the-job. for longer-term treatment. • Mentoring programs. • Access to free programs such as time management, conflict resolution and other skill-building strate• School at Work for Caregivers needing GED gies to reduce stress. Access to online programs completion for college. on healthy food guidelines, sleep hygiene and • Accelerated development programs for high stress management are also available. potential caregivers. In addition, Cleveland Clinic offers a world of • An Emerging Leader program for aspiring leaders. opportunity where caregivers may experience fulfilling • Technical training in all areas of clinical and careers with us for decades. Our career paths and technical fields. development programs assure the support that caregivers will need throughout the lifecycle of their • Tuition reimbursement for undergraduate career. To help achieve our shared goals and to degrees and above. develop each caregiver to their full potential, we offer: Participants may self-select into many of these • A stratified approach to development with course programs. Participants in the accelerated developtracks for each level of leadership (Center for ment programs, however, are identified through Leadership and Learning). Cleveland Clinic’s Succession Planning and Individual Development Planning processes. • Cleveland Clinic Academy for executive and medical management training. 2012 Communication on Progress 12 Safety is a priority for Cleveland Clinic employees and patients alike. Here, Mark Zenbauer follows safety protocols in the large Prototype Laboratory on our main campus. Caregivers enrolled in the Caregiver Health Plan are Cleveland Clinic also protects its caregivers and encouraged to know their primary health indicators, patients through risk control efforts related to serious including blood pressure, cholesterol, glucose and diseases. For example, the Center for Corporate body mass index, and, if they qualify, participate in Health promotes the health and safety of our an appropriate chronic disease management caregivers through new hire pre-placement assessprogram. As part of their participation in a managements, urine drug screenings, annual compliance and ment program, caregivers may be eligible for a TB testing, audiograms, as well as required immunirebate on insurance premiums, have 24-hour zation and flu vaccinations. In addition, we access to robust intranet resources, and other established a work restriction policy for caregivers wellness-related education, activities and programs. with communicable diseases, a safety event reporting Caregivers, their families and the community at system, and post-exposure guidelines and support large can also take advantage of the comprehensive for those exposed to blood-borne pathogens. wellness-focused programs offered by Cleveland To minimize occupational hazards associated with Clinic and its community hospitals. (See Our the delivery of healthcare, the Department of Commitment to Community, page 16.) Infection Protection influences, supports and 13 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights improves the quality of healthcare through the practice and management of infection control, Employed Caregiver Injury Incidence education, and the application of epidemiology and Employed Caregiver by Gender and Type Injury Incidence (2011) by Gender and Type (2011) research. Through our intranet site, our caregivers 73.80% 2011 have access to policies and education regarding the 26.20% infection protection program, including equipment 74.20% 2010 25.80% cleaning guidelines, and influenza and hand Female Male hygiene protocols. Cleveland Clinic actively measures the adherence to these protocols through department-based quality rounding checklists. Workplace Injuries by Type and Gender (2011) In addition to policies, the Infection Prevention intranet site includes infection prevention education courses Incidents Resulting 20% 80% in Lost Time administered by our Center for Continuing Education. Incidents Resulting 24% 76% in No Lost Time Keeping Caregivers Safe at Work Total Workplace Safety 22% 78% We work hard at maintaining a safe working Incident Reports environment for our caregivers. Cleveland Clinic’s Fatalities 0 recording and reporting of accident statistics Female Male is in accordance with the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Our Safety Indicators Safety Indicators (2011) injury data represents the majority of caregivers, Occupational 0.03% Disease Rate 0.01% reflecting our Northeast Ohio enterprise. Compared 0.97% Lost Day Rate with 2010, the OSHA-recordable injury rate was 0.62% reduced by over 5 percent, the lost-time injury rate Absentee Rate 1.00% 0.85% dropped by more than 35 percent, and the occupaInjury Rate 4.11% 3.89% tional disease rate declined by two thirds. 0% 1% 1% 2% 2% 3% 3% 4% 4% 5% % of Total Employed Population In 2011, Cleveland Clinic experienced an OSHA2010 2011 recordable injury rate, 3.8 percent, and a lost-time injury rate, 0.6 percent, well below the industry average as last reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) in 2010. The BLS indicated the average hospital had an OSHA-recordable injury Our Environmental Health and Safety department rate of 7.0 percent and a lost-time injury rate of monitors several occupational safety and health 2.8 percent for NAICS code 6221 (general medical metrics to assess performance as well as collects and surgical hospitals). In addition, Cleveland Clinic injury data to identify trends and then target absenteeism, as measured by unscheduled paid corrective actions. Injury data by gender was time off (UPTO), dropped from 1 percent in 2010 not recorded prior to 2011. to .85 percent in 2011. 2012 Communication on Progress 14 Commitment to Community Cleveland Clinic volunteers paint, landscape and do repairs for low-income and elderly homeowners through a local nonprofit, Rebuilding Together Cleveland. 15 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights As one of the largest employers in the state, Cleveland Clinic is a major economic engine for the region. In addition, we are committed to the communities we serve, providing uncompensated healthcare to the poor, engaging in a broad range of medical, research, education and training programs, and sponsoring and supporting various public health initiatives and services. We take our responsibilities as a non-profit, taxThe community benefit Cleveland Clinic provides is exempt, charitable organization seriously and believe all encompassing, from providing healthcare for the our activities incorporate our institution’s mission neediest among us to educating the next generation and core values. Cleveland Clinic subscribes to the of healthcare professionals and funding medical economic, environmental and social principles of the research that leads to advanced treatments and UN Global Compact, and participates in numerous cures. The Cleveland Clinic health system provides membership organizations such as the U.S. Green a breadth of benefits, all of which were developed Building Council and Practice Greenhealth, among to continue our tradition of serving others while others. Cleveland Clinic employees are engaged in addressing the current healthcare needs of the their neighborhoods, serving on dozens of non-profit community at large. boards that build a vital, stronger and more collabIn 2011, our community benefit contribution totaled orative community. $552.2 million, including education, research and 2011 Cleveland Clinic Community Benefit Contribution (In Millions): Total $552.2M Research Includes all health system locations and Florida. $64.9M **Net of HCAP Benefit of $17.8M Education $196.2M Charity Care $145.6M Medicaid Outreach Shortfall** Programs $85.9M $45.6M Subsidized Health Services $14.0M 2012 Communication on Progress 16 Cleveland Clinic: A Major Economic Engine With nearly 41,000 caregivers (more than 40,000 of them permanent FTEs) on its payroll in 2011, our total operating revenues were $6.1 billion. Directly and indirectly, Cleveland Clinic supported more than 81,000 jobs in Ohio in 2010, representing approximately $3.9 billion in wages and earnings, and spurred nearly $10.5 billion of total economic activity in the state. Through the direct and indirect earnings it created, Cleveland Clinic supported more than 58,000 Northeast Ohio households that paid enough school-related property taxes to cover the cost of educating almost 18,000 kindergarten through 12th-grade students. Indirectly, we supported $2.28 billion in household-level spending on Ohio goods and services (an increase of $580 million since 2006). Cleveland Clinic welcomed patients and visitors from every county in Ohio, every state in the nation, and more than 100 countries around the world. These visitors spent more than $174 million in Northeast Ohio in 2009. clinical (charity care, Medicaid shortfall, subsidized services and outreach programs). Cleveland Clinic is committed to transparency, as evidenced by our comprehensive annual community benefit report highlighting dozens of programs. Perhaps most significant is our concerted effort to move from “sick care” to “health care.” Cleveland Clinic believes the health of a city begins with the health of its people, and we have developed a model to help communities reduce the burden of disease. That’s why we’re committed to promoting nutrition, fitness and healthy habits to our community. We’re bringing neighbors, physicians and community organizations together to energize change. And, by empowering our community with the tools and education they need to take responsibility for their own health and safety, we’re making Northeast Ohio a model of wellness for the nation. With a focus on health education, prevention and wellness programs that improve the healthcare status of our community, Cleveland Clinic Community Outreach is actively engaged in a broad array of outreach programs that include community clinics, Cleveland resident Earl Maske enjoys a unique birthday gift from Cleveland Clinic employees. chronic disease management programs, health He turned 80 the day volunteers worked on his childhood home for Rebuilding Together Cleveland. screenings and resource navigation. To support 17 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights Registered dietitian Maxine Smith, RD, LD, provides hands-on learning about healthy food choices at the A.J. Rickoff School in Cleveland. This is one of many Cleveland Clinic Office of Civic Education initiatives aimed at curbing childhood obesity. these efforts, our Community Outreach Department members can access health and wellness informaencourages our caregivers to participate in commution and schedules through our Center for Consumer nity service opportunities. In this way we can Health Information at www.clevelandclinic.org. A positively impact the neighborhoods we serve, wellness-focused website at www.clevelandclinicactively engage our caregivers and, ultimately, wellness.com offers free daily wellness tips and enhance the health and wellness of our region. wellness content from Cleveland Clinic physicians. Cleveland Clinic also sponsors a highly visible “Let’s Community Outreach Goals: Move It” campaign that encourages healthy living 1. To strengthen our community life through and provides information at www.letsmoveit.org. effective, sustainable health education and After successfully leading a five-year smoking outreach programs focusing on vulnerable cessation campaign in Cuyahoga County, and at-risk populations; Cleveland Clinic is currently focusing its efforts on 2. To enhance our neighborhoods through obesity. At Cleveland Clinic facilities, numerous community building collaborations that health-focused changes were made in the foods facilitate caregiver engagement; served to patients and caregivers, including the 3. To make our region a better and healthier removal of trans fats and sugared drinks from our place to live. campuses. In addition, free exercise, healthy diet and weight management programs were made Cleveland Clinic has developed a variety of programs available for Cleveland Clinic caregivers. and publications that help our community to make healthy choices. Community Connections, a Cleveland Clinic recently developed a Go! Foods® comprehensive calendar listing free health screenbrand to identify healthier foods. Working with local ings, talks and educational programs, is sent food retailers, Go! Foods® labels are placed on foods monthly to Northeast Ohio residents and made to help consumers make healthier food choices. available at our locations. In addition, community 2012 Communication on Progress 18 On Arbor Day, Mario Cammarata, Cleveland Clinic Facilities Grounds Department Coordinator, shows students how planting trees improves the environment. Focusing on the Next Generation ninth graders in 16 inner-ring school districts. In In the community, Cleveland Clinic works closely addition, Food Is Knowledge®, a nutrition curriculum with local school districts to address the emerging for pre-kindergarten through first grade, was taught childhood obesity epidemic. Cleveland Clinic’s Office to 1,218 children. Healthy Futures, a curriculum of Public Health and Research leads an enterpriseencouraging healthier food choices and a positive wide focus on the prevention of childhood obesity attitude toward nutrition and exercise, was taught to in collaboration with local schools called 5 to Go!TM. 1,088 students in fourth through sixth grade. The Program components include age-specific curricula, Office of Public Health has also partnered with data collection, analysis and evaluation, and Cleveland Clinic’s Center for Human Nutrition to recommendations for policy change. In 2011, assist schools in providing healthy foods for school the department partnered with the First Ring meals. The Eat Right at School program utilizes Superintendents’ Collaborative to measure the BMI USDA National School Lunch standards as well as of nearly 20,000 kindergarteners, third, fifth and Cleveland Clinic’s Go! Foods® criteria. Four school districts, including the Cleveland Metropolitan 19 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights Changing Community Needs Preserving a Healthy Environment In October 2011, Cleveland Clinic opened the As part of our efforts to build a healthier Stephanie Tubbs Jones Health Center, which community and preserve a healthy environis uniquely designed to meet the needs of ment, Cleveland Clinic has developed a patients in East Cleveland and the surrounding 35-acre Environmental Covenant Area on area. This new center was created to better its Twinsburg Medical Campus in Twinsburg, meet the changing needs of the community Ohio. Because the property possesses subfollowing the closing of Huron Hospital. stantial value in conserving and protecting Cleveland Clinic worked closely with more the physical, biological and chemical integrity than 250 members of the community to of its high quality wetlands and streams, it design this facility. The center provides an is protected by the Clean Water Act and the easier way for patients to get preventive care Ohio Water Pollution Control Act. and treatment for chronic diseases. Through Cleveland Clinic consistently strives to act this center, Cleveland Clinic is reaching in compliance with environmental laws and beyond traditional healthcare services and regulations and will fulfill its obligation to helping to link patients with important protect the Environmental Covenant Area community resources, such as healthcare, through certain activity limitations. For financial and social services, all in one example, the covenant prohibits division, location. The center focuses on the treatment dumping or accumulation of garbage, commerof diabetes, hypertension, kidney failure and cial development or industrial use, as well as mental health. It includes specialized care for placement of any man-made modifications women and children, primary care, preventive such as buildings, structures, fences, roads care, health education and specialty care. and parking lots, unless meeting outlined specifications and the approval of the Ohio EPA. In order to protect groundwater resources, School District, will utilize Eat Right at School to which are the primary source of water for the wetlands and streams located within make high-level changes to positively impact the the conservation area, natural water courses health of their students. and streams may not be altered. All storm Among Cleveland Clinic’s many other community water must continue to be routed to existing outreach programs, the East Cleveland Teen retention basins, which are to be inspected Collaborative helped enhance feelings of connectand repaired annually. edness and decrease hopelessness for teens. The Environmental Covenant Area became Cleveland Clinic also sponsored an intensive operational in 2011. program at the Langston Hughes Center, a community wellness center that helped 49 individuals from underserved communities to achieve optimal health and joyful living through commitment and long-term change. 2012 Communication on Progress 20 Focus on the Environment: Food Cleveland Clinic farmers markets showcase produce from lower growers. 21 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights Only about 1 percent of the approximately $10 billion spent on food in Northeast Ohio stays within this rich agricultural region. By some estimates, food travels an average of more than 1,500 miles to the American plate, all the while taking a toll on the environment through consuming fuel and generating emissions. Many of the communities we serve in Cuyahoga the importance of purchasing food locally and County have limited access to fresh fruits and supporting local agribusiness, locally sourced foods vegetables. Cleveland Clinic’s focus on fresh, in our cafeterias are marked with a local food sign healthy, local produce makes a difference at its stating where the food was grown and how far facilities and in the community. We’ve embraced the food has traveled. local food through community farmers markets, local procurement and hospital kitchen gardens, Community Farmers Market Program while actively participating in our region’s commitCleveland Clinic’s Community Farmers Market ment to becoming a green city on a blue lake. In program supports our local economy, provides 2008, we signed the Healthy Food in Healthcare increased access to fresh, healthy produce, encourPledge, further demonstrating our commitment to ages bio-diverse, small-scale farming, and reduces reducing the significant environmental impact of the environmental impact of food transportation. A our food service operations. joint project with Community Outreach, the Wellness Institute and the Office for a Healthy Environment, Local Procurement the program hosts several farmers markets and farm Buying and serving local foods in Cleveland Clinic stands around the system. The main campus flagship cafeterias provides economic opportunity for our market, operated by North Union Farmers Market, rural neighbors and a growing base of urban is a popular grower-certified market held weekly farmers, and helps to provide fresher, healthier during the growing season. Market visitors enjoy foods to patients, caregivers and visitors. live music, food samples and additional offerings from Cleveland Clinic’s information booth, such as In 2011, we further expanded the amount of locally free health screenings, wellness education or live sourced foods that are incorporated into the retail cooking demonstrations. Raffle prizes, surveys buffets and inpatient food service we offer at our and reusable shopping bag giveaways are featured locations. Using the Green Guide for Healthcare throughout the season. as guidance on local procurement, our retail food service surpassed its goal of purchasing at least In 2010, in an effort to provide healthy local foods 10 percent of annual food supplies from within for those in need, the North Union Farmers Market a 200-mile radius of Cleveland Clinic. We have at Cleveland Clinic began accepting coupons from integrated local procurement into our operating government agencies for qualifying individuals standards, ensuring continuous improvement in through the USDA Senior Farmers Market Nutrition the coming years. To encourage dialogue about Program, Cuyahoga County Women, Infant and 2012 Communication on Progress 22 Cleveland Clinic supports community gardening like the Fairfax Urban Farm established by the Cleveland Botanical Garden. Local teens who participate in the Botanical Gardens’ Green Corps program enjoy gardening and then sell their produce and specialty salsas at our farmers market. Children (WIC) Program and Supplemental Nutrition the communities we serve. Since 2008, some Assistance Program (SNAP). To improve healthy Cleveland Clinic community hospitals and family food access in the communities that surround our health centers have built and tended on-site kitchen main campus, we engaged our local government to gardens. In 2011, Cleveland Clinic’s gardening issue special WIC Farmers Market coupons three activities grew beyond the borders of our facilities. times during the 2011 season, which significantly The Office for a Healthy Environment and Lutheran boosted neighborhood participation. Hospital’s Community Outreach team received grant funding to enhance their existing health education to Markets or farm stands at additional Cleveland Clinic underserved members of the Ohio City community. locations, including Beachwood, Independence The program was designed to target diabetes, and Strongsville family health centers, and the obesity and improve access to healthy foods. Grant Stephanie Tubbs Jones Health Center, are planned activities included building and planting raised bed in 2012. gardens for local Cleveland Metropolitan Housing Kitchen Gardens Authority residents, providing regular health screenings, education, tools and equipment, Kitchen gardens are another way to encourage and organizing large community events. local food and food system empowerment with 23 Cleveland Clinic 2011 Highlights A Green City on a Blue Lake In August 2009, Cleveland Mayor Frank Jackson convened the first Sustainable Cleveland 2019 Summit to bring together hundreds of people interested in applying the principles of sustainability to the design of the local economy. Cleveland Clinic is a proud participant in Northeast Ohio’s commitment to its sustainable future by building an economic engine to empower a green city on a blue lake. By 2019, the 50th anniversary of the burning Cuyahoga River, we hope to realize this powerful vision and be part of a vibrant, healthy, successful community. Each year, Sustainable Cleveland 2019 has a designated focus to help our citizens and business rally around focused progress. Much of 2011 was spent laying groundwork for 2012’s Year of Local Foods, in which businesses and communities are focusing on growing and supporting the local food economy. It remains our commitment to improve the healing environment with appropriate and responsible food selection, professional preparation standards and a rigorous dedication to consistency and service. To that end, a new council was formed to author a Foodservice Charter in 2011. The charter clearly articulates our expectations for excellent service, patient-centered foodservice, environmentally responsible food procurement and operations, and support for caregiver and visitor wellness and nutritional excellence. The charter will serve as a living tool to shape all foodservice contracts and services on our campuses. 2012 Communication on Progress 24 Putting the UN Global Contract to Work HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS A Materials Handling caregiver in our state-ofthe-art service center on Cleveland Clinic’s main campus. Here, robotic systems distribute supplies with impressive efficiency. 25 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Cleveland Clinic is committed to protecting human and labor standards, directly and indirectly, through our employment and business practices and community engagement. We respect and uphold the labor laws of the United gender identity or expression, marital status, genetic States, including protections against workplace and information, ethnicity, ancestry, veteran status, or any employment discrimination, preserving the freedom other characteristic protected by federal, state or local of association, the right to organized labor, and the law (“protected categories”). In addition, Cleveland elimination of child and compulsory labor. As one Clinic administers all personnel actions without regard of the largest employers in Northeast Ohio, with to disability and provides reasonable accommodaenterprises in Cleveland, Florida, Nevada, Canada and tions for otherwise qualified disabled individuals. the Middle East, we strive to foster a healthy, respectLocal and diverse businesses are found with ful and inclusive workforce, and to bring its benefits the support of our Supplier Diversity Council. to our stakeholders in every community we serve. The Cleveland Clinic health system’s compensation Our commitment to human rights and labor system is designed to provide wages that are standards is reinforced by our Community Relations externally competitive and internally equitable; Institute, our Wellness Institute and a robust and it includes a review process for any market-driven progressive Human Relations team. Community and salary offer that has the potential to disrupt internal diversity strategies are governed by a subcommittee equity. Timekeeping systems and policies are of the Board of Directors, chaired by CEO and designed to comply with applicable federal and state President Delos M. Cosgrove, MD. regulations regarding pay, including accurate calculation of overtime compensation. Hospital policies Throughout our health system, numerous caregiverprohibit off-the-clock work for non-exempt caregivers led wellness teams and diversity councils enact as well as supervisory behavior that permits, strategies to directly encourage and engage our encourages or requires off-the-clock work. Human workforce. Within these workgroups, our Human Resources policies address appropriate use of Resources partners provide direct support to independent contractors, student interns and hospital front-line managers and help to ensure compliance volunteers. Cleveland Clinic health system adheres with our comprehensive policies. Our contracts to state regulations regarding working hours, duties currently do not undergo human rights screening and breaks for caregivers who are minors. to address human rights concerns. Prior to commencing employment, every minor Cleveland Clinic is committed to diversity and under the age of 18 must possess a valid Age and inclusion. We provide equal opportunity across all Schooling Certificate (work permit) unless otherwise employment practices including recruitment, selecexempted as stated in Chapter 4109 of the Ohio tion, training, promotion, transfer and compensation, Revised Code. Ohio law restricts the hours of work without regard to age, gender, race, national origin, of minors and prohibits their employment in occupareligion, creed, color, citizenship status, physical tions that are considered hazardous to their health. or mental disability, pregnancy, sexual orientation, 2012 Communication on Progress 26 All Cleveland Clinic uniforms are embroidered in-house so that they can be delivered to caregivers on demand. In 2011, Cleveland Clinic employed more than In 2011, Cleveland Clinic had 5,567 new hires with 40,000 caregivers in three regions of the United a new hire rate of 13.6 percent. Approximately States. Approximately 50 percent of our caregivers 47 percent of the new hires were younger than were 30 to 50 years old, 16 percent were younger 30 years old; 31.2 percent were male; and than 30, and 32 percent were older than 50. 92 percent of our new hires were hired to work in Cleveland Clinic offers different types of contract Ohio. We experienced a 14.1 percent turnover rate, terms including regular, part time, temporary with 5,755 caregivers leaving the organization due and student. In 2011, more than 87 percent of to dismissal, retirement or death. Approximately Cleveland Clinic caregivers were regular caregivers. 47 percent of the caregiver turnover was between Female caregivers represented 75 percent of our 30 and 50 years old (29 percent male). Ninetypermanent workforce. Overall, 90 percent of all four percent of 2011 caregiver turnover occurred Cleveland Clinic caregivers (94 percent of female in Ohio, which is comparable to the proportion and 72 percent of male caregivers) received regular of regional employment. performance reviews. See graph illustration of All caregivers participate in a defined contribution caregivers by gender in U.S. regions. plan to assist with long-term financial planning and Caregivers byCaregivers Gender in US by Regions Gender in U.S. Regions Ohio Florida Nevada 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 IN THOUSANDS Female Male 27 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work retirement. Cleveland Clinic offers caregivers access taken pursuant to Cleveland Clinic anti-discriminato an employee-guided investment fund (403b) tion policies with Corporate Compliance oversight. and matches caregiver investments in the fund at Senior managers and executives are annually a rate of 50 percent, up to 6 percent of employee evaluated on their performance, during which contribution. As plans change over time, employee expectations and performance toward institutional contributions and benefits in defunct plans are goals are reviewed and evaluated by the approprifrozen and future withholdings utilize active plans. ate supervisor. Cleveland Clinic provides short-term disability and long-term disability only to full-time caregivers. In the The total number of caregivers covered by collective last four years, there was only one instance in which bargaining agreements at Cleveland Clinic is 201, probable cause was found related to a caregiver with or 0.49 percent of total caregivers. disabilities, and appropriate corrective action was Executive Management, Managerial and Non-Managerial Workforce Representation Asian Hispanic Executive Management African American Caucasian 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander American Indian Other Managerial Hispanic African American Asian Caucasian 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 IN THOUSANDS Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander American Indian Other Non-Managerial Hispanic African American Asian Female Caucasian Male 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 2012 Communication on Progress 28 Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Environmental Stewardship Cleveland Clinic celebrates Earth Day to demonstrate our commitment to a healthy environment and community. Fresh produce was on display for employees at the 2011 Earth Day expo in Glickman Tower on our main campus. 29 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Cleveland Clinic supports healthy environments for healthy communities. We understand that environmental health and human health are linked and that we have a responsibility to take a precautionary approach to environmental stewardship through our operations and our community leadership. Healthy Buildings We are committed to designing with the goal of a unified approach to sustainability and building safe, green buildings using the across our organization. We collaboratively outlined a U.S. Green Building Council’s LEED system and baseline for sustainability at Cleveland Clinic to which evidence-based design, which results in healthier all sites should be held accountable. In addition, environments in which to work and heal. team leaders support broad-based cultural integration and caregiver engagement to drive transformative Healthy Operations In connection with creating a organizational change through individual ownership healthier built environment, we strive to design and from each caregiver at Cleveland Clinic. Infrastructure implement operational processes that reduce waste investments in support of energy efficiency are made and chemical use, improve energy efficiency and based on the recommendations of our enterprisepromote energy independence. wide, multi-stakeholder Energy Committee. Better Buying We are committed to using our buying Purchasing decisions are critical to sustainability and power to help transform the healthcare sector and reducing our potential environmental impact. Supply prevent waste at its source. Chain Management and the Office for a Healthy Finding Champions and Innovators We are Environment work together to stop waste at its source committed to engaging and educating our workforce while seeking out non-hazardous alternatives to and our visitors in helping our region’s communities conventional products and opportunities to engage become “Green Cities on a Blue Lake.” We seek to caregivers in using products more efficiently. We pioneer sustainable healthcare on a national scale apply the precautionary principle in the care of our by leveraging Cleveland Clinic’s standing and patients and in our approach to minimizing chemical expertise in sustainable healthcare. use, waste and emissions. For example, we are actively reducing our use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) Structure for Environmental Stewardship and its softener, DEHP, in both clinical and built Cleveland Clinic’s Office for a Healthy Environment environment product selection. We are confident (OHE) was created in response to a heightened Cleveland Clinic can continue working with suppliers awareness of our impact on our environment and in to develop innovative solutions for reducing waste, recognition of the link between environmental health cost, energy consumption and risk while improving and human health. This office sets the strategic service, transparency, patient experience and safety. direction for environmental stewardship at Cleveland Clinic, provides operational support and directs Stewardship in Action caregiver engagement in pursuit of improving Environmental Pressures on Healthcare Delivery environmental performance. The OHE is supported The global environmental meta-trends of climate by caregiver-led green teams to achieve a consistent change, natural resource constraints and increased approach to sustainability at all locations. In 2011, toxicity present a series of challenges to human OHE engaged our green teams in a concerted effort health and to the healthcare delivery infrastructure. to drive consistency in participation and practice, 2012 Communication on Progress 30 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has 3. Instability in climatic conditions may necessitate associated the decline in environmental health with investment in physical facilities and perhaps respiratory disease, pulmonary disease, cancer, influence patterns of vector-borne public heatstroke, water-borne diseases, malnutrition, health threats. obesity and diabetes. As a healthcare provider, we 4. Reduced quantity or quality of fresh water have a responsibility to safeguard the health of our supplies could impact community health and communities by addressing the environmental impact impact availability of physical plant water needs. of our operations. As a recognized leader in our industry we are in a position to lead by example Cleveland Clinic understands that its operations need in the adoption of environmental best practices to be more efficient in energy and water usage to in the delivery of exceptional patient care. minimize our impact on surrounding communities and climate change. Electricity consumption constiCleveland Clinic considers climate change and its tutes about 80 percent of our annual scope 1 and risks as opportunities for the organization. Although scope 2 carbon emissions. Therefore, our extensive financial implications of climate change are not energy management efforts directly address our quantitatively estimated, we have identified ways primary contribution to climate change. Cleveland in which climate change can impact Cleveland Clinic conducted a baseline greenhouse gas inventory Clinic’s operations: in 2008 of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions using 1. Possible population shifts could generate The Climate Registry’s General Reporting Protocol for high demand, stressing healthcare delivery the Voluntary Reporting Program, Version 1.1, as a system capacity. guide. This baseline inventory included 307,539 MT CO2e from electricity, 74,065 MT CO2e from fuel 2. Further stresses on air quality due to deforestacombustion, 4,695 MT CO2e from mobile sources tion and ozone density will result in increased and 957 MT CO2e from refrigerant usage. A new negative health impacts. environmental data management system currently 31 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work under design will allow us to report updated GHG In 2011, we were able to decrease our municipal emissions inventories in future reporting cycles. solid waste volume by about 5 percent over the A vigorous program of accountability in refrigerant previous year, while increasing our overall recycling management is in place to prevent uncontrolled rate. Across the enterprise, we evaluated waste emissions, resulting in no incidents of leakage of infrastructure and put incentives in place for an ozone-depleting substance since 2008 when increased recycling volumes via a new waste a refrigerant leakage of 957 MT was reported. hauling vendor contract that includes financial rebates on recyclables. In fulfillment of a stated 2010 goal, Waste Minimization and Recycling we began tracking the landfill diversion rate for the Waste management is a critical challenge in the entire health system in mid-2011, and we intend healthcare sector, which increasingly depends on to share results in next year’s report. disposable supplies. Cleveland Clinic creates a significant amount of waste in its operations, and the Other 2011 improvements involved room service acuity of the care we provide further increases our on our main campus, which began offering a challenge. We continue to work collaboratively with Bedside Menu Entry (BME) system that eliminates purchasers, vendors and caregivers to reduce the the use of paper menus and results in toner and amount of waste generated and disposed via landfill. paper savings. Also last year, our Protective Services Reducing landfill volume and hazardous waste is a Department hosted a series of Drug Take-Back core opportunity for improvement. Cleveland Clinic’s events that more than doubled our 2010 collection. waste management practices have significantly Protective Services collected and properly disposed improved across the health system over the last five of more than one ton of unused medications that years. At our main campus, we maintained our may have otherwise polluted the water supply or performance and conducted waste audits to identify environment due to improper disposal via municipal further opportunities for improvement. In 2011, sewer or waste removal systems. 3,718 tons of material representing more than 30 Landfill Diversion Rate Improvements percent of the total waste generated at main campus Reuse is an important component of managing was diverted from landfills. This total nearly quadruwaste. Cleveland Clinic’s long relationship with ples the 962 tons diverted in 2007. MedWish International results in the distribution of Landfill Diversion Rate Improvements Landfill Diversion Rate Improvements 40% 30% 20% Landfill Diversion Rate (+C&D) 10% Landfill Diversion Rate (-C&D) 0% Jan 07 Jul 07 Jan 08 Jul 08 Jan 09 Jul 09 Jan 10 Jul 10 Jan 11 Jul 11 2012 Communication on Progress 32 surplus supplies and equipment to medical missions in more than 90 countries. In 2011, we donated Cleveland Clinic’s first solar panels were installed by employee owners of a new cooperative business more than 103 tons of supplies and equipment, based in the heart of the struggling neighborhoods surrounding our main campus. These help to power which represented a 42.7 percent increase over the The Stanley Shalom Zielony Plaza. previous year, despite changes in donation guidelines that limited collectable material. MedWish sorts and performs a quality control check on incoming donations before distributing to beneficiaries. While not all items donated to MedWish can be used as humanitarian aid, items unfit for humanitarian distribution are provided to domestic alternative uses such as a medical training program or veterinary clinics. In some cases, donated items are not fit for use and must be discarded via recycling, responsible scrap and e-waste disposal or waste. Cleveland Clinic actively engages with MedWish to ensure that appropriate and usable items are donated according to their needs and requirements. Reducing the total amount of waste generated is the optimal method of improving waste management practices. A focused effort is being made to minimize waste through improved inventory management practices, such as minimizing expiration dates, lengths to reduce our energy use intensity so that optimizing custom surgical pack wastes and seeking we can focus our energy on patient care. In 2011, opportunities to systematically redeploy equipment we purchased and used a total of 908,257 GJ within the enterprise. energy, including 893,195 GJ electricity, 11,596 GJ natural gas, and 3,466 GJ diesel fuel. Cleveland Energy Clinic focuses not only on investment in energyHealthcare is an energy-intensive industry, consumefficiency improvements to infrastructure but ing more energy per square foot on average than also on educating its caregivers on energy all other commercial building types aside from food conservation and its resulting impact on our service. At Cleveland Clinic, we have gone to great patients and communities. MedWish Donations As a result of all 2011 initiatives, Cleveland Clinic MedWish Donations managed to reduce its electric usage by 9,120,414 120 kilowatt-hours or 32,833 GJ while bringing on line 100 157,024 square feet of new footprint. Our 2011 efficiency efforts included: conversion of parking Tons donated 80 60 and interior lighting, efficiency upgrades and lighting 40 control projects, initialization of a multiyear project 20 to upgrade building automation and control systems, 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 critical envelope upgrades, and a specific focus on Year HVAC improvements. In addition, we accomplished 33 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Energy Usage Index Energy Usage Index 320 300 CC Goal 280 kBTU/sf 260 240 220 200 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Year our goal to create an overarching Energy Evergreen Energy Solutions, formerly Ohio Management Standards manual in 2011. Some Cooperative Solar, recently installed our first array examples of energy efficiency initiatives and their with 100 kW in generating capacity from 480 solar impact include: a parking garage LED lighting project panels on main campus. In 2011, we planned that saved 1,231,723 kWh annually; a T-12 to T-8 and designed a second solar panel array (98 kW) light fixture transition that saved 109,194 kWh atop our new Pathology and Laboratory Institute annually; and installation of energy motion sensors for installation in spring 2012. that saved 118,000 kWh annually. Altogether, we Cleveland Clinic is proud to be named a 2011 and have reduced our energy usage index by 25 percent 2012 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year. Our energy (75,000 BTUs/sf) since our program began 2007. usage reduction initiatives resulted in GHG reduction To further reduce our consumption of hydrocarbonof 8,200 Mt CO2e, which is equivalent to removing generated energy and to create local jobs, Cleveland approximately 1,400 cars from the road for one year. Clinic is committed to adding environmentally friendly A new initiative in 2011 was the implementation of solar panels to generate renewable electricity on-site. our first zero-waste contract. After a thorough 2011 Funded Energy Projects 2011 Funded Energy Projects HVAC Lighting Controls Envelope Motor/Pump 2012 Communication on Progress 34 Cleveland Clinic will do its part to preserve the integrity of Lake Erie by reducing storm water runoff with rain gardens, permeable pavements and vegetated roofs. review, Cleveland Clinic signed an agreement with a of the water consumption data available to us. We vendor to provide and maintain Canon multi-funchave engaged with our public water utility to assign tion devices (MFDs) for the system. This was a a dedicated account manager, which we hope will significant enhancement resulting in new copy correct the water and sewer metering issues to equipment and about $2.2 million in savings enable us to confidently report consumption data through lower lease and service costs. In addition, in future reports. all new devices were ENERGY STAR products, All wastewater and stormwater is disposed of in which significantly improved the energy-efficiency public sewer systems and treated by local municipaliprofile of the installed devices. Additional savings ties. No unintentional discharges have occurred were achieved by setting the devices to default to during this reporting period and no water or wastewablack-and-white and double-sided printing, reducing ter is reused by another organization. We currently costly color toner and paper use. The contract also do not measure effluent water quality, as all water required the vendor to perform a zero-waste delivery is appropriately disposed of via public infrastructure. process in which the packaging of the more than 2,000 units had to be broken down and recycled Cleveland Clinic has taken a number of measures before it reached Cleveland Clinic’s docks. to reduce water consumption through the reuse of water in certain processes. We recycle more than Water 910,800 gallons of water annually when washing Cleveland Clinic’s Northeast Ohio enterprise mainly service carts at our main campus, and our laundry draws water from Lake Erie, which gains water from processor treats and recycles 65.03 percent of the upstream Great Lakes — Superior, Michigan total water used, resulting in an estimated savings and Huron. In 2009, the Cleveland Division of of 97,100,203 gallons of water. In 2010, Cleveland Water reported that Cleveland Clinic consumed Clinic’s Supply Chain Management Department 50,261 MCF or 376,957,500 gallons. However, implemented revised linen use polices and practices ongoing concerns about the reliability of those resulting in a 25 percent reduction in overall laundry measurements call into question the accuracy volume by weight. 35 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Stormwater management is a critical issue in Northeast Ohio. Poised on the edge of Lake Erie, a critical natural asset, we have a special responsibility to consider the stormwater impacts of our facilities and infrastructure on the surrounding wetlands and watersheds. A significant public sector stormwater project is under way, which will rely on landowners to assist in reducing system burdens. To minimize water runoff, we have added stormwater best management practices in our new and existing parking lot standards, where bioswales, rain gardens and soon, permeable pavement, are becoming routine. We installed our first two vegetated roofs in 2011 – one at the Strongsville Family Health and Surgery Center and the other at our new Pathology and Laboratory Medicine building on main campus. These projects will slow and filter stormwater runoff and reduce the burden on the current and future infrastructure. Transportation Caregiver commutes, coupled with Cleveland Clinic’s fleet of land and air vehicles, are the primary sources of our indirect and direct mobile source emissions. Cleveland Clinic operates a fleet of 294 passenger shuttle, police, courier and other vehicles, an No vehicles are more fuel-efficient than bicycles. increase of 11 vehicles from 2010. These vehicles Cleveland Clinic Police Officers Larry Haslem and Jim Ruma ride bikes and Segways® in warm weather contributed 0.00139 tons of NO in 2011. In an effort to cut fuel costs and carbon dioxide emissions. to reduce direct mobile source emissions, Cleveland Clinic has implemented an anti-idling policy for fleet and vendor delivery vehicles; a fuel-efficient vehicle garages. Operationally, we’ve trained our drivers purchasing approach that includes electric, hybrid on the new policies and migrated to lower impact and clean diesel vehicles; and a sophisticated dock vehicle use, such as a bicycleand Segway®management system that reduces delivery truck idling mounted police force during fair weather months. time. To support further emissions reduction, we’ve As a result of these policies and practices, in 2011 invested in electric parking vehicles for parking we realized a 10 percent improvement in the overall surveillance and have recently purchased our fleet’s fuel efficiency of this fleet, conserving more than first six hybrid vehicles; installation of two electric 26,000 gallons of fuel. Our anti-idling policy vehicle charging stations for our fleet and for resulted in 1) a reduction of average daily vehicle caregivers; and automated parking management idle time by 85 percent; 2) a reduction in fuel usage systems that reduce load in and exit idling for of 9,897 gallons, from 281,980 gallons in 2010 to 2012 Communication on Progress 36 A clinical plastics recycling program in Cleveland Clinic operating rooms significantly reduces the amount of plastic sent to landfills. 272,083 in 2011; and 3) reduced annualized CO2 who drive hybrid or fuel-efficient vehicles or carpool. emissions by 3.5 percent or 88 tons. We will rely In an effort to influence the approximately 95 percent heavily on this policy as we pursue additional fuel of the 20,000 main campus caregivers who are efficiency improvements in 2012. single-occupancy commuters, in 2011 we conducted a multifaceted exploration of programs that could In addition to improving the way we manage our reduce the total number of daily commuter vehicles fleet, we are taking steps to encourage low-carbon requiring on-site parking. Several strategies were caregiver commuting behavior, which primarily identified for pilots in 2012 that could result in fewer involves single occupancy vehicles today. We offer single-occupancy vehicles making daily commutes, employee incentives to encourage alternative including flexible work arrangements, public transit commuting, including transit passes at a pre-tax awareness, and design of new parking fee structures rate, a carpool matching program, a subsidy for the to incent caregivers to find alternatives to daily purchase of a home within walking distance, and parking needs and support caregivers who do. access to bicycle storage, showers and support. For those who continue to drive, we encourage Healthy Buildings lower-emission incentives in the form of rebates to The Cleveland Clinic health system is committed to our caregivers who purchase qualified low-emission designing and building safe, green buildings using the vehicles, and discounted parking rates to caregivers U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy 37 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work and Environmental Design (LEED) green building rating system as well as evidence-based and patient-centered design, which results in healthier environments in which to work and heal. All new major construction projects must pursue LEED Certification at a minimum and Silver Certification as our target. In 2011, we were proud to achieve our first LEED-NC Gold and second new building certification for the Global Cardiovascular and Innovation Center. We also received certification in 2011 for an addition at Cleveland Clinic Strongsville Family Health and Surgery Center in Strongsville, Ohio, and for an interior renovation in West Palm Beach, Florida. Led by Cleveland Clinic, the Global Cardiovascular Innovation Center is focused on developing, incubating, and commercializing innovative cardiovascular technology for the benefit of patients worldwide Hazardous and Regulated Materials Management and to facilitate economic development in the State of Ohio. The 50,000-square-foot GCIC building achieved LEED-NC v2.2 Gold Hazardous materials such as aggressive cleaning Certification for energy use, lighting, water and material use, as well as incorporating a variety of other sustainable strategies. products, sterilization and water treatment chemicals, certain pharmaceuticals, mercury-containing devices, electronic wastes, laboratory chemicals and Electronic wastes are managed via the Information radiological films and wastes, are an important part Technology Department and minimized by the of the healthcare delivery model. Proper manage2009 implementation of a PC lifecycle computing ment of these materials is critical to protecting the contract that requires the manufacturer to retain health of our caregivers and the community at large. ownership and takeback assets for subsequent In addition, many wastes, such as infectious reuse or recycling. This implementation enabled materials or sharps, are regulated to protect public Cleveland Clinic to achieve 55 percent reduction in health. All caregivers are trained annually on these the volume of electronic wastes disposed in 2011 waste regulations and other safety measures, and over previous year. any caregiver who works with hazardous materials The waste industry is becoming increasingly has access to Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) international, with recyclables and electronics that provide detailed information about the safe use, routinely bought and sold around the world. None risks and clean-up procedures for each chemical in of the hazardous or regulated waste generated at use. Each Cleveland Clinic hospital is responsible for Cleveland Clinic main campus is shipped internareporting any hazardous material spills as part of its tionally. The majority of hazardous substances Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Plan created at Cleveland Clinic are liquid wastes required by The Joint Commission. Spill reporting is reported in gallons, while some are measured in triggered if there is a spill of a hazardous substance pounds. All wastes are reported in tons, so in some in excess of its threshold planning quantity and it cases, volume-to-weight conversions are required leaves the premises by migrating over property lines using specific gravity or are simply converted from or spilling into a sewer, or is released to the air as pounds to tons. The total weight of hazardous waste a gas. There were no reportable chemical spills domestically disposed was 167 tons, of which in 2011. 60.82 tons was RCRA hazardous waste; the rest consisted of electronics, batteries and fluorescent lamps (75.06 tons recycled), and associated scrap metal (27.84 tons recycled). 2012 Communication on Progress 38 Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Anti-Corruption and Transparency Cleveland Clinic medical residents consult our secure electronic medical record. It improves caregiver communication, reduces paper consumption and enhances safety. 39 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Cleveland Clinic is committed to an ethical, transparent business environment, discouraging corruption in all its forms. Ethical business practices support our responsibility to the health and well-being of our communities and our efforts in all areas of our UN Global Compact commitment: social, environmental and anti-corruption. Structural Support for Anti-Corruption fully committed to a process that ensures integrity in The chief integrity officer, who reports directly to the innovation and places the interests of our patients Board of Directors, oversees a 20-FTE internal audit first. To ensure professional and commercial integrity office responsible for: auditing expenses and invoicing in all matters, Cleveland Clinic maintains a compreevery year; checking that Protective Services conhensive conflict of interest program for staff ducts background checks; ensuring Foreign Corrupt physicians, other caregivers and trustees that Practices Act training; and performing audits directed is designed to ensure that all potential conflicts, at detecting fraud. The officer also oversees a 12-FTE including institutional conflicts, are transparent Corporate Compliance Department that ensures and properly addressed. In fact, we were the first compliance with federal, state and local laws and academic medical center to openly disclose the regulations, and operates a whistle-blowing hotline. industry ties of our physicians via our public website. Cleveland Clinic conducts a formal annual risk Our policies require regular reporting and updating of assessment to identify risks in the health system. interests that may present a conflict. These interests Significant risks, such as the impact of healthcare are then formally reviewed by one or more authorities reform and the maintenance of a high level of clinical within Cleveland Clinic, such as the Conflict of quality, safety and security, and the mitigating Interest committees of the Professional Staff and/or efforts, are communicated to management and the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors the board using a risk matrix and dashboards. promotes a culture of awareness and sensitivity at all levels to potential conflicts of interest, recognizing In 2010, Cleveland Clinic sponsored a Northeast that it is ultimately responsible for maintaining and Ohio business ethics forum that brought together preserving a balance between innovation and more than 200 area companies to focus on ethical transparency. The Conflict of Interest Committee business practices and pledge to act in an ethical of the Board of Trustees oversees conflict of interest manner. We also held two on-site forums with matters at Cleveland Clinic. This includes having hundreds of Cleveland Clinic vendors in attendance oversight of the Professional Staff Conflict of Interest that included a focus on ethical business practices. Committee. The Conflict of Interest Office and the chief governance officer, through the Law Structural Support for Conflict of Interest Department, coordinate with these committees Since its founding in 1921, Cleveland Clinic has been to administer the conflict of interest program. a leading medical innovator. Discoveries made here have saved millions of patients’ lives, and many Structural Support for innovations are standard practice in medicine today. Ethical Government Interactions Cleveland Clinic believes that medical innovation Cleveland Clinic has a chief government affairs significantly benefits patient care. At the same time, officer who oversees a team of government relations we recognize that innovation must be managed with professionals. This team collaborates with elected extraordinary sensitivity and transparency. We are officials at all levels of government to promote health 2012 Communication on Progress 40 Corporate Compliance Case Study: Marketing and Communications To assure professional and commercial integrity, our conflict of interest program ensures that all potential conflicts, including institutional conflicts, are transparent and properly addressed. For example, Cleveland Clinic’s Marketing and Communications Department adheres to the formal Corporate Compliance Program to ensure that its caregivers, vendors and other contractors conduct activities in full compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, policies and ethical standards. Marketing and Communications has further reinforced these values with its own Social Media Code of Ethics for new or emerging media. This code provides requirements for Cleveland Clinic caregivers who engage in conversations on the Internet or interact with the public or fellow caregivers. These requirements include the posting of accurate and factual information on all web and social media sites. In addition, Cleveland Clinic caregivers must identify that they work for Cleveland Clinic and disclose conflicts of interest. Cleveland Clinic’s website also includes a current directory of all its physicians, listing their educational and professional backgrounds, their medical specializations and their relationships with industry. By acting in accordance with the Corporate Compliance Program, Marketing Communications can best support Cleveland Clinic’s mission to provide better care of the sick, investigation of their problems, and further education of those who serve. and wellness, and shed light on the challenges and the program and, in June 1998, the Office of opportunities within our sector. As part of the Corporate Compliance was established under the development of federal healthcare reform, Cleveland direction of the chief integrity officer. In January Clinic management assisted government officials in 2003, the responsibilities were expanded to include understanding our medical practice model, which is the Privacy Office, established in response to the recognized as a best practice. We ensure that ethical Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act practices are maintained by completing detailed of 1996 (HIPAA). This mature program is now a part reports of contact with elected officials and governroutine hospital operations and integrated into the ment agencies, and by filing federal lobbying reports culture of the organization. for the money and time spent on advocacy efforts by individuals from the Office of Government A Culture of Transparency Relations and Cleveland Clinic. Caregivers are encouraged to hold one another and our leadership to our Code of Conduct, regulations Regulatory Compliance and ethical and safe workplace policies. We operate Cleveland Clinic is committed to a formal Corporate anonymous hotlines (128 calls in 2011) and email Compliance program that is intended to ensure that accounts (28 emails in 2011), for a total of 156 caregivers, contractors and vendors conduct activities compliance-related reports, from alleged employment in full compliance with applicable federal, state and practice breaches to issues of privacy and business local laws, regulations, policies and ethical standards. ethics. In addition to formal hotline calls, Corporate In May 1996, the Board of Directors formally adopted Compliance staff directly received more than 675 41 Cleveland Clinic Putting the UN Global Contract to Work Victor Matos, a Cleveland Clinic Children’s Hospital equipment technician and committed caregiver, keeps things humming in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. He helps nurses set up rooms, and moves and services key equipment. compliance-related inquiries in 2011, further evidence parties. Non-profit organizations with 501(c)(3) status that our organization has a culture of integrity. All are strictly prohibited from supporting specific political reports and inquiries are broken down by type and figures or issues. However, our caregivers are free to location, and responded to in a timely manner. donate to whatever organizations or legislators they choose to, but do so as private citizens exercising The entire business is included in our anti-corruption the rights afforded all such citizens. risk analysis. Code of Conduct policies and procedures education is provided for all caregivers. Specific In 2011, Cleveland Clinic acquired and designed training is only for management and foreign travelers. a central enterprise environmental and social data Caregivers involved in fraud are terminated and management system for 2012 implementation that prosecuted. Cleveland Clinic’s political/legislative will assist in the reporting and management of the activities are primarily focused in the areas of healthorganization’s overall sustainability performance. care reform. Specifically, we are interested in issues Facility-based reporting will allow intra-facility related to reimbursements, quality of care, wellness benchmarking and visibility, creating an open, and patient outcomes. These activities can take many transparent environment for facilities to strive for forms including support of legislation, participating in improvement. The collection and analysis embedded ad hoc committees, and offering testimony in state within the tool is certified by the Global Reporting and federal legislative committee hearings. Cleveland Initiative (GRI) and in accordance with the UN Clinic, as an institution, does not provide donations Global Compact (UNGC) guidelines, facilitating or other support to individual legislators or political future years’ reporting processes. 2012 Communication on Progress 42 Organizational Profile WHO WE ARE Located in Cleveland, Ohio, the Cleveland Clinic individuals or corporate entities. The Cleveland Clinic Foundation is a nonprofit, multispecialty academic Foundation serves as a direct or indirect parent or as medical center that integrates clinical and hospital the “sole member” or “sole regular member” of each care with research and education. Cleveland Clinic affiliate within the Cleveland Clinic health system was founded in 1921 by four renowned physicians (CCHS). As a public charity, Cleveland Clinic operates with a mission to provide better care of the sick, exclusively for charitable, educational and scientific investigation into their problems, and further educapurposes. In 2011, Cleveland Clinic, with more than tion of those who serve. We continue to live and 40,000 caregivers, had 4.6 million patient visits, operate by this mission, which is supported by six 160,405 admissions and 187,905 surgical cases. fundamental values: quality, innovation, teamwork, A world-renowned provider of healthcare services, service, integrity and compassion. Our caregivers Cleveland Clinic is a physician-led organization with are also guided by a Code of Conduct in carrying out an independent board. Anchored by the hospital daily activities within appropriate ethical and legal and facilities on its main campus in the city of standards. This Code of Conduct supports an Cleveland, Cleveland Clinic operates nine hospitals environment that protects and promotes integrity with more than 4,400 staffed beds throughout and compliance, and enhances Cleveland Clinic’s northeast Ohio and in Florida. It also operates 18 ability to achieve its mission, meet its goals and outpatient family health centers, eight ambulatory better serve patients. surgery centers, as well as a large number of Today, with 1,400 beds, Cleveland Clinic is one physician offices, all located throughout a sevenof the largest and most respected hospitals in the county area of northeast Ohio. In southeast Florida, country. As an Ohio nonprofit corporation, the Cleveland Clinic operates a hospital and a clinic in Cleveland Clinic Foundation is not owned by any Weston, and a health and wellness center in West 43 Cleveland Clinic Who We Are By the Numbers: Cleveland Clinic Facts (2011) Number of Caregivers 40,985 Number of Beds Systemwide 4,400 Number of Physicians and Scientists 2,857 Number of Patient Visits 4.6 million Number of Nurses 11,000 Number of Admissions 160,405 Cleveland Clinic National Locations 30 Number of Surgical Cases $187,905 Cleveland Clinic International Locations 3 Total Grant and Contract Revenue $171 million Number of Hospitals 9 Total Federal Revenue $112 million Number of Family Health Centers 18 Residents and Fellows in Training 1,130 Number of Institutes 26 Training Programs 65 Number of Beds on Main Campus 1,400 Non-Accredited Training Programs 100 Palm Beach. Cleveland Clinic also operates a health On our main campus, a new building opened to and wellness center in Toronto, Ontario, and a house the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine specialized neurological clinical center in Las Vegas, Institute. Nevada. In addition, Cleveland Clinic provides More than 90 percent of our patients come from management services for Ashtabula County Medical 14 counties in Northeast Ohio. Our patients are Center in Ashtabula, Ohio. In cooperation with Abu comprised of a wide range of age groups, with Dhabi Health Services Company, Cleveland Clinic more than 51 percent older than 45 years old. also provides management services to the Sheikh Approximately 42 percent of our total patients were Khalifa Medical City, a network of healthcare male and 58 percent female. Patient care was paid facilities in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, by 67 percent private insurance, 27 percent with approximately 760 staffed beds. government, and 6 percent self-paid. In 2011, the Cleveland Clinic continues to invest in its regional state reimbursed Cleveland Clinic an excess of infrastructure through new and expanded facilities $17.8 million on HCAP payments for charity care. to better meet the needs of communities served. In 2011, we dedicated the new Twinsburg Family Health and Surgery Center in Twinsburg, Ohio, and the Richard E. Jacobs Health Center in Avon, Ohio. In East Cleveland, we transitioned from an older inpatient facility to the new Stephanie Tubbs Jones Health Center. We also acquired North Coast Cancer Care, Inc., and its locations in Sandusky, Clyde and Norwalk, Ohio. 2012 Communication on Progress 44 Organizational Profile AWARDS AND HONORS The Cleveland Clinic health system has earned Practice Greenhealth Environmental numerous national awards for environmental Excellence Awards stewardship from the U.S. Environmental Protection Environmental Leadership Award Agency and Practice Greenhealth, a nonprofit This award is the premier and most competitive membership organization founded on the principles award recognizing facilities that exemplify environof positive environmental stewardship and best mental excellence and set the highest standards practices by organizations in the healthcare commufor environmental practices and sustainability in nity. A partial listing of our 2011 environmental healthcare. Our main campus was honored with awards is below. A comprehensive awards list can this award for a third year in 2011. be found in Cleveland Clinic’s 2011 Annual Report. Partner for Change with Distinction Three of our hospitals are first-time recipients of this award, which recognizes healthcare facilities that have well-established environmental programs and are top performers among the Partners for Change recipients. Distinction winners have a “culture of sustainability” and are leaders in their communities 2012 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year and in the healthcare sector. Cleveland Clinic was named an ENERGY STAR Partner for Change Partner of the Year by the U.S. Environmental Seven of our hospitals and nine of our family health Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of centers received this honor, which recognizes top Energy for the second consecutive year for culturally performers that maintain at least a 15 percent integrating energy management into its patient care recycling rate, have significantly reduced or elimimission during the 2011 reporting year. Among nated mercury, and have made progress toward other accomplishments, Cleveland Clinic was cited becoming more sustainable. for dedicating more than $27 million in 2011 to Making Medicine Mercury-Free fund cost-effective energy-efficiency projects and Two of our hospitals and seven of our family health for motivating caregivers to take ownership of energy centers joined eight other Cleveland Clinic facilities usage. Cleveland Clinic was one of 42 organizations in earning Making Medicine Mercury-Free status by to be named Partner of the Year from among making a commitment to and implementing mercury 20,000 ENERGY STAR partners nationwide. management and minimization best practices. System for Change U.S.NEWS & WORLD REPORT (National Rankings) Cleveland Clinic was recognized with this award 1 Heart Care 6 Neurology and for the fourth year for our system-level approach 2 Urology Neurosurgery and structure that has generated progress at each 2 Digestive Disorders 7 Geriatrics of our facilities. 2 Kidney Disorders 8 Ear, Nose and Throat 3 Rheumatology 9 Cancer 3 Respiratory Disorders 11 Ophthalmology 4 Orthopaedics 17 Psychiatry 4 Gynecology 19 Rehabilitation 5 Diabetes/Endocrine Disorders 45 Cleveland Clinic Who We Are Organizational Profile Governance, Commitment and Engagement Cleveland Clinic is governed by its Members, a Board of Directors and a Board of Governors. The chair of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors holds the highest board position, but is not an executive officer, caregiver or staff member. The Cleveland Clinic Board of Trustees serves as an advisor to the Board of Directors. The Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors is the primary governing body and is charged with the fiduciary duty to act on behalf of Cleveland Clinic. Directors are not compensated for their service and are required to be independent and are selected for four-year terms on the basis of their expertise and experience. A majority of the members of the Board of Directors must be independent under the Board’s independence policy. Of 23 members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors, four directors of more than 1 percent of the receiving entity’s are female (17.4 percent) and two directors (one gross revenues for the applicable year. male and one female) are African-American. The The Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors Managing directors range in age from the early 50s to 90 Innovations Committee is charged with the task of years of age. The Board of Directors, with assistance discharging the obligations of the Board of Directors from the Governance Committee, routinely reviews related to conflict of interest issues. These obligations its performance and the performance of its memare set forth in Cleveland Clinic’s charter and the bers, particularly when a director’s term is about to Board’s conflict of interest policy and relate to (a) expire and the Board has to determine whether the determining the existence of, assessing, resolving and individual should be re-elected. managing, any conflicts of interest arising from an Under Cleveland Clinic Board’s independence individual interest of a director, trustee or officer of policy, an independent director is one whom Cleveland Clinic health system or from an interest the Governance Committee, after considering all held directly or indirectly by Cleveland Clinic, in relevant facts and circumstances in accordance with accordance with the current Board of Directors the policy, advice and guidance of the chief goverConflict of Interest Policy and (b) supervising the nance officer, and upon the recommendation from Cleveland Clinic Professional Staff Conflict of Interest the Managing Innovations Committee, has affirmaCommittee in the performance of its responsibilities tively determined that he/she has met certain for professional staff conflicts of interest matters. criteria, as defined in the policy. A director will not The Committee conducts its duties in accordance be determined to be independent unless certain with all applicable rules and regulations, including conditions are met, including but not limited to those applicable to nonprofit and tax-exempt if the director is employed by Cleveland Clinic; has charitable organizations. received compensation from Cleveland Clinic; or is On an annual basis, Cleveland Clinic distributes a director or executive officer of an entity with gross a questionnaire to Cleveland Clinic health system payments to or annual receipts from Cleveland Clinic directors, trustees, officers and key caregivers to 2012 Communication on Progress 46 determine independence, as defined by the U.S. standards relating to environmental protection, family Internal Revenue Service and Cleveland Clinic and work, business ethics, conflicts of interest, fraud/ Conflict of Interest Policy. This questionnaire is also waste/abuse, insider trading, antitrust and anti-kickdesigned to ascertain information relating to business back laws. Additionally, directors receive an annual affiliations and transactions that might give rise to mailing that not only includes a questionnaire for potential conflicts of interest. disclosure of activities that may give rise to conflicts of interest, but also includes documentation relating Directors and trustees who are not independent are to IRS regulations pertaining to intermediate sancentitled to participate fully in their duties as Board tions provisions. members, subject to Cleveland Clinic’s Conflict of Interest policies and the requirements applicable Each Board Committee is governed by a charter, to Board members to recuse themselves from any which includes specific goals and responsibilities. actions that involve a personal interest. A director On an annual basis, Board Committees are responor trustee who is deemed not to be independent sible for conducting annual self-assessment surveys is nevertheless assumed to be always acting in to assess performance. For example, in addition to the best interests of Cleveland Clinic. other responsibilities, the Audit Committee is charged with the task of reviewing the adequacy and effecCleveland Clinic’s Board of Directors, as the governtiveness of administrative, operating and internal ing body of Cleveland Clinic, regularly evaluates its accounting controls, policies and procedures for the membership with a view to increasing diversity and Cleveland Clinic health system. At the end of each including qualified representatives from the commuyear, the Audit Committee distributes a self-assessnities it serves. The Governance Committee of the ment survey tool to its members so that Committee Board of Directors regularly reviews the composition members document their comments relating to the of the Board, based on various factors, so as to Committee’s performance and effectiveness in ensure a balanced membership that includes ethnic meeting this and other goals as stated in its and gender diversity as well as business and Committee Charter. In addition, the Board of community expertise. The Governance Committee Directors, with assistance from the Governance also seeks recommendations from Board members Committee, routinely reviews its performance and of candidates who will add value to the Board the performance of its members, particularly when of Directors and Board of Trustees. a director’s term is about to expire and the Board Members of the Cleveland Clinic Board of Directors has to determine whether the individual should adhere to the principles set forth in Cleveland Clinic’s be re-elected. Code of Conduct. Included in these principles are 47 Cleveland Clinic Indicator Index Our Stakeholders Cleveland Clinic engages its stakeholders across We define stakeholders as those who would be a wide spectrum throughout the year. Degrees most interested in Cleveland Clinic’s more transparof engagement span from low (knowledge about ent approach in reporting environmental, social decisions) to high (forming decisions), ranging from and economic impacts, as well as those more communications about its programming and directly affected by Cleveland Clinic’s various partnerships through newsletters, the web and operational decisions. social media; community programming, such as its seasonal farmers markets and robust educational The stakeholder groups engaged by Cleveland course catalogs; convening advisory groups and Clinic include: task forces; and third-party surveys to inform • Patients decision-making. • Caregivers Stakeholders are typically contacted on a case• Cleveland Clinic Executive Leadership by-case basis, depending upon the areas affected • State of Ohio Legislature by the issue at hand. These interactions typically involve in-person meetings for the purpose of • Ohio Delegation of the U.S. Congress discussing the issues and exchanging the views • City of Cleveland Office of the Mayor of each party. We also perform periodic proactive • Cleveland City Council outreach to these groups, inviting them to attend • City of Cleveland Department of Public Health facility openings, addresses by Cleveland Clinic • City of Cleveland Department of executives, and other Cleveland Clinic-hosted Economic Development events open to the public and other officials. • City of Cleveland Office of Sustainability Memberships • City of Cleveland Sustainable Cleveland 2019 Cleveland Clinic is a dues-paying member of the Ohio Stewardship Council Hospital Association, the Association of American • Cuyahoga County Office of the County Executive Medical Colleges, the American Medical Group • Cuyahoga County Council Association, the Healthcare Leadership Council and • Cuyahoga County Department of Health the American Hospital Association. We provide guidance to these organizations on their healthcare & Human Services policy positions, and by extension benefit from their • Cuyahoga County Solid Waste District lobbying activities (as do their other member organi• Fairfax Renaissance Development Corporation zations). In addition, our individual physicians and • Cuyahoga County Department of Development researchers participate as individual members of • Offices of the Mayor of more than 20 Greater organizations related to their specific areas of Cleveland communities, as well as those in practice or interest, such as the American College of Radiology and the American College of Surgeons. Las Vegas, Nevada, and Weston and West Cleveland Clinic’s membership associations include Palm Beach, Florida Diversity Inc., Society for Human Resource • Green City Blue Lake Institute Management (SHRM), Association for Community • U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR for Healthcare Health Improvement, International Society for • Practice Greenhealth Health, Society of Black Academic Surgeons (SBAS) • U.S. Green Building Council and Northern Ohio Minority Supplier Development. 2012 Communication on Progress 48 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Index The summary table below shows where Cleveland Clinic’s information and data corresponding to the Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines can be found. Page numbers refer to pages in this Communications on Progress report unless otherwise noted. Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 48 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 with whom to engage 3.1 Reporting period 3 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 48 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 group 3.3 Reporting cycle 3 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 6, 7 3.4 Contact point for questions 3 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded 3.5 Process for defining report content 6 Environment Management Approach 20, 30, 3.6 Boundary of the report 3 31, 32, 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary 3 33, 34, of the report 37 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, 3 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 33 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 34 other entities EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 33 3.9 Data measurement techniques 3 improvements 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 34 information provided in earlier energy based products and services, and reductions in 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 3 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives the scope, boundary, or measurement methods EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 35 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 49, 50 reductions achieved Disclosures EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 35 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 3 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 35 external assurance water 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 46 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 35 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 46 reused body is also an executive officer EN13 Habitats protected or restored 20 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure 46 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 20 the number and gender of members of the highest managing impacts on biodiversity governance body that are independent or non-executive members EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 31 weight 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and caregivers to provide 48 recommendations EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 34, 37 reductions achieved 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the 28 highest governance body and the organization’s EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 32 performance EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and 36 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 47 weight ensure conflicts of interest are avoided EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 35 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, 47 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 32 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 38 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, 43 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated 38 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel environmental, and social performance and the status Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of of their implementation transported waste shipped internationally 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 47 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 34, 35, overseeing the organization’s identification and products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 38 management of economic, environmental, and social EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 20 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with and adherence or compliance with internationally environmental laws and regulations agreed-upon standards, codes of conduct, and EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 31, 37 principles products and other goods and materials used for the 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 47 organization’s operations, and transporting members own performance, particularly with respect to of the workforce economic, environmental, and social performance Human Rights Management Approach 26 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 30 approach or principle is addressed by the organization HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment 26 agreements and contracts that include clauses 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and 16 incorporating human rights concerns, or that have social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which undergone human rights screening the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations such as industry 48 associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 48 49 Cleveland Clinic Indicator Index Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 28 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 42 corrective actions taken SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 42 Labor Management Approach 10, 11, development and lobbying 26 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to 42 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 27 political parties, politicians, and related institutions contract, and region, broken down by gender by country LA2 Total number and rate of new caregiver hires and 27 Product Responsibility Management Approach 6, 10, caregiver turnover by age group, gender, and region 41 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time caregivers that are not 28 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 10, 11 provided to temporary or part-time caregivers, by products and services are assessed for improvement, significant locations of operation and percentage of significant products and services LA4 Percentage of caregivers covered by collective 28 categories subject to such procedures bargaining agreements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 6 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 14 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction absenteeism, and total number of work-related PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and 41 fatalities, by region and by gender voluntary codes related to marketing communications, LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and 11, 12 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Economic Management Approach 16, 43 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases EC1 Understanding and describing significant indirect 17 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 12 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts that support the continued employability of caregivers Direct economic value generated and distributed, 17 and assist them in managing career endings including revenues, operating costs, caregiver LA12 Percentage of caregivers receiving regular performance 27 compensation, donations and other community and career development reviews, by gender investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 27, 28, caregivers per caregiver category according to gender, 46 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 31 age group, minority group membership, and other for the organization’s activities due to climate change indicators of diversity EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan 28 Society Management Approach 16, 40, obligations 42 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from 44 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local 18, 19, government community engagement, impact assessments, and 20 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on 22 development programs locally-based suppliers at significant locations of SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed 42 operation for risks related to corruption EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 17 SO3 Percentage of caregivers trained in organization’s 42 and services provided primarily for public benefit anti-corruption policies and procedures through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect 17 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Principle indicators Principle 1: Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights EC5, LA4, LA69; LA13-14, HR1-9, SO5, PR1 -2, PR8 Principle 2: Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses HR1-9, SO5 Principle 3: Uphold freedom of association and right to collective bargaining LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, SO5 Principle 4: Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor HR1-3, HR7, SO5 Principle 5: Support effective abolition of child labor HR1-3, HR6, SO5 Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation 36–39 EC7, LA2, LA13-14, HR1-4, SO5 Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges EC2, EN18, EN26, EN30, SO5 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1-30, SO5, PR3-4 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies EN2, EN 5-7, EN 10, EN 18, EN 2627, EN30, SO5 Principle 10: Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery SO2-6 2012 Communication on Progress 50 Supporting and more detailed documentation is available on the web at: clevelandclinic.org/about clevelandclinic.org/wellness clevelandclinic.org/diversity clevelandclinic.org/community clevelandclinic.org/annual_reports clevelandclinic.org/sustainability 12-CCC-469
