City Clock Kenya Limited Communication on Progress Year 2012 Contents  Statement of Continued Support  Executive summary  Human Rights  Labour Practices  Environment  Anti – corruption Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact City Clock Kenya Limited is proud of its affiliation to the UN Global Compact City Clock Kenya Limited fully supports the ten principles that are promoted by the Global Compact with respect to the human rights, labour practices, environment and anti – corruption. This being our first Communication on Progress we strive to highlight our Commitment to the UN Global Compact principles and how we are and can best incorporate them in our organisation and all those we interact with. Mr. T.W. Proske Group Chief Executive City Clock (K) Ltd Executive summary Company name: City Clock Kenya Limited Sector: Advertising Number of employees: 24 UN Global Compact Signatory since: 2008/10/01 Contact Person: Mr. T.W. Proske Address: 45776 – 00100 Nairobi Email: ticktockinfo@africaonline.co.ke Phone: +254 20 374 6727/3772 About us City Clock was first introduced in Germany in the 1970’s. City Clock Kenya Limited was incorporated in Kenya in 1984 under the companies act as a Private Limited Company. City Clock Kenya Limited operates from a town office along Parklands road and a workshop depot at Wilson Airport. Our vision To be the best at innovative, cost effective, eco-friendly advertising solutions throughout Africa. Mission statement To provide cost effective, eco-friendly advertising solutions at strategic high value return locations Our services City Clock provides an effective and efficient way of displaying information, whether it be advertising a product or communicating a social message. City Clock provides the public with the correct time of the day and also allows our clients to promote their products and services. United Nations Global Compact Principle Human Rights The first two principles of the UN Global Compact, which are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights and Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. Human rights are universal and belong to everyone equally that is why here at City Clock Kenya Limited we support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure we are not complicit with Human rights abuses. City Clock Kenya Limited is committed to the realization of human rights embedded in the Group human rights and social policies. We seek to identify, evaluate and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with the following policy aims 1. Employees / Workplace At the workplace City Clock Kenya Limited ensures that it complies with Human Rights principles by complying with the Labour Laws which includes the Employment Act, Health and safety Act, Workers Injury Benefit Act. We uphold the Human Rights of our employees by the following actions  Providing safe and healthy working conditions  Providing equal opportunities at the workplace and ensuring non discrimination in personnel practices.  Ensuring the company does not use directly or indirectly forced labour or child labour.  Providing opportunities to workers for grievance procedures 2. Suppliers and Contractors City Clock Kenya Limited knows the importance of fairness when it comes to dealing with suppliers / contractors that is why we ensure the company is non discriminatory in the appointment/selection of a supplier/ contractor. 3. Local Communities and Society at large City Clock Kenya Limited knows the importance of balancing the interest of all our key stakeholders including the community in which we work with. We implement the Human rights Principles in the following ways.  Installing the City Clock advertising units in close cooperation with the local authorities at prime locations along highways, in roundabouts, in urban and rural areas so that people from all walks of life and professionals consult City Clock advertising units for accurate time keeping and in turn providing mileage to our clients as well.  Partnering with Institutions like KEPSA to offer internship opportunities to students.  Ensuring the materials we use on the City Clock advertising units are environmentally friendly. We at City Clock also strive; To contribute, within the scope of our capabilities, to promote the fulfilment of human rights through improving economic, environmental and social conditions and serve as a positive influence in communities in which we operate. To seek to have open dialogue with stakeholders and participate in community engagement activities. To participate where appropriate in public affairs in a non-partisan and responsible way to promote internationally recognised human rights. To seek to play a positive role, within our spheres of influence, in capacity-building for the realization of human rights within our society. To promote the realization of environmental sustainability and development through our core business and through our participation in Other multi-stakeholder activities where appropriate To uphold the highest standards in business ethics and integrity and where appropriate to support efforts of national and international authorities to establish and enforce high ethical standards for all businesses United Nation Global Compact Principle Labour The Global Compact Labour Principles are derived from the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights to Work: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of Child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. City Clock Kenya Limited applies the Labour principles at the company level through the code of conduct Principle 3 states that businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 emphasises on elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Here at City Clock Kenya Limited we ensure that every employee is handed an employment contract or engagement letter that clearly states the terms and conditions of service, the freedom to leave and the penalties that may be associated with ones departure or cessation of work. City Clock Kenya Limited adheres to Principle 5 by ensuring that it complies with the minimum age provisions for labour laws. The company requires that those joining to be over the age of 18 years. The company requires, upon joining, that the employee provides a copy of their National ID and / or other documentation which one can obtain only when they attain 18 years of age. In compliance with Principle 6 we at City Clock Kenya Limited believe in recruiting and retaining sound and professional staff and we also provide a nurturing and stimulating environment that creates opportunity for growth in our employees. The Company seconds various colleagues including its Group Chief Executive Mr. T.W. Proske to various government bodies and industry associations such as Kenya Association of Manufactures (KAM), Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) and Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT) now known as National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) United Nations Global Compact Principles Environment The UN Global Compact’s environment principles are derived from the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We recognise that the environment, society and economy are interrelated and also believe that effective environment management will help our business to operate in a more sustainable manner. City Clock Kenya Limited has concern for the environment and advocates for good environmental practices with clients, corporate partners and the general public in the following ways.  City Clock advertising units are installed in close cooperation with the local authorities.  Our City Clock advertising units are all solar powered.  We participate in environmental events.  We donate old newspapers for recycling purposes.  We ensure that the materials used on the City Clock advertising units are environmentally friendly. United Nations Global Compact Principles Anti – corruption The Global Compact Anti – corruption principle is derived from the United Nations Convention against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including, extortion and bribery. We at City Clock Kenya Limited constantly monitor the manner in which conflicts of interest in our relationship with our stakeholders who are our employees, suppliers and contractors, public authorities and the community in which we operate are resolved. We eliminate corruption by engaging in fair, ethical and responsible business practices which include;  Having an open and transparent forum for selecting suppliers and contractors  Not resulting to bribery when applying for locations form the public authorities  Not soliciting for or accepting payments or other valuable consideration of services rendered within the normal course or scope of official duties.  Educating our employees on the consequences related to corruption. We support the community in various activities among them are; Donation to organizations that deal with projects that are aligned to the company focus areas of the environment, health and education through  Conservancy of the national park through Friends of Nairobi National Park (FoNNaP).  Recycling of old newspapers through The Cluster Foundation. We intend to make this COP available to our stake holders through ongoing communication using the use of various tools like Intranet.
