HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Commitment Environment Society About this report see page 3 see page 18 see page 80 see page 173 See an overview of our global citizenship activities online at www.hp.com/go/globalcitizenship. Table of contents 3 Commitment 80 Society 4 Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 81 Ethics and human rights 5 HP profile 82 Ethics and compliance 85 Human rights 7 Global citizenship strategy 87 Conflict minerals 8 Global citizenship and business value 10 Global citizenship governance 91 Supply chain responsibility 96 Our approach 12 Stakeholder engagement 99 Performance 14 Perspectives 102 Detailed audit findings 108 Collaboration 15 Affiliations and memberships 110 Capability building 17 Policies 113 Perspective: So Sheung 115 Supplier diversity 117 Privacy 18 Environment 118 Approach 120 HP people 19 Environmental sustainability 121 Engaging our people 21 Collaboration 123 Building careers 23 Employee engagement 125 Diversity and inclusion 24 Energy and climate 128 Rewards and benefits 27 Paper 129 Wellness 29 Products and solutions 132 Health and safety 31 Life cycle assessment 136 Employee gallery 33 Research and development 147 Social innovation 34 Design 148 Education 36 Materials 150 Entrepreneurship 38 Manufacturing 151 Health 41 Packaging 152 Employee volunteerism and giving 43 Transport 154 Performance 44 Use 157 Tech gallery: social innovation 47 Product reuse and recycling 48 Programs 158 Public policy 50 Performance 160 Economic impacts 51 Vendor audits 162 Data dashboard: society 52 HP operations 166 Goals: society 53 Management and compliance 53 Energy and GHG emissions 55 Energy efficiency 57 Renewable energy 173 About this report 58 Travel 59 Waste and recycling 174 Overview 61 Water 175 Assurance 63 Sustainable building design 63 Toxics release inventory 176 UN Global Compact 64 Ozone-depleting substances 177 GRI index 65 Remediation 65 HP list of major operations 67 Tech gallery: environment 69 Data dashboard: environment 75 Goals: environment Commitment At HP, we embrace our role as a global citizen. As one of the world’s largest information technology companies, what we do and how we do it matters. That’s why we use global citizenship to help shape and advance our business strategy. 4 Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 14 Perspectives 5 HP profile 15 Affiliations and memberships 7 Global citizenship strategy 17 Policies 12 Stakeholder engagement Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Welcome to the HP Global Citizenship Report. This is HP’s annual scorecard for areas like sustainability, social innovation, employment practices, and ethics and compliance, but really, we look at it as a scorecard on our values. The principles of global citizenship have been core to HP’s success for more than 70 years. We apply the power of our technology, partnerships, and the expertise of more than 300,000 employees to have a positive impact on society and the world. For example, we’re helping improve world health through drug authentication and by accelerating the diagnosis of HIV in infants. We’re helping improve world education through the HP Catalyst Initiative, which brings together some of the best educators to devise new ways of engaging students in science, technology, engineering, and math. We’re helping improve world working and living standards through the power and leverage of our supply chain. We’re helping make the world greener by continuing to meet and exceed our industry-leading goals for reducing the environmental impact of our operations and products, and by helping our customers reduce their environmental impact. We’re also helping get the world involved with HP employees and retirees volunteering more than 744,000 hours of their energy and expertise last year. As the industry’s largest provider of information technology infrastructure, software, services, and solutions, we know that we can help advance the way people live and work. We also recognize that the world’s challenges are too big for any single organization to address alone, so we’re teaming up with partners worldwide to find solutions. We cultivate relationships with diverse stakeholders, such as social entrepreneurs, industry peers, governments, and nongovernmental organizations. In addition, to promote higher standards across sectors, we endorse the UN Global Compact. In the Global Citizenship Report, you’ll learn about these stories, programs, policies, and many more. We believe that good citizenship and good business go hand in hand. A reputation as a responsible corporate citizen is a competitive advantage that supports our customer relationships, our employee commitment and our shareholder value. I hope you enjoy this year’s report and I look forward to continuing HP’s important work that makes a real difference in the world. Best, Meg 4 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP profile HP is one of the world’s largest providers of information technology infrastructure, softHighlights ware, services, and solutions to individuals and organizations of all sizes. We bring the 127 advantages of our scale, the breadth and depth of our portfolio, our innovation, and our competitiveness to our customers every day and in almost every country in the world. $ billion USD HP is at the forefront of technological advances that improve the way we live and work, empowering HP to play a vital role in addressing serious global challenges and creating Recorded $127 billion USD in net revenue for FY11. sustainable growth. Examples of HP innovations that improve our environment and our society include: • Cloud Sustainability Dashboard HP has developed a Cloud Sustainability Dashboard to help IT professionals better understand and quantify the sustainability impact of cloud computing. Read more in Research and development on page 33. • Global Authentication Service HP is working with nongovernmental organizations, 52 million HP shipped more than 52 million printers in 2011.* companies in the pharmaceutical industry, and others to combat the challenge of counter62 feit medicines. Read more in Health on page 151. • HP Early Infant Diagnosis HP is working with the Kenyan government to reduce the time it takes to diagnose an HIV-positive infant. Read more in Health on page 151. million HP shipped more than 62 million PC units in 2011.** Looking back at fiscal year 2011 (FY11): 92% A year of changes and challenges In 2011, an uncertain macroeconomic environment, natural disasters that affected our supply chain and inventory, several strategic announcements, leadership changes, and of the Fortune 100 are HP Software customers. inconsistent overall performance all contributed to a year of mixed financial results. Despite these challenges, our businesses remain strong and HP is well positioned for the future, maintaining our number one or number two share positions across the majority * IDC WW Quarterly Hardcopy Peripherals Tracker, February 2012. This data is calendar year. of our portfolio. ** IDC WW Quarterly PC Tracker, January 11, 2012. This data is calendar year. Our strategy The advances and innovations that enable HP to help address some of the world’s most daunting challenges are based on the foundation of the company’s strategy. 5 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Build the core HP strives to define markets and lead in innovation. We increased research and development spending in 2011, to $3.2 billion USD, HP infrastructure HP’s hardware franchises, market-leading server, and expect to continue to bring the very best innovations to market. storage, and networking business, and PC, imaging, and printing groups account for about 70% of our revenue. Everything we do either amplifies or builds on this unique strength. Shared values Expand the core HP’s shared values and company-wide objectives include a longstanding commitment to global citizenship. Broader than any single Software HP provides best-in-class software to expand, optimize, organization or program, global citizenship at HP determines how and manage the core. Our software differentiates our hardware to we capitalize on our technologies and expertise to help address the improve its performance and help solve customer problems. It also world’s major social and environmental challenges and accelerate allows us to manage heterogeneous environments, consisting of positive change. our infrastructure as well as others’. The addition of Autonomy to HP provides a platform that enables us to address customers’ information-management challenges. HP corporate summary Add value to the core Fortune 11—United States Services HP services envelop our core infrastructure and software Fortune 28—Global to enable customers to get increased value from HP. Through broad offerings such as outsourcing, application, consulting, and techPresident and Chief Executive Officer: Meg Whitman nology services, we work to ensure that our technology meets customer needs. We build relationships that can last for decades. Nearly 350,000 employees* Incorporated in Delaware, United States Make it work Listed on the New York Stock Exchange with the ticker symbol HPQ Solutions Our solutions add value by combining our technologies to advance customers’ business objectives in a holistic and compelling Corporate and regional headquarters way. We have packaged our capabilities into five key solution areas: converged infrastructure, application transformation, enterprise Recorded $127 billion USD in net revenue for FY11 security, information optimization, and hybrid delivery. * As of October 31, 2011. Revenue by segment, fiscal year 2011 [percentage] Revenue by region, fiscal year 2011* [percentage] Imaging and Printing Group 20% Americas 45% Personal Systems Group 30% United States 35% Services 27% Canada, Latin America, and Other 10% Enterprise Servers, Storage, and Networking 17% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 37% HP Software 3% Asia Pacific 19% HP Financial Services 3% * Does not total 100% due to rounding. 6 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Global citizenship strategy As one of the world’s largest technology companies—with operations in more than “The betterment of our 170 countries—our technology and our people matter to the world. Global citizenship is rooted in values that have successfully guided our company for more than 70 years. society is not a job to be Employees, customers, and other key stakeholders increasingly look to HP for leadership left to a few. It’s a in responsible operations, innovative products and solutions, collaboration, and capability building. responsibility to be shared by all.” HP embraces our role as a global citizen, and we recognize that what we do and how we do —David Packard, Co-founder, HP it matters. Global citizenship is pervasive throughout our business strategy. It is integrated into our policies and aligns with our core values. It spans everything from ethics, human rights, and environmental sustainability to privacy, responsible supply chain management, and social innovation. Nearly 350,000 employees1 live our values, every day. Today the world faces serious challenges—such as responsibly meeting the needs of a fast-growing population, addressing the effects of climate change, and advancing global health solutions. No single entity can meet these challenges alone. Governments, nongovernmental organizations, and companies all have an essential role to play. To make a positive impact, we collaborate across institutions, industries, sectors, and borders. We apply our scale, talent, partnerships, and portfolio to help develop solutions to major environmental and social issues. Through these efforts, we build strong, collaborative, and trusting relationships with diverse stakeholders. Their commitment and expertise help us to refine our global citizenship strategy to improve the lives and businesses of people around the world. Global citizenship also makes us more competitive, spurs innovation, helps us attract and retain the best employees, and fuels growth. (See Global citizenship and business value on page 8.) 1 As of October 31, 2011. 7 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Global citizenship priorities Global citizenship reporting HP believes that by operating profitably and responsibly, we make a We embrace transparency and accountability when communicating positive impact on communities worldwide. We are well positioned our progress in global citizenship. This is the 11th consecutive year to help address the world’s major environmental and social chalthat HP has reported on its global citizenship programs, performance, lenges and accelerate change in several important areas. During the and goals. Over that period, we have broadened the scope of our coming decade, we intend to continue to focus on enhancing enviGlobal Citizenship Report substantially, providing greater transparronmental sustainability across the product life cycle, building a ency into our operations, employee practices, product development leading human rights program, promoting supply chain responsiprocess, supply chain management, social investments, and other bility and improving suppliers’ capabilities, being among the leaders aspects of our business. (See Overview on page 174 for more detail.) in the industry to eliminate conflict minerals, advancing an accountability approach to ensure respect for privacy, and addressing global health and education issues through social innovation. Global citizenship and business value Global citizenship is an important source of business value for HP. Employee engagement By demonstrating a commitment to global Our efforts enhance our reputation, strengthen our relationships citizenship and actively engaging employees in volunteering projects, with customers and other stakeholders, open up new market we instill pride in HP as a company that matters, helping us attract opportunities, and stimulate innovation and creativity. and retain the most talented workforce. See HP people on page 120. Our investments in this area strengthen our business in numerous External engagement Engaging with stakeholders brings insight ways. Global citizenship–related business value drivers include into emerging trends, risks, and opportunities. See Stakeholder the following: engagement on page 12. Access to capital Investors increasingly consider global citizenship Influence Global citizenship gives us a powerful voice on issues programs and performance in investment decisions (see Investors that are vital to our industry, our customers, and the world. on page 10). Innovation We sharpen our competitive advantage by developing Competitiveness Leadership in global citizenship builds trust with groundbreaking technology that improves the lives and businesses customers, spurs innovation, and helps us identity opportunities of people around the world, and helps to solve challenges in for growth. environmental sustainability, education, and health. Cost savings Energy efficiency and other conservation efforts in our Market access Preparing for upcoming legislation, participating in operations and those of our suppliers reduce costs and increase public policy discussions, preserving our record of legal compliance, productivity. See HP operations on page 52 and Manufacturing and innovating and collaborating to meet societal needs help us on page 38. maintain access to markets. Customer insight Global citizenship helps us understand and meet Reputation management Leadership in global citizenship enhances customer expectations in areas such as product environmental our reputation with customers, governments, nongovernmental performance, privacy, and supply chain responsibility (see organizations, investors, and others (see sidebar on page 10). Customers on page 9). Risk assessment and reduction Focusing on global citizenship helps us reduce risks to our operations and those of our suppliers and other business partners. 8 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Customers Enterprise customers Consumers, enterprises, and government agencies consider compaHP offers tools and resources to help enterprise customers undernies’ environmental and social performance when choosing goods stand and reduce the environmental impact of their information and services. We work hard to understand and meet customers’ technology (IT) infrastructure. For example, the “HP Sustainable IT expectations about HP’s programs and progress across a broad range Purchasing Guidance” white paper is a vendor-neutral guide to help of global citizenship issues. We also provide products and services enterprise customers develop environmental procurement criteria to help them improve their own performance (see Products and for IT products and services. It outlines criteria, including eco-labels, solutions on page 29 and Tech gallery: environment on page 67 product attributes, packaging, end-of-use services, and supply chain for more information). responsibility, and includes a sample questionnaire for evaluating IT vendors. Consumers An increasing number of enterprise customers include global HP highlights product features that help consumers reduce their citizenship criteria in their procurement policies, and request environmental impact and save money. Many HP products qualify information related to areas such as the environment, ethics, for eco-labels including ENERGY STAR®, EPEAT®, China’s Energy anti-corruption, and supply chain responsibility. For example, Conservation Program, Germany’s Blue Angel, and Japan’s many requests for proposals (RFPs) that HP receives contain Green Mark. environment-related questions (see table below). We also engage consumers through the HP Live Green Facebook Government agencies page. This provides information about our wide offering of sustainability-related products and solutions, programs, and tools. Visitors Government policies and programs related to social and environcan post comments, ask questions, and provide feedback. In 2011, mental priorities affect our ability to access and compete in several we launched an HP.com EcoSolutions Store that allows customers markets. Public sector buyers worldwide consider criteria in to find and buy these products quickly and easily. procurement related to the environment, privacy, supply chain Customer environmental requirements in requests for proposals, 2007–2011* [percentage] 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Product recycling 19% 28% 46% 42% 57% Eco-labels and declarations 18% 41% 13% 30% 45% Product design 28% 42% 24% 26% 73%** Environmental management 24% 34% 20% 39% 43% Materials use 33% 25% 14% 36% 45% Supplies 8% 10% 9% 24% 27% Packaging 3% 8% 8% 22% 18% * 2011 data set has broadened to include reported data for RFPs with environmental questions for all regions (previous data only included HP’s Europe, Middle East, and Africa region). Does not include RFPs for which environmental questions were addressed directly by customers or our sales force. Data is for the calendar year. Inquiries may have multiple subjects, so categories total more than 100%. ** The product design category includes topics such as energy efficiency, chemical emissions, and design for recyclability. 9 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report practices, and other factors. Eco-labels are often a requirement for Organization 2011 ranking or rating doing business with the public sector, and supplier diversity is critical to fulfilling contracts with federal and many state agencies in Carbon In 2011, HP scored 84 out of 100 for disclothe United States, and increasingly in Australia and China. Disclosure sure and placed in the “B” performance Project band. HP was included on the S&P 500 Governments are increasingly looking to public-private partnerships Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. as a way to address critical global challenges. HP considers these partnerships an important aspect of our global citizenship strategy. For example, we are working with the Dutch Sustainable Trade Dow Jones HP is one of six companies listed as a leader Initiative to improve the social and environmental responsibility Sustainability in the DJSI North America index in the performance of our suppliers in the Pearl River Delta region of China. Index (DJSI) Computer Hardware and Electronic Office Equipment sector. FTSE4Good HP is included in all four FTSE4Good indices Investors for the ninth consecutive year. Socially responsible investors evaluate environmental, social, and governance factors as well as company financial performance when making investment decisions. HP is among the top 50 companies Several factors contribute to HP’s overall reputation. Of these, the most widely held by socially responsible investor (SRI) funds, and ones that are related to global citizenship collectively accounted for more than 100 SRI funds hold HP shares.1 about 40% of HP’s reputation. These factors include environmental responsibility, product recycling, governance, data security, supplier We believe that providing information about our global citizenship responsibility, employment practices, and community engagement. performance enables socially responsible investors to make better In addition to identifying the impact on perception, our research has decisions regarding their investments in HP. also revealed a link between these global citizenship factors and important business outcomes, such as customers’ purchase deciAnalysts from SRI firms and other investment-focused organizasions, policy leaders’ decisions that impact HP, and our employee tions regularly report on HP’s performance (see above). recruitment and retention. In other words, these factors function similarly to other well-known business outcome drivers such as quality and innovation. Global citizenship, reputation, and business The research results underscore the importance of global citizenoutcomes ship to HP’s business, and the benefits we gain by managing global citizenship rigorously and communicating our progress effectively. HP conducts research to understand factors that impact our reputation and the effect those have on a range of business outcomes. In 2011, we surveyed corporate IT decision makers, consumers, financial and policy leaders, university researchers, and employees about their perceptions of HP. Global citizenship governance Strong global citizenship performance begins at the top and depends on leadership, participation, and support throughout an organization, especially for a company as diverse and complex as HP. 1 Ipreo. 10 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Global citizenship governance HP Board of Directors Nominating and Governance Committee Assists the board in fulﬁlling its responsibilities related to HP's public policy, government aﬀairs, and global citizenship activities HP Executive Council Pan-HP Global Citizenship Council Councils, committees, and expert advisors Stakeholder engagement Ethics and Environmental Human rights Privacy and Supply chain Social compliance sustainability and safety information social and innovation and labor management environmental practices sustainability HP Foundation and compliance HP Board of Directors’ Nominating Topic-specific councils and Governance Committee HP also maintains separate councils dedicated to areas such as the environment, supply chain, ethics, and privacy and information The Board of Directors’ Nominating and Governance Committee management (see graphic above). These councils include leaders assists the board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to public with relevant expertise from our business units, regions, and funcpolicy, government relations, and global citizenship. The committee tions. Each council meets periodically to evaluate our progress in identifies, evaluates, and monitors social, political, and environimplementing our strategies, and to establish performance goals. mental trends and concerns as well as domestic and foreign legislative proposals and regulatory developments that could significantly affect HP’s business. The committee may also report and make recommendations to the board relating to activities, policies, and programs with respect to matters of local, national, and interGlobal Citizenship Council national public policy affecting HP’s business. These may include: The Global Citizenship Council is sponsored by a member of the HP Executive Council who reviews progress quarterly. Co-chairs • Trade policy and major legislative and regulatory developments include the company’s vice president of Sustainability and Social • Relations with regulators, governmental agencies, public interest Innovation, and the vice president and chief ethics and compliance groups, and other stakeholders officer. Other executives and subject matter experts represent the • HP’s policies with respect to global citizenship following areas: • General guidelines for political contributions • Communications • Government Relations • Enterprise Risk Management • Human Rights HP Global Citizenship Council • Environmental Sustainability • Investor Relations • Ethics and Compliance • Privacy and Information HP’s Executive Council retains overall responsibility for global Management citizenship as part of our business strategy. Our Global Citizenship • Global Labor Relations Council helps to ensure commitment and alignment to HP’s global • Social and Environmental citizenship objectives companywide. The council comprises execu• Global Security Services Sustainability and Compliance tives and subject matter experts from across HP, and seeks input from across our business groups and functions, as well as from • Global Social Innovation external stakeholders. It meets at least quarterly to strategically promote and advance global citizenship through integrated risk and opportunity assessment, governance, and policy oversight. 11 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Stakeholder engagement Global citizenship attempts to address a broad range of issues, and it is impossible for one organization to tackle these issues alone. HP pursues long-term, scalable solutions to major environmental and social challenges through collaboration with our diverse stakeholders. These efforts cross borders, industries, institutions, and sectors. From these relationships and activities, we gain valuable insights into emerging trends, external standards and regulations, and risks and opportunities. These in turn help inform our global citizenship approach and broader business strategy. Earning the trust of our stakeholders is the first step in building effective and lasting relationships. We do this by operating responsibly, reporting transparently on our performance, engaging in open dialogue, and acting with integrity in everything we do. We engage with the following stakeholder groups: • Academics • Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) • Customers • Peer companies • Employees • Professional organizations • Investors • Social entrepreneurs • Legislators and regulators • Suppliers • Local communities We structure our engagements based on the issue we are addressing. In some cases, such as conflict minerals (see sidebar on the following page), an approach managed by a select group of experts from within HP is most effective. Other issues, such as energy efficiency and climate change, impact HP on many dimensions and so require participation from people representing a wide range of areas across the company. 12 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report 2011 highlights See additional examples of engagement related to environmental issues. Key examples of stakeholder engagement in 2011 included: We affiliate with or belong to numerous membership organizations focused on a wide range of global citizenship issues, and industry • HP Executive Environmental Advisory Council (EEAC) Comprising associations, which seek to share learning and develop sector12 prominent business, academic, and NGO thought leaders, the wide approaches. HP EEAC provides objective environmental counsel to HP leadership. This insight helps us better evaluate opportunities, set priorities, and assess progress in areas such as energy efficiency, product reuse and recycling, and supply chain responsibility. Eliminating conflict minerals • Advancing low-carbon innovation HP has collaborated with the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES)—formerly the Pew HP is engaging with a broad group of stakeholders seeking to elimiCenter on Global Climate Change—on various research projects to nate the connection between trade in minerals from the Democratic demonstrate the potential for information technology to help Republic of Congo (DRC) and funding of armed conflict in the region. address climate change, including Business of Innovating: Bringing Low-Carbon Solutions to Market. Learn more in Collaboration on HP was one of two companies that sent representatives to the DRC page 21. in early 2012 to meet with stakeholders, visit mines, and assess the situation on the ground. During this investigation, HP representa• The Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) This multitives (along with those of other Public-Private Alliance members) stakeholder initiative, aims to accelerate sustainable trade participated in a series of meetings with local stakeholders. These by building coalitions of leading multinationals, civil society included separate meetings with the provincial ministers of mines organizations, governments, and other stakeholders. HP is of Katanga, Maniema, North Kivu, and South Kivu. We also held helping develop a sustainability plan for electronics manufacmeetings with local civil society in Katanga, North Kivu, and South turers located in the Pearl River Delta, China. Learn more in Kivu. We visited tantalite and cassiterite mines in Katanga; gold and Collaboration on page 21. cassiterite mines in South Kivu; and wolfram and cassiterite mines • Center for Information Policy Leadership In 2011, HP continued in Rwanda. Additionally, we met with UN organization MONUSCO’s* to work with the Center for Information Policy Leadership on its head of operations in Bukavu to understand the current situation multiyear project to define what it means for a company to be with armed militias in the Kivu provinces. accountable for its privacy practices. The most recently concluded phase of the project was sponsored by the Spanish Data Protection During 2011, HP played a leading role in developing consensus Authority, and described the governance model companies should comments and recommendations from a multi-stakeholder group adopt to implement accountability in the marketplace. of NGOs and socially responsible investors on this issue. These comments and recommendations were submitted to, and discussed • Voice of the Workforce survey HP’s annual Voice of the Workforce with, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. global survey solicits feedback from employees on issues such as the working environment at HP, and integrity and ethical practices HP also supports the Organization for Economic Cooperation and at all levels of the company. In 2011, 78% of all employees took Development (OECD) due diligence guidance on conflict minerals. part in the confidential survey. Learn more in Engaging our people We are participating in a 1-year pilot implementation to test the on page 121. guidance, and will provide feedback to the OECD through a series of • Early Infant Diagnosis project HP and the Clinton Health Access three questionnaires and in-person multi-stakeholder meetings. Initiative are working with the Kenyan government to reduce Learn more in Conflict minerals on page 87. the amount of time it takes to diagnose an HIV-positive infant, allowing patients to be treated sooner. Learn more in Health on * MONUSCO is the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo. page 151. • U.S. counterfeit legislation Counterfeiting poses a sizable challenge to HP globally and is more sophisticated and pervasive than ever before. In 2011, we supported U.S. legislation that allows U.S. Customs to share information on suspected counterfeit imports with the rights holder. We also led initiatives around the world to educate government officials on the economic and social implications of allowing counterfeit products into a local marketplace. Learn more in Public policy on page 158. Additionally, HP offers customers products and services with privacy and data protection features. 13 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Perspectives Throughout this report, we include perspectives from external stakeholders to provide independent insights on various aspects of global citizenship and HP’s performance. These are listed below, with links to the full videos or statements. Eileen Claussen Mark Kenber President, Center for Climate CEO, The Climate Group and Energy Solutions (C2ES) Mark thinks advances in inforEileen describes how technolomation and communications gies such as HP’s Managed Print technology led by companies Services make business sense such as HP can transform how we while also benefiting the planet. live and do business. Visit our Visit our online gallery of exteronline gallery of external stakenal stakeholder perspectives to holder perspectives to see see Eileen’s video. Mark’s video. John Elkington Faris Natour Executive Chairman, Volans Director, Human Rights, BSR John sees HP drawing on its rich Faris looks to HP to be at the history, values, skills, and techforefront of businesses develnologies to create new business oping innovative approaches to models that help address global addressing human rights. Visit challenges. Visit our online our online gallery of external gallery of external stakeholder stakeholder perspectives to see perspectives to see John’s video. Faris’s video. Jackson Hungu So Sheung CHAI Deputy Country Director, Chief Executive, Labour Kenya Education and Service Network (LESN) Jackson describes HP’s approach to social innovation as a breath So worked with HP to help of fresh air, thanks to the suppliers and schools educate company’s technology and its interns about labor rights, occupeople. Visit our online gallery of pational health, and other external stakeholder perspecissues. Read So’s full perspectives to see Jackson’s video. tive on page 113. 14 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Affiliations and memberships HP belongs to or affiliates with many organizations that address Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI), a nonprofit organizaglobal citizenship issues, including: tion committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions through the development, deployment, and adoption of smart technologies to Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the premier forum for faciliimprove efficiency and reduce the amount of energy a computer tating economic growth, cooperation, trade, and investment in the consumes Asia-Pacific region Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), which convenes global leaders to BSR, a global nonprofit organization that helps member companies devise and implement innovative solutions to some of the world’s enhance business performance while respecting ethical values, most pressing challenges—maximizing their efforts to alleviate people, communities, and the environment poverty, create a cleaner environment, and increase access to healthcare and education Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit organization working to advance strong policy and Clinton Health Access Initiative, a global health organization action to address the twin challenges of energy and climate change committed to strengthening integrated health systems in the developing world and expanding access to care and treatment for Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, a memberHIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis ship-based research organization associated with the Carroll School of Management, which is committed to helping businesses leverage Combat Climate Change (3C), a business leaders’ initiative to support their social, economic, and human assets to ensure both their the negotiation process led by the United Nations Framework success and a more just and sustainable world Convention on Climate Change to establish a new global agreement The Centre for Information Policy Leadership, an organization Corporate Eco Forum, a membership organization for large compathat develops initiatives that encourage responsible information nies that demonstrate a serious commitment to environment as a governance necessary for the continued growth of the information business strategy issue, helping accelerate sustainable business economy innovation and the exchange of best-practice insights Change the Equation, an organization that pledges to create wideCSR Asia, which builds capacity in companies and their supply spread literacy in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) chains to promote awareness of corporate social responsibility in as an investment in our nation that empowers us all order to advance sustainable development across the region The Climate Group, an independent, not-for-profit organization CSR Europe, a business membership network that promotes the working internationally with government and business leaders to business case for corporate social responsibility across the region advance smart policies and technologies to cut global emissions and globally and accelerate a clean industrial revolution 15 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative, a multi-sector process that The Green Grid Association, a nonprofit, open industry consortium aims to improve the sustainability of international supply chains of global IT companies, policy makers, and end users seeking to improve energy efficiency in data centers and unite industry efforts Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, a coalition of the world’s to develop a common set of metrics, processes, and new leading electronics companies working together to improve effitechnologies ciency and social, ethical, and environmental responsibility in the global supply chain International Climate Change Partnership (ICCP), a global membership-based coalition of companies and trade associations EPEAT®, a leading global registry that helps identify greener committed to constructive and responsible participation in the computers and other electronic equipment international policy process concerning global climate change Ethics and Compliance Officer Association (ECOA), a nonprofit, Junior Achievement, the world’s largest organization dedicated to member-driven association exclusively for individuals who are educating students about workforce readiness, entrepreneurship, responsible for their organization’s ethics, compliance, and busiand financial literacy through experiential, hands-on programs ness conduct programs National Association for Environmental Management (NAEM), Ethos Institute for Business and Social Responsibility, a Brazilian a nonprofit, nonpartisan professional association dedicated to nonprofit organization with a mission to mobilize, encourage, and educating corporate environmental, health and safety, and help companies manage their business in a socially responsible way sustainability decision makers European Academy of Business in Society (EABIS), a network of Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade, a joint companies and business schools committed to putting business in initiative between governments, companies, and civil society to society issues at the heart of management practice support supply chain solutions to conflict minerals challenges in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Great Lakes Region European e-Skills Association, an organization representing the (GLR) of Central Africa information and communications technology sector’s contribution to the development and implementation of a long-term e-skills and The Sustainability Consortium, an independent organization of digital literacy agenda in Europe diverse global stakeholders who work collaboratively to build a scientific foundation that drives innovation and improves the European Recycling Platform (ERP), the first ever pan-European sustainability of consumer products throughout all stages of their take-back scheme to effectively implement the European Union’s life cycle Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment (WEEE) Directive Sustainable Silicon Valley, an organization leading Silicon Valley Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®), an independent, nongovernto a more sustainable future through collaboration with local mental, not-for-profit organization established to promote the government agencies, businesses, and community organizations responsible management of the world’s forests to identify and address the highest-priority environmental issues Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI), an initiative led United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary and strategic policy by major global corporations to support action-learning activities initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operathat promote the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on tions and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the Business and Human Rights areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), an independent, U.S. Green Building Council, a nonprofit organization committed to nonprofit association that fosters global and open cooperation, a prosperous and sustainable future through cost-efficient and informs the public of its members’ voluntary actions to improve energy-saving green buildings, including LEED® certification for their sustainability performance, and promotes technologies that data centers advance sustainable development World Economic Forum, an independent, nonprofit foundation Global Forest Trade Network (GFTN), the World Wildlife Fund’s committed to improving the state of the world by engaging soci(WWF’s) initiative to eliminate illegal logging, improve the manageetal leaders in partnerships to shape global, regional, and ment of valuable and threatened forests, and create a new market industry agendas for environmentally responsible forest products World Resources Forum, a science-based platform to exchange Global Social Compliance Programme, a business-driven program knowledge about the economic, political and environmental implifor the continuous improvement of working and environmental cations of global resource use conditions in global supply chains WWF Climate Savers, the World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF’s) initiative to mobilize multinational companies to voluntarily reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the business case for energy efficiency and clean technology 16 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Policies Accessibility Human rights • HP Accessibility Policy • HP Global Human Rights Policy Business ethics Labor practices • HP Standards of Business Conduct • HP Best Work Environment Policy Defines the standards of personal conduct that we expect employees to meet to contribute to a positive, productive work environment. Corporate governance • HP Open Door Policy HP’s open door policy commits us to create a • Corporate Governance Guidelines workplace where everyone’s voice is heard, issues are promptly raised and resolved, and communication flows across all levels of the company. Diversity • HP Nondiscrimination Policy Privacy • HP Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy • HP Global Master Privacy Policy Environment Products • Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy • HP General Specification for the Environment • Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy • Hardware Recycling Standards Supply chain • Printing Supplies Recycling Policy • HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy • HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct Global citizenship • HP Global Citizenship Policy 17 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Environment At HP, we strive to improve the environmental performance of our customers, our supply chain, and our own operations. Through Positive Impact—HP’s drive to help conserve more than we as a company consume—we give people the tools and solutions to build a better today while preparing to address the challenges of tomorrow. 19 Environmental sustainability 67 Tech gallery: environment 29 Products and solutions 69 Data dashboard: environment 47 Product reuse and recycling 75 Goals: environment 52 HP operations Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Environmental sustainability In 2011, the global population passed 7 billion on its way to a projected 9.3 billion by Highlights 2050—a rise that’s creating many challenges.1 None may be more critical than balancing the demands of economic growth with the need for long-term environmental sustainability. 20% As more people strive for greater prosperity, we’re facing increasing pressure to do more with finite resources. As the world’s largest provider of information technology (IT) infrastructure, software, Reduction in GHG emissions from operations between services, and solutions, HP is in a unique position to respond to this challenge. We see 2005 and 2011, meeting our 2013 goal 2 years early. unprecedented opportunities to transform the way the world lives and works—while advancing our business and helping our customers thrive. Aiming for Positive Impact 50% Reduction in energy consumption of our products by the Positive Impact is HP’s drive to help conserve more than we as a company consume. We are end of 2011 compared with 2005 levels—exceeding our original goal of a 40% reduction.* applying our scale, portfolio, and partnerships both to reduce our own environmental impact and to help customers be more efficient and adopt more sustainable processes and behaviors. We are taking a two-pronged approach toward Positive Impact. First, we’re improving the efficiency of our portfolio, supply chain, and operations. Information and communications technology accounts for approximately 2% of the world’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, a share that’s expected to climb with population growth and expanding use of technology.2 33% The recycled plastic used in Original HP ink cartridges has up to a 33% smaller carbon footprint than the virgin By using less energy and other resources, HP and our industry can help keep these emisplastic used in Original HP ink cartridges.** sions in check, as well as save money, spark innovation, lower reputational risk, and open up new markets. * The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using high-volume product lines representative of the overall However, we see an even bigger opportunity in using technology to reduce the other 98% of shipped product volume. Energy consumption has been estimated in 2005 and annually since. The high-volume product GHG emissions. Developing HP solutions that improve or replace current energyand lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and resource-intensive processes and behaviors with more efficient alternatives is core to our LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. aspiration for Positive Impact. ** For cartridges produced in 2010 and beyond. Based on a 2010 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study compared the environmental impact of using polyethylene terephthalate 1 “Total Midyear Population for the World: 1950–2050,” U.S. Census Bureau, International Data Base. Accessed February 4, 2011, (PET) plastic with the environmental impact of using recycled www.census.gov/ipc/www/idb/worldpop.php. PET to manufacture new Original HP ink cartridges. For details, see www.hp.com/go/RecycledPlasticsLCA. 2 SMART 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information age, page 17, 2008, www.smart2020.org/_assets/files/ 02_Smart2020Report.pdf. 19 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Continuous innovation and collaboration with our customers and partners is central to how we develop and apply these solutions. It’s also vital to how we advance responsible practices and standards Improving data center energy efficiency across our global operations and supply chain as our business grows. Many data centers are inefficient, estimated to use less than half of the overall energy they consume for computing. We’re reimagining Helping customers do more while using less those models from the ground up. We’re helping customers forgo brick-and-mortar data centers with the HP POD 240a modular data We are pioneering solutions that either improve on existing techcenter, also known as the HP EcoPOD, which uses 95% less facilities nologies or replace them with more efficient alternatives, such as energy. We’re helping customers monitor and manage energy use in enterprise energy and resource management, sustainable data real time with the HP Data Center Smart Grid. Through HP Project center projects, cloud infrastructure and services such as MagCloud, Moonshot, we’re designing next-generation, extreme-low-energy and other cloud computing solutions. server technologies. And HP Labs’ sustainable data center project is a large-scale rethinking of how data centers are designed, built, and Used effectively, technology can ultimately contribute to a net posioperated. In pilot tests, HP Labs is using local micro-grids of renewtive impact in the consumption of resources and energy. A 2011 life able energy to reduce a data center’s reliance on grid power. HP cycle assessment (LCA) issued by HP on digital vs. offset book expects to reduce reliance on the grid by more than 75% while publishing offers a prime example. Compared with offset-only significantly lowering operational costs. printing, digital print technology makes it easier to better align printing with demand and helps to reduce the book-return rate.3 This could reduce the potential environmental impact of producing and selling paperback bestsellers by 17% in carbon dioxide equivaEmbracing digital printing lent (CO2e). See the sidebar for more information about HP digital printing solutions. Shifting to digital printing allows people and businesses to print only what they need, when they need it, helping to reduce unwanted Another example is HP Visual Collaboration—a high-definition, prints and wasted paper. HP estimates that minimizing overruns of immersive, videoconferencing solution that was divested to books, magazines, and newspapers through digital printing could Polycom, Inc. in 2011. As part of this agreement, the two compareduce emissions by 114 to 251 million tonnes of CO2e each year.* nies are working together on solutions to provide customers with We’re also developing printing technology innovations that consume Polycom® RealPresence® video solutions and software infrastrucfewer resources other than energy and paper. HP Photosmart ture deployed on HP networking and systems.4 Over the 3 years Minilab printers eliminate up to 2,484 liters of wastewater per year, prior to divestiture, Visual Collaboration helped HP and its compared with silver halide photo systems tested.** customers reduce about 175,000 tonnes in CO2e emissions— comparable to eliminating more than 143,000 round-trip flights * Reducing the Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Commercial Print with Digital Technologies, 2009, page 2. between New York and London.5 ** Based on a 2010 LCA performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study compared the impact of using HP ML1000D, HP ML2000D, and HP Microlab pm2000e printers with the impact of using Fuji Frontier 350 and Noritsu QSS-3212 printers to produce 375,000 4 x 6-inch As we aim for Positive Impact, we are delivering solutions to photos a year in Europe. address key areas such as energy consumption while investing in sustainable technology research and development that help customers improve their lives or businesses and reduce their enviWe continue to expand our reuse and recycling programs to ronmental footprint. improve availability, reduce waste resulting from the operations, and capture value from IT products at end of life. For example, we have used the plastic of more than 1.8 billion recycled plastic Reducing the environmental impact of the bottles and plastic from recycled HP ink cartridges to create over IT supply chain 1 billion new Original HP ink cartridges with our “closed loop” cartridge recycling process. By recycling these plastic bottles, we We embrace the challenge of improving environmental sustainability have diverted 24,000 tonnes of waste from landfills and reduced throughout our global supply chain. HP is an industry leader in GHG emissions equivalent to 17,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2). helping our product manufacturing, transport, and recovery partners understand, improve, and report on their environmental performance. Through collaboration with our partners, as well as industry Addressing our own environmental footprint and environmental leaders, we can further reduce our extended Responsibly managing our own operations is a cornerstone of our environmental impact. commitment to environmental sustainability. Across our global operations, we continually work to reduce energy consumption, GHG emissions, paper use, water consumption, and waste. In 2011, 3 When printing 500,000 copies of a 240-page mono color paperback book, duplexed with 5% coverage. First 450,000 copies printing using the Timson Offset Press, with supplemental short runs of 1,000 copies using the Digital T200 press. This assumes book return rate of 25% for offset printing, 5% for digital printing. 4 Polycom is an exclusive partner for certain video collaboration solutions for HP’s internal use and resale to its broad customer base, which is further helping to reduce travel and emissions. 5 For air travel avoidance, an average of 1,609 miles each way per round-trip (average of short-, medium-, and long-haul flights at HP), and a weighted average CO2 footprint per mile of 199g CO2e is used. Car travel to/from airport on both ends is also considered. Of the 35% of meetings that avoid travel, only 1.4 persons are assumed to avoid travel in each meeting. Usage depends on a company’s travel and meeting policies. 20 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GHG emissions from our operations (not including travel) equaled a 20% reduction from our 2005 baseline, meeting our goal 2 years early (learn more in Energy and GHG emissions on page 53). In 2011, HP ranked in the top-scoring 10% of S&P 500 companies Additionally, we completed energy-efficiency initiatives at our by the Carbon Disclosure Project and was listed on their Carbon client-serving (or “trade”) data centers that we project will save Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). To learn more, read the approximately 13 million kilowatt hours (kWh) and avoid an estiCDLI report. mated 7,200 tonnes of CO2e emissions on an annual basis. That’s the equivalent of removing 1,758 passenger vehicles from the road for 1 year.6 Eileen Claussen President, Center for Climate Easing demand on freshwater sources and Energy Solutions (C2ES) Since 2007, HP’s facilities in Singapore have been using “New Eileen describes how technoloWater” to reduce demand on freshwater. New Water is treated gies such as HP’s Managed Print wastewater that is purified using microfiltration, reverse osmosis, Services make business sense and ultraviolet treatment, as well as conventional treatment while also benefiting the planet. processes. The water is potable but is mostly used by industries Visit our online gallery of requiring high-purity water. New Water accounts for more than external stakeholder perspectwo-thirds of the facilities’ annual water consumption and is 20% tives to see Eileen’s video. cheaper than standard potable water, helping us to save more than $3.5 million USD since 2007. Collaboration Collaboration is essential to developing shared solutions for The EEAC provides a forum to: complex environmental challenges. HP works regularly with governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and other • Solicit expert feedback to inform HP’s environmental strategies. technology companies to understand the environmental issues • Deepen HP’s understanding of major environmental trends. involved, address the needs and concerns of stakeholders, search for effective solutions, and enact policies and practices that require • Offer thought leaders a preview of HP’s sustainability-focused a collective approach to work on a large scale. Through these research and innovation. efforts, we focus on such goals as improving resource efficiency, • Help HP to expand and evolve environmental programs. continually advancing standards for product development, and addressing the causes of climate change. In 2011, the EEAC recommended that HP more broadly integrate sustainability criteria into its procurement policies for nonproducHP Executive Environmental tion spend. One example of HP’s commitment in this vein is our commitment to undertake more sustainable procurement in our U.S. Advisory Council auto fleet. Through the Clinton Global Initiative’s Fleets for Change, we’ve agreed to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our In 2010, we established the HP Executive Environmental Advisory U.S. fleet by 10% by 2015, compared with 2010 on a per unit basis. Council (EEAC) to provide objective environmental counsel to HP (Learn more about HP’s involvement with Fleets for Change.) leadership. The EEAC’s insights help us better evaluate opportunities, The council also recommended that HP share its environmental set priorities, and assess progress in such areas as energy efficiency, leadership more proactively. Our 2011 outreach included such product reuse and recycling, and supply chain responsibility. communications programs as the HP Unlocking Your Energy tour. 6 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 21 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report The council consists of 12 prominent business, academic, and NGO World Wildlife Fund (WWF) thought leaders. At the end of 2011, EEAC members included: In 2011, HP Canada expanded its collaboration with WWF Canada • Eric Brewer, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer by providing financial, technical, and consulting expertise for WWF’s Sciences, University of California, Berkeley, and Vice President of Living Planet @ Work. Launched in late October, the program Engineering, Google provides free resources to businesses to help engage employees in • Aron Cramer, President and CEO, BSR “green” initiatives. The program included close to 100 business members by the end of 2011. Learn more about the relationship • Amol Deshpande, Partner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers between HP Canada and WWF Canada. • Ann Hand, CEO, Project Frog • Steven Kline, Vice President, Corporate Environmental and Federal HP is also a member of WWF’s Global Forest and Trade Network Affairs, and Chief Sustainability Officer, PG&E Corporation (GFTN), which aims to expand the market for environmentally responsible forest products. HP signed the GFTN’s Corporate Tiger • Peter Lehner, Executive Director, Natural Resources Defense Declaration in early 2011. Corporate signatories agree to reduce Council their impact on global tiger habitats through the responsible • Joel Makower, Chairman and Executive Editor, GreenBiz Group Inc. procurement of wood and paper. • Dan Reicher, Executive Director, Steyer-Taylor Center for Energy Policy and Finance, Stanford University Forest Stewardship Council • Steve Westly, Managing Partner, The Westly Group In 2011, HP became an official member of the Forest Stewardship • Scott Wicker, Chief Sustainability Officer, UPS Council (FSC®), an independent NGO and certifying body that • Andrew Winston, Author and Founder, Winston Eco-Strategies promotes responsible management of the world’s forests. In 2009, • David Yarnold, President and CEO, Audubon we set a goal that 40% or more of HP-branded paper sold would be FSC certified or have more than 30% postconsumer waste content by the end of 2011. We met our goal this year, and established a new Collaborating on low-carbon best goal for 2015. Read more about our paper policy and practices. practices and solutions Other collaborative efforts HP believes governments, businesses, and other organizations must meet the challenges of climate change with ingenuity. In To advance environmental sustainability, HP engaged in several 2011, HP signed the 2°C Challenge Communiqué, demonstrating other collaborative relationships in 2011, including the following: our commitment to global action on climate change, sustainable development, forest conservation, and building a green economy. • Participating in The Sustainability Consortium (TSC) to develop a Signed by hundreds of corporate leaders worldwide, the commuconsistent, transparent methodology for sharing information on niqué calls for international government action to stabilize global the sustainability of notebooks, desktops, monitors, and televiaverage surface temperatures at a maximum 2°C above preindussions based on a life cycle approach. HP is also working with the trial levels. TSC Paper Working Group to develop environmental assessment tools for paper. Additional examples of our collaborations in 2011 include: • Developing a transparent, objective product carbon footprint (PCF) methodology for notebooks, desktops, and monitors in collaboraCenter for Climate and Energy Solutions tion with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), NGOs, and other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). See Life cycle HP provided funding to the Center for Climate and Energy assessment on page 31 for more information on our PCF research. Solutions (C2ES)—formerly the Pew Center on Global Climate • Contributing to the development of the EPEAT® standard for Change—to launch Business of Innovating: Bringing Low-Carbon imaging and printing products in collaboration with other techSolutions to Market. Released in October 2011, the study docunology stakeholders and the Green Electronics Council. ments the challenges and best practices of companies dedicated to addressing climate change. HP was one of four multinational • Working with other stakeholders, the U.S. Environmental companies featured in detailed case studies. The report focused Protection Agency, and the U.S. Department of Energy to revise on two low-carbon HP innovations in particular: HP Visual the ENERGY STAR® standard for both printers and computer Collaboration videoconferencing1 and Managed Print Services servers, and to develop a new ENERGY STAR standard for data (MPS). Read more about our energy and climate strategy. center storage. • Working with the U.S. Green Building Council on new LEED® standards for data centers and with the Green Grid Association (as a board member) on new data center protocols. 1 HP divested its HP Visual Collaboration business to Polycom, Inc., in July 2011. 22 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report • Contributing to the development of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol • Partnering with the Canada-based Lavergne Group to support Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard. a new HP plastic treatment facility in Vietnam, expanding the • Collaborating with the NGO Camara to support the East African “closed loop” HP ink cartridge recycling program. Read more Computer Recycling (EACR) facility in Mombasa, Kenya, which about our work with recycling vendors in developing countries. processes end-of-life electronics equipment while creating employment in disadvantaged communities. Learn more about how HP’s approach to stakeholder engagement helps us address a broad range of environmental and social challenges. Employee engagement Around the world, HP creates opportunities for employees to learn about, demonstrate, and share environmental practices that benefit “The Eco Advocate program has enabled their professional and personal lives. The HP Sustainability Network me to channel my passion for all things is the centerpiece of our approach and, with thousands of members, is among the largest employee network groups at HP. green into creating a business advantage The network expanded from 29 chapters in 2010 to 36 in 2011. for HP. I know my customers look to me for expertise in this area, and the program Located in 13 countries, the chapters coordinate a wide range of efforts including several alternative commute programs, local helps me to provide that knowledge.” volunteering efforts, on-site composting, educational workshops, —Hilde Allman, Technology and Business Process Consultant, and local site events for World Environment Day and Earth Day. Printing and Personal Systems, HP Canada During 2011, 17 sites around the world ran World Environment Day or Earth Day events that were attended by thousands of employees. In 2011, the network set up a global steering committee to improve “The knowledge and confidence the effectiveness and manage growth, increase stakeholder support Eco Advocate program fosters is and communications, and offer activities to more individuals in more countries. The committee coordinates with HP’s Sustainability awesome. It has allowed me to educate and Social Innovation team to ensure alignment. my customer base—and has helped our During the year, the network encouraged the growth of employee-led procurement and IT staff to win deals.” horticultural users groups (HUGs) worldwide. HUGs foster activities —Adam Hughes, Commercial Account Manager, Printing and such as seed exchanges, tree planting in local communities, classes Personal Systems, HP Canada on how to eat locally, and lessons on how to work with local farmers’ markets. Six sites—in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States—have employee vegetable gardens. We have other initiatives as well to encourage employees to engage on environmental issues. In 2011, we combined HP Canada’s Green HP employees making an impact: Advocates program with the Eco Solutions Advocate program in the Frances Edmonds United States. This created the HP Eco Advocate program, which helps employees communicate the company’s environmental initiaFrances Edmonds, director of environmental programs for HP tives to customers and the community. Through the initiative, we Canada, supports World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in helping other busitrained more than 1,300 HP employees on environmental topics. nesses become more sustainable. Learn more about Frances In 2012, we plan to expand the Eco Advocate program into other Edmonds on page 137. regions and are incorporating elements into our sales training. Phillip Kong Phillip Kong brings his passion for environmental sustainability to both his job as a Green Practice Consulting Manager for HP Enterprise Services, and as the global lead for the HP Sustainability Network. Learn more about Phillip Kong on page 141. 23 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Energy and climate We also focus on the supply side of the equation. Utilities are chalThe opportunity lenged to manage and make sense of the vast amount of the data generated by a proliferation of smart meters, which gather and Energy drives the global economy and nearly every aspect of communicate data on energy use in virtually real time. Improving modern life. With consumption forecast to rise nearly 50% by 2035,1 their operations and better serving customers hinges on effectively the world needs solutions that improve efficiency to keep pace with capturing, storing, analyzing, and acting on that data. demand—as well as reduce emissions that fuel climate change. HP Smart Grid Solutions enable utilities and other partners to Investing in energy efficiency is sound business strategy as well. design and deploy dynamic pricing programs and energy-efficiency, According to McKinsey & Co., the average internal rate of return on conservation, and demand-response programs. With operational energy efficiency projects is 17%, which could yield energy savings improvements, utilities can limit outages and develop business up to $900 billion USD annually by 2020 in the United States alone.2 plans that can defer the build out of new generation and transmission infrastructure. At HP, we believe this represents an enormous opportunity to deliver energy-efficient information technology (IT) infrastructure, and to innovate IT solutions that provide people and businesses with better insight into and control over their energy use. Energy-efficient IT Energy efficiency also helps mitigate climate change. According to In addition to developing solutions that better measure and manage The Climate Group, information and communications technologies energy use, HP is committed to improving energy efficiency across (ICT) could save 7.8 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent our portfolio of products, from desktop PCs and printers to data (CO2e) in 2020, representing 15% of global emissions. We believe centers. In fact, HP’s product portfolio is on average 50% more enabling customers to better understand and improve their energy energy efficient today than it was in 2005. use can reduce costs, but also help them make better choices. Thanks to smart meters, energy management systems, and other emerging technologies, the data to guide those decisions is increasWe’re also delivering solutions that replace inefficient technologies ingly available. with more productive and sustainable alternatives. For example, HP thin clients enable computing on a “virtual desktop” residing on a central server. Users access the virtual environment through a simple and efficient desktop device that contains no hard drives or other moving parts, relying on the server for all computing Using IT to improve energy-efficiency resources. Replacing 2,000 desktop PCs and monitors made in 2005 with the same number of HP thin client solutions—including the At the same time, the rapidly growing volume of energy consumprequired servers—would cut energy consumption by 74% and save tion data is challenging to manage and use. As the world’s largest an estimated 795,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) per year.3 provider of IT infrastructure, software, services, and solutions to individuals and organizations of all sizes, HP is in a unique position to help customers turn energy-consumption data into usable information, enabling them to develop more efficient and productive operations that use less energy and reduce associated greenhouse Mark Kenber gas (GHG) emissions. CEO, The Climate Group For example, HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) is Mark thinks advances in infordesigned to help enterprise customers measure and manage mation and communications energy use and other resources across their facilities, IT, supply technology led by companies chain, and workforce. And for individual users, HP Power Assistant such as HP can transform how makes it easy to monitor and reduce PC energy consumption, operwe live and do business. Visit ating costs, and CO2e impact, without affecting productivity. our online gallery of external stakeholder perspectives to see Mark’s video. 1 www.eia.doe.gov/oiaf/ieo/index.html. 2 www.mckinsey.com/Insights/MGI/Research/Natural_Resources/The_case_for_investing_in_energy_productivity. 3 The technology refresh takes 2005 desktops and monitors in an enterprise setting and replaces them 1:1 with HP t5570 Thin Clients and new HP Compaq LE19 WLED monitors. In the background, a set of HP DL460cG7 blade servers and a rack of storage disks support the new thin clients (about 70 thin clients to one blade server). 24 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Energy and the data center needs them—and no more. In pilot tests, HP Labs is using local microgrids of renewable energy to reduce a data center’s reliance As demand for computing resources increases, companies are on grid power. HP expects to reduce reliance on the grid by more relying more heavily on data centers, increasing energy use. than 75% while significantly lowering operational costs—contrary According to the 2011 Data Center Industry Census, the world’s to the view that sustainability requires companies to “pay more to data centers will consume 19% more energy in 2012 than in 2011. be green.” This shift to renewable energy microgrids can reduce a Total power use will reach about 31 gigawatts, equivalent to the data center’s carbon footprint by an equivalent 75%. energy used by all the residential households in France, Italy, or the United Kingdom.4 HP technology, services, and solutions can help transform how the world lives and works. We make it possible for customers to To help slow this trend, HP is helping customers rethink the data grow responsibly and to be more productive while being conscious center from design through operational management. HP Critical of the environment and efficient with resources. For HP, this alignFacilities Services (CFS) provides consulting, design, and engineering ment of business and environmental benefits is core to creating a services for new or retrofitted data centers. Our approach helps Positive Impact, HP’s drive to help conserve more than we as a align IT, facilities, and operations with data-center capacity and flexcompany consume. ibility to meet business needs and manage environmental impact. One challenge is that traditional data centers can be over provisioned and under used, resulting in wasted energy and money. HP employees making an impact: Virtualization offers one solution. By consolidating many servers into a single machine, virtualization can dramatically reduce the Sundeep Khisty energy demands of a data center while increasing its capacity and As the lead for HP Carbon Emissions Management Service, Sundeep performance. Another solution is modular design, which helps Khisty shows enterprise clients how to measure and reduce their enterprises rapidly and efficiently expand data-center capacity. One carbon footprints. Learn more about Sundeep Khisty on page 140. example is the HP POD 240a, also referred to as the HP EcoPOD— a compact, self-contained, modular, ultraefficient data center. The availability of usable performance data is also key to saving energy. The HP Data Center Smart Grid creates an intelligent, energy-aware data center using interconnected sensors that detect Energy and GHG emissions across when power is being wasted, allowing IT managers to make adjustments in real time. This powerful management tool can reduce a HP’s business facility’s power and cooling costs by up to 30%. We’re committed to making our global operations more energy effiHP is also developing data centers based on a more efficient cient, seeking low-carbon energy sources where possible. In 2011, cloud-based infrastructure. This enables servers to use and share we implemented a software platform from Hara, a provider of energy resources more efficiently, getting more work out of each kWh used. and sustainability management software, to automate energy and sustainability data collection across 770 HP sites worldwide. Learn Looking to the future, the sustainable data center project is a largemore in Energy efficiency on page 55. scale rethinking of how data centers are designed, built, and operated. Managed by HP Labs, the company’s central research HP ESM group is also involved in this global implementation. The arm, the aim is to develop a facility that consumes net-zero energy ESM group will apply the insights and best practices they gain to from nonrenewable sources over its entire life cycle—from benefit other customers undertaking similar deployments. resource extraction and manufacturing to operation and end of life. This means moving away from sources like the public power grid HP works to manage and decrease energy use and GHG emissions and relying on local microgrids of renewable energy to offset all or throughout our business (see table below). From manufacturing most of a data center’s energy needs. HP Labs has also created an and operations to product transport, use, and recycling, HP recogIT infrastructure that dynamically allocates resources to shape nizes the importance of environmental sustainability in our demand, so the data center receives the resources it needs when it products, services, and practices. 4 2011 Data Center Industry Census, DataCenterDynamics. 25 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GHG emissions across HP’s business, 2011* 2011 emissions Category [tonnes CO2e] Level of influence** Our actions Product 4,800,000*** Medium We work with our direct suppliers to report and reduce manufacturing their energy use. HP operations 1,856,400 High In managing our facilities and data centers, we strive to reduce energy consumption and purchase energy from renewable sources. HP employee 461,600 High Our travel policies and use of online virtual meetings business travel and videoconferencing decrease business travel. Product transport 1,900,000 Medium We enhance distribution networks and convert to lower-energy transport modes where appropriate. Improved packaging reduces waste and weight, saving shipping fuel and cutting GHG emissions. Product use Based on customer energy use Medium We design products, software, and services that help of sold products, approximately customers use less energy. an order of magnitude more than emissions from HP operations Product recycling 250,000**** Medium We offer customers a range of reuse and recycling (CO2e avoided) services, resulting in reduced GHG emissions. * Includes direct measurements as well as estimates. ** Refers to the level of influence HP has on this category of emissions. *** 2010 is the most recent year for which this data is available. **** According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM) Tool, CO e reductions from recycling are calculated per the following formula: 1.858 kg CO2e/kg recovered electronic waste. 2 Working with others HP Unlocking Your Energy We collaborate with government agencies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), universities, and peer technology compaIn 2011 we hosted a series of HP Unlocking Your Energy events nies to improve our own performance, develop standards to to showcase innovative HP products, services, and solutions that advance the industry, and contribute to advanced research in help consumers, enterprises, and entire industries reduce their energy and sustainability. energy consumption, cut carbon emissions, save money, and boost productivity. HP supports international action to address climate change and minimize the risks of serious environmental, economic, and social Academics, NGO leaders, industry analysts, journalists, and sustainimpact. Because we believe that energy-efficient HP technology can ability experts attended the events, providing a forum for new be a catalyst in meeting the challenge of climate change, we again thinking and dialogue on the opportunities for IT to reduce energy participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference use and advance sustainability. (COP 17). For the second consecutive year, HP was selected as the Learn more about the HP Unlocking Your Energy event in London. primary provider of low-carbon IT solutions for the conference. HP is an official signatory of The 2°C Challenge Communiqué, a statement from more than 400 international businesses that calls on governments to take action at a national level to ensure a successful transition to green growth and a climate-resilient economy. 26 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Paper As the world’s largest information technology (IT) company, with HP is also a member of the World Wildlife Fund’s Global Forest and one of the industry’s most extensive supply chains, HP is committed Trade Network, through which we gain valuable expertise to help us to the responsible sourcing and use of paper products throughout achieve our responsible paper-sourcing goals. (Read more about our operations and to reducing the environmental impact associcollaboration on environmental issues between HP and its ated with producing the paper that we sell. We work with leading stakeholders.) environmental organizations to promote responsible forestry practices, increase the use of sustainably sourced paper, and encourage We have implemented HP’s Environmentally Preferable Paper broader recycling. And as a leading supplier of imaging and printing Policy with our suppliers of HP-branded papers, and we encourage equipment, we deliver product innovations that make it easy for paper manufacturers to implement environmental management our customers to reduce paper waste. systems such as ISO 14001. Our efforts include working with major paper suppliers to better understand their energy and water use Our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy details HP’s principles and their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions so we can help these for buying, selling, and using paper and paper-based packaging. We suppliers assess the potential for improvements. seek to source paper from suppliers who demonstrate responsible forestry and manufacturing practices. Our environmental strategy for For more information, see our customer brochure, HP Home and packaging prioritizes renewable, recycled, and recyclable materials. Office Papers—Designed with the Environment in Mind. Consequently, we have shifted many products to paper and moldedpulp packaging that is made from responsibly sourced fiber. Helping customers conserve Responsible paper sourcing and sales resources HP sells approximately 260,000 tonnes of HP-branded printer and HP provides technology and services to help make customers’ copier papers annually. We require suppliers to verify the source of printing and paper use more effective. We are also working to pulp used in HP-branded papers so we can be confident that it is advance the analog-to-digital transformation of the printing and legally and responsibly sourced. We are working to increase both publishing industry, as well as in other commercial and industrial the percentage of postconsumer recycled fiber in HP-branded sectors that produce materials such as marketing collateral, labels, papers and our use of pulp that is certified as sustainable by the and signage. HP Digital Publishing, for example, helps publishing Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)—widely regarded as the leading industry customers convert from offset book printing to digital independent standards organization for responsible forestry. on-demand printing. This enables book publishers to print only the volume of books required to meet demand—helping to reduce HP became an FSC member in 2011, helping to shape the council’s energy and resource use and avoid excess waste. (Read more in policies and criteria, and we strongly encourage our paper suppliers Environmental sustainability on page 19.) to pursue FSC certification. We also achieved our goal of having at least 40% of HP-branded paper be FSC-certified1 and/or contain at We also help customers to: least 30% postconsumer waste (PCW) content by the end of 2011. HP’s new goal is that 50% or more of its branded papers will meet • Assess, understand, and reduce unnecessary paper use through the one or both of these criteria by the end of 2015. The majority of our HP EcoSMART Console and EcoSMART Fleet—online tools that photo papers and specialty papers have achieved FSC “chain of provide centralized access to usage data along with customizable custody” (CoC) certification (SCS-COC-002255), demonstrating that options for saving energy and paper, and reducing carbon footprint. the paper’s fiber originates from a forest that is responsibly • Ensure optimum paper use by taking advantage of automatic twomanaged in accordance with FSC principles and criteria. sided printing, and by setting two-sided printing as the default across entire print fleets through tools such as HP Universal Print HP has a preference for offering FSC-certified papers. Where Driver and HP Web Jetadmin. FSC-certified pulp is not currently available, HP offers papers certi• Reduce paper waste by up to 55% with HP Smart Print, a free fied by the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification online tool that helps users select and print only the webpage or the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. content they need.2 To learn more about certifications for specific HP-branded paper products, as well as the percentage of recycled content in our papers, see the “Media Supplies” section of HP Eco Highlights Products. 1 FSC (license code FSC-C017543). 2 Supports Microsoft® Internet Explorer® 7.0, 8.0, 9.0 as well as Mozilla® Firefox® version 3.5 through 5.01. An independent study commissioned by HP compared paper consumption using HP Smart Print with a web browser’s print command. Microsoft Internet Explorer users can save up to 55% and Mozilla Firefox users (tested on v3.6.19) can save up to 15% on paper usage. 27 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Conserving paper across HP Deinking research aids paper recycling We are working to lead the shift to more environmentally sustainable printing and paper use across HP. Focus areas include: HP is working to improve the ability to remove inks from printed paper for enhanced recycling through research and development in • Paper used in our offices We use HP Everyday Papers, which are innovative inks, additives, paper design, and deinking processes. made from pulp produced through responsible forestry practices, For instance, the paper design and additives typically used in HP for internal office printing. Two-sided printing is the default for ColorLok® and HP ColorPRO papers greatly enhance inkjet deinkour office printers. ability. Our innovations in deinking help recycling mills transform ink-covered paper into clean, high-quality pulp for producing white • Paper shipped “in the box” This includes manuals, guides, and recycled paper. (See how this process works.) warranties. We are changing specifications (for example, using smaller fonts and thinner paper), reducing document length, During 2011 testing of HP Color Inkjet Web Press prints, more than and switching to electronic delivery (where legally permissible). 15 papers were rated as having “Good Deinkability,” based on the As a result, HP shipped 14,200 fewer tonnes of paper docuEuropean Recovered Paper Council scorecard using INGEDE Method ments in 2011 compared with 2008. Learn more about our 11. We also partnered with Arjowiggins Graphic on a 2011 recycling efforts to reduce packaging. mill trial in which we successfully deinked more than 9 tonnes of • Paper used for commercial and promotional purposes We paper printed with HP Indigo inks, using the standard process of the strongly encourage our commercial print vendors to print all HP Arjowiggins Graphic Greenfield mill. Learn more. sales and marketing materials on paper that is certified (preferably by FSC) and/or contains postconsumer recycled content. Over the past 4 years, we have switched to Print on Demand for most of our sales and marketing materials, reducing storage requirements and paper waste associated with discarding obsolete documents. 28 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Products and solutions HP products, services, and solutions represent our greatest opportunity to advance Highlights Positive Impact—HP’s drive to help conserve more than we as a company consume. Our 50% broad portfolio helps customers use energy and other resources more efficiently, replace outmoded and inefficient processes, and live and work more sustainably. To learn more about environmental and social innovation across the infrastructure, software, services, and solutions HP offers, visit our Tech gallery. HP achieved a 50% reduction in energy consumption of our products by the end of 2011 compared with 2005 levels—exceeding our original goal of a 40% reduction.* HP’s holistic approach Through our Design for Environment program, HP takes a holistic approach to reducing the environmental impact of our products and solutions across their entire life cycle—from their earliest stages of development through use and end of life. We increasingly use the insights from life cycle assessment and stakeholder consultation to increase our understanding of 95% The HP EcoPOD modular data center uses 95% less facilities energy than a traditional data center.** the environmental impact of our products, inform design, and foster innovations in materials use, manufacturing, and transport processes. A sustainable approach to services at HP 74% Replacing 2,000 PC desktops and monitors made in HP provides services that help enterprise customers measure and manage their resource 2005 with the same number of HP thin client solutions—including the required servers—would cut consumption and carbon emissions across an enterprise’s data centers, business processes, energy consumption by 74% and save an estimated and operations. HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) addresses the use of 795,000 kilowatt hours (kWh) per year.*** energy, water, and other resources across a customer’s entire organization. HP Critical Facilities Services focus on improving energy consumption and efficiency, and water usage * The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using in data centers (see graphic below). And HP Carbon Emissions Management Service helps high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped customers calculate, record, and analyze energy use and carbon emissions in every aspect product volume. Energy consumption has been estimated in 2005 and annually since. The high-volume product lines include notebook of their IT infrastructure—from the desktop to the mainframe. and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industrystandard servers. ** New POD technology from HP offers 95% greater energy efficiency compared with a traditional brick-and-mortar data center, based on internal HP testing. *** The technology refresh takes 2005 desktops and monitors in an enterprise setting and replaces them 1:1 with HP t5570 Thin Clients and new HP Compaq LE19 WLED monitors. In the background, a set of HP BL460cG7 blade servers and a rack of storage disks support the new thin clients (about 70 thin clients to one blade server). 29 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Sustainability initiatives across the life cycle Learn more about how HP approaches sustainability at each stage of the life cycle, illustrated by innovations in our PC and printer products, as well as our data center services. Research, development, and design HP Labs and HP’s business groups attempt to develop and design products and solutions—from ink cartridges to data centers—that require less energy, use more Reuse and 1 5 sustainable materials, and are easier to recycle than the previous generation of HP products. recycling HP works with a global network of vendors in 67 countries and territories worldwide to collect, Manufacturing process for resale, and/or recycle returned products, as well as HP collaborates with our qualify recycled materials for manufacturing partners and use in new products. suppliers to understand, reduce, and report the environmental impact of product manufacturing. 2 4 Packaging and Use transport HP strives to improve the energy efficiency and resource HP strives to develop more consumption of our products sustainable packaging options and make transport choices to 3 and solutions, and makes it easy for customers to consider decrease fuel use and associated the environment when buying greenhouse gas emissions. and using our products. 30 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP Z1 Workstation HP ENVY110 printer HP Critical Facilities Services Life cycle stage Learn more in the Tech gallery. Learn more in the Tech gallery. Learn more in the Tech gallery. Research, Registered EPEAT® Gold and ENERGY STAR qualified e-All-in-One. HP Energy Efficiency Analysis development, ENERGY STAR® qualified. The all-inassesses a data center’s energy and design one form factor contains less plastic efficiency and provides design and than a separate PC and monitor of site recommendations to reduce similar size, and features a environmental impact. mercury-free 27-inch diagonal white LED display. Manufacturing Manufactured using brominated Manufactured using PVC-free HP helps customers achieve certififlame retardant BFRand polyvinyl materials.** cations for the U.S. Green Building chloride PVC-free materials.* Council (USGBC) LEED® Standard for Data Centers. Packaging and Surface transport within the United Surface transport within the United HP develops plans and procedures transport States and Canada uses a 100% States and Canada uses a 100% to help customers better maintain SmartWay-compliant carrier SmartWay-compliant carrier and test facilities, which reduce the network. network. need to transport and store spare parts and equipment. Use Features up to 90% efficient power Allows for optimum paper use HP provides ongoing consulting to supply and helps customers through automatic two-sided help customers increase data center conserve energy by providing realprinting. energy efficiency. time power consumption data with HP Power Assistant.*** Reuse and Designed to be more than 90% Designed to be 90% recyclable. HP Asset Recovery services rebuild, recycling recyclable by weight. Uses Original HP 60 cartridges that reuse, and recycle outdated data contain up to 70% recycled plastic. center components. * The HP Z1 workstation meets the industry definition of “BFR/PVC-free” per the iNEMI Position Statement on “Low Halogen” Electronics. Plastic parts incorporated into the chassis generally contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of bromine or chlorine. Printed circuit board and substrate laminates generally contain < 1,500 ppm (0.15%) of total bromine and chlorine. Service parts after purchase may not be BFR/PVC-free. External accessories, including power supplies, power cords, and peripherals are not BFR/PVC-free. ** HP ENVY110 e-All-in-One is polyvinyl chloride-free (PVC-free); meeting the evolving definition of PVC free as set forth in the “iNEMI Position Statement on the Definition of ‘Low-Halogen’ Electronics (BFR-/ CFR-/PVC-free).” Plastic parts contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine [if the CI source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers]. USB cable and power cord are not PVC free. *** HP Power Assistant enhances management of the system energy requirements and enables users to take control of their power consumption for a reduced impact on the environment. Power calculations and cost calculations are estimates. Results will vary based on variables, which include information provided by the user, time PC is in different power states (on, standby, hibernate, off), hardware configuration, variable electricity rates, and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by HP Power Assistant for reference only and to validate impact in their environment. Environmental calculations were based on U.S. EPA eGrid 2007 data found at www.epa.gov/egrid/. Regional results will vary. Microsoft® Windows® required. Life cycle assessment HP increasingly uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to better under• Develop tools to estimate the carbon footprint of our products of stand and reduce the environmental impacts of the products we our products offer. LCA covers every stage of a product’s life cycle, from materials • Determine which processes, components, and materials have the extraction to end of life. greatest environmental impact and prioritize these for analysis, with the goal of reducing these impacts. Specifically, LCA techniques allow us to: • Develop metrics to help product designers compare design options. • Assess our current materials, packaging, and products; model • Support Design for Recycling initiatives. alternatives; and target areas for improvement. 31 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report LCAs for HP products Standardizing LCA approaches In 2011, we carried out or commissioned LCAs on several products. and methodologies Examples include: HP is collaborating with other industry leaders, academia, nongovernmental organizations, and governments to promote and share • HP LaserJet black toner cartridges vs. remanufactured best practices, and create universally accepted methods for cartridges A 2011 study commissioned by HP found that paper performing LCAs. Our objective is to enhance product comparability use during printing—not cartridge manufacturing or production— across the industry and improve the use and disclosure of LCA data is the greatest contributor to the environmental impact of toner within our own product designs. Working with others in the IT cartridges.1 Inconsistent print quality often leads to reprinting and industry also helps us reduce the environmental impacts of our increased paper consumption, which increases the environmental shared supply chains. impact associated with cartridges. As reported in a separate 2010 study, Original HP LaserJet toner cartridges are more reliable and Through our membership in The Sustainability Consortium (TSC) deliver higher print quality than the remanufactured cartridges and our support for the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition examined,2 which often means fewer reprints and less paper use. product carbon footprint (PCF) project, we’re working to develop a The 2011 study also reported that recycling at the end-of-life common approach to LCA and PCF data capture. In addition, we’re phase reduces the environmental impact of toner cartridges. HP collaborating with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), offers recycling programs for HP cartridges. as well as other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and • HP HDPE banners vs. PVC scrim banners HP banners made of suppliers, to create a Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE)—for outdoor use on billboards tool in order to estimate the PCF of our notebook and desktop and other media—can help reduce the carbon footprint of banner computers, and monitors in a way that is transparent, objective, printing materials by up to 80% compared with traditional polycredible, and relevant to customers. The goal of the PAIA tool is to vinyl chloride (PVC) scrim banner material.3 Key factors include a provide information to the purchaser or end consumer to facilitate lighter weight that enables reduced raw material consumption as discussion and understanding of a product’s environmental well as lower transportation4 and disposal costs.5 impacts. We anticipate releasing the PAIA tool and PCF notebook • Albums of printed photos vs. digital photo frames An HP study data in 2012, once pertinent supplier data has been vetted. revealed that printing 200 photos—including materials for the printer and album, energy use, and end-of-life impacts— We’re also working with international groups to strengthen the PCF produced just 15% of the GHG emissions of displaying 200 photos and LCA data capture process for imaging and printing products. In on a digital photo frame in a typical home for 2 years.6 2011, HP helped draft a commercial printing carbon footprint standard as a member of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) technical committee working group. Similar to the goals for the PAIA project, the ISO standard will provide a LCA challenges transparent, universally accepted methodology to guide HP and other manufacturers when performing PCF and LCA analyses on The LCA process has its limitations in assessing information techprinters and related products. The proposed standard will be up for nology (IT) products, due to the use of different methodologies, a committee vote during 2012. inconsistent assumptions, the complexity of IT products (including the large number of suppliers providing inputs), and the rapid rate of technological innovation. These factors affect the results, reliability, and consistency of LCAs, making it challenging to accurately compare the environmental impacts of products within our industry. 1 2011 Four Elements Consulting study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP LaserJet CB436A and CC364A black toner cartridges with a sample of remanufactured alternatives across eight impact categories. For more information, visit www.hp.com/go/lj-lca-na or www.hp.com/go/lj-lca-emea. 2 QualityLogic 2010 study, commissioned by HP, compared Original HP LaserJet monochrome toner cartridges with remanufactured cartridges sold in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for the HP LaserJet P1505 and P4015 printers, HP 36A, and 64A. For details, see www.qualitylogic.com/NAremanreport.pdf or www.qualitylogic.com/EMEAremanreport.pdf. 3 For example, the carbon footprint of banner printing material can be reduced by up to 80% using 170 g/m2 (5-ounce) HP HDPE Reinforced Banner. Calculation by the HP IPG Environmental Technology Platform Team (and confirmed by an independent environmental life cycle assessment firm), based on the activities associated with the manufacturing of the product, and comparing 200 g/m2 (6-ounce) HP Doublesided HDPE Reinforced Banner to 440 g/m2 (13-ounce) HP Outdoor Frontlit Scrim Banner using the Swiss Center for Life Cycle Inventories Ecoinvent 2.2 database and model IPCC 2007 version 1.02; primarily for the category of PVC/PET/HDPE, and measuring materials extraction, transportation to the manufacturing site, and GHG emissions generated during manufacturing. The reduction in carbon footprint for HP HDPE Reinforced Banner is slightly less. 4 For example, HP Double-sided HDPE Reinforced Banner based on the transportation cost per square foot of material comparing a 30-roll pallet of HP Double-sided HDPE Reinforced Banner (1,067 mm x 45,7 m/42 in x 150 ft rolls, 870 lbs, 15,750 sq ft of material) and a 20-roll pallet of HP Outdoor Frontlit Scrim Banner (1,067 mm x 35 m/42 in x 115 ft, 844 lbs, 8,050 sq ft of material); using FedEx National shipping rates (Standard Service) from San Diego, California, United States, to New York, New York, United States, of $4.77 USD/lb for 870 lbs and $4.87 USD/lb for 844 lbs. Ground transportation costs vary by region and ship-to location. Transportation cost comparison for HP HDPE Reinforced Banner is similar. 5 In many European countries such as the United Kingdom, there is a Landfill Tax payable on waste disposed of at landfills. The tax is regulated by HM Revenue and Customs. Tax on active waste amounts to £40/ tonne (+VAT) in 2009–2010 and is set to increase £8/per year to 2013. According to www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/waste/, this is becoming a standard practice for other EU countries www.cewep. com/data/landfill/index.html. 6 “Carbon Footprint Analysis Comparing a Digital Frame to Printed Photos,” Tom Etheridge and Tim Strecker. 32 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Research and development Research and development (R&D) at HP focuses on developing breakthrough technologies, spearheading the next generation of HP products and services, and creating new opportunities for HP’s HP employees making an impact: businesses and customers. We are committed to innovation both Chandrakant Patel internally and in collaboration with leading universities and technology companies worldwide. Chandrakant Patel is an HP senior fellow and interim director of HP Labs. His vision for building a more sustainable world has helped Innovation and R&D occurs throughout our business groups, and is make HP a leader in energy-efficient computing. Learn more about essential to HP’s ongoing ability to deliver leading products and Chandrakant Patel on page 144. services. Complementing these efforts, HP Labs is our central research organization. It aims to: • Deliver business value through a variety of paths to commercialization, including technology transfer to HP businesses, 2011 R&D highlights demonstrations, coinnovations with customers, and licensing. HP Labs made progress in several key areas in 2011: • Drive the conversation and demonstrate thought leadership in the industry through intellectual property (IP) generation and publications at premier academic and industry conferences. Energy-efficient data centers • Coinnovate with customers and research partners, creating HP Labs continues to research new ways of developing energytransformational solutions for real-world problems through an efficient, reduced-emissions data centers, including the use of open innovation approach. renewable technologies and alternative energy sources. The research is part of HP Labs’ sustainable data center project, a largeSustainability is one of eight primary research categories within HP scale rethinking of how data centers are designed, built, and Labs (see graphic). With assistance from the Sustainable operated. With each low-energy innovation, HP moves closer to its Ecosystems Research group (SERg), HP Labs integrates sustaingoal of creating a data center that consumes net-zero energy from ability within every research category, helping HP create new nonrenewable sources over its entire life cycle. HP also incorpotechnologies, products, services, and business models for the rates many of the technologies developed for the sustainable data emerging low-carbon economy. center project into other HP products and solutions. HP Labs research areas Multiscale Energy Modeling tool HP Labs collaborated with the HP Enterprise Servers, Storage, and Networking (ESSN) business group on the development of several technologies used in the HP POD 240a modular data center, also known as the HP EcoPOD. Printing For example, the EcoPOD team used the Multiscale Energy Modeling and content tool—conceptualized by HP Labs and the University of Limerick in delivery Ireland—to accurately project the EcoPOD’s total energy consumpServices tion and costs. The team has also used the tool to evaluate Mobile and potential EcoPOD customer sites in support of the account and immersive technical teams. HP Labs is currently investigating how to enlist the experience Multi-Scale Energy Modeling (M-SEM) tool to run offline or run-time optimizations of the EcoPOD infrastructure to further improve energy efficiency. Networking Sustainability Fort Collins data center In March 2011, HP opened a data center in Fort Collins, Colorado, United States, that doubles as a working test bed for HP Labs technologies, including sustainable data center Cloud and innovations. The facility expands on HP’s Converged Infrastructure security solutions with research focused on working to eliminate information Intelligent technology (IT) sprawl, increasing energy efficiency, and reducing infrastructure power consumption. Recent advancements include motorized Information Adaptive Vent Tile technology, which makes local cooling adjustanalytics ments for individual IT racks, and a cooling microgrid that employs multiple cooling resources, including a chiller plant, a water-side economizer, outside air, on-site energy storage through ice, and an integrated management system. Learn more about our Fort Collins data center. 33 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Cloud Sustainability Dashboard HP has developed a Cloud Sustainability Dashboard (CSD) to help IT professionals better HP open innovation understand and quantify the sustainability impact of cloud computing. The dashboard provides a high-level view of the HP Labs collaborates with top researchers, scientists, and entrepreeconomic, environmental, and social impacts of related IT and neurs worldwide on high-impact joint research projects through an facility resources and services, including servers, storage, open innovation research model. This allows us to bring together networking, power and cooling, and IT support. For example, users global expertise to foster discovery, develop breakthrough techcan assess the impact of changing electricity costs by region, deternologies, and tackle the next generation of global challenges. mine which cloud service offers the smallest environmental footprint, or examine the potential effect of cloud computing on SERg, for example, extends its research capabilities through univereconomic development. sity collaborations, and then transfers working solutions to HP business units for product and service development. The model provides students the opportunity to work on real-world sustainResource Management as a Service ability problems while gaining invaluable experience and knowledge for their future careers at HP Labs or elsewhere. Among our most HP Labs continues to explore how IT can help cities cope with the notable successes is the Environmental Sustainability Assessment growing strain on nonrenewable resources. In 2011, we initiated Tool (ESAT), which originated from a multiyear project with the the Resource Management as a Service (RMaaS) project—an University of California-Berkeley (UC Berkeley) in Berkeley, California, integrated hardware, software, and services platform that can United States, addressing energy efficiency in the data center. be tailored to manage energy, water, and waste at a city-wide scale. Still in its early stages, the model conceives of cities as a SERg is currently collaborating with such top research institutions series of “campuses” connected by transportation and information as UC Berkeley in Berkeley, California, United States; Carnegie networks. Each campus will have its own customizable hardware Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States; and software infrastructure, along with an ecosystem of sustainVirginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States; and the ability “apps” that support real-time resource management based University of Limerick in Limerick, Ireland. on availability and demand. HP is working on an RMaaS prototype at our HP Labs site in Palo Alto, California, United States. Visit HP Labs for more information about HP’s innovation for the environment and other research areas. HP Labs and social innovation HP Labs and our business groups’ R&D teams also further social innovation by providing solutions to improve healthcare access and delivery, enhancing the quality of life for individuals and communities worldwide. Learn more about Social innovation on page 147. Design HP considers the environment in designing its products and soluThis holistic design approach extends to how we deliver informations, from the smallest ink cartridge to entire data centers. We tion technology (IT) infrastructure and data center services for emphasize sustainability principles when selecting the materials enterprises. We design complex IT systems in ways that can help for our products and packaging, assessing the resources required large organizations consume less energy and water, reduce greenfor transporting products, determining how they will function house gas emissions, and operate more efficiently. during use, and facilitating their reuse and recycling. 34 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Sustainability in product design Design for accessibility Environmental considerations are integral to HP research and development. We continually challenge ourselves to reduce the HP strives to create products, solutions, and online materials that environmental impact of our products and meet increasing are accessible to everyone, including people with disabilities and customer demand for more sustainable alternatives. seniors with age-related limitations. Our product design teams regularly explore ways to enhance accessibility, productivity, and Through our company-wide Design for Environment (DfE) program, user comfort. Examples of accessibility features on HP products launched in 1992, more than 50 environmental product stewards include buttons identifiable by touch, ports and switches posiwork with design teams to identify and evaluate potential improvetioned within easy reach, and large adjustable displays. Our ments in energy efficiency, materials choices, and recyclability. The customer support programs incorporate assistive technologies principles of DfE help set requirements and fuel innovations in all such as Telecommunications Relay Service, Video Relay Service, new HP-designed hardware products and printing supplies. and Web Captioned Telephone to better serve users who are deaf Environmental product stewards help teams to improve product or hard of hearing. performance, measure progress, and communicate results to customers, HP management, and other stakeholders. See the HP Accessibility website for more information and examples. In November 2011, we launched HP Project Moonshot—a multiyear, multiphase program dedicated to designing extreme-low-energy server technologies. By incorporating more efficient chip designs that deliver increased computing power, we expect Project Sustainability in IT and data center Moonshot to reduce energy use by up to 89% and costs by up to 63%.1 These designs will also improve server efficiency, scalability, design services and utilization, while requiring up to 94% less rack space at a data center.1 We plan to combine our Project Moonshot work with HP Through our IT and data center design services, we offer expertise Converged Infrastructure innovations to enable customers to share in creating facilities and operations that help customers conserve storage, networking, and management resources across thousands energy and other resources while reducing costs and improving of servers while reducing energy usage and cooling. business efficiency. We apply many of the same technical innovations and best practices from HP’s own operations to our designs Through the HP Pathfinder Program, part of Project Moonshot, we for customers. are assembling a network of industry leaders—including independent software vendors and computing, storage, and networking HP Critical Facilities Services (CFS) provides strategic consulting, partners—to collaborate on developing and deploying extremedesign-build, and operational assurance resources to help low-energy server solutions. We expect HP Pathfinder to spur customers upgrade existing data centers or build highly efficient hardware and software innovations that support the evolution of new facilities. For example, our Energy Efficiency Analysis compares cloud-based computing services, on-demand computing, and other customers’ power usage effectiveness and other measures to technology environments that require massive data center industry best practices and recommends improvements. Further, infrastructures. HP CFS helps customers achieve key energy-efficiency certifications such as the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED® Standard for Data Centers, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY Design for recyclability STAR® for Data Centers, and U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) “Save Energy Now.” As of April 2012, HP CFS had designed more than 60% We design HP products to help facilitate recycling. For example, we of all LEED-certified data centers. use common fasteners and snap-in features and avoid applying glues, adhesives, or welds where feasible. This helps recyclers to HP CFS has been integral to Citigroup’s leadership in the design and more easily dismantle our products and to separate and identify construction of highly reliable data centers that are also more different plastics. Most HP PCs are more than 90% recyclable, by sustainable. The LEED-certified centers that Citi worked on with HP weight.2 In addition, HP workstations and the Elite and Pro series CFS, as well as other LEED-certified projects, keep Citi on track with desktop PCs have a chassis that can be easily disassembled for its $50 billion USD, 10-year program to reduce its environmental upgrade to extend product life and for recycling at end of life. footprint. Learn more. As part of HP’s efforts to enhance recycling, we are also working Details of the HP CFS life cycle approach can be found in the to improve the ability to remove inks from printed paper through Products and solutions section life cycle graphic. research in innovative inks, additives, paper design, and deinking processes. 1 Based on weighted average performance projections for workloads such as web serving, memcached, and data analytics. Cost estimates include infrastructure, space, and power and cooling costs over 3 years. 2 Calculated using HP’s Recyclability Assessment Tool. 35 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Materials HP evaluates environmental impact across the product life cycle when selecting materials for use in our products. We design products Evaluating substances of concern to use less material, and we seek alternatives to materials of concern. We strive to use recycled materials when possible, and we comply HP proactively evaluates materials of concern. We may restrict with all relevant government regulations wherever we do business. substances because of customer preferences, legal requirements, Our objective is to minimize the environmental impact of HP products or because we believe it is appropriate based on a precautionary while continuing to deliver exceptional value to customers. approach. When scientific analysis reveals a potential health or environmental concern, we seek to replace substances with commercially viable alternatives. HP carefully assesses the environmental, health, and/or safety risks of these alternatives. Using less material HP works to use materials more efficiently through innovations in technology and product design. For example, HP thin client computing devices can require up to 50% less material to produce Nanotechnology than a traditional HP desktop PC. We also provide software and services that help customers optimize paper and supplies Nanotechnology holds long-term promise for creating electronics consumption. applications that require fewer materials and consume less energy. Since 1995, HP Labs has led research in the areas of nanoarchitecture, nanoelectronics, nanomechanics, and nanophotonics. Outcomes of this research include advances in memristor-based computer memory, which has the potential to run 10 times faster and use 10 times less power than an equivalent flash memory chip. HP product proactive materials restriction/substitution timeline* 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Mercury/mercury PVC in Remaining uses of compounds (except bulbs) packaging phthalates (DEHP, DBP, BBP, and DIBP) Cadmium BFRs in and HBCDD** Lead in PVC cables external PVC from case plastics case plastic Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate Lead parts (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate Ozone-depleting substances (DBP), and butyl benzyl Hexavalent chromium Polycyclic aromatic phthalate (BBP) in new DfE programs started hydrocarbons (PAH) personal computing products, complete in 2012 PBB/PBDE (including DecaBDE) Mercury in notebook products Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC in new HP brand personal computing products Antimony Arsenic/arsenic compounds Bismuth/bismuth compounds Bisphenol-A Beryllium/beryllium compounds Mercury in bulbs Nonylphenol Bisphenol-A in thermal paper Other perﬂuorinated chemicals Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC Antimony trioxide in BFR/PVC-free products Remaining uses of certain phthalates Selenium/selenium compounds * Dates refer to when proactively adopted materials restrictions were first introduced on an HP product, ahead of regulatory requirements. Materials in gray text beyond April 2012 have been identified by stakeholders as potential materials of concern. Future possible restriction of those materials depends, in part, on the qualification of acceptable alternative materials. For a comprehensive list of HP’s materials restrictions, including numerous materials restricted by HP on a worldwide basis in response to regional regulations, refer to HP’s General specification for the environment. ** Limited to products within the scope of the EU RoHS Directive. 36 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP recognizes that since the properties of matter can depend on size and shape at the nanoscale, consideration of potential health and safety issues of nanostructured materials must be an integral Examples of BFRand PVC-free products* part of any research program that seeks to bring such materials to in 2011 market. Our Intelligent Infrastructure Research group at HP Labs has been a leader in research in this area. • The HP Compaq 8200 Elite Ultra-Slim Desktop PC • The HP EliteBook 2760p Notebook PC, which also features a mercury-free LED-backlit display and is made with at least HP employees making an impact: 12% postconsumer recycled plastic Dr. Paul Mazurkiewicz • The HP ENVY110 e-All-in-One, the world’s only PVC-free printer as of August 2011** As a senior scientist, Dr. Paul Mazurkiewicz helps identify materials that have a reduced risk of health and environmental impact for use * Meeting the evolving definition of “BFR/PVC-free” as set forth in the “iNEMI Position Statement in HP products. Learn more about Paul Mazurkiewicz on page 142. on the Definition of ‘Low-Halogen’ Electronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).” Plastic parts contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of bromine [if the Br source is from BFRs] and < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine [if the Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers]. All printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate laminates contain bromine/chlorine total < 1,500 ppm (0.15%) with a maximum chlorine of 900 ppm (0.09%) and maximum bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Service parts after purchase may not HP compliance process be BFR/PVC free. Power supply and power cords are not BFR/PVC free. ** The HP ENVY110 e-All-in-One is polyvinyl chloride-free (PVC-free), meeting the evolving definition of “PVC-free” as set forth in the “iNEMI Position Statement on the Definition of ‘Low-Halogen’ ElecTo help ensure HP meets legal requirements as well as our own tronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).” Plastic parts contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine (if the Cl source is materials standards, we follow a compliance process that has three from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers). Printers sold in China, India, and Korea have power cords that are not PVC-free. USB cable, required in limited geographic areas, is not PVC-free. key pillars: • The HP General Specification for the Environment (GSE) includes substance and materials requirements for parts and components that are used in HP products, packaging, and manufacturing processes. Assessing alternative materials • The HP Supplier Safe and Legal Standard provides a consistent When replacing substances of concern, we seek to identify alternamanagement system standard for the design, manufacture, and tives with a reduced risk of potential human health and environmental delivery of products that meet regulations concerning electroimpacts that also meet our performance and cost criteria. magnetic compatibility, safety, telecommunication authorization, energy efficiency, and other product content specifications. To support these objectives, we have developed an integrated • The HP Active Verification Material Testing Specification defines assessment approach to analyzing potential replacements for our requirements for testing materials used in HP products for the substances of concern. Established in 2007, our approach begins presence of specific substances that are restricted under the GSE. with a hazard-based screening step to help rule out alternative In 2011, we added restrictions to the HP GSE on the use of certain options that are of equal or greater concern than the substances phthalates in plastic parts in HP products. We are considering addithat they would replace. This comparative chemical hazard tional future restrictions on phthalates. screening is based on the GreenScreenTM for Safer Chemicals framework developed by the nongovernmental organization (NGO) Clean Production Action. Phasing out BFRs and PVC Integrating the GreenScreen framework into our overall alternaHP is working to phase out brominated flame retardants (BFRs) and tives assessment protocol has enabled HP to more easily select polyvinyl chloride (PVC) where technically feasible in new products. replacement materials with a reduced risk of human health and For example, 96% of HP Compaq business PCs and HP notebooks environmental impacts. We have completed more than 130 assesslaunched in 2011 or after are BFR and PVC free.1 ments since the program began. Projects in 2011 included evaluating PVC-free power cords, process cleaners, and general The timeline above shows substances that HP has proactively plastic resins. We also participated in the Green Chemistry and restricted or is considering for restriction. Commerce Council (GC3) plasticizer alternatives assessment project, which employs GreenScreen. 1 Meeting the evolving definition of “BFR/PVC-free” as set forth in the “iNEMI Position Statement on the Definition of ‘Low-Halogen’ Electronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).” Plastic parts contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of bromine [if the Br source is from BFRs] and < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine [if the Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers]. All printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate laminates contain bromine/chlorine total < 1,500 ppm (0.15%) with a maximum chlorine of 900 ppm (0.09%) and maximum bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Service parts after purchase may not be BFR/PVC free. Power supply and power cords are not BFR/PVC free. 37 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Building on HP’s success with this approach, we joined with the Business-NGO Working Group for Safer Chemicals and Sustainable Supporting relevant government Materials in 2011 to help draft a version of the chemical alternaregulations tives assessment protocol for use by other industries and groups to improve their materials selection processes. HP complies fully with materials regulations, and we were among the first companies to extend the restrictions in the European Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive to our products worldwide through the HP GSE. HP has contributed to the Using recycled materials development of related legislation in Europe, as well as China, India, and Vietnam. HP continues to expand the use of recycled materials in its products. For example: We believe the RoHS directive and similar laws play an important role in promoting industry-wide elimination of substances of • The HP EliteBook 2560p, launched in 2011, is our first notebook concern. We have supported the inclusion of additional substances— computer made with more than 20% postconsumer recycled plastic. including PVC, BFRs, and certain phthalates—in future RoHS legislation that pertains to electrical and electronics products. • The HP Deskjet 3070A e-All-in-One printer contains 25% recycled (See our compliance statement.) plastic, and the HP Deskjet 3050A e-All-in-One contains 25% postconsumer recycled plastic. As of July 2011, no other manufacturer HP complies with the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, had claimed to produce a printer made with more recycled content.2 and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH) legislation, which includes requirements for assessing and managing the risks posed by Through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original HP ink and chemicals. We accomplish this by working closely with suppliers to LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can gather information on listed substances that may be in HP product then be used to make new cartridges as well as other metal and materials and providing related safety information to customers. plastic products. We are also developing “closed loop” recycling processes for some of our hardware products. This effort involves Our approach to regulatory compliance also covers material recovering plastic from electronics products at HP’s North American sourcing. HP is working with a range of stakeholders to help ensure recycling facilities, and recompounding the plastic to return it to that conflict minerals—minerals originating from the Democratic virgin resin properties and colors for use in creating new electronics Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries that are used to products. produce tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold—do not directly or indirectly fund groups responsible for human-rights abuses. Manufacturing Product manufacturing, managed primarily by HP suppliers, repreenergy use, GHG emissions, and water use to assess our suppliers’ sents a sizable amount of our overall greenhouse gas (GHG) carbon footprint, communicate the findings, and engage suppliers emissions footprint. HP collaborates with our manufacturing partto improve their performance. ners and suppliers to reduce this environmental impact. In 2008, HP became the first major information technology (IT) As part of our Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility company to publish aggregated supply chain GHG emissions, (SER) program, HP focuses on a broad range of environmental beginning with data from 2007. We have continued working with performance factors across our business. We capture data on suppliers and industry organizations to improve energy management within our supplier base. 2 HP IPG Research Alliance, July 2011. Based on a survey of publicly available information. 38 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Supplier GHG emissions data suppliers that have reduction goals has also continued to rise, from 67% in 2008 to 88% in 2010 (the most recent year data is available). Additionally, the percentage of that spend represented by To provide context for the data we report on first-tier supplier GHG suppliers that estimate their own Scope 3 GHG emissions1 have emissions, we also report the percentage of our overall spending on increased from 29% in 2008 to 54% in 2010. During that same time first-tier suppliers that the data represents. Each year since 2007, period, the data we captured has shown a steady decrease in GHG that percentage has increased. The proportion of that spend with emissions intensity (see graph below). Supplier GHG emissions performance* [tonnes CO2e] 5,000,000 100 4,000,000 80 3,000,000 60 2,000,000 40 1,000,000 20 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Aggregate first-tier suppliers’ Scope 1 and 2 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,800,000 emissions Coverage [percentage of first-tier supplier spend 81% 86% 91% 95% captured] * Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. 2010 is the most recent year data is available. Supplier GHG emissions intensity [tonnes CO2e/first-tier supplier spend, 2007 = 100%] 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2007 2008 2009 2010 Supplier GHG emissions intensity 100% 96% 96% 94% 1 The World Resources Institute (WRI) defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 39 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report The growth in aggregate first-tier emissions in 2010 may be The programs target improved energy efficiency across operations: attributable to several factors, including strong business growth heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC); boilers and steam and a 4% increase in data collection scope. As more companies heating; lighting; heat recovery ventilation (for fresh air and climate disclose emissions numbers, and require their partners to do the control); compressed air; and electrical motor and drive systems same, the data is becoming more comprehensive, inclusive, and used to operate machinery. During the first 10 months of the 2011 accurate. HP remains at the forefront of encouraging transparprogram cycle (through June 2011), participating HP suppliers ency in data collection, leading to greater insight into emissions reported that they saved a total of 6 million kilowatt hours (kWh), across the IT industry. equal to the carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions of removing 811 passenger vehicles from the road for a year.2 Environmental hot spot analysis In 2012, HP is expanding its role in the initiative by partnering with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), extending the reach of the initiative We enlisted the services of HP Energy and Sustainability to additional companies. Program participation will total 34 Management (ESM) to conduct an assessment that would complesuppliers and 50 sites across China, up from eight suppliers and ment data received from suppliers. Leveraging analytic modeling 12 sites in 2011. tools from HP Labs, ESM developed a supply chain “hot spot” analysis and service that rapidly analyzes energy and natural resource use in any company’s supply chain. The analysis examined HP’s supply chain, from raw materials extraction to product manufacturing, considering specific environA partner in efficiency mental aspects including electricity and natural gas use, water Jabil, a worldwide electronics solution provider, joined the EEP consumption, waste generation, and GHG emissions. The results of program in 2010. The company provides design, production, and this analysis will help shape HP’s future capability building product management services to electronics and technology programs, and may be used to identify specific areas of focus in our companies. supply chain to improve efficiency and performance. One component of their EEP participation was a 2011 comprehensive energy audit by an external firm at Jabil’s manufacturing site in Huangpu. As a result, the company instituted a number of energyExpanding the Energy Efficiency management practices. One involved a smart metering system to track and measure energy consumption throughout the facility. Partnership program in China While the initial phase is focused on electricity use, future monitoring will include water, steam, natural gas, and other resources In 2010, HP became a charter member of the BSR Energy used in Jabil’s manufacturing, heating, lighting, and operations. Efficiency Partnership (EEP) program in China. The working group helps suppliers reduce energy use and associated GHG emissions, During the first 6 months, Jabil saved almost 2.7 million kWh at the and lower costs. Throughout 2011, all 12 participating supplier site, helping to reduce GHG emissions and deliver substantial cost sites developed and submitted action plans for energy managesavings. Due to these energy savings, the system is expected to pay ment, including a total of 24 new energy-saving projects (see for itself within 2 years. sidebar at right). 2 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 40 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Packaging Packaging can contribute significantly to the environmental footprint amount of paper delivered with products, such as warranties of HP products. It also provides an opportunity for us to demonstrate and manuals, by making the information available online for our to customers our commitment to conserving resources. While we aim customers rather than including it in the packaging. (See Paper on to reduce environmental impacts associated with the materials, page 27 for more information.) transport, and recycling or disposal of packaging, we must balance those efforts with other considerations such as adequate product protection, regulatory requirements, total costs, and the overall impact of alternative packaging options. HP pursues a holistic approach to packaging that considers all phases of the process— Reuse from raw materials acquisition to end of life—to guide our decisions. We design packaging to enable reuse where feasible, while providing sufficient protection for our products. This includes making it easier We integrate these considerations into our guidelines for thirdfor our retailers, distributors, and enterprise customers to return party packaging vendors, enabling them to create more innovative packaging materials to HP or reuse the materials for future shipand environmentally responsible packaging designs. Also, our ments. For example, we incorporate reusable packaging when General Specification for the Environment (GSE) restricts shipping certain components from suppliers to factories, and when substances of concern and requires that all materials used in HP sending certain replacement parts to customers. packaging be recyclable. Our environmental strategy for packaging consists of the following six dimensions. (Examples of our work across each of these dimensions can be found in the table below.) Recycle We are committed to increasing the proportion of recycled content in HP packaging materials. The amount of recycled content varies widely by region, packaging material, and product type. Where Remove feasible, HP is shifting from plastic packaging to paper and molded pulp alternatives that contain recycled content and/or have been We strive to eliminate the use of substances of concern when certified in accordance with a sustainable forest management stanlower-impact alternatives are readily available. For example, our dard. In some instances, however, plastic packaging may actually GSE bans the use of PVC as a packaging material with minor excepdecrease carbon footprint because it is significantly smaller and tions.1 (See related information regarding our products in Materials lighter than the molded pulp packaging that would be needed to on page 36.) provide a similar level of protection. In those cases, we increasingly use expanded polystyrene (EPS) or polyethylene (PE) foam cushions that contain recycled plastic. Reduce To be effective, packaging designs must take into account a prodReplace uct’s size, weight, and durability. In turn, the size and weight of packaging materials affect the carbon footprint of product transWhenever possible, we use packaging materials that reduce port. With these considerations in mind, we continue to reduce the environmental impact while still meeting our product protection amount of packaging used per product while maintaining adequate requirements. We evaluate the total life cycle of materials to protection. We meet or exceed local legal standards for packaging assess the overall impact of a change; for example, weighing minimization where they exist; where local standards do not exist, factors such as recyclability and the potential to reduce greenwe stipulate that packaging cannot be more than twice the volume house gas (GHG) emissions. of the product it contains. We have also continued to reduce the 1 The restriction on PVC in HP packaging does not apply to protective tape covers with a surface area equal to or less than 15 square centimeters (2.35 square inches) and/or weighing less than 1g (0.035 ounce). 41 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Influence “HP has enhanced its sustainability efforts by working with its packaging suppliers, As a major purchaser of packaging materials, HP uses its influence to encourage packaging vendors to increase the use of recycled production factories, and end users to fiber content and sustainably harvested fiber in our paper-based send back their PE foam material scrap packaging. We are also working with providers of 100% recycled EPS and PE foam cushions to broaden industry adoption of these through our ‘closed loop’ recycling system materials and build the infrastructure required to make them instead of to a landfill. Together, we are easier to recycle. Our support helped Sealed Air, a major supplier of recycled PE foam used in cushions for HP packaging, to expand improving the design of PE foam packits “closed loop” recycling process globally and create Ethafoam® aging for HP to facilitate the safe arrival MRC, which is made with 100% recycled resin content (see quote of its products, while also further reducing at right). environmental impact.” —Ron Cotterman, Sustainability Director, Sealed Air HP packaging: environmental highlights HP packaging innovations often touch on multiple dimensions of our environmental strategy, as shown in the following examples. Remove HP notebook PCs Eliminated a cardboard insert from packaging to use fewer materials. Reduce HP notebook PCs HP Officejet Pro 8600 e-All-in-One printer Reduced packaging material weight by an average of Influenced product design to enable smaller and 180 grams per unit—reducing GHG emissions from lighter packaging, reducing GHG emissions from product transport by an estimated 15,000 tonnes of product transport by an estimated 2,100 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) annually. of CO2e annually. Reuse Bulk shipping of products HP BladeSystem blade server bulk packs Return corrugated fiberboard trays to manufacturers Supply chain partners reuse packaging materials after they have been used for bulk shipping of prodwhen shipping server components from one factory ucts to retailers. to the next. Recycle HP high-capacity XL ink cartridge combo packs HP commercial desktop PCs Use paperboard containing 15% recycled content for Units shipped in North the external shell. America are packaged with foam cushions made from 100% recycled plastic content. Replace HP high-capacity XL ink HP commercial desktop PCs cartridge combo packs Replaced molded pulp with recycled PE foam Replaced thermoformed cushions that are smaller and lighter. plastic with paperboard in external packaging. Influence Desktop PCs Working with providers of recycled foam cushions to broaden industry adoption and build recycling infrastructure. 42 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Transport HP conducts business in more than 170 countries globally, and We also recognize the environmental benefits of warehouse consoliships more than a million products around the world on a typical dation. In the United States, HP consolidated three West Coast day. We are committed to reducing the greenhouse gas (GHG) emiswarehouses into one—reducing the total square footage, sions and other environmental impacts related to these activities. improving operational and energy efficiencies, and increasing the consolidation of outbound freight. With all inbound freight now In 2011, GHG emissions related to transporting our products shipped to a single port and consolidated for distribution, we were equaled an estimated 1.9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivaable to decrease average transport distance per shipment by lent (CO2e), approximately the same as in 2010. This is roughly approximately 200 road miles. comparable to GHG emissions from our own operations. To further reduce overall environmental impacts, HP takes a holistic Our strategy for decreasing fuel use and transport-related emisapproach to the relationship between product packaging and transsions concentrates on three areas. port. Learn more in Packaging on page 41. Optimizing product transport Shifting modes of transport networks We typically ship HP products by ocean or air from the manufacturing location to regional distribution centers, and then by truck or HP is decreasing the distance products need to travel, and therefore rail to their final destinations. Because emissions vary greatly by reducing fuel use and GHG emissions. We accomplish this by transport mode, shifting modes can reduce impacts substantially locating manufacturing facilities closer to customers, using distri(see chart below).2 In 2011, HP air-to-ocean conversions included bution centers that allow us to operate the most direct routes, and selected shipments of HP notebook PCs from Asia Pacific to Europe, consolidating shipments when feasible. Latin America, and the United States, resulting in an estimated savings of 15,000 tonnes of CO2e. In 2011, HP began manufacturing some desktop PCs and monitors bound for the Middle East, Mediterranean, and Africa in the northwestern Turkish city of Corlu, instead of in the Czech Republic. This shift converted shipments from air to ocean, reducing costs and decreasing fuel-related GHG emissions that year by more than 30%.1 Estimated GHG emissions from product transport, 2011* 2010 2011 GHG emissions GHG emissions Shipment mix by GHG emissions GHG emissions Shipment mix by [million metric [percentage of weight-distance [million metric [percentage of weight-distance tonnes CO2e] total from trans[approximate, tonnes CO2e] total from trans[approximate, Mode port for year] kg-km]** port for year] kg-km]** Air 1.2 65% 10% 1.3 70% 10% Ocean 0.2 10% 70% 0.2 10% 70% Road 0.5 25% 20% 0.4 20% 20% (includes rail) * Table does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. ** All figures rounded; improvements in mode transport efficiency may not be fully reflected. 1 Calculation based on GHG Protocol weight/distance method. 2 According to the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol. Calculation methodology based on GHG Protocol distance-based method. 43 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Influencing logistics service In the United States and Canada, all HP consumer products are shipped using a network composed entirely of surface transportaproviders tion carriers certified by SmartWay—a collaboration between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the freight transHP works with logistics service providers (LSPs) who maintain high portation industry. Now considered a baseline requirement in standards for reducing their environmental footprint and that of shipping and logistics, SmartWay aims to reduce fuel consumption their customers. We require our LSPs to track GHG emissions assoand GHG and other air emissions. ciated with the transport of HP products. Use Addressing impacts during customer use of our products and solutions is an integral part of HP’s life cycle approach to environmental sustainability. HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) For example, HP works to improve energy efficiency across our entire portfolio, from the smallest devices to the largest data In early 2012, ESM began working with a major northeastern centers. In 2011, we exceeded our goal of reducing the energy American city to assess its energy consumption and develop a straconsumption of HP products1 and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) tegic approach to reducing energy costs. ESM advised the city on emissions to 40% below 2005 levels by the end of 2011, achieving technology and software solutions best suited to reduce its energy a 50% reduction 9 months ahead of schedule. use, decrease GHG emissions, and meet goals established by city government. The project included a rapid assessment of the city’s HP recognizes the importance of addressing energy and paper ongoing energy use to identify opportunities to reduce a growing consumption during product use. For many of our products, the energy budget. use phase represents the largest portion of their respective carbon footprints. Using the web-based HP Carbon Footprint Calculator for computing and printing products, customers can compare estimated paper and At the same time, relative impacts vary across a hardware portenergy use and costs, along with carbon emissions for HP and folio as diverse as HP’s, which ranges from single user personal Compaq products, side by side, based on location-specific data.3 In computing devices and printers to enterprise-wide servers, 2011, we expanded the calculator to cover more than 9,000 HP and storage equipment, and complete data centers. Conscious of the non-HP devices.4 The calculator receives more than 10,000 visits complexity that portfolio usage and global power mix entail, HP is per month. undertaking an effort to measure the carbon footprint during use of sold products according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Personal computers and devices Reporting Standard.2 At the end of 2011, HP had more than 400 PC and display products with configurations that are ENERGY STAR® qualified with 85% effiTo reduce resource and energy consumption during product use, cient power supplies. One example is the HP TouchSmart610 PC HP continually strives to improve product performance and provide series. If just 10% of all desktop PCs and monitors sold in 2005 were customers with the knowledge and tools that help to inform their recycled and replaced with the energy-efficient HP TouchSmart PCs, purchase decisions and usage. 1 The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. Energy consumption has been estimated in 2005 and annually since. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 2 The GHG Protocol, a decade-long partnership between the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions. More information at www.ghgprotocol.org. 3 Power, cost, and carbon calculations are estimates. Results will vary based on variables, which include information provided by the user, time PC is in different power states (on, standby, off), time PC is on AC, hardware configuration, variable electricity rates, and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by this Carbon Footprint Calculator for reference only and to validate impact in their environment. For more information about calculation assumptions, see www.hp.com/large/psg/toolassumptions.pdf. 4 The Carbon Footprint Calculator also estimates the user’s costs for the electricity and paper a printer consumes. It is based on certain key assumptions and makes use of data and models generated by third parties. 44 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report more than 3.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) The HP LaserJet Pro P1102 is the world’s most energy-efficient laser emissions would be avoided during the first year, equivalent to printer.11 It also features HP Auto-On/Auto-Off Technology, which removing 596,000 cars from the road for a year.5 turns your printer on when you need it and off when you don’t.12 By the end of 2012, most new HP LaserJet printers and multifunction As of January 2012, HP has 89 EPEAT® Gold registered personal printers will include Auto-On/Auto-Off energy-saving features. computing products, meeting the highest global standards for “greener” electronics as measured by the Electronic Product HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps cut costs and conserve Environmental Assessment Tool. And as of the end of 2011, the entire resources. Preand post-analysis of HP MPS customers’ imaging family of HP ENVY Notebook PCs is EPEAT Gold registered as well. and printing operations reveals energy savings of up to 80%, and reductions in paper consumption in the millions of pages.13 Disney The HP Compaq 8200 Elite ultraslim desktop PC delivers 40% faster seeks the best solutions to help deliver on its environmental performance and up to 50% greater energy efficiency than the promise and worked with HP to develop its Document Output previous-generation product.6 Management Program using HP MPS. Disney reduced the number of printing devices by 59%. As a result, Disney reported that its energy Helping end users more easily manage their energy use, HP Power consumption for printing dropped by 18% and avoided an estiAssistant offers real-time visibility and control of a PC’s energy use, mated 185 tonnes of CO2e emissions over 3 years. To learn more, and helps customers meet their goals for more energy-efficient read the Disney case study. computing. The Usage Details feature estimates the costs of running a PC—in dollars, kilowatt hours, and CO2e emissions.7 HP Web Jetadmin provides organizations a comprehensive view of activity across their printing fleet and lets IT managers centrally configure and manage devices across the enterprise to take advantage of energy-saving features such as automatic sleep and wake Imaging and printing modes. And with the HP EcoSMART Fleet—introduced in 2011— users can collect data and control settings, then create reports to establish and monitor progress toward environmental goals. As of December 2011, we offered the greatest number of ENERGY STAR qualified printers and multifunction printers (MFPs) in the HP Retail Publishing Solutions offers HP MiniLab and HP MicroLab industry. Further, HP increased the overall energy efficiency of our inkjet solutions, self-contained systems that provide a less ink and laser printing products by 46% from 2005 to 2011.8 resource-intensive alternative to traditional photo processing by eliminating the need for water. If all silver halide systems worldHP continues to pioneer ways to help customers reduce the carbon wide were switched to HP Minilab printers, the estimated reduction footprint of their printing. Worldwide in 2012, HP LaserJet and in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions would be equivalent to removing inkjet printers will use 13% less electricity per year than 2011 HP 65,000 passenger vehicles from the road for a year.14 And HP Retail LaserJet and inkjet printers.9 That’s equivalent to 71,000 tonnes of Publishing Solutions is nearly three times more energy efficient GHG emissions—or like taking 14,000 passenger cars off the road than traditional silver halide minilabs—amounting to an estimated for a year.10 cost savings of up to $1,000 USD per machine per year.15 5 HP compared the energy consumption of comparable HP products in 2005 with our latest models for each category of products, including the HP TouchSmart 610 series PCs. Estimations of the energy consumption of 2005 products were done by using worldwide IDC shipped volumes, HP products, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY STAR program product averages, and the typical energy consumption (TEC) method. The energy costs are based on U.S. Department of Energy data, and actual results may vary. We used the following products for this analysis: HP Deskjet 3050, HP LaserJet CP1215, HP LaserJet CP1025, HP Compaq 8200 Elite, HP Compaq 2310, HP Compaq 8000f Elite, HP Compaq LE19 monitor, HP StorageWorks EVA, HP ProBook 6550b, HP G60t Series Notebook, HP TouchSmart610 PC, HP ProLiant DL380 G4 and G6 servers, and the HP ProLiant DL360 G7 server. 6 PCMark05 performance benchmark and comparison testing performed on a similarly configured HP Compaq 8000 Elite SFF and HP Compaq 8200 Elite SFF. Performance profiles: PCMark05 done with the “as shipped” defaults. Power benchmark and comparison testing performed on a similarly configured HP Compaq dc7900 SFF and HP Compaq 8200 Elite SFF. Power profiles: power measurements were done with the “as shipped” defaults. Power measurements for idle, off, and sleep/standby were conducted per ENERGY STAR guidelines. Actual results may vary based on system configuration, and performance will vary over time depending on software installed. 7 HP Power Assistant enhances management of the system energy requirements and enables users to take control of their power consumption for a reduced impact on the environment. Power calculations and cost calculations are estimates. Results will vary based on variables, which include information provided by the user, time PC is in different power states (on, standby, hibernate, off), time PC is on battery or AC, hardware configuration, variable electricity rates, and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by HP Power Assistant for reference only and to validate impact in their environment. Environmental calculations were based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) eGrid 2007 data found at www.epa.gov/egrid. Regional results will vary. Microsoft® Windows® required. 8 Efficiency is defined in terms of kilowatt hours (using the typical electricity consumption method) divided by pages per minute. These families represent more than 32% of inkjet printers and more than 45% of LaserJet printers shipped in 2005. HP updated this goal from the goal included in the FY07 Global Citizenship Report, which targeted a 30% improvement in energy efficiency by 2010, relative to 2005. 9 Baseline figure is 2011 HP LaserJet and inkjet printers sold worldwide. 10 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. 11 Energy consumed based on competitive TEC measurement results found at www.energystar.gov, and manufacturers’ published data sheets for single-function mono and color laser printers as of January 2012. Individual product configuration and usage will affect power consumption. 12 HP Auto-On and Auto-Off capabilities subject to printer and settings. 13 Estimated energy and paper savings based on analysis of select HP Managed Print Services customers’ imaging and printing operations using data gathered on devices and paper consumption, and comparing with post-MPS actuals or projections. 14 Claim based on PFN data on worldwide total installed base of approximately 106,416 silver halide minilabs (September 2009). Calculated with the EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator. For details, see www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. Based on a 2010 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. The study compared the impact of using HP ML1000D, HP ML2000D and HP Microlab pm2000e printers with the impact of using Fuji Frontier 370 and Noritsu QSS-3502 printers to produce 450,000 4 x 6-inch photos a year in North America. For details, see www.hp.com/go/rps. 15 h20338.www2.hp.com/enterprise/downloads/HP%20Retail%20Publishing%20Solutions%20-%20Saving%20Energy.pdf. 45 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Data center services and solutions HP POD 240a Data Center HP takes a holistic approach to the data center. Our services include comprehensive networking, storage, and server assessment; energy-efficiency evaluation; and data center design and management. We’re improving the energy efficiency of our servers as well. The latest HP ProLiant G7 and Gen8 servers are ENERGY STAR qualified, helping customers reduce energy consumption, reclaim capacity, and extend the life of the data center. In 2011, with the help of HP Converged Infrastructure, global logistics provider UPS replaced a disparate, disconnected collection of traditional servers that were difficult and costly to manage with an HP Converged Infrastructure solution that moves the company’s mission-critical systems to a virtualized environment with industry-standard HP ProLiant servers and HP storage arrays, supported by HP networking solutions. Virtualization has reduced In 2011 we announced the HP POD 240a—also known as the server count by more than 1,000 physical servers over 2 years, and HP EcoPOD—a self-contained, modular, ultraefficient data center. reduced energy use by 4.8 million kilowatt hours (kWh). To learn The HP EcoPOD achieves ten times the information technology (IT) more, read the full case study. capacity per square foot, compared with conventional brick-andmortar data centers. It can be quickly deployed at one-quarter of the cost of a traditional data center and uses 95% less facilities energy.* HP Critical Facilities Services (CFS) provides consulting and design engineering and architecture services, working with clients to eval* New POD technology from HP offers 95% greater energy efficiency compared with a traditional brickuate their needs and help with the planning and implementation of and-mortar data center, based on internal HP testing. all aspects of data center infrastructure. One solution is the HP Flexible Data Center, which uses prefabricated, standardized components to shorten the time it takes to build and deploy a data estimated 85.7 million tonnes of CO2 emissions by 2020, as a result center. In addition to lower capital costs and faster time to market, of spending 69% of infrastructure, platform, and software budgets HP Flexible Data Center configurations improve the use of power on cloud services.17 and cooling resources to reduce energy and water consumption, and decrease GHG emissions. The Flexible Data Center can cut HP SaaS can reduce environmental impacts related to software disk energy costs by nearly 14% and reduce annualized power usage and packaging manufacture, distribution, and shipping, also effectiveness (PUE) rating by 13.2%, compared with a traditional resulting in greater operational efficiency and better resource data center.16 management. And by offering remote access to software via the Internet, SaaS expands opportunities for telecommuting and remote IT support, which can reduce the need for travel. Software HP Business Service Automation (BSA) is software that customers HP software products can help customers save energy, costs, use to manage IT services and capacity to improve efficiency across and other resources by reducing unnecessary computing and domains and virtual environments. For example, BSA can be used in storage capacity. conjunction with data center hardware to dynamically adjust capacity, switching off equipment when it is not needed. Companies With HP Software as a Service (SaaS), HP hosts and operates softthat have used BSA for storage provisioning report that they have ware for our customers, sharing the systems on which the software regained up to 40% of space from existing storage.18 runs among multiple users and multiple applications. Because customers are not running software through their data centers, HP Service Health Optimizer is capacity-planning software that they save power, cooling, energy, and floor space. makes recommendations on how to reduce the number of systems in an IT environment. It proposes configurations for the ideal size, SaaS is a component of cloud computing which provides placement, and allocation of virtual machines relative to physical on-demand access to configurable shared resources, including softspace. This increased density can decrease the system footprint ware. The predicted adoption of cloud computing by U.S. businesses space and energy consumption. with annual revenues of more than $1 billion USD could save an 16 h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetPDF.aspx/4AA2-1533ENW.pdf. 17 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project Study. 18 Dimensional Research “HP Customers Reveal Real-Life Benefits of IT Automation” 2010. 46 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Product reuse and recycling Reusing an electronic product extends its life and reselling refurbished equipment can Highlights in 2011 generate additional revenue. But eventually, all IT equipment reaches the end of its useful 53 life. Recycling programs for electronic equipment can reduce the need for raw materials and energy to manufacture new products and help ensure that returned electronic equipment is managed responsibly. In 2011, HP reached a milestone of responsibly recycling 2 billion pounds of electronic products and supplies since 1987—equivalent to the weight of 36 Statue of Liberty monuments.1 The number of countries and territories where we offer a hardware reuse program HP demonstrates its commitment to environmental sustainability through voluntary and mandatory programs. HP provides product take-back solutions to our customers, many of 60 whom require that we manage their returned IT equipment responsibly. We also comply with relevant regional and local legislation, including the European Union waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) directive, which requires the collection of discarded electronic equipment for recycling, reuse, or recovery. We support individual producer responsibility (IPR), and believe that all manufacturers The number of countries and territories where we offer should share responsibility for managing electronic waste with governments, retailers, a hardware and/or cartridge recycling program and customers. 3.44 We work with a global network of vendors in 67 countries and territories worldwide to collect, process for resale, and/or recycle returned products. Our hardware product recycling and reuse standards, Policy on Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries, million and Supplier Code of Conduct align with internationally recognized standards that we units expect our vendors to meet. Audits and independent verification of vendor facilities and The amount of hardware recovered for reuse and practices help ensure compliance. remarketing (26,700 tonnes) 133,900 tonnes The amount of electronic products and supplies recovered for recycling (295 million pounds) 1 Calculation based on weight as reported at www.nps.gov/stli/historyculture/statue-statistics.htm. 47 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Product reuse and recycling options* Customer Asset recovery services Outcomes Reuse in 2011 (hardware only) Return for cash Remarket to customer 3.44 million units Leasing return Responsible recycling in 2011 Materials for other products (hardware and cartridges) 133,900 tonnes Donation** Energy recovery Recycling Disposal (if necessary) * Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale. ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. HP employees making an impact: Cécile Mesmain Cécile Mesmain’s ability to shape HP’s take-back programs in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region so that they meet both HP customer needs and local legislative requirements has been central to the success of these programs. Learn more about Cécile Mesmain on page 143. Programs We use a global network of vendors in 67 countries and territories to collect, process for resale, and/or recycle returned products. Our main programs include: Services overview Scope Developments in 2011 Hardware reuse* (trade in, return for cash, leasing return, donation**) We resell refurbished products from PCs to data center equipment at the end of Available in In the United States, we leasing terms or as part of trade-in agreements. We offer remarketed equipment for 53 countries launched a program allowing many HP and non-HP products, and follow strict processes set out in our Hardware and territories. consumers to donate the cash reuse standards to protect user data and meet environmental requirements. value of returned items to one of 15 selected charities including United Way, World Vision, and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). 48 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Services overview Scope Developments in 2011 Hardware recycling We recycle returned products that are not suitable for reuse. Available in In 2011, we launched a new 50 countries hardware recycling facility in Consumer recycling services vary by country, depending partly on local regulations and territories. Kenya (see below). and infrastructure. We are cofounders of the European Recycling Platform (ERP), which provides pan-European take-back and recycling services. ERP recycled 40,000 tonnes of electronic equipment on In the United States, our consumer buyback program allows consumers to return IT behalf of HP in 2011. equipment of any brand, and check online to see how much money or purchase credit they could receive in exchange. Even if the product is not eligible for buyback, consumers can recycle HP and Compaq products at no cost, and other brands for a small charge. We make appropriate recycling arrangements with commercial customers on a caseby-case basis. Our Hardware recycling standard, Policy on export of electronic waste to developing countries, and Supplier code of conduct set out strict processes to safeguard the environment and protect consumer and commercial customers’ data. HP ink and toner cartridge recycling Customers can return used HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges to authorized retail We provide In 2011, we expanded our and other collection sites through the HP Planet Partners program. In North America, free recycling “closed loop” HP ink cartridge for example, HP is partnering with Staples to collect used HP ink and LaserJet toner for HP recycling capability to include cartridges. For some products and countries we also offer several free, postage-paid cartridges in Vietnam (see sidebar below). return options including printable labels, shipping envelopes, collection boxes, and 55 countries the option, to order bulk pickup. Learn more. and territories. HP’s “closed loop” ink cartridge recycling process is the first of its kind. Recycled plastic from HP ink cartridges is combined with recycled plastic bottle materials to create new Original HP ink cartridges. The HP LaserJet cartridge “closed loop” recycling process uses recycled plastic from HP LaserJet cartridges to create new Original HP LaserJet cartridges. (See Materials on page 36 for more information.) * Availability of each reuse offering varies by location. ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. Available in the United States only. Supporting vendor development Enhanced capacity for recycled plastic in Building capabilities in developing countries Vietnam We continue to focus on increasing the volume of HP equipment In 2011, we worked with partners to open a new facility in Vietnam, that is reused or recycled. These efforts include expanding our expanding our “closed loop” HP ink cartridge recycling program. return and recycling programs in developing countries. A challenge The plant is expected to increase the availability of regionally is that capabilities in these counties vary widely and many lack sourced recycled plastic for use by HP inkjet manufacturing sites in adequate collection and recycling systems. The bulk of electronic Asia Pacific. (See Materials on page 36 for more information waste is often collected and treated informally with few or no about our “closed loop” ink cartridge recycling process.) controls to safeguard human health and safety and the environment. HP works to improve local capabilities where we are expanding our programs, and we contract a third party to audit our first-tier vendors and ensure they conform to our high standards. We are working with governments and nongovernmental organizapotential vendors, conduct audits to make sure they meet our stantions (NGOs) to improve local recycling capabilities in new markets dards and policies, and require them to provide plans on how they including Colombia, Kenya, Mexico, and South Africa. We identify can address any gaps in their approach. 49 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Responsible recycling facilities create employment in disadvanTo avoid illegal dumping of electronic waste, HP does not allow the taged communities while helping to protect workers and the export of electronic waste from developed to developing countries environment. For example, the East African Computer Recycling for recycling. We engage with governments, directly and through (EACR) facility in Mombasa, Kenya, established in 2011 with our trade associations, to help improve national and international legissupport, receives end-of-life IT equipment from educational, busilation governing the movement of electronic waste, such as the ness, and public sector customers. We are working with our NGO Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of partner Camara to encourage the local informal recycling sector to Hazardous Waste and Their Disposal. Watch this video to learn more. deliver whole products (rather than pre-separated components) to EACR to increase value and address possible human and environRead more about Product reuse and recycling on page 47. mental impacts at a facility set up for proper handling. In the long term, we anticipate that the facility will process up to 20% of See a list of recycling options by country. Kenya’s electronic waste. Performance In 2011, we recovered 160,600 tonnes of hardware and supplies. Overall, we have recovered a total of 1,231,500 tonnes (2.715 This included: billion pounds) of electronic products (for reuse and recycling) and supplies (for recycling) since 1987. • Approximately 3.44 million hardware units weighing 26,700 tonnes (58.9 million pounds) for reuse and remarketing, nearly We achieved a total reuse and recycling rate in 2011 of approxi65% returned by business customers. mately 15% of relevant HP hardware sales worldwide. • Approximately 133,900 tonnes (295 million pounds) for recycling. More than 60% of recycling volume by weight was returned by See Product reuse and recycling on page 69 for detailed product consumers. reuse and recycling performance information. Product reuse and recycling, 2007–2011* [tonnes] 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total reuse of equipment** 29,000 34,000 30,000 30,000 26,700  otal recycling—computer hardware and supplies T 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 combined T  otal reuse and recycling combined 142,000 153,000 142,000 151,000 160,600 * Recycling totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing; with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible dis­posal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet recycling data is calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. ** The decrease in tonnage from 2007–2011 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2007: 2.96 million units; 2008: 3.46 million units; 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units. Tonnage numbers are approximate. 50 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Vendor audits We have direct relationships with about 75 first-tier reuse and recyEPEAT-registered products. All HP recycling facilities for imaging cling vendors, who in turn manage hundreds of subvendors in their products in Canada, China, Mexico, Singapore, and the United States own networks. meet this requirement. While we support the EPEAT third-party certification program we will continue to supplement it with our We contract Environmental Resources Management (ERM), a third own audits of certified vendors. ERM will also continue to audit our party, to audit our first-tier vendors and ensure they conform to our noncertified vendors. Hardware recycling and reuse standards covering the storage, handling, and processing of returned electronic equipment, as well as our Policy on Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries and Supplier Code of Conduct. 2011 audits and findings Audits also include an assessment of environmental, health, and In 2011 ERM audited 14 reuse and 39 recycling vendor facilities in safety practices and performance, as well as checks on downstream 24 countries.1 Thirty-one of these audits were conducted on site material flows based on shipment and receipt records. and the remaining 22 were conducted remotely (by phone and email). Twelve were repeat site audits that checked for vendors’ When audits identify areas of nonconformance, vendors must ongoing commitment and improved performance. create corrective action plans and respond quickly to improve their performance. Once we receive a vendor’s report of corrective Seven of the 12 re-audited sites had previously experienced major actions taken, ERM conducts a verification audit to ensure that nonconformances; ERM re-audits confirmed that all major nonconadequate changes have been made. Although we prefer to work formances had been addressed at four of these sites. In the with vendors to improve their capabilities, in extreme cases we stop remaining three cases, vendors had addressed some of the identiusing vendors who lack transparency or the willingness to make the fied major nonconformances, and HP vendor managers continue to required changes. work with them to resolve the others. ERM’s audit training program helps our first-tier vendors underMost gaps in conformance to HP standards are found in the areas of stand our audit process, how to improve their operational environmental, health, and safety, followed by security, logistics, performance, and how they should audit their own vendors. and asset tracking, and then management systems. Combined, these three areas accounted for more than 85% of the gaps found Our vendor audit program conforms to and exceeds the practices during audits in 2011. described in the EPA’s “Plug-in to eCycling Guidelines for Materials Management.” These guidelines have also been incorporated into We have received and reviewed 122 vendor-generated corrective the IEEE 1680.1 optional criteria of EPEAT®. action plans following the 177 audits conducted since we enhanced our vendor audit program in 2008.2 The proposed IEEE 1680.2 criteria for imaging products require the use of recycling vendors who have obtained certification by a qualiRead a statement from ERM. fied third-party auditor in the countries where we offer 1 All initial audits were conducted on-site. Some re-audits were conducted remotely, as appropriate. 2 These audits are used as both qualification audits and existing vendor audits. In cases when the vendor did not provide a corrective action plan or HP did not request one, the vendor’s services were not used. 51 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP operations HP owns and leases more than 770 sites in 95 countries worldwide. Our global scale brings Highlights obligations as well as opportunities to benefit communities and the environment. We are 20 committed to growing the positive economic influence of our business, while finding new ways to reduce its environmental impact. We do this through continual innovation and improvement in our business processes and operations. Our most significant environmental impact from operations is greenhouse gas (GHG) emis% sions due to the energy our offices, data centers, and manufacturing facilities use. (See Reduction in GHG emissions from operations between Energy and GHG emissions on page 53 for detail.) Other environmental impacts from our 2005 and 2011, meeting our 2013 goal 2 years early operations are those associated with waste disposal, paper use, water consumption, site remediation, and the use of ozone-depleting substances. 14,700 Our manufacturing facilities have additional impacts including wastewater discharges, and permitted releases of toxic substances. HP’s environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system is designed to ensure that all our facilities comply with applicable regulations and meet company standards. tonnes Reduction in amount of nonhazardous waste from 2010, a 14.5% decrease About our operational data 8 Data relating to HP operations is based on our fiscal year (which ends October 31). In 2011, we collected data from 315 sites (including all HP-owned manufacturing sites and our largest owned and leased office, warehouse, data center, and distribution sites). This billion liters accounted for 81% of our total floor space of approximately 7.1 million square meters. We Global water consumption, a 1.4% decrease from 2010 extrapolated data as available from comparable operations, primarily data centers and office space, for the remaining floor space, unless stated otherwise. We continue to refine the process by which we collect data and calculate trends. In 2011, we began installing Hara energy and sustainability management software to improve our understanding of our operational impacts, more accurately measure and monitor energy consumption, and identify areas with the greatest potential for savings. HP’s Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) group is also involved in this global implementation. The ESM group will apply the insights and best practices they gain to benefit other customers undertaking similar deployments. We will report on progress in our 2012 Global Citizenship Report. See the HP list of major operations on page 65. 52 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Management and compliance HP is committed to leadership standards in environmental, health, and safety (EHS) performance, including conducting our operations in an environmentally responsible manner and enabling our employees Environmental risk assessment to work without injury at our facilities and other locations. HP’s Enterprise Risk Management program evaluates a broad range of risks at the enterprise, business, and functional levels. This Our EHS Management System helps us achieve these objectives and enables us to identify critical risks and target mitigation programs ensures that we comply with regulations and meet company stanat the appropriate level within the company. dards across all HP facilities. At its core is our EHS policy. In 2011 we conducted a targeted assessment of risks such as reguHP manufacturing operations worldwide are certified to ISO 14001, latory changes, physical changes, energy costs, and water the international standard for environmental management systems. availability for our 26 most critical operations. This assessment showed that we have in place measures to help mitigate these To help ensure that we continue to meet our EHS objectives as we risks, such as energy purchase programs, capital equipment grow, newly acquired companies must implement our EHS manageupgrades, and regulation monitoring. We also have implemented ment system as a part of their integration. numerous energy and water conservation programs and projects that help meet the common objectives of cost reduction, goal We investigate any allegations of noncompliance with the law to attainment, and risk management. correct any noncompliance, determine the root causes and, if applicable, implement corrective action to help prevent recurrence. While we anticipate that our operations will become increasingly subject to regulatory and cost challenges related to climate change Our management of health and safety, and also wellness, are and water scarcity, we do not believe these changes will disproporcovered in the HP people section of this report. tionately affect HP relative to the market. Energy and GHG emissions HP is committed to making our global operations more energy effiBy the end of 2012, we intend to create a new goal for reduction of cient, using low-carbon energy sources where possible, and GHG emissions from operations. We also plan to reset our GHG reducing employees’ business travel. These activities, in turn, help emissions baseline, based on enhanced data available through new reduce our climate impact. energy and environmental management software. Our goal is to cut absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from In 2011 we started recording our GHG emissions intensity to our operations (not including employee travel) to 20% below 2005 measure our performance relative to business growth. Using this levels by 2013. We met this goal 2 years early. In 2011, GHG emismetric, GHG emissions per $ million USD of net revenue dropped sions from our operations equaled 1,856,500 tonnes of carbon 2% from 2010 to 2011, and decreased 20% compared with 2005. dioxide equivalent (CO2e), a small decrease from 1,865,100 tonnes of CO2e in 2010 and a 20% reduction from our 2005 baseline. We adjust our baseline to account for acquisitions and divestitures. 53 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Greenhouse gas emissions from operations, 2008–2011* [tonnes CO2e] 2,500,000 20 2,000,000 16 1,500,000 12 1,000,000 8 500,000 4 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Americas 1,327,400 1,241,500 1,179,900 1,162,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 338,800 356,600 253,800 208,500 Asia Pacific and Japan 499,300 462,200 431,400 485,300 Total 2,165,500 2,060,300 1,865,100 1,856,500 G  HG emissions intensity** [tonnes CO2e/ 19.90 19.31 15.95 15.71 $ million USD of net revenue] * Total includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in table, except emissions from HP auto fleet and HP air fleet. ** Worldwide GHG emissions do not include employee travel. Historical emissions intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and GHG emissions from facilities, the HP auto fleet, and the HP air fleet as reported for that year in the HP Global Citizenship Report (i.e., historical values were not adjusted for corporate acquisitions per the GHG Protocol). Our baseline emissions in 2005 without adjustments for corporate acquisitions (such as Enterprise Data Services in 2008) was 1,551,300 tonnes of CO2e. Though our intensity value increased due to the acquisition of Enterprise Data Services in 2008, we have implemented a variety of energy-efficiency measures and made purchases of renewable energy that have subsequently decreased this number. Sources of GHG emissions from operations Perfluorocompounds (PFCs) In 2010 we fully met and concluded our commitment under the U.S. Energy use (see Energy efficiency on page 55) accounts for 97% Environmental Protection Agency—Semiconductor Industry of the GHG emissions generated by our operations and represents Association (SIA) PFC Emission Reduction Partnership, having one of the largest costs of operating our facilities. reduced PFC-related GHG emissions by 87% since 1995, and greatly surpassing the voluntary partnership goal of 10% reduction. The remaining 3% comes from refrigeration equipment, the use of diesel for backup generators, and a small number of HP In 2011 we decided to use a more conservative emissions factor to manufacturing processes. This includes emissions from the use ensure we do not underestimate our PFC-related emissions. This of perfluorocarbons (PFCs) for semiconductor manufacturing led to larger calculated emissions in 2011 even though our PFC (see sidebar at right). usage continued to drop. Total PFC-related GHG emissions are still less than 0.5% of our total GHG emissions from HP operations. The small quantities of PFCs now emitted are projected to remain at this level for the foreseeable future. See the breakdown in Data We commission independent auditor Bureau Veritas Certification to dashboard: environment on page 69. verify our global GHG emissions across our global facilities and our annual reporting under the GHG measurement and reporting protocols of the World Resources Institute and World Economic Forum. Verification of HP’s 2011 data will occur after the publication of this report. 54 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report About our GHG emissions data Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations, 2011* We calculate our GHG emissions according to the GHG Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the Electricity (Scope 2)** 93% World Resources Institute. In this section, we report HP’s Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions1 arising from HP’s operations, automotive and air fleets, and employee business travel. Natural gas (Scope 1) 4% • Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural Refrigerant emissions (Scope 1) 2% gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations, and from fuel used by HP’s automotive and air fleets. Diesel (Scope 1) <1% • Scope 2 emissions are from purchased electricity. • Scope 3 emissions in our operations result from employee busiManufacturing emissions (Scope 1) <1% ness travel by commercial airlines and rental cars. In other sections of this report, we also disclose estimated Scope 3 emissions from product manufacturing by suppliers, product transport, * Numbers do not equal 100% due to rounding. and product recycling (which has a net GHG emissions benefit). ** Takes into account electricity generated from renewable energy. See Data dashboard: environment on page 69 to view HP’s GHG emissions grouped by Scope. We report our GHG emissions yearly through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and in 2011 we were included in the CDP’s S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. The Index highlights constituent companies within the S&P 500 Index based on the level and quality of their climate change information disclosure practices. Energy efficiency Improving the energy efficiency of HP’s operations is a fundamental We regularly implement projects to decrease energy use across the part of our strategy for reducing our energy costs and greenhouse company. Initiatives include consolidating our facilities into fewer, gas (GHG) emissions. more efficient sites, and installing energy-efficient technology and lighting in offices, research labs, and data centers. HP operations consumed 4,122 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy in 2011, a small decrease from 4,140 million kWh in 2010. We saw an 11% decrease in natural gas use and a 1% increase in electricity use compared with 2010. Making data centers more efficient In 2011 we started reporting our energy intensity to measure our We operate more than 100 client-serving (or “trade”) data centers performance relative to business growth. Using this metric, energy worldwide, in addition to our six internal data centers located in use per $ million USD of net revenue dropped 1% from 2010 to three cities in the United States. Growing customer demand for data 2011, and decreased 13% compared with 2005. services managed by our trade data centers makes building, retrofitting, and operating highly energy-efficient data centers and consolidating existing facilities all the more important, as typical data centers consume 20 to 40 times as much energy per square meter as offices. 1 The World Resources Institute (WRI) defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 55 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Energy use from operations, 2008–2011 [million kWh] 5,000 40 4,000 32 3,000 24 2,000 16 1,000 8 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Natural gas 469 399 435 389 Electricity* 3,972 3,849 3,705 3,733 Total 4,441 4,248 4,140 4,122 E  nergy intensity [thousand kWh/$ million USD 37.52 37.08 32.85 32.40 of net revenue] * Includes purchased electricity as well as electricity generated on site. All design teams for new data centers include an individual responsible for ensuring that energy-efficiency measures are considered throughout the design and build process. HP Enterprise Services, HP employees making an impact: HP Global Real Estate, and HP Critical Facilities Services have estabDavid Fuqua lished design criteria for new data centers, including the use of modular designs to accommodate future growth and the ability to David Fuqua leads a team dedicated to conserving energy in HP’s adapt to local climatic conditions to take advantage of the use of trade data centers. Their completed initiatives in 2011 will save HP ambient air for cooling. Learn more in Design on page 34. 13 million kWh a year. Learn more about David Fuqua on page 138. During 2011, we completed energy-efficiency initiatives at our data centers that we project will save approximately 13 million kWh and Other examples of energy-efficiency initiatives include: avoid an estimated 7,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions on an annual basis. Initiatives included improvement of • HP’s new Streetsville data center in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, floor and ceiling ventilation, replacement of existing cooling and air will be the first data center in our portfolio to use a “Kyoto Wheel” conditioning systems with more efficient models or alternatives, and heat exchanger for its primary cooling. The technology reduces redesign of server rack layouts for better temperature regulation. the need for mechanical cooling by transferring heat to the outside air stream through a heat wheel heat exchanger. The Our award-winning Wynyard trade data center in the United separation of the outside air stream also significantly reduces the Kingdom, which opened in January 2010, is powered by 100% potential for contamination of the server room while maintaining renewable energy and is one of the most efficient general purpose humidity levels. We estimate the technology will save HP up to data centers in the world. It is cooled using ambient air nearly year$24 million USD over 20 years subsequent to completion of round, and features technology to humidify and recirculate air as construction in 2012. necessary to maintain constant conditions, white walls to reduce • A new server room completed in 2011 at our Boise, Idaho, United the amount of lighting needed, and a reflective roof to reduce heat States, campus is expected to save an estimated 4 million kWh per absorption. Wynard has a power usage effectiveness (PUE)2 rating year due to extensive use of ambient air and water for cooling. We of 1.2, 40% better than the industry average (1.0 is the best estimate that the new cooling system will cut the use of tradipossible rating). In 2011, the center received a Silver Award in the tional chilling units by more than 90%. Best Green Energy Efficiency Initiative category at the International Green Awards™. 2 Power usage effectiveness is the accepted measure of data center energy efficiency. 56 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report • In 2010 we began construction of a new data center in Sydney, Data center consolidation Australia, that is expected to have a PUE rating of 1.3, in part due to an innovative roof-mounted “indirect evaporative cooling” Data center consolidation helps us reduce costs, phase out older system. We anticipate that the data center, which replaces four technologies, and improve service levels, while decreasing energy older facilities, will reduce energy use significantly. use and associated GHG emissions. • Variable frequency drives installed on existing air conditioning In late 2011, HP Enterprise Services continued its multiyear plan to units at data centers in Austin and Houston, Texas, United States, reduce the number of internal and customer-facing data centers it completed in 2012, will save approximately 10 million kWh a year. operates worldwide, and to make existing data centers more Our six internal data centers are expandable to more than double energy efficient. their existing area, enabling us to accommodate substantial future growth. Each is built with the environment in mind, and our data During 2011, we reduced our data center and computer lab floor center in Hockley, near Houston, has obtained the LEED® Gold space by close to 48,000 square meters, while maintaining our sustainable building certification. See Sustainable building design presence in all the world’s major regions and our ability to support on page 63. customers worldwide. Through these changes, including decommissioning servers and switching some physical servers to virtual ones, we estimate that we will avoid about 170 million kWh of energy use and nearly 90,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions on an HP employees making an impact: annualized basis. Tom Barrington Tom Barrington spends his days looking for ways to cut energy and water use across HP’s global facilities—and recently helped HP reach a key milestone in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Learn more about Tom Barrington on page 136. Renewable energy Switching to renewable energy sources supports HP’s goal to Region Initiative reduce absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, although our priority remains cutting total energy use by making our operations Americas We installed more than 1,400 roof-top solar more efficient. panels at our data center in Suwanee, Georgia, United States, which we estimate will generate We purchased approximately 440 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of approximately 450,000 kWh per year, enough to renewable energy worldwide in 2011, equivalent to more than 10% power the center’s noncritical facilities. of the overall electricity use in our facilities and a 41% increase since 2010. This includes energy generated on-site and the renewable energy credits (RECs) we buy as part of electricity contracts in the Europe, We estimate that nearly 500 solar panels United States. This is in addition to the renewable energy available Middle East, installed at HP’s facilities in Bad Homburg and by default in the power grid, and achieves our goal for 20121 ahead and Africa Böblingen, Germany, will generate approxiof time. mately 170,000 kWh of electricity per year. We are committed to maintaining renewables as a part of our See more details about renewable energy purchasing in Data energy mix to make continued progress in emissions reductions. dashboard: environment on page 69. The following table highlights some renewable energy initiatives from 2011. 1 Goal for 2012: Double voluntary purchases of renewable energy to 8% of electricity use (in addition to the renewable energy available by default in the power grid). 57 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Travel Many HP employees travel as part of their work. In 2011, employee In 2011 we joined the Clinton Global Initiative’s Fleets for Change business travel generated 461,600 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivand committed to reduce GHG emissions from our U.S. auto fleet by alent (CO2e), a 3% increase from 2010. Emissions per employee 10% by 2015, compared with 2010 on a per unit basis. We will work decreased 4% over the same period, and have decreased by 51% with Fleets for Change to refine our baseline emissions calculations since 2007. The majority of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from and measure progress towards this goal by replacing high fuel business travel are from commercial air travel (70%), followed by consumption vehicles, reducing the distance traveled by employees, use of the HP auto fleet (27%) by our mobile sales force, and the HP and encouraging lower emission practices. air fleet (3%). We also launched an initiative in 2011 with Avis to reduce our U.S. We work to reduce these emissions by promoting more efficient rental car fuel consumption and related GHG emissions, with a forms of transport such as smaller cars and rail travel instead of air, targeted decrease of 15% per day driven by 2012, compared with and encourage digital collaboration alternatives that avoid travel 2011. Under the initiative, Avis will provide hybrid and other fuelaltogether. When employees book travel, we provide them with efficient vehicles certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection information about the emissions associated with their journey so Agency’s SmartWay program. We estimate the savings will cut fuel that when multiple options are available, they can choose the one costs by $1 million USD. with the least environmental impact. HP’s travel booking system advises employees on alternatives to nonessential travel such as See detailed travel data in Data dashboard: environment on Halo videoconferencing technology.1 In 2011, employee use of Halo page 69. studios at HP facilities avoided an estimated 27,500 tonnes of CO2e emissions from air and car travel that would have been generated had the meetings taken place in person.2 See Environmental sustainability on page 19. GHG emissions from employee business travel, 2007–2011 [tonnes CO2e] 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total emissions 464,400 510,500 365,800 448,800 461,600 Commercial air travel 289,000 320,000 214,000 304,000 322,000 HP air fleet 14,300 21,600 13,400 12,500 13,200 HP auto fleet 161,100 168,900 138,400 132,300 126,400 Emissions per employee* 2.70 1.59 1.20 1.38 1.32 * Based on employee numbers as reported in past Global Citizenship Reports. 1 HP divested its HP Visual Collaboration business, including Halo, to Polycom, Inc., in July 2011, but continues to provide these functionalities at our facilities. 2 For air travel avoidance, an average of 1,609 miles each way per round trip (average of short-, medium-, and long-haul flights at HP), and a carbon dioxide (CO2) footprint per mile of 199g CO2e is used. Car travel to/from airport on both ends is also considered. Of the 35% of meetings that avoid travel, only 1.4 persons are assumed to avoid travel in each meeting. Usage depends on a company’s travel and meeting policies. 58 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Employee commuting bicycle users group (BUG) that provides information, safe routes and maps, bike storage and loan facilities, discounts on bikes and equipment, and even a store where employees can buy or borrow Although GHG emissions from employee commuting are not directly equipment. Of the 900 people at the site, 180 are BUG members. within HP’s control, we offer programs that encourage employees Similar programs are available at numerous HP locations globally. to reduce them. Many HP employees work outside the traditional office—at home, at In the United States, HP enables employees to take advantage of customer facilities, or at shared offices where people are free to use WageWorks and use pretax income to pay for public transport costs. any available desk—and often divide their work time between these Carpooling options, such as our partnership with rideshare.org in the locations. Giving employees flexibility on where they work reduces San Francisco Bay Area, are supported at U.S. locations and at other commutes to the office and can improve efficiency and work-life facilities around the world. Sites in various locations provide free balance. When appropriate, we also encourage employees to travel shuttles from local public transportation. to work at times that avoid peak commuting periods, thereby reducing their traveling time, associated stress, and GHG emissions. We also support sustainable forms of transport such as cycling. At our Bristol site in the United Kingdom, for example, the local employee-led HP Sustainability Network chapter established a Waste and recycling In 2011, HP generated approximately 93,800 tonnes of waste. The vast majority, 92%, was nonhazardous consisting of solid waste Nonhazardous waste such as paper, pallets, metals, and packaging. Our hazardous waste1 consists mainly of liquid waste from our ink manufacturing facilities HP generated approximately 86,400 tonnes of nonhazardous waste and batteries from our data centers. in 2011, a 14.5% decrease compared with 2010.2 This was due to ongoing programs to reduce waste at the source as well as the elimThese two types of waste require different approaches, but we aim ination of some operations that generated high volumes of material. to reduce the environmental impact of both through a policy of reduce, reuse, and recycle. In 2011, we reused, recycled, or incinerated for energy 71,000 tonnes of nonhazardous waste, achieving a landfill diversion rate of We recycle 82.2% of nonhazardous waste and aim to minimize the 82.2%. This decrease from 84.9% in 2010 was due to the closure of amount sent to landfill. some operations that had high diversion rates, including distribution and product completion facilities. Nonetheless, HP’s total waste volume was down year over year, and the amount sent to We reuse electronic equipment when appropriate, and otherwise landfill in 2011 remained roughly the same as in 2010, due to we recycle it responsibly through the same programs that we make successful overall waste reduction efforts. available to our customers. About one-third of nonhazardous waste generated in 2011 was We help ensure that hazardous waste is managed in an environpaper. We are committed to reducing the amount of paper we use, mentally responsible manner though a combination of contractual and dispose of, to help decrease our environmental impact and save commitments with, and internal and external audits of, waste money. Read about our efforts to reduce paper use and purchase disposal facilities and service providers who handle the waste on paper from sustainable sources. our behalf. These are carried out as part of the approval process for all new facilities and periodically for approved facilities. 1 Hazardous waste classification varies by country. For ease of calculation, HP data includes some waste not considered hazardous in the country where it is generated. 2 We have restated our 2010 nonhazardous waste data (from 79,800 tonnes as reported in the HP 2010 Global Citizenship Report) to ensure greater consistency with the methodology that we use to calculate other environmental data, including nonhazardous waste in prior years. 59 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Nonhazardous waste, 2007–2011* [tonnes] 120,000 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Americas 52,900 54,200 86,200 59,100 50,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 20,100 17,200 18,200 21,100 17,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 16,200 20,400 13,300 20,800 19,300 Total 89,300 91,800 117,700 101,100 86,400 * We have restated our 2010 nonhazardous waste data (from 79,800 tonnes as reported in the HP 2010 Global Citizenship Report) to ensure greater consistency with the methodology that we use to calculate other environmental data, including nonhazardous waste in prior years. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Nonhazardous waste composition, 2011* [percentage of total] Recycling programs Our global recycling programs play a key role in supporting our efforts to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill. HP employees can recycle paper, plastics, and batteries at convenient recycling points within many of our buildings. We also recycle glass, plastic, and aluminum containers disposed of in our dining rooms and conference facilities. Individual sites often organize expanded recycling programs. At our Surya and Suhas Park facilities in Bangalore, India, for example, waste wood and paper is recycled to make stationery, batteries and waste oils are sent to locally approved recycling vendors, and obsolete electronic equipment is processed through an HP-approved vendor. Recycled Landfill 17.8% Hazardous waste Paper 32.2% Incineration 6.8% HP generated approximately 7,400 tonnes of hazardous waste in Pallets 12.5% Reused 2011, a 12% decrease compared with 2010. This is due to ongoing waste reduction programs at our manufacturing sites and fewer Electronic equipment 5.5% Pallets 3.1% battery replacements at our data centers in 2011. Packaging materials 4.5% Packaging materials 0.7% Metals 2.3% Other 1.1% Other 13.4% * Segments do not equal 100% due to rounding. 60 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Hazardous waste, 2007–2011* [tonnes] 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Americas 2,360 3,380 2,470 3,600 3,030 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,590 2,080 2,210 2,570 2,560 Asia Pacific and Japan 4,880 5,020 2,620 2,260 1,810 Total 8,830 10,500 7,300 8,430 7,400 * 2009 and 2010 data for the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, and the global totals for those years, were restated to correct reporting errors in the 2009 and 2010 Global Citizenship Reports. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Water In 2011, HP used just over 8 billion liters of water worldwide, Global Water Tool developed by the World Business Council for predominantly for domestic use in buildings, cooling, and landscape Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and data produced by the irrigation. This represents a 1.4% decrease compared with 2010. University of New Hampshire. Although HP’s operations are not water intensive, we recognize that We plan to implement water-saving measures at all facilities that freshwater consumption is a growing concern globally. We particiboth of these sources identified as water stressed, as well as some pate in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Water Disclosure Project to sites identified by only one of the sources. In total, we plan to introenhance our understanding of the issue and help provide a clearer duce 35 measures in 10 countries by 2015. Examples include flow picture of our corporate water use. restrictors, waterless urinals, and rainwater harvesting. We expect these measures to reduce freshwater use across those sites by 77.7 Some of our operations are located in water-stressed regions, million liters, equivalent to 3% of 2011 consumption at those locamaking the availability and quality of freshwater an issue for our tions.1 Large reductions may not be possible at all the sites identified, business, customers, and communities. as many have already made considerable savings or are office-based locations with limited options for decreasing water use. In 2011, HP developed a new water-use goal following an extensive analysis of our facilities’ water impact. Our analysis took into HP recognizes that our supply chain also has a significant amount account the availability of freshwater where a facility is located as of water usage, so in the coming years we will be working to underwell as the facility’s usage, reflecting the fact that the impacts of stand the issue and identify possible actions to reduce our total water use are felt locally, not globally. We based our analysis on the water footprint. 1 Based on http://water.epa.gov/learn/kids/drinkingwater/water_trivia_facts.cfm. 61 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Water consumption, 2007–2011* [million liters] 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Americas 4,518 4,297 4,615 4,707 4,395 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 713 831 1,001 1,124 1,192 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,128 2,096 2,031 2,324 2,454 Total 7,359 7,225 7,647 8,155 8,041 * 2010 water consumption data is revised to reflect updates to reported data. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Many facilities, including those in water-stressed regions, are taking “In using the Global Water Tool to prioritize steps to cut water use or use alternatives to freshwater sources. Since 2007, HP’s facilities in Singapore have been using “New Water” water-saving measures at its facilities to reduce demand on freshwater. New Water is treated wastewater worldwide, HP has taken appropriate purified using microfiltration, reverse osmosis, and ultraviolet treatment, as well as conventional treatment processes. The water is initial steps towards implementing a riskpotable but is mostly used by industries requiring high purity water. based water management strategy. It is New Water accounts for more than two-thirds of the facilities’ annual also reassuring that HP is using the tool water consumption and is 20% cheaper than standard potable water, to evaluate water risk in its supply chain. helping us to save more than $3.5 million USD since 2007. HP’s efforts should be evaluated in terms of its success in reducing the company’s Wastewater exposure to water risk, and improving Wastewater from our manufacturing operations is not a significant water security for all users in the regions environmental issue for HP. Office wastewater is discharged under where it operates.” local regulations to local treatment facilities. —Charlie Iceland, Senior Associate, World Resources Institute In 2011, our seven imaging and printing product manufacturing facilities generated 1.296 billion liters of manufacturing wastewater. These effluents are discharged under a permit, and treated at a locally owned and operated treatment plant. We have procedures in place designed to prevent unauthorized discharges of chemicals to wastewater systems, and ensure we do not discharge wastewater directly from HP operations to surface water or groundwater. See performance data, including regional breakdown, in Data dashboard: environment on page 69. 62 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Sustainable building design In 2011 HP completed its 3-year Global Workplace Initiative that Sustainable building design progress summary aimed to cut costs, energy use, and water consumption by reducing (Percentage of 27 projects tracked addressing each scorecard the amount of space we occupy. We continue to reduce the environelement through 2011) mental footprint of our real estate by using our offices more efficiently and improving the design of new and existing buildings. For example: Planning for conservation 64% Innovation and • We consolidated five buildings into one at Ojima, Japan. The new design process Sustainable sites facility employs sustainable design features such as increased use 68% 44% of natural ventilation and lighting, wastewater and rain water recycling, water-efficient landscaping, and recycled and locally sourced building materials. • Energy-efficient LED lighting at several facilities in India and Waste 81% 57% Water Singapore will contribute to estimated savings of more than management eﬃciency 2 million kilowatt hours (kWh) in electricity usage annually. As well as saving energy, features such as increased use of natural light help to create comfortable and productive workplaces and 79% 51% can help improve our facilities’ appearance. Consolidating office Material resources Energy and atmosphere space has the additional benefit of freeing up office buildings for 55% potential use by other organizations, so overall, fewer offices need Indoor environment to be constructed. Our custom sustainable building design checklist provides guidance for project managers when planning office improvements. It covers a wide range of sustainable design features, such as In some cases, we apply for U.S. Green Building Council LEED® certienergy use, materials, waste management, and water efficiency, fication. In 2011, three HP facilities were certified by LEED, including and helps identify cost-effective solutions for each area. A scoreour Hockley data center in Texas, United States, and our Finnish card completed at the end of each project notes the building’s headquarters at Espoo, both of which achieved Gold-level certificaperformance against the checklist and helps identify areas for tion. This brings the total number of HP LEED certified facilities to further enhancement. four. Three additional facilities are due to achieve LEED certification in 2012, including those in Kiryat Gat (Certified) in Israel, Palo Alto (Platinum) and Sunnyvale (Gold) in California, United States. Toxics release inventory Five HP operations worldwide that are responsible for the manufacof HP’s reportable TRI releases. These releases continue to ture of imaging and printing products require the use of several decrease as we eliminate or scale down the HP processes that use chemicals listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) those chemicals due to changes in our business operations. Toxics Release Inventory (TRI). Together, those sites account for all 63 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Disposition by type of TRI material, 2008–2010 [tonnes]* Discharged to water (to sewer/off-site Shipped off-site for Shipped off-site for Chemical Emitted to air treatment facility) recycle/energy recovery treatment or disposal Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 N-methyl pyrrolidone 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 451.5 357.6 268.1 259.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 451.5 357.6 268.1 259.5 Nitric acid 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 21.9 5.9 11.3 4.8 31.9 6.4 11.4 4.8 Nitrates 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.3 9.3 6.1 6.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.4 9.3 6.1 6.9 Lead 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.1 8.3 0.9 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.1 8.3 0.9 0.9 Xylene 5.3 6.5 7.2 8.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.9 12.7 14.0 17.4 17.2 19.3 21.2 26.3 Glycol NA 9.4 18.8 9.3 NA 0.0 0.0 0.0 NA 0.0 0.0 0.0 NA 41.8 80.8 26.9 NA 51.2 99.6 36.3 ethers** All others 0.1 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.2 0.0 0.0 Total 5.8 16.7 26.1 18.3 12.3 9.3 6.1 6.9 468.1 365.8 269.0 260.5 34.5 60.5 106.1 49.1 520.8 452.0 407.3 334.8 * The substances with global totals greater than 1 tonne are shown. TRI reports are due to the U.S. EPA July 1 each year, so the most recently completed reporting year is 2010. ** Glycol ether data for 2009 have been restated to correct a unit conversion error. Totals for 2009 reflect the corrected data. Ozone-depleting substances HP facilities use ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) in cooling and We do not measure ODS emissions but rather estimate leakage using air conditioning systems. Although these systems are sealed, leaks guidance from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.1 during operation and maintenance could result in emissions. We continue to replace chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in our systems with See performance data, including regional breakdown, in Data hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Although HFCs are greenhouse gases, dashboard: environment on page 69. they do not deplete the ozone layer. We are also starting to replace HFC-based cooling systems with HFC-free equivalents when they reach the end of their operational lives. These are not ODSs and have no or very low global warming potential. 1 To estimate these emissions, HP uses EPA Climate Leaders Greenhouse Gas Inventory Protocol Core Module Guidance May 2008, in conjunction with global warming potential values from www.ipcc.ch/publications_and_data/ar4/wg1/en/ch2s2-10-2.html. 64 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Remediation Where needed, HP conducts or contributes to soil and groundwater remediation to clean up contaminated sites. Biodiversity This includes remediation at: HP’s direct operational impact on biodiversity is minimal because we build very few facilities relative to our size and growth. When we do build, we often use previously developed land, which reduces • Eighteen sites where chemical releases from historical HP or our expansion into undeveloped areas. predecessor operations occurred • Six sites where HP’s wastes were managed by third parties and However, we have an indirect impact on biodiversity through releases occurred forestry because we sell and use significant amounts of paper. Our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy sets out our standards for We apply the risk prevention and management procedures of our buying, selling, and using paper and paper-based packaging. We environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system to increasingly source paper from suppliers that demonstrate sustainhelp prevent and respond to chemical spills at HP facilities. One spill able forestry and responsible manufacturing practices, and we at an HP facility occurred in 2011 that required soil remediation on strive to reduce the amount of paper we use in our operations and HP property. We reported the incident promptly to the local envirecycle paper when possible. Read more about paper use at HP. ronmental authority and initiated clean-up under its oversight. HP list of major operations More than 100,000 square meters 50,000–100,000 square meters Americas Americas Boise, ID* United States Aguadilla, PR* Puerto Rico Colorado Springs, CO United States Ft. Collins, CO United States Corvallis, OR* United States Ft. Worth, TX United States Cupertino, CA United States Marlborough, MA United States Houston, TX* United States Pontiac, MI United States Palo Alto, CA United States San Diego, CA* United States Plano, TX United States Sandston, VA United States Roseville, CA United States Sandston, VA United States San Bernardino, CA Woodland, CA United States Europe, Middle East, and Africa Dublin Mfg* Ireland * Site/operation included in HP’s global ISO 14001 certificate. In some cases, multiple locations in close proximity are considered one “site” for the purposes of the certification. 65 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report 50,000–100,000 square meters 25,001–50,000 square meters Asia Pacific and Japan Irving, TX United States Bangalore India LaVergne, TN United States Bangalore HPGS India Louisville, CO United States Singapore DRD*,*** Singapore Mountain View, CA United States Singapore SGP Singapore Salt Lake City, UT United States Europe, Middle East, and Africa Satellite Boulevard Data Center, GA United States Grenoble France Sunnyvale, CA United States Böblingen Germany Sunnyvale Palm, CA**,*** United States Erskine**,*** United Kingdom Tulsa, OK United States * Site/operation included in HP’s global ISO 14001 certificate. In some cases, multiple locations in Urbandale, IA United States close proximity are considered one “site” for the purposes of the certification. ** ISO 14001 certified but not part of the global certificate. Vancouver, WA United States *** OHSAS 18001 certified site. Asia Pacific and Japan Tokyo—Japan HQ Japan 25,001–50,000 square meters Seoul Republic of Korea Americas Cyberjaya HP Global Center (CJO) Malaysia Sao Bernardo do Campo Brazil Taguig City Philippines Markham Canada Singapore Singapore Mississauga Canada Taipei Taiwan Mississauga—Canadian HQ Canada Europe, Middle East, and Africa Heredia Costa Rica Sofia Bulgaria Guadalajara Mexico Rüsselsheim Germany Alpharetta, GA United States Rehovot* Israel Andover, MA United States Amersfoort Netherlands Auburn Hills, MI United States Barcelona Sant Cugat* Spain Austin, TX United States Sant Cugat del Valles Spain Des Moines, IA United States Bucharest**,*** Romania Herndon, VA United States Billingham United Kingdom Hockley, TX United States Bristol United Kingdom Houston, TX United States * Site/operation included in HP’s global ISO 14001 certificate. In some cases, multiple locations in Indianapolis, IN United States close proximity are considered one “site” for the purposes of the certification. ** ISO 14001 certified but not part of the global certificate. *** OHSAS 18001 certified site. 66 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Tech gallery: environment HP innovations help address critical environmental and social chalHP products, services, and solutions enable people to do more lenges. We design with the environment in mind, and apply and while reducing resource consumption and waste. Shop the scale technology to transform and improve how people live and EcoSolutions Store. work. This gallery is just a sampling. Personal Services and Printing computing Data center Software solutions HP 3PAR Storage • HP Advantage Monitors • HP Auto-On/Auto-Off and Instant-on Technology • HP Carbon Emissions Management Service • HP Carbon Footprint Calculator • • • CeNSE • HP “closed loop” ink cartridge recycling • HP Color LaserJet CM4540 MFP • HP Compaq 8200 Elite Ultra-slim Desktop PC • HP Critical Facilities Services • • HP Data Center Smart Grid • • • HP Deskjet 3050A e-All-in-One • 67 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Personal Services and Printing computing Data center Software solutions HP EcoPOD data center • • HP EcoSMART Fleet and Console • • HP EliteBook notebook PCs • HP ENVY110 e-All-in-One • HP ENVY14 Spectre Ultrabook™ • HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) • HP HDPE Reinforced Banner • HP Insight Control and Power Advisor • • HP LaserJet Pro P1102 printer • MagCloud • • HP Managed Print Services • • HP Officejet Pro 8600 e-All-in-One series • HP Photosmart ML2000D Minilab Printer • HP Power Assistant for PCs • • HP ProCurve • HP Project Moonshot • HP ProLiant G7/Gen8 servers • HP Smart Print • • Sustainable data center • HP T300 Color Inkjet Web Press • HP Thermal Logic • • • HP thin client computers • HP TouchSmart and Omni All-in-One PCs • HP Web Jetadmin • • Wynyard data center • • HP Z Workstations • 68 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Data dashboard: environment Products and solutions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Manufacturing: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from product manufacturing (estimated)* Aggregate first-tier suppliers Scope 1 and 2 emissions 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,800,000 [tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e)] Coverage [percentage of first-tier supplier spend 81% 86% 91% 95% captured] Supplier GHG emissions intensity [tonnes CO2e/first-tier 100% 96% 96% 94% supplier spend, 2007 = 100%] Transport: GHG emissions from product transport 2,000,000 1,800,000 1,700,000 1,900,000 1,900,000 (estimated)** [tonnes CO2e] * Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. 2010 is the most recent year data is available. ** Does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. Product reuse and recycling* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and 532,000 651,000 763,000 884,500 1,018,400 supplies combined [tonnes] Total cumulative recycling—computer hardware and 1,173 1,435 1,682 1,949 2,245 supplies combined [million pounds] Total reuse and recycling combined [tonnes, approximate] 142,000 153,000 142,000 151,000 160,600 Total reuse of equipment** [tonnes, approximate] 29,000 34,000 30,000 30,000 26,700 Total recycling—computer hardware and supplies 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 combined [tonnes] Number of countries and territories with HP return 52 53 56 58 60 and recycling programs 69 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Product reuse and recycling* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 Americas 30,200 36,000 37,500 38,600 49,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 76,500 76,700 69,300 76,300 77,100 Asia Pacific and Japan 6,100 6,700 5,600 5,900 7,200 Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 113,000 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 Hardware 95,800 98,600 90,500 99,100 113,650 HP LaserJet toner cartridges*** 15,000 19,000 20,100 19,600 18,550 HP ink cartridges*** 2,000 1,850 1,800 2,200 1,700 HP LaserJet toner cartridge recycling Percentage of LaserJet market covered by program 88% 90% 90% 92% 94% Composition Percentage of materials recycled into new products 59% 76% 80% 85% 82% Percentage of materials used for energy recovery 41% 24% 20% 15% 14% Percentage reuse of components**** 4.0% Percentage material in storage—pending processing**** 0.0% Percentage incineration**** 0.0% Percentage landfill**** 0.0% HP ink cartridge recycling Percentage of ink market covered by program 89% 88% 88% 87% 88% Composition Percentage of materials recovered for recycling 53% 59% 64% 73% 74% Percentage of materials used for energy recovery 21% 38% 31% 23% 22% Percentage reuse of components**** 0.0% Percentage material in storage—pending processing**** 0.2% Percentage incineration**** 4.0% Percentage landfill**** 0.0% GHG emissions avoided from product recycling 210,000 300,000 210,000 225,000 250,000 (estimated)***** [tonnes CO2e] * Recycling totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing; with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet recycling data are calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Segments may not add up to totals due to rounding. ** The decrease in tonnage from 2007 to 2011 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2007: 2.96 million units; 2008: 3.46 million units; 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units. *** Includes cartridges returned by customers and cartridges from HP internally through 2010. 2011 figure is cartridges returned by customers only. **** This category of data was added in 2011. ***** According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM) Tool, CO e reductions from recycling are calculated per the following formula: 1.858 kg CO2e/kg recovered electronic waste. 2 70 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP operations (also see GHG emissions below) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy use [million kilowatt hours (kWh)] 4,441 4,248 4,140 4,122 Energy intensity [thousand kWh/$ million USD of net 37.52 37.08 32.85 32.40 revenue] Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions) Electricity (generated on site) [million kWh] 0 13 3 Natural gas* [million kWh] 469 399 435 389 Americas 296 266 267 232 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 153 127 160 144 Asia Pacific and Japan 20 6 9 12 Renewable (generated on site) [million kWh] 2 2 2 Diesel/gas/oil** NA NA NA NA Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) Electricity (purchased)* [million kWh] 3,972 3,847 3,690 3,728 Americas 2,417 2,333 2,223 2,223 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 879 908 895 870 Asia Pacific and Japan 677 606 572 636 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy [million kWh 102 131 311 440 energy and renewable energy credits, in addition to the renewable energy available by default in the power grid] Nonhazardous waste*** [tonnes] 89,300 91,800 117,700 101,100 86,400 Americas 52,900 54,200 86,200 59,100 50,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 20,100 17,200 18,200 21,100 17,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 16,200 20,400 13,300 20,800 19,300 Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate*** [percentage of total produced] Global 88.4% 91.3% 88.8% 84.9% 82.2% Americas 87.3% 90.9% 89.8% 82.0% 80.2% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 90.6% 90.6% 85.3% 88.6% 89.0% Asia Pacific and Japan 89.4% 93.0% 88.7% 89.5% 80.2% Nonhazardous waste composition, 2011 [percentage of total] (see Waste and recycling section) 71 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP operations (also see GHG emissions below) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Hazardous waste**** [tonnes] 8,830 10,500 7,300 8,430 7,400 Americas 2,360 3,380 2,470 3,600 3,030 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,590 2,080 2,210 2,570 2,560 Asia Pacific and Japan 4,880 5,020 2,620 2,260 1,810 Water consumption***** [million liters] 7,359 7,225 7,647 8,155 8,041 Americas 4,518 4,297 4,615 4,707 4,395 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 713 831 1,001 1,124 1,192 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,128 2,096 2,031 2,324 2,454 Wastewater generation [million liters] 1,225 1,296 Americas 562 587 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 264 259 Asia Pacific and Japan 399 450 Ozone depletion potential of estimated emissions† 6,690 4,543 4,407 4,473 4,161 [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] Americas 2,886 2,776 3,573 3,106 3,732 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 25 32 70 17 38 Asia Pacific and Japan 3,778 1,735 764 1,350 391 Disposition by type of TRI material (see Toxics release inventory on page 63) * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. HP does not measure the use of this energy. *** We have restated our 2010 nonhazardous waste data (from 79,800 tonnes as reported in the HP 2010 Global Citizenship Report) to ensure greater consistency with the methodology that we use to calculate other environmental data, including nonhazardous waste in prior years. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. **** 2009 and 2010 data for the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region, and the global totals for those years, were restated to correct reporting errors in the 2009 and 2010 Global Citizenship Reports. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ***** 2010 water consumption data is revised to reflect updates to reported data. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. † To estimate these emissions, HP uses EPA Climate Leaders Greenhouse Gas Inventory Protocol Core Module Guidance May 2008, in conjunction with global warming potential values from www.ipcc.ch/ publications_and_data/ar4/wg1/en/ch2s2-10-2.html. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations)* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GHG emissions from operations** [tonnes CO2e] 2,165,500 2,060,300 1,865,100 1,856,500 Americas 1,327,400 1,241,500 1,179,900 1,162,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 338,800 356,600 253,800 208,500 Asia Pacific and Japan 499,300 462,200 431,400 485,300 GHG emissions intensity*** [tonnes CO2e/$ million USD of 19.90 19.31 15.95 15.71 net revenue] 72 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations)* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] Scope 1 Region [tonnes CO2e] 290,300 281,400 275,700 Americas 170,500 161,900 162,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 93,700 100,100 96,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 26,100 19,400 16,900 Type Natural gas [tonnes CO2e] 80,700 88,000 78,700 Americas 53,800 53,900 47,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 25,600 32,400 29,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,300 1,700 2,500 Diesel/gas/oil [tonnes CO2e] 22,700 15,500 6,800 Americas 4,000 3,200 1,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 600 500 400 Asia Pacific and Japan 18,100 11,800 5,000 HP auto fleet**** [tonnes CO2e] 161,100 168,900 138,400 132,300 129,600 United States and Canada 87,200 81,900 73,900 67,800 64,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 71,400 85,000 63,700 63,700 61,700 Asia Pacific and Japan 2,500 2,000 800 800 3,900 HP air fleet [tonnes CO2e] 14,300 21,600 13,400 12,500 13,200 Americas 14,300 21,600 13,400 12,500 13,200 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 0 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Refrigerants (HFCs) [tonnes CO2e] 32,000 29,700 39,200 Americas 22,300 21,100 28,800 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 3,800 3,500 4,900 Asia Pacific and Japan 5,900 5,100 5,500 PFCs***** [tonnes CO2e] 13,490 11,630 3,140 3,440 8,200 Americas 12,920 11,390 3,100 3,400 8,160 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 30 40 40 40 Asia Pacific and Japan 570 210 0 0 0 73 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations)* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Scope 2 Region [tonnes CO2e] 1,921,800 1,728,500 1,723,600 Americas 1,158,300 1,098,300 1,077,300 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 326,600 217,400 174,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 436,900 412,800 472,300 Type Purchased electricity for operations [tonnes CO2e] 2,030,800 1,946,100 1,999,300 Americas 1,219,900 1,160,600 1,155,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 374,000 372,700 371,600 Asia Pacific and Japan 436,900 412,800 472,300 Reductions from voluntary purchases of -78,700 -160,500 -231,300 renewable energy and renewable energy credits [tonnes CO2e] Americas -61,600 -62,300 -78,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa -17,100 -98,200 -153,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 Reductions from voluntary upgrades to other no/ -30,300 -57,100 -44,400 low carbon energy sources (such as large hydro) [tonnes CO2e] Americas 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa -30,300 -57,100 -44,400 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 Scope 3 Product manufacturing (estimated)† [tonnes CO2e] 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,800,000 NA Product transport (estimated)†† [tonnes CO2e] 2,000,000 1,800,000 1,700,000 1,900,000 1,900,000 Employee commercial air travel††† [tonnes CO2e] 289,000 320,000 214,000 304,000 322,000 Product recycling (estimated emissions avoided)†††† 210,000 300,000 210,000 225,000 250,000 [tonnes CO2e] * Beginning in 2009, HP integrated its legacy and Electronic Data Systems (EDS) data into a single calculation methodology, enabling the reporting of several metrics below beginning that year. ** Total includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in table, except emissions from HP auto fleet and HP air fleet. *** Worldwide GHG emissions do not include employee travel. Historical emissions intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and GHG emissions from facilities, the HP auto fleet, and the HP air fleet as reported for that year in the HP Global Citizenship Report (i.e., historical values were not adjusted for corporate acquisitions per the GHG Protocol). Our baseline emissions in 2005 without adjustments for corporate acquisitions (such as Enterprise Data Services in 2008) was 1,551,300 tonnes of CO2e. Though our intensity value increased due to the acquisition of Enterprise Data Services in 2008, we have implemented a variety of energy efficiency measures and made purchases of renewable energy that have subsequently decreased this number. **** Includes calculated values for HP’s Americas and Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions, and estimated values for the company’s Asia Pacific and Japan region. ***** Use of updated industry standard emissions factors for process tools resulted in a considerable increase in estimated emissions in 2011. This data is based on the calendar year. † Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. 2010 is the most recent year data is available. †† Does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. ††† Values for 2007-2009 are based on emissions factors for short-haul, medium-haul, and long-haul flights and total miles flown in each category. 2010 and 2011 values were provided by HP’s global travel agency using a more accurate methodology which accounts for the type of aircraft, passenger and cargo load, cabin class, and miles traveled for each ticketed trop. Data for 2010 was restated. †††† According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Waste Reduction Model (WARM) Tool, CO e reductions from recycling are calculated per the following formula: 1.858 kg CO2e/kg recovered electronic waste. 2 74 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Goals: environment Products and solutions Life cycle assessment Year Goal 2011 Establish an International Organization for Standardization (ISO) technical committee working group for a commercial printing carbon footprint standard. Progress: HP participated in the working group; the proposed standard will be up for a vote during 2012. Conduct life cycle assessments (LCAs) on numerous products across our imaging and printing portfolio. Progress: HP completed 32 LCAs on HP LaserJet products as well as an LCA comparing a digital photo album with an album of printed photos. Conduct pilot studies and training of the Product Environment Metrics tool for HP large-format, commercial, and industrial printing solutions. Progress: HP completed the training, but conducted no pilot studies due to changing project priorities. Communicate life cycle assessment carbon footprint methodology or Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) results for notebooks. Progress: HP collaborated with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) to create a draft PAIA tool for notebooks. We will release the PAIA tool once pertinent component data has been vetted, and anticipate publishing product carbon footprint values for new notebooks beginning in 2012. 2012 Calculate and disclose product carbon footprint values using the PAIA tool for new HP notebook, desktop, and monitor products. Complete life cycle assessments on 20 additional HP LaserJet printers, one HP scanner, and one book vs. e-reader. Work with competitors to establish product category rules for printers. 75 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Materials Year Goal 2011 As technologically feasible alternatives become readily available that will not compromise product performance or quality, and that will not adversely impact health or the environment, we will complete the phase out of BFR and PVC in newly introduced personal computing products in 2011.* Progress: HP achieved 67% of its goal to phase out BFR and PVC in newly introduced personal computing products in 2011; 100% of all new notebook products have achieved this BFRand PVC-free goal. HP will complete its goal to phase out BFR and PVC where technically feasible in those few remaining new PC products as market demand and customer expectations permit. Use a total of 100 million pounds (45,000 tonnes), cumulatively from 2007, of recycled plastic in HP printing products. Progress: Achieved as of July 2011. Apply the European Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) 2 substance and exemption requirements voluntarily outside the EU (and European Free Trade Association) on a worldwide basis within 6 months of each of the EU’s various legal compliance dates for virtually all HP-branded products in the scope of EU RoHS 2, except where it is widely recognized that there is no technically feasible alternative (as indicated by an exemption under the EU RoHS Directive). Progress: Achieved for 2011. 2012 Complete the phase-out of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), and butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP) in newly introduced personal computing products by the end of 2012. * Meeting the evolving definition of “BFR/PVC-free” as set forth in the “iNEMI Position Statement on the Definition of ‘Low-Halogen’ Electronics (BFR/CFR/PVC-Free).” Plastic parts contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of bromine [if the Br source is from BFRs] and < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine [if the Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers]. All printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate laminates contain bromine/chlorine total < 1,500 ppm (0.15%) with a maximum chlorine of 900 ppm (0.09%) and maximum bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Power supply and power cords are not BFR/PVC free. Service parts after purchase may not be BFR/PVC free. WWAN is not BFR/PVC free. Paper Year Goal 2011 40% or more of HP-branded paper will be Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified or have at least 30% postconsumer waste content by the end of 2011. Progress: We exceeded the 40% goal for HP-branded paper meeting one or both of these criteria, compared with 14% that met the criteria in 2010. 2015 50% or more of HP-branded paper will be FSC-certified or have at least 30% postconsumer waste content by the end of 2015. Progress: We are on track to meet this target (see related 2011 goal above). 76 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Manufacturing Year Goal 2011 Report the aggregated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from HP’s largest firstand second-tier suppliers, representing more than 90% of first-tier and 45% of second-tier material, components, and manufacturing spend, including all HP final assembly manufacturers. Progress: Reported emissions representing 95% of HP’s spending with first-tier suppliers for 2010 (the most recent data available). Suppliers representing 54% of HP’s first-tier supplier spending estimated their own Scope 3 GHG emissions. Report supplier greenhouse gas emissions performance in year-over-year comparison. Progress: Reported 2010 performance. Report on actual savings our suppliers achieved from the China Energy Efficiency Partnership program. Progress: During the first 10 months of the 2011 program cycle (through June 2011), participating HP suppliers reported savings that total 6 million kilowatt hours. 2012 Continue to promote supplier transparency in environmental performance and carbon emissions reduction by collecting carbon emissions data from suppliers representing 95% of first-tier manufacturing, material, and component supplier spend. Facilitate supplier environmental performance improvements by tripling the number of HP supplier sites participating in the Energy Efficiency Partnership program compared with 2011 and sharing energy-saving best practices developed through the program to date. Packaging Year Goal 2011 Inkjet supplies Achieve 35% minimum recycled content for corrugate, globally. Progress: Achieved. Achieve 80% minimum recycled content for paperboard, globally. Progress: Achieved. 2011 Desktop and notebook PC products Achieve 35% minimum recycled content for corrugate, globally. Progress: Achieved. Reduce the ratio of total packaging weight to total packaged product weight to 28%. Progress: We have taken steps to reduce the ratio and believe that we made substantial progress in 2011. However, due to several changes in HP packaging designs and the complex nature of the resulting calculations, we cannot accurately report our progress on the goal at this time. We are updating our tools to more reliably assess this weight ratio in the future. 77 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Transport Year Goal 2013 Implement network enhancements, mode changes, and route optimization that decrease greenhouse gas emissions from product transport by 180,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e), since 2008. Progress: Through 2011, we have achieved reductions through various projects of 138,000 tonnes of CO2e, since 2008. Product use Year Goal 2011 HP will reduce the energy consumption of HP products* and associated greenhouse gas) emissions to 40% below 2005 levels by the end of 2011. Progress: Reduced to 50% below 2005 levels, achieved 9 months ahead of schedule. Representative product categories have their own goals, including the following goals for HP’s high-volume printer, and desktop and notebook PC families: HP will improve the overall energy efficiency of HP ink and laser printing products by 40%, relative to 2005.** Progress: HP exceeded this goal and improved the energy efficiency of HP ink and laser printing products by 46%, relative to 2005. HP will save customers 1 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity through a variety of product design strategies in HP’s high-volume HP desktop and notebook PC families, relative to 2008.*** Progress: HP exceeded this goal and saved customers 1.4 billion kWh through 2010. 2012 Worldwide, new 2012 HP LaserJet and inkjet printers will use 13% less electricity annually than 2011 HP LaserJet and inkjet printers.**** * The average energy consumption of HP products is estimated using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. Energy consumption has been estimated in 2005 and annually since. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, inkjet and LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. ** Efficiency is defined in terms of kWh (using the typical electricity consumption method) divided by pages per minute. These families represent more than 32% of inkjet printers and more than 45% of LaserJet printers shipped in 2005. HP updated this goal from the goal included in the fiscal year 2007 Global Citizenship Report, which targeted a 30% improvement in energy efficiency by 2010, relative to 2005. *** Energy savings calculated by comparing average 2008 HP product ENERGY STAR® typical energy consumption (TEC) value to average 2010 HP product ENERGY STAR TEC value multiplied over 2008 volume. **** Baseline figure is model year 2011 HP LaserJet and inkjet printers sold worldwide. 78 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Product reuse and recycling Year Goal 2015 Recycle 3.5 billion pounds (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2015 (since 1987). Reuse 40 million electronic product and accessory units by the end of 2015 (since 2003). HP operations Energy and GHG emissions Year Goal 2012 Double voluntary purchases of renewable energy to 8% of electricity use (in addition to the renewable energy available by default in the power grid). Progress: We purchased approximately 440 million kilowatt hours of renewable energy worldwide in 2011, equivalent to more than 10% of overall electricity use, achieving our goal 1 year early. 2013 Reduce the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from HP-owned and HP-leased facilities by 20% relative to 2005 levels by the end of 2013 on an absolute basis. Progress: GHG emissions from our operations (not including travel) equaled 1,856,500 tonnes in 2011, 20% below our 2005 baseline, meeting our goal 2 years early. By the end of 2012, we will create a new goal for reduction of GHG emissions from operations. 2015 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from HP’s U.S. auto fleet by 10% on a per unit basis, compared with 2010. Water Year Goal 2015 Reduce freshwater use at sites identified as water-stressed by 3%, compared with 2011 consumption at those locations. 79 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Society At HP, we apply our talent, technology, and partnerships to improve communities and address social challenges—such as education and health—around the world. In addition, we promote responsible practices in our supply chain, respect human rights, and foster ethical behavior. We strive to create a workplace where all of our employees can flourish. 81 Ethics and human rights 157 Tech gallery: social innovation 91 Supply chain responsibility 158 Public policy 117 Privacy 160 Economic impacts 120 HP people 162 Data dashboard: society 147 Social innovation 166 Goals: society Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Ethics and human rights Technology is transforming the world, making it more important than ever for companies HP codes of conduct such as HP to make this transformation thoughtfully and responsibly. Our values guide us to behave ethically and with respect for others, including suppliers, partners, employees, customers, and society more broadly. We use our scale and influence to encourage similar Employees behavior beyond our operations. Read more in Human rights on page 85. Standards of Business Conduct (20+ languages) We work diligently to maintain a strong culture of integrity globally, regardless of cultural norms or local laws and regulations. Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) applies to all HP employees, everywhere. Our robust ethics and compliance program ensures we don’t just avoid doing the wrong thing, but also that we enhance our brand by winning the right way. HP U.S. Public Sector Our approach requires that all HP employees, partners, and suppliers, everywhere, behave Employees with integrity and use lawful and ethical business practices. We do not tolerate bribery and U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct will never trade our integrity for a business opportunity. This means refusing to pay bribes or kickbacks even when it means walking away from a deal (see Anti-corruption section). Contingent Workers We have processes in place for employees, partners, and suppliers to report ethics issues Contingent Worker Code of Conduct that do arise, and we work quickly to resolve those according to our policy and local laws. (20+ languages) Read more in Asking questions and reporting concerns on page 84. Suppliers HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct Partners Partner Code of Conduct (20+ languages) 81 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Ethics and compliance Every day, HP’s actions impact our reputation. Legal compliance Ethics and compliance governance structure is the absolute minimum we expect of our employees, partners, and suppliers. We diligently promote a culture of integrity and ethical decision making everywhere we operate, even when it Board of Directors means holding ourselves to a higher standard than local laws or customs require. We have in place the standards, governance structures, training, communications, and reporting and investiAudit Committee Independent Director gation procedures needed to ensure ethical behavior and legal compliance globally. Chief Ethics and Compliance Oﬃcer Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) sets non-negotiable Ethics and Compliance Committee expectations for all our decisions and actions and provides guidEthics and Compliance Oﬃce ance in difficult situations, such as avoiding conflicts of interest and rejecting bribery and corruption. The SBC is available in more than 20 languages and is supplemented by additional codes for HP Compliance Council Global Ethics Team employees working with the U.S. Public Sector, contingent workers, suppliers, and partners. Compliance Oﬃce Ethics Oﬃce Governance structure and Regulatory Compliance Review Board Corporate SBC Compliance Team responsibilities Market Knowledge Business, Regional, Our governance structure includes executives from the board level Board and Global Functions and down. They set the tone at the top and reinforce our ethics and SBC Liaisons compliance culture. Our Ethics and Compliance Office leads this Privacy and Data work from within HP’s Office of the General Counsel, with oversight Protection Board Local SBC Network from the Board of Directors. Social and Environmental Responsibility Meg Whitman became HP’s president and chief executive officer in Operations Council September 2011, and has served as a member of HP’s board since January 2011. When Ms. Whitman was appointed, Raymond Lane moved from nonexecutive chairman to executive chairman of the board of directors. In connection with Mr. Lane’s transition to an executive role, HP appointed Rajiv Gupta to serve as lead independent director. Key ethics and compliance functions The diagram shows HP’s organizational governance structure for The board’s Audit Committee provides nonexecutive input into HP’s ethics and compliance. Here are just two examples of significant ethics and compliance program and provides guidance to our chief activities carried out by these functions during the year: ethics and compliance officer as required. • The Compliance Office continued to assess our compliance funcSee also information on HP board membership, board committees tions against predefined standards, identify new legal risks, and and composition, and corporate governance guidelines, which track progress against recommendations made during our “wellcovers items including director independence and compensation. ness assessment” process, which began in 2009. Every 2 years, we comprehensively assess compliance risks for each business group and will next do so in 2012. The Compliance Office is the central hub for 44 companywide compliance functions including the privacy, anti-corruption, and global trade offices. • We increased the number of SBC liaisons from 28 to 36 to further embed ethics and compliance into each business unit. SBC liaisons are senior-level employees who champion ethics and compliance across HP. 82 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report • Mandatory ethics and compliance annual refresher course This 60-minute online session covers the SBC and key policies, proceHP employees making an impact: dures, and high-risk issues. Between March 1 and June 30, 2011, Eberhard Koehler 99.2% of employees (excluding new hires, those on leave of absence, and people leaving HP) completed the course. New hires Eberhard Koehler is working to level the playing field among HP’s are asked to complete a more comprehensive course within 30 channel partners, helping to ensure that business is done fair and days of their start date. square. Learn more about Eberhard Koehler on page 140. • Videos Our Ethical Moments videos depict ethical issues that might arise and how to handle them. In 2011, approximately 35,000 employees viewed each of four videos on reporting fraud, accuracy of records, data protection, and gifts and entertainment. In our Leaders on Ethics videos, senior leaders provide Communication and training guidance on company policies and workplace behavior. This year, the videos covered anti-corruption, social media, and information technology security. Every person at HP is accountable for their actions—regardless of the position held in the company. We continue to strengthen our • IonETHICS New this year, IonETHICS combines our previous training and awareness program to maintain focus on ethics and employee Ethics Bulletin and SBC Lessons Learned for leaders into compliance. The main initiatives include: a twice yearly presentation of anonymous real-life case studies, “what if?” scenarios, timely tips, and statistics to help employees understand the questions to ask and actions to take if faced with similar situations. Spotlight on anti-corruption HP’s expansion in growth markets means we increasingly Those who work with public sector customers in the United operate in countries where regulations and cultural norms may States complete additional training specific to the unique be less stringent than our own standards. Our responsibility is to requirements of doing business with the U.S. government. The make sure everyone lives up to the highest standards. ethics and compliance office provides specific guidance for growth markets, including face-to-face training on the SBC and Corrupt behavior impedes legal compliance, and social and Global Business Gifts, Travel, and Entertainment Policy in local economic development, and undermines the very foundation languages. upon which HP was built. We do not tolerate any bribery and will never trade our integrity for a business opportunity, and we do In 2011, we launched a blueprint to standardize the way we not offer bribes or kickbacks to win business or influence a busiimplement our program in each new market, based on our expeness decision. rience in existing markets. We also appointed ethics and compliance directors in our Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East, HP is committed to complying fully with all anti-corruption and and Africa regions to strengthen our approach. anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. To ensure In addition, we require all employees, partners, and suppliers to compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, wherever report corrupt activity and to understand and follow our antiwe do business, we have an extensive program, which is summacorruption policies—ignorance is not an excuse for failing to rized in HP’s Anti-Corruption Compliance Program Overview. comply. We encourage them to contact the Ethics and HP also has policies for Global Business Gifts, Travel, and Compliance Office to check whether an action might constitute Entertainment and Political Contributions. misconduct, and we promptly investigate alleged violations of our policies or the law. To minimize potential issues, we use globally respected data— the Corruption Perceptions Index, produced by Transparency The German Public Prosecutor’s Office, the U.S. Department of International—in conjunction with internal and other external Justice, and the Securities and Exchange Commission are investidata, to identify high-risk countries and raise awareness of gating allegations of misconduct in connection with a 2003 ethical issues in each market. transaction between a former HP subsidiary in Germany and the Russian General Prosecutor’s Office (GPO). HP continues to coopAnti-corruption training is part of our mandatory ethics and erate fully with these authorities in their ongoing investigations compliance induction for new hires and an annual refresher of the GPO transaction. We take these matters very seriously, and course for all employees. Additionally, HP salespeople globally HP remains committed to upholding the highest standards of complete detailed, scenario-based anti-corruption training. ethics and compliance in the conduct of its business. 83 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Additional activities in 2011 included: We work to provide more counseling on ethical issues to prevent violations of law, company policy, or the SBC. In 2011, we increased • Delivering ethics and compliance training to country managers ethics and compliance consulting matters by 34.8%, compared with and senior leaders in high-risk countries. In 2011, we provided the 2010. Views of the questions and concerns page of HP’s global training to 15 such countries. Other countries may participate at website increased by almost 90% between 2010 and 2011 as a their discretion. The training is designed by the Ethics Office and result of our focus on encouraging people to seek guidance when delivered by regional and country attorneys in their native counthey are unsure of the best course of action. tries. It highlights current trends, and we encourage countries to customize the content where appropriate. When alleged violations do occur, we provide formal, confidential • Refreshing our ethics and compliance training for new employees communication reporting channels for employees and third parties to reflect current trends. The comprehensive, straightforward including, beginning in 2011, an online form, as well as a global course explains the reporting channels available for discussing 24-hour toll-free hotline with translators available. Where allowed ethical concerns or reporting violations and HP’s commitment to by law, reporting can be anonymous. nonretaliation for employees reporting suspected violations in good faith. See how to ask a question or report a concern. • Training our global sales force in anti-corruption, with a particular focus on public sector sales. In 2012, we will deliver anti-corrupInvestigating concerns tion training to employees from Privacy, Social and Environmental Sustainability and Compliance, Global Security, and Government HP’s Global Case Management System records allegations of ethical Relations, in addition to our salespeople. violations in a worldwide database, and provides management with access to incident details as needed, while protecting personal information. Data recorded in the system enables us to identify locations where higher levels of ethics and compliance-related incidents are being reported, indicating where additional action may be needed. Asking questions and reporting concerns We respond promptly to all alleged violations and conduct investigations as appropriate. Investigations may involve local, regional, HP encourages employees to speak up, ask questions whenever or corporate-level employees, depending on the allegation, and they are uncertain of the best course of action, and report anything may include members of other relevant functions, as needed. The that doesn’t seem right—without fear of retaliation. Litigation Investigations team oversees all escalated, corporate-led investigations. Details and results of investigations are kept confidential to the extent reasonably practical. We take appropriate In keeping with HP’s longstanding “open door” approach to commudisciplinary action based on the results of our investigations, nication, we provide guidance on asking questions and reporting including terminating employees and reviewing relationships with concerns in our SBC, accompanying training module, corporate partners where necessary. policy directory, and ethics and compliance website. Employees can talk to their line manager or more senior managers if ethics issues arise, or seek advice from our ethics and compliance experts or regional or business SBC liaisons. Investigation process overview Investigation principles Review, analyze, Form team and plan Remote investigation On-site investigation and conclude Report and close • Review the allegation and • Develop informants and other • Obtain and review evidence • Assess credibility • Write the report prepare a notiﬁcation memo witnesses only available on-site • Reach reasonable conclusions • Solicit inputs • Form the investigation team • Background work • Interview witnesses and in good faith • SBCCT Leadership Team and and assign a case owner Obtain remotely available subjects • Discuss initial recommendations applicable regional and • Put together an investigation information and disclose as required business unit SBC liaisons plan Email/HDD search and analysis review report and conﬁrm • Kick oﬀ conference call Informational interviews by recommendations phone • Close case • Revise plan for on-site • Implement investigation 84 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Items reported to the Global SBC team or other compliance functions, 2007–2011 2007* 2008 2009 2010 2011 Human resources 37% 56% 35% 44% 42% Misuse of assets 20% 19% 14% 11% 10% Fraud 12% 5% 12% 10% 9% Sales channel violations 9% 1% 3% 3% 3% Conflicts of interest 7% 4% 7% 6% 8% Confidentiality 4% 4% 6% 5% 6% Customer relationships 1% 0% 2% 2% 3% Financial and public reporting 1% 1% 4% 3% 2% Competition 0% 1% 1% 1% 3% Other 9% 9% 16% 15% 14% * This data is for the calendar year. Data for 2008–2011 is for HP’s financial year ending October 31, 2011. Human rights Human rights are the fundamental rights, freedoms, and standards suppliers to our own operations to protecting the privacy of our of treatment to which all people are entitled. HP upholds and respects customers. Our formal commitments are outlined in HP’s Global human rights as reflected in the United Nations (UN) Universal Human Rights Policy. Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the UN Global Compact, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. During 2011 we reviewed and enhanced our Global Human Rights Policy and strengthened HP’s internal governance for managing Respecting human rights is a core value at HP and is embedded in human rights issues and fulfilling our human rights commitments. everything we do. We believe it is our corporate responsibility to use our size and influence to promote human rights in our commuWe continue to participate in leadership initiatives and engage with nities. We apply this commitment across our business, from our organizations that promote global respect for human rights such as the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI) and BSR. 85 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report The policy highlights the cross linkage between human rights and other existing HP policy areas such as supply chain management, HP employees making an impact: employment practices, and privacy. It summarizes human rights Zoe McMahon components of existing policies that affirm HP’s commitment to human rights across business functions. As part of her work as director of HP’s Social and Environmental Sustainability and Compliance program, Zoe McMahon collaborates with human rights organizations and draws on HP’s experience to Human rights governance and help improve working conditions in supply chains worldwide. Learn more about Zoe McMahon on page 142. management Because respect for human rights takes many forms and can occur in multiple areas of HP’s business, we need strong governance to Faris Natour ensure consistent risk identification and issues management. During 2011, we added a human rights program manager and transferred Director, Human Rights, BSR responsibility for human rights program management to the Ethics Faris looks to HP to be at the and Compliance Office within the Office of the General Counsel. forefront of businesses developing innovative approaches to HP’s GCC, sponsored by a member of the HP Executive Council, is addressing human rights. Visit made up of senior executives and subject matter experts from our online gallery of external across the company. The council meets quarterly to promote global stakeholder perspectives to see citizenship and human rights. During 2011, the membership of the Faris’s video. GCC was modified to ensure appropriate senior leader and subject matter expert representation. The GCC was instrumental in the human rights policy review and approval of the enhanced policy. Features of HP’s enhanced Global Related to this process, we discussed seven focal areas identified by the DIHR with external stakeholders: Human Rights Policy • Labor and employment, especially in our supply chain Following a risk assessment of HP’s human rights policies and • Conflict minerals practices conducted by the Danish Institute on Human Rights (DIHR) in 2010 and commissioned by HP, our Global Citizenship • Privacy and data protection Council (GCC) determined that the company’s longstanding human • Diversity and discrimination rights policy should be revised to provide greater focus on the • Freedom of expression areas identified as priorities for our industry. • Water The policy, expanded in 2011, establishes HP’s commitment to • Customer use of products and services leadership in integrating respect for human rights worldwide into our operations and across our business. HP will in practice: Feedback indicated that water issues were likely to increase in significance and that we should add an eighth focus area, anti• Comply with laws and regulations where HP does business corruption, to our watch list. and adopt and apply international standards where laws are less stringent. • Complete due diligence to avoid complicity in human rights violations. External leadership • Regularly assess human rights risks, policies, and impacts and provide visibility of the results to senior executives. HP continued its external advocacy and leadership to promote human rights during 2011, primarily through participation in the GBI. • Provide access to independent grievance mechanisms immediSupported by 14 companies, the GBI is pursuing two complementary ately to raise concerns or identify adverse human rights impacts. workstreams: “action learning around the UN Guiding Principles on • Promptly investigate allegations and pursue action to mitigate Human Rights” and “business awareness and capacity building.” any adverse human rights impacts. • Promote continual improvement through capability building for our During 2011, HP representatives spoke at the GBI Roundtable in business partners, terminating relationships only as a last resort. Malaysia, contributing insights on incorporating respect for human rights through corporate polices and processes. HP is also involved • Advance our human rights practices through a journey of in a project to provide guidance on how human rights principles can cumulative progress. most effectively be embedded in contractual relationships. • Report transparently on our efforts. 86 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Other sections of the HP Global Human rights–related policies Citizenship Report relevant to HP policies with particular relevance to human rights include: human rights • HP Standards of Business Conduct Human rights issues intersect many aspects of HP’s global citizen• HP Global Human Rights Policy ship work. Below are links to other sections of this report • Contingent Worker Code of Conduct containing aspects of human rights management: • HP Best Work Environment Policy • Anti-corruption • HP Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy • Reporting and investigating human rights and other ethics • HP Global Citizenship Policy concerns • HP Global Master Privacy Policy • Conflict minerals tracing and elimination (see below) • HP Harassment-free Work Environment Policy • Health, education, and community initiatives in support of • HP Nondiscrimination Policy human rights • HP Open Door Policy • Labor, employment, diversity, and antidiscrimination in HP’s operations • HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct (supplier code of conduct) • Privacy and data protection • HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy • Supply chain human rights issues • Partner Code of Conduct • Water availability Conflict minerals HP plays a leading role in international efforts focused on achieving practical solutions to the issue of conflict minerals in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Minerals originating from the DRC have been a concern for more than a decade because some mines are controlled by armed militia engaged in a civil war. Transport over long distances from the mine is also vulnerable to interference by these forces. The problems in the DRC are complex and intractable, but HP has determined that its leadership and resources, working in collaboration with others, can develop pilot supply chains through which minerals can be mined free from the influence of armed groups. One of our prime concerns is to avoid a widespread exit of trade from the region. This would worsen the plight of the population, and may not reduce trade in conflict minerals by those industries and companies not obligated to make disclosures under U.S. law. We believe that advancing multi-stakeholder initiatives will encourage others to join us in building a lasting solution. We have engaged widely, working in partnership with others committed to achieving conflict-free trade with the DRC, including industry peers and trade organizations, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), Mining tantalite at Luba Mine in Katanga, DRC. and governments. 87 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Progress toward a solution In 2011 HP and its partners made significant progress on the following five fronts: (1) conducting due diligence of HP’s supply chain, (2) supporting the development of an industry due diligence approach, (3) advancing the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) program, (4) supporting an alliance for in-region mineral certification, and (5) influencing policy and legislation. Conducting due diligence of our supply chain HP worked to conduct due diligence on its suppliers in advance of the final U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations implementing the conflict minerals provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We then followed up in August 2011 with a formal communication requiring suppliers to provide information about the smelters they use, and requesting that they adopt a DRC conflict-free policy and set the same requirements for their suppliers. HP’s suppliers have provided the names of several hundred possible smelters and refiners. We are working with those companies to confirm which are smelters and will encourage those not already involved in CFS to participate in the program. Supporting the development of an industry due diligence approach HP has developed and propagated to the industry a common approach to conducting due diligence. We were a codeveloper of the EICC-GeSI reporting template used to share due diligence information between suppliers and customers. We also cofacilitated the implementation of the dashboard tool that supports this reporting template, facilitating and standardizing data collection and reporting. Miners using a sluicing technique to concentrate tantalite ore at the Mai Baridi Mine in Katanga. In addition, HP helped to teach hundreds of industry members how to use the template and dashboard to advance this standardized approach, leading to improved accuracy of information and less administrative duplication. Supporting an alliance for in-region mineral certification Advancing the CFS program Establishing a validated supply of minerals to smelters poses significant challenges. Given that there is no visible difference HP is one of five company representatives on the Audit Review between minerals from different mines, there is a need for secure Committee of the CFS program. The committee’s role is to identify traceability from mine to smelter to avoid misrepresentation of and validate smelters that process only conflict-free minerals. CFS conflict minerals as conflict free. In addition, militias often engage auditors have visited and reviewed more than 40 smelters to in extortion of workers during mineral transport rather than at the conduct audits according to CFS-developed protocols for tantalum, mine itself, further confusing the clear origin of minerals. To be tin, tungsten, and gold—audit protocols shared with all industry certified as conflict free, all transactions reflecting movement of sectors. To date, 11 tantalum smelters have been validated as minerals from mines to smelters need to be transparent. The conflict free through this process. The participation of 22 gold, Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade was founded 5 tungsten, and 45 tin smelters is under way.1 to help establish a system of traceability in supply chains where there is a risk of involvement with conflict. The Solutions for Hope The list of conflict-free smelters is maintained at project is a leading example of how conflict-free tantalum is being www.conflictfreesmelter.org. sourced in the DRC today (see details on next page). 1 As of March 15, 2012. 88 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA) civil society in Katanga, North Kivu, and South Kivu. In addition, HP representatives visited tantalite and cassiterite mines in Katanga, The rationale underpinning the newly established Public-Private wolfram and cassiterite mines in Rwanda, and gold and cassiterite Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade is that collaboration mines in South Kivu. Finally, HP and other PPA representatives met between influential stakeholders is the key to achieving change with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DR with respect to sourcing conflict-free minerals. PPA is a joint initiaCongo (MONUSCO) Head of Operations in Bukavu to understand the tive between the U.S. government, private sector companies, trade current situation with armed militias in the Kivu provinces. associations representing a range of industries, NGOs, and the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR). This Solutions for Hope project alliance will act as a hub to support developing secure supply chains for conflict-free minerals. Notably, HP was the first corporation to In 2011, HP announced its participation in Solutions for Hope, a commit to joining the PPA, and an HP representative was elected to project led by major capacitor manufacturer, AVX Corporation. One its Governance Committee. of the prime uses of tantalum is in the manufacture of electrical capacitors. Solutions for Hope has achieved the first validated The PPA will focus on three functions: source of conflict-free tantalum ore from the DRC through a “closed pipe” supply chain stretching from a mine free from conflict inter• Growing existing programs and systems for businesses to source ference to a validated smelter. minerals from mines that have been audited and certified as conflict free The first delivery of conflict-free tantalum took place in November • Providing a platform for coordination and dialogue among govern2011. After processing by a validated conflict-free smelter, it will be ment, industry, and civil society participants seeking to support used to manufacture the first DRC conflict-free tantalum capacitors. conflict-free mineral sourcing in the DRC and Great Lakes Region HP commends AVX for its leadership on this issue and intends to incorporate AVX’s conflict-free tantalum capacitors in HP products • Supporting a website that provides companies and other stakewhen the capacitors become available. We believe it is appropriate holders with information about sourcing minerals in the DRC while to use our purchasing power as a market incentive for expansion of remaining compliant with U.S. law similar initiatives. HP was one of two companies with representatives who traveled to HP visited the mines, and the processing, warehousing, and the DRC to meet with stakeholders, visit mines, and assess the situsmelting locations of the “closed pipe” Solutions for Hope project ation on the ground to inform HP’s PPA governance role. During this and observed how each of the below-listed parties has an importrip, HP representatives participated in a series of separate meetings tant role to play in a responsible mineral supply chain: with other PPA members and the Provincial Minister of Mines of Katanga, Maniema, North Kivu, and South Kivu, as well as the local • Mining co-op that coordinates the miners and provides equipment and training • Mining company that owns title to the mining concession, purchases the minerals from the miners, supports the traceability of the transactions, and enables the concentrating and export of the minerals in a legal and transparent nature • International Tin Supply Chain Initiative (iTSCi) employees who provide the independent tracking of the minerals produced • Agents who work on behalf of the DRC government issuing iTSCi tags and verifying the iTSCi-reported totals • Division of Mines that supports exporting minerals out of the DRC • AVX, the corporation that has committed to purchase the tantalite at agreed prices The on-the-ground review of this project revealed how a successful and responsible mineral supply chain can be created in the DRC. Influencing policy and legislation HP supported the inclusion of the conflict minerals clauses in the Dodd-Frank Act, which require disclosure of the use of tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold originating in the DRC. We believe these provisions will facilitate greater transparency in supply chains and reduce the trade in minerals that fund armed conflict in the DRC. However well-intentioned the regulation, implementation has challenging HP’s program manager Jay Celorie inspecting the tantalite crushing and homogenization processing at Kalemie Warehouse in Katanga, DRC. 89 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report implications. For example, to comply, many companies are likely to of the OECD’s guidance and will provide feedback to the OECD eliminate trade from the DRC sources altogether, damaging that through a series of three questionnaires and in-person multicountry’s economy and worsening conditions for its people. stakeholder meetings. HP is seeking to reduce the adverse economic impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the people of the DRC. We are advocating for Next steps implementation mechanisms that should encourage continued During 2012 we will continue progressing toward conflict-free trade with the DRC. minerals by tracing the smelters in our supply chain and publishing relevant details. We will encourage those smelters to participate in During 2011, HP played a leading role in developing consensus the CFS by giving preference to sourcing from smelters validated as comments and recommendations from a multi-stakeholder group of conflict free. NGOs and socially responsible investors on this issue. These comments and recommendations were submitted to, and discussed We will continue our support for the CFS program and also for with, the SEC. efforts to establish validated in-region conflict-free sourcing through the PPA and Solutions for Hope project. HP also supports the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) due-diligence guidance on conflict minerals. HP is participating in a 1-year pilot program to test implementation 90 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Supply chain responsibility HP is one of the world’s largest technology companies and has one of the industry’s most Highlights extensive supply chains. Comprising more than 1,000 production suppliers1 and tens of thousands of nonproduction suppliers, it spans 6 continents, more than 45 countries and 1,000+ territories, and many cultures. Our supply chain’s breadth and depth is a foundation of HP’s success, but it also brings challenges. We embrace our opportunity and responsibility to use our scale, purchasing power, Production suppliers, some with multiple sites and experience to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental responsibility (SER) standards and performance. Through these efforts, we work to help improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of people worldwide who make products for the information technology (IT) industry and support our operations. HP has a long history of working with suppliers to improve their SER performance, as well as improving overall processes and standards in the industry. Since we launched our supply chain SER program in 2000, it has been a core part of our global citizenship efforts. During 250,000+ Workers at sites audited in 2011 that produce that time, we have been a leader in the industry on many fronts (see below). HP products HP supply chain SER firsts • First IT company to develop and implement a supplier SER code (2002) • One of the first IT manufacturers to perform on-site supplier SER audits (2004) 52+ million Number of printers shipped by HP in 2011 • Founding member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) (2004) 62+ • First electronics company to publish a list of our suppliers (2007) • First major IT company to publish its aggregated supply chain greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (2008) million Number of PC units shipped by HP in 2011 1 HP uses the term “direct suppliers” in other sections of this report to include both “production suppliers” that provide materials for HP products and “nonproduction suppliers” that provide services related to HP products. 91 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Our program focuses on production and nonproduction suppliers. We address the full range of SER issues, and also focus targeted Moving forward programs on issues such as working hours, women’s health, and conflict minerals. We complement extensive and rigorous auditing We are proud of our progress to date, but our work is ongoing. This with innovative and collaborative capability building initiatives. We is due to the changing nature of the supplier landscape, shaped by also collaborate with suppliers at the end of the product life cycle, economic and geopolitical forces, the ongoing globalization of through our global network of vendors in 67 countries and territotechnology manufacturing, the consolidation of existing firms, the ries that collect, process for resale, and/or recycle returned emergence of new markets, as well as increasing external stakeproducts. Our hardware recycling and reuse standards cover the holder awareness and engagement. storage, handling, and processing of returned electronic equipment. We continually seek innovative ways to approach SER issues and to In 2011, our key achievements included: extend the impact of our efforts. Our history and experience provide us the perspective, data, and relationships to thoughtfully evaluate and refine our program over time. • Launched our audit program for nonproduction suppliers • Demonstrated improvements in suppliers’ audit performance While established methods of addressing supply chain issues such following participation in our capability building programs as auditing and capability building will remain central to our • Further expanded our supply chain SER audit program to Australia approach, we intend to continue to innovate beyond traditional and Turkey programs to effect lasting change. For example, we plan to extend our engagement with multi-stakeholder organizations, including • Reached 760 supplier audits since the start of our program Social Accountability International (SAI) and the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH), to provide independent assessments and targeted capability building as a way to improve supplier management systems and worker-manager dialogue. (See Addressing Key HP employees making an impact: Ernest Wong Issues for more information.) In addition, we continue to expect Ernest Wong helps HP’s suppliers improve their social and environsuppliers to provide increasing levels of transparency. mental performance. His work includes training supplier managers and employees on workers’ rights, antidiscrimination, and energy As we gain experience, we strive to make our program even more efficiency. Learn more about Ernest Wong on page 146. effective in pursuit of our values: to protect workers’ rights and dignity, to ensure strong health and safety standards, to reduce environmental impacts, and to uphold the highest standards of business ethics. HP supply chain SER milestones Type of Year Description Region event 1992 HP’s first supplier questionnaire distributed Global HP HP surveyed its global suppliers for the elimination of ozone-depleting substances. 1993 Procuring Environmentally Responsible Materials (PERM) program implemented Global HP PERM preceded HP’s supply chain SER program and included HP’s first supplier environmental requirements. 1998 HP’s environmental procurement policy and General Specification for the Environment Global HP (GSE) released We communicate materials restrictions to our design teams and to our manufacturing suppliers through our GSE. 2000 Supply chain SER program launched Global HP We launched our supply chain SER program with a long-term vision to help improve supplier labor management standards, human rights, and environmental performance. 92 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Type of Year Description Region event 2001 Monitoring sources of tantalum from capacitor suppliers began Africa HP HP obtained letters from capacitor suppliers stating that they were not using tantalum sourced from the DRC. 2002 HP’s first Global Citizenship Report published Global HP HP’s first Global Citizenship Report outlined our commitment to improving social and environmental performance over the next decade. 2002 HP Supplier Code of Conduct rolled out Global HP HP was the first electronics company to publish an SER Supplier Code of Conduct. 2003 HP’s supplier self-assessments began Global HP Suppliers began self-assessments against our Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. Our target was to assess our top 40 suppliers by the end of the 2003 fiscal year. We achieved that goal. 2004 EICC formed Global CrossThe EICC fosters responsible management and operational practices in labor, human rights, industry ethics, the environment, and health and safety across the electronics industry’s global supply chain. (See Collaboration on page 108.) HP was one of the founding members of the EICC and codeveloped the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct. HP has supplemented the EICC Code with additional requirements specific to freedom of association. See HP’s EICC Code of Conduct. 2004 HP’s first supplier audit performed China, HP We completed 45 pilot audits in 2004, against a public goal to complete 30 during the year. Mexico, Southeast Asia, and Eastern Europe 2005 HP’s first supplier SER forum held in China China HP HP held the first SER forum for regional Chinese suppliers to review and discuss HP’s SER and Restriction of Hazardous Substances requirements. Around 330 representatives from various suppliers participated. 2006 Capability building program launched Global HP HP’s capability building program commenced with the Focused Improvement Supplier Initiative, a program that provided 30 HP suppliers with the tools and resources to improve SER management within their facilities. Since then, our initiatives have covered multiple issues, including worker health, communication, environment, and antidiscrimination. (See Capability building on page 110.) 2007 Health and safety capability building efforts launched Mexico MultiHP joined the HERproject to raise awareness of the general and reproductive health needs of stakeholder women working in manufacturing. (See Capability building on page 110.) 2007 Kicked off capability building efforts focused on raising SER awareness through direct China Multitraining of supplier workers stakeholder HP piloted a training program to directly train supplier employees in worker-management communications. The program helped workers better understand their labor rights and provided an independent workers’ grievance hotline for communicating concerns about their working environment. 93 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Type of Year Description Region event 2008 Comprehensive list of HP suppliers disclosed Global HP We were the first electronics company to publish a list of our suppliers in our FY07 Global Citizenship Report. 2008 Suppliers’ GHG emissions reported Global HP HP became the first major IT company to publish its aggregated supply chain GHG emissions, representing 86% of our first-tier suppliers by spend. We increased that percentage to 95% for calendar year 2010. 2009 Working hours key performance indicators (KPIs) program launched China HP HP piloted supplier use of KPIs to help reduce excessive working hours in the supply chain. (See Working hours KPIs.) 2009 Conflict minerals program launched Africa HP HP’s conflict minerals program was launched, broadening the scope of our work to focus on tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo. 2009 First capability building program to reach multiple tiers of HP’s supply chain Thailand MultiHP’s year-long program with hard disk drive suppliers in Thailand was the company’s first effort stakeholder to reach multiple tiers of our supply chain. The program raised awareness of HP’s EICC Code, facilitated best practice sharing among supplier management, and supported their implementation of SER-related management systems. 2009 Supply chain SER program expanded to nonproduction suppliers Global HP Originally focused only on production suppliers, HP’s supply chain SER program expanded to also include nonproduction suppliers. (See Our approach on page 96.) 2010 First joint Validated Audit Process (VAP) audits performed Global CrossThe VAP is designed to eliminate duplication and “audit fatigue” by providing a common auditing industry approach for companies in the electronics industry. This allows for audit results to be shared by multiple customers of one supplier. (See Audit strategy.) 2010 Environmental sustainability capability building efforts kicked off China MultiHP became the only information and communication technology company to join Energy stakeholder Efficiency Partnership (EEP), a year-long pilot program designed to help major suppliers in China reduce energy use, GHG emissions, and costs. Through the EEP, HP expanded supplier capability building efforts to environmental improvement. 2011 First HP nonproduction supplier audit performed China, HP HP performed our first audits of nonproduction suppliers, auditing three facilities in China, India, Asia Pacific, and Mexico. (See Summary audit results on page 99.) In 2011, HP surpassed 750 cumulative North audits since our first audits in 2004. America 94 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Long-term SER relationship International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles Lite-ON case study and Rights at Work Lite-ON, a Taiwan-based manufacturer employing 35,000 people and with 45 factories globally, has supplied HP with various prodHP’s supply chain SER program promotes the core labor standards ucts and parts for more than 10 years. The company has been a as stated in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and long-time participant in HP’s SER program. HP first audited Lite-ON Rights at Work (1998): in early fiscal year 2004, one of the first supplier audits performed • Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right in the electronics manufacturing industry. At that time, Lite-ON to collective bargaining. Learn more. demonstrated awareness and knowledge of HP’s SER expectations, but lacked various documented SER policies and procedures. • Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Learn more. Working closely with HP, the company has pursued SER perfor• Effective abolition of child labor. Learn more. mance improvements ever since. It has regularly taken part in HP’s capability building programs, such as Chinese Worker Rights • Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Training, the Energy Efficiency Partnership program, Hepatitis B occupation. Learn more in Capability building on page 110. awareness training, the HERproject, and predeparture training (see Capability building on page 110 for more information). In 2012, Lite-ON will participate in the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative’s effort to improve labor conditions at electronics factories in the HP’s EICC Code of Conduct and General Pearl River Delta region of China (see Collaboration on page 108). Specification for the Environment Lite-ON has also capitalized on learning opportunities provided by Throughout this section, we refer to HP’s EICC Code of Conduct, our collaborative audit process, and the company’s progress is rather than simply the EICC Code of Conduct, the standard applied encouraging. On average, the number of major nonconformances across the industry’s global supply chain. In 2004, we co-led the discovered in full re-audits at the company’s sites decreased 35% development of the EICC Code. HP endorses the EICC Code in its compared with initial audits at the same sites. Moreover, initial entirety, but we have supplemented it with additional requirements audits at Lite-ON sites in 2011 identified nearly 45% fewer major specific to freedom of association (standard A7). nonconformances than initial audits at the company’s sites. HP We support the rights of workers at our supplier facilities to assoawarded Lite-ON the Supply Chain SER Performance Improvement ciate freely on a voluntary basis, seek representation, join or be Award at our 2011 Supplier Summit in San Diego, California, United represented by works councils, and join or not join labor unions States, recognizing its involvement in our capability building and bargain collectively as they choose as established by local law. programs and its conformance with HP’s EICC Code. We require all suppliers to conform to HP’s EICC Code, and comply The company has also increased transparency significantly during with our General Specification for the Environment, which includes the last several years, and has published a corporate social responsisubstance and materials requirements for parts and components bility report annually since 2008 (HP encourages suppliers to do so). that are used in HP products, packaging, and manufacturing The most recent version achieved Application Level A+ of the Global processes. (See Materials on page 36 for more information.) Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Lite-ON, among a number of other suppliers, exemplifies the effectiveness of long-term participation in HP’s supply chain SER program. 95 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Our approach Through HP’s supply chain social and environmental responsibility (SER) program, we work with our high-risk supplier sites, as well as Supplier management system other stakeholders, to improve labor standards, human rights, and environmental performance. The collaboration includes: HP’s four-phase supplier management system (see graphic below) provides an overarching framework for suppliers to progress • Risk assessments These help us prioritize the extent to which we through our supply chain SER program. We focus our resources engage with suppliers through our supply chain SER program. according to risks posed by supplier activities. The system aims to Suppliers also complete a self-assessment questionnaire to help improve long-term SER performance by building suppliers’ capabilius identify SER performance risks. ties. Since our SER program began, all of our key production suppliers have completed the introduction and assessment stages. • Capability building Through programs and partnerships with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), training partners, The gap between introduction and assessment represents supplier governmental organizations, and suppliers, we help supplier sites that pose low risk. The gap between assessment and validamanagement and workers improve SER performance. tion represents sites whose self-assessments indicate they are low • Measuring performance Our audit program and input from third risk. The increases in introduction and assessment starting in 2009 parties (see Collaboration on page 108) identify issues and help and 2010 are largely due to the expansion of our program to us target areas of concern to improve supplier SER performance. nonproduction suppliers. The following pages explain each step in • Stakeholder engagement HP engages with stakeholders to underthe four-phase supplier management system. stand and respond to issues of concern regarding supply chain SER. Concerns with respect to emerging issues in the information technology (IT) industry, such as conflict minerals and migrant labor, have highlighted the need to increase work with lower-tier suppliers to improve SER performance. Collaboration across the IT industry, and with other industries, helps us achieve this objective. Four-phase supplier management system Introduction Assessment Validation and improvement Capability building • HP conducts preliminary risk • Suppliers complete • On-site audits • Identify key education areas assessment self-assessment • Corrective actions, if required • Build suppliers’ capability in key • SER requirements conﬁrmed in • HP review and feedback • Follow-up audits, if required areas by enhancing their skills, contract toolset, and expertise Number of suppliers reaching each phase, cumulative 1,000 Introduction Assessment 800 Validation and improvement 600 Capability building 400 200 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 96 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Phase 1: Introduction • Joint audits conducted by an external organization on behalf of HP and other EICC member companies. This auditing methodology is HP considers supplier risk profiles and conducts a formal risk assesscalled the Validated Audit Process (VAP) and was launched in 2010. ment if necessary. We then confirm SER requirements in our contract. It is designed to eliminate duplication by providing a common auditing approach that encourages companies in the electronics industry to share audits. We encourage our suppliers to use the We assess the following risk factors: VAP as an independent assessment of their performance. • Location Risk is higher in some locations than others. Responding to nonconformance • Procurement category Risk is higher in some procurement categories, such as manufactured parts, components, and real estate We rank levels of nonconformance to HP’s EICC Code of Conduct as construction services, and lower in others, such as software “major” and “minor” using standard International Organization for licensing, marketing services, and telecom services. Standardization (ISO) guidelines. • Company information Insight from previous audits, press articles, A nonconformance does not necessarily mean a violation has been incidents, or accidents may affect our assessment of supplier risk. found. It could also mean there are insufficient management • NGO reports We consider information highlighted in NGO reports systems in place to prevent violations from occurring. and determine whether action is required. Major nonconformance A significant failure in the management Our first-tier suppliers (see diagram below) select and manage their system that affects a company’s ability to ensure conditions own suppliers (HP second-tier suppliers). conform to HP’s EICC Code of Conduct or General Specification for the Environment. Suppliers must demonstrate that they have addressed major nonconformances within 180 days, by delivering Phase 2: Assessment appropriate documentation or other evidence of resolution. If HP’s risk assessments show a supplier poses a medium or high SER risk, it must complete a self-assessment questionnaire. These Zero-tolerance items are the most serious type of nonconformance. help us identify potential SER performance risks, and help suppliers These include underage workers (below the local legal age for work understand our expectations for conformance to HP’s Electronic or apprenticeship), forced labor, health and safety issues posing Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct. HP reviews immediate danger to life or risk of serious injury, and perceived and provides feedback on the self assessment, and suppliers create violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate harm and implement an improvement plan, if required. to the community. Our zero-tolerance policy requires auditors to escalate such items immediately. Suppliers must rectify these items no later than 30 days after the original audit. HP then re-examines Phase 3: Validation and improvement the zero-tolerance item between 30 and 90 days after the audit with Validating conformance an in-person visual verification to confirm resolution of the issue. HP uses local internal auditing teams, backed by independent veriMinor nonconformance Not a systemic problem and typically an fication. We use three types of audits: isolated finding, such as an out-of-date record or an overdue procedure that has not been revised, from an internal audit or a procedure • Audits conducted by HP employees. that has not been revised to reflect a change in regulations. • Audits conducted by an external organization to verify the results Suppliers have up to 360 days to address minor nonconformances. of HP audits or to independently investigate allegations. Risk-based approach to supply chain SER 649 low-risk suppliers introduced or assessed to date 188 suppliers audited through First-tier Second-tier Third-tier 2011; 50 (or more) will be suppliers suppliers suppliers re-audited in 2012 HP supports ﬁrst-tier HP and our ﬁrst-tier 35 (or more) new supplier sites suppliers in managing suppliers encourage will be audited in 2012 second-tier suppliers second-tier suppliers to manage their suppliers 97 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Corrective action plans HP requires suppliers to provide a detailed Building suppliers’ audit capabilities corrective action plan addressing all identified nonconformances (except zero-tolerance items, which are treated independently) We partner with some of our longer-standing suppliers to improve within 30 days of receipt of the site audit report. We review these their ability to audit their own suppliers. This forges a better underplans and request quarterly reports to monitor progress and subsestanding of the requirements and processes needed to resolve quent closure of nonconformances. When progress is inadequate, issues while encouraging greater ownership of the audit results and we intervene to help create a more effective plan. (See more in of overall performance. Detailed audit findings on page 102.) By building suppliers’ internal audit competencies, we allow our Phase 4: Capability building auditors to focus more on capability building. All of our lead auditors have been trained as SER consultants to suppliers, helping Remaining engaged with suppliers and providing support is as suppliers improve performance and strengthen their SER manageimportant to our SER program as uncovering problems. Our capament systems. bility building programs include collaboration with suppliers on key processes, such as reviewing corrective action plans, and implementing training programs in conjunction with local nongovernmental organizations and training groups. Internal collaboration and If a supplier rejects the continual improvement approach, we emphagovernance size that we will not tolerate serious or repeated violations of HP’s EICC Code and will terminate the relationship if needed. Terminating Our supply chain SER governance system defines responsibility and a contract can mean the loss of jobs, so we prefer to collaborate reporting across HP businesses and functions. All HP businesses with suppliers to improve SER performance where possible. (See support our supply chain SER program through the Supply Chain Capability building on page 110 for more information.) Board, which meets regularly and reports directly to the HP Executive Council. Supply chain governance structure Audit strategy We measure the SER performance of some suppliers using the Nominating and Governance Committee of the HP Board of Directors results of self-assessments, and of others using audits. We use supplier audits to verify conformance with HP’s EICC Code of HP Executive Council Conduct and to establish whether the supplier has systems in place (includes CEO and heads of each HP business unit and global function) to facilitate continued conformance. We perform these audits based on EICC tools. Audits enable HP to identify pressing issues and build corrective action plans with suppliers to address those Ethics and Supply Chain Board issues, as well as helping us to prioritize issues to cover in our capaCompliance Oﬃce (Supply Chain Sr. VPs from each HP business unit) bility building programs. Where appropriate, we are increasing the use of the EICC’s VAP. Supply Chain SER Program Occasionally, HP initiates a VAP of a supplier to verify our own find(sponsored by Supply Chain Board) ings or investigate specific allegations. Business and implementation support: • SER Business Unit Liaisons Procurement Supplier Collaborative audits (assigned by Supply Chain Board) organizations companies Achieving suppliers’ cooperation is essential to creating lasting Audit team members from: improvement. We usually announce audits in advance and conduct • Global Procurement Services them in the presence of facility management. Although this could • Environmental, Health, and Safety allow suppliers to present an artificially positive picture, skilled local auditors speaking the native language of the region and our robust audit methodology provide reasonable safeguards against suppliers hiding issues, and we believe this level of collaboration is an important aspect of building capability and helping management understand the issues. Announcing audits also contributes to building and maintaining strong relationships. 98 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report SER and procurement from believe that the pressures of our sourcing requirements, such as cost and deadlines, should not cause or encourage suppliers to production suppliers breach HP’s EICC Code. The success of HP’s SER program relies on the successful integration of SER issues into our procurement function. Through ongoing relationships with suppliers, HP’s procurement team is uniquely Introducing nonproduction suppliers positioned to help build suppliers’ understanding of how HP’s SER requirements translate into business benefits. These relationships HP’s supply chain SER program has historically focused on production include quarterly supplier business reviews and day-to-day engagesuppliers, which present the greatest SER risk. But since 2009, we ment in areas such as product quality, product delivery, business have expanded our program to include nonproduction suppliers. We continuity, and SER. Our procurement team is trained to undertake prioritize nonproduction suppliers to introduce to our SER program SER performance evaluation, education, and mentoring. (See based on the supplier’s risk profile and strategic value to HP. Case study: HP procurement and supply chain SER on page 113.) In 2011, we completed our first audits of nonproduction suppliers. In HP selects suppliers that agree to conform to the expectations and 2012, we will focus on engaging more suppliers in high-risk countries. standards in HP’s EICC Code, HP’s General Specification for the Environment, and applicable laws and regulations, while meeting our other business requirements. We use High-Performance Supplier Scorecards (HPSS), which include SER parameters alongside traditional business and services criteria, to monitor the Supplier list performance of suppliers with HP business worth more than $10 million USD. Suppliers with which HP has business worth less than HP was the first electronics company to publish a list of suppliers. $10 million USD are typically still included in the supply chain SER This list first appeared in our 2007 Global Citizenship Report. Our program. We also include SER requirements in every purchase order 2011 list includes first-tier suppliers representing more than 95% that we initiate with vendors. of our production supplier spend. Publishing this list remains an industry-leading practice. This year, we have added links when available to more information about our suppliers’ SER programs. We believe that better social and environmental standards lead to higher-quality products. They also protect our reputation and the continuity of our lines of supply by helping to ensure SER issues View a list of our production suppliers, as of the end of fiscal year do not adversely affect a supplier’s production capability. We 2011. Performance programs over time. Whereas previously we compared suppliers’ Summary audit results performance between initial audit and follow-up audit, we now only compare initial audits with full re-audits. The analysis in this The graph on the next page shows the growth of HP’s supply chain section therefore differs from previous years. social and environmental responsibility (SER) audit program. As our program matures, fewer suppliers enter it, so the proportional The graph on the next page shows that rates of minor and major increase of initial audits is lower. We conduct a higher proportion of nonconformance against HP’s Electronic Industry Citizenship full re-audits to encourage continual improvement. This reflects our Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct decreased between 2005 and focus on supporting long-term SER performance improvements. 2011. We attribute this continual improvement to our validation system, with its focus on collaborative audits and corrective Changes in analysis and comparisons actions, and our efforts to build our suppliers’ capabilities. Follow-up audits allow HP to confirm that nonconformances discovered during initial audits are fully closed, while full re-audits show how the supplier has improved management systems and 99 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report SER audits conducted, 2007–2011 [total, cumulative] 800 600 400 200 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Initial audits 204 236 261 294 329 Follow-up audits 144 220 291 319 339 Full re-audits 6 30 39 68 92 Total 354 486 591 681 760 Distribution of audit findings, 2005–2011 [percentage of findings] 100% No nonconformances No nonconformances 80% Minor Full re-audit Initial audit Major 60% 40% 20% 0% 20% 40% Nonconformances 60% 100 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report The chart below illustrates the effectiveness of our validation and improvement process, which involves auditing supplier sites and requiring corrective actions. Across all provisions in HP’s EICC Code, 80% of all nonconformances identified in initial audits were either reduced in severity or confirmed to be closed in subsequent full re-audits. The chart also demonstrates that nonconformances have been easier to address for some sections of the code than others. Nonconformances reduced by section of HP’s EICC Code, 2005–2011* [percentage] Overall Environmental, health, and safety management system Ethics General Labor and ethics management system Environment Health and safety Labor 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% * Graph includes only results from initial audits and full re-audits, for comparability. The chart below shows the distribution of major nonconformances across the provisions of HP’s EICC Code from initial and full re-audits in 2010–2011. Health and safety and labor management account for the majority of major nonconformances. Distribution of major nonconformances by section of HP’s EICC Code, 2010–2011* [percentage] Health and safety 31% Labor 27% Labor and ethics management system 11% Environment 10% Environmental, health, and safety management system 9% General 7% Ethics 6% * Graph includes only results from initial audits and full re-audits, for comparability. 101 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report For details about other issues identified in audits and HP’s response Mexico, audit results showed labor issues to be less prevalent by region, see Detailed audit findings on page 102. among nonproduction suppliers than production suppliers. In India, reports from nongovernmental organizations and media have alleged serious social and environmental issues in the facilities of Nonproduction supplier audit results electronics suppliers, including nonproduction suppliers. The audit In 2011, HP performed the first three audits of our nonproduction we conducted of a supplier in that country, however, showed a high suppliers. These were call center service providers in China and level of conformance to HP’s EICC Code. Mexico, and a technology service provider in India. In China and Detailed audit findings * Locations with audits Locations without audits 20% 10% 70% of total spend of total spend of total spend Americas Europe, Middle East, and Africa Asia Paciﬁc * Information in map and audit findings relates to production suppliers only. In 2011, HP conducted 79 supplier site audits (including initial Responding to zero-tolerance items audits, follow-up audits, and full re-audits). Although not represented in these tables, nonproduction supplier sites in China, India, In 2011, HP’s audits uncovered one zero-tolerance item. An HP and Mexico accounted for three of these audits. See Nonproduction plastic component supplier completed a self-assessment questionsupplier audit results (above) for an overview of these audits. naire that raised concerns related to worker living conditions. This prompted HP to perform an audit of the supplier, which found that workers’ dormitories at the supplier factory were being locked at night. This was identified as a zero-tolerance item due to lack of Significant issues safety for workers. Per HP’s zero-tolerance policy, the situation required immediate Excessive working hours remain the most common issue in our resolution. HP’s audit team and representatives from HP’s procureaudits, especially in Asia Pacific and China. In 2011, we also found a ment team responsible for the relationship with the supplier high number of major nonconformances related to emergency worked with the supplier to address the problem within days. The preparedness. The primary causes of these major nonconforsupplier also attended HP’s Migrant Worker training program to mances include issues related to evacuation drills and evacuation further understand the EICC Code requirements, including those for routes/emergency exits. workers’ dormitories. 102 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Global findings Rate of nonconformance Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* EICC Code provisions in sites audited* Major Minor Major Minor General Environmental EICC Code awareness 5% 13% Environmental permits and 4% 5% reporting Compliance with laws 2% 2% Pollution prevention and resource 5% 9% Supplier management program 27% 29% reduction Labor Hazardous substances 20% 59% Freely chosen employment 9% 30% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 9% Child labor avoidance** 2% 52% Air emissions 4% 4% Working hours*** 66% 13% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Wages and benefits 29% 30% Ethics Humane treatment 4% 30% Business integrity 4% 11% Nondiscrimination 16% 13% No improper advantage 4% 9% Freedom of association 2% 11% Disclosure of information 0% 2% Labor management system Intellectual property 2% 2% Overall 13% 0% Fair business, advertising, and 4% 5% competition Health and safety Protection of identity 14% 13% Occupational safety 20% 54% Community engagement 0% 0% Emergency preparedness 48% 34% * This data reflects the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits conducted in 2011. It does not Occupational injury and illness 18% 39% necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily Industrial hygiene 20% 34% indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under Physically demanding work 9% 55% the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered. Machine safeguarding 7% 30% *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed Dormitory and canteen 16% 32% 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. Environmental health and safety management • Workers are provided with at least 1 day off per 7 workdays on average. Overall 9% 0% 103 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Greater China findings Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* The major issues identified during audits in Greater China included Major Minor emergency preparedness and working hours. Wages and benefits was also an issue, although to a lesser extent. Health and safety Since 2009, we have asked certain supplier sites in China with major Occupational safety 25% 54% nonconformances related to working hours to report monthly key Emergency preparedness 54% 36% performance indicators (KPIs) that track the average number of hours worked and the amount of overtime. (See Working hours KPIs Occupational injury and illness 11% 32% for more information.) Industrial hygiene 29% 46% Our capability building programs in China also enhance awareness Physically demanding work 7% 79% of labor rights, helping employees raise concerns with regard to wages and benefits. Machine safeguarding 4% 25% Dormitory and canteen 25% 36% Environmental health and safety management Audits conducted in 2011 Overall 0% 0% Number of Environmental Initial Follow-up Full workers at Environmental permits and 7% 7% Location audits audits re-audits sites audited reporting China 17 7 11 188,900 Pollution prevention and resource 7% 4% reduction Total 17 7 11 188,900 Hazardous substances 18% 61% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 4% Rate of nonconformance Air emissions 4% 0% EICC Code provisions in sites audited* Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Major Minor Ethics General Business integrity 4% 11% EICC Code awareness 0% 18% No improper advantage 0% 7% Compliance with laws 0% 4% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Supplier management program 25% 29% Intellectual property 0% 0% Labor Fair business, advertising, and 0% 4% Freely chosen employment 11% 29% competition Child labor avoidance** 0% 61% Protection of identity 7% 11% Working hours*** 75% 18% Community engagement 0% 0% Wages and benefits 39% 46% * This data reflects the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits conducted in 2011. It does not Humane treatment 7% 29% necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily Nondiscrimination 21% 7% indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under Freedom of association 0% 4% the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered. Labor management system *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: Overall 14% 0% • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least 1 day off per 7 workdays on average. 104 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Asia Pacific findings Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* In Asia Pacific, our audits identified working hours and emergency Major Minor preparedness as significant issues. We will use working hours KPIs to address the working hours issue based on our experience in China. Health and safety We track KPIs from suppliers with major working hours nonconformances in China to better understand the extent of the problem and Occupational safety 29% 14% solutions to reduce the instances of major nonconformances. Emergency preparedness 43% 29% Occupational injury and illness 21% 50% Industrial hygiene 14% 21% Audits conducted in 2011 Physically demanding work 0% 21% Number of Machine safeguarding 14% 29% Initial Follow-up Full workers at Location audits audits re-audits sites audited Dormitory and canteen 7% 50% Australia 1 0 0 200 Environmental health and safety management Indonesia 0 2 0 3,100 Overall 36% 0% Malaysia 5 3 1 14,500 Environmental Philippines 1 0 1 3,900 Environmental permits and 0% 0% reporting Singapore 3 0 1 1,500 Pollution prevention and resource 0% 14% Thailand 0 1 1 13,900 reduction Total 10 6 4 37,100 Hazardous substances 21% 57% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 14% Air emissions 7% 0% Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Major Minor Ethics General Business integrity 7% 7% EICC Code awareness 21% 7% No improper advantage 14% 0% Compliance with laws 7% 0% Disclosure of information 0% 7% Supplier management program 21% 14% Intellectual property 0% 0% Labor Fair business, advertising, and 14% 0% competition Freely chosen employment 14% 36% Protection of identity 14% 14% Child labor avoidance** 7% 50% Community engagement 0% 0% Working hours*** 86% 7% * This data reflects the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits conducted in 2011. It does not Wages and benefits 29% 14% necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily Humane treatment 0% 43% indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be Nondiscrimination 21% 14% considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconforFreedom of association 7% 36% mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered. *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least Labor management system one of the following requirements was not met: • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed Overall 21% 0% 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least 1 day off per 7 workdays on average. 105 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Europe findings Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* The audits uncovered major nonconformances in health and safety Major Minor provisions such as emergency preparedness, occupational injury and illness, and physically demanding work. Despite these findings, Health and safety suppliers in Europe have made strong improvements in social and environmental responsibility (SER) performance. For example, 2011 Occupational safety 0% 100% audits resulted in significant decreases in the number of findings Emergency preparedness 29% 43% related to pollution prevention and resource reduction compared with 2010. Occupational injury and illness 29% 29% Industrial hygiene 14% 0% Audits conducted in 2011 Physically demanding work 29% 14% Machine safeguarding 14% 29% Number of Initial Follow-up Full workers at Dormitory and canteen 0% 0% Location audits audits re-audits sites audited Environmental health and safety management Czech 2 2 3 5,200 Republic Overall 0% 0% Hungary 0 1 1 1,900 Environmental Poland 0 1 0 700 Environmental permits and 0% 0% reporting Turkey 1 0 0 200 Pollution prevention and resource 0% 0% Total 3 4 4 8,000 reduction Hazardous substances 0% 71% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 0% Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* Air emissions 0% 14% Major Minor Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) General Ethics EICC Code awareness 0% 0% Business integrity 0% 0% Compliance with laws 0% 0% No improper advantage 0% 0% Supplier management program 29% 43% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Labor Intellectual property 0% 0% Freely chosen employment 0% 14% Fair business, advertising, and 0% 0% competition Child labor avoidance** 0% 29% Protection of identity 14% 29% Working hours*** 14% 0% Community engagement 0% 0% Wages and benefits 14% 29% * This data reflects the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits conducted in 2011. It does not Humane treatment 0% 14% necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily Nondiscrimination 0% 14% indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be Freedom of association 0% 0% considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconforLabor management system mances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered. *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least Overall 0% 0% one of the following requirements was not met: • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least 1 day off per 7 workdays on average. 106 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Latin America findings Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* Major nonconformances were found in relation to emergency Major Minor preparedness; however, the rate of occurrence of these findings has decreased since 2010. Suppliers in Latin America have improved Health and safety their performance against health and safety, labor, and environmental provisions of HP’s EICC Code compared with 2010. Occupational safety 0% 86% Emergency preparedness 57% 29% Occupational injury and illness 29% 57% Audits conducted in 2011 Industrial hygiene 0% 57% Physically demanding work 14% 71% Number of Initial Follow-up Full workers at Machine safeguarding 0% 57% Location audits audits re-audits sites audited Dormitory and canteen 14% 14% Brazil 2 1 5 11,300 Environmental health and safety management Mexico 0 2 0 5,700 Overall 0% 0% Total 2 3 5 17,000 Environmental Environmental permits and 0% 14% reporting Rate of nonconformance EICC Code provisions in sites audited* Pollution prevention and resource 14% 29% reduction Major Minor Hazardous substances 43% 43% General Wastewater and solid waste 0% 29% EICC Code awareness 0% 14% Air emissions 0% 14% Compliance with laws 0% 0% Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 36.) Supplier management program 43% 43% Ethics Labor Business integrity 0% 29% Freely chosen employment 0% 43% No improper advantage 0% 43% Child labor avoidance** 0% 43% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Working hours*** 43% 14% Intellectual property 14% 14% Wages and benefits 0% 0% Fair business, advertising, and 0% 29% Humane treatment 0% 29% competition Nondiscrimination 0% 29% Protection of identity 43% 0% Freedom of association 0% 0% Community engagement 0% 0% Labor management system * This data reflects the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits conducted in 2011. It does not Overall 0% 0% necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered a major nonconformance, but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2011, no child labor was uncovered. *** A major nonconformance in the working hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least 1 day off per 7 workdays on average. 107 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Working hours KPIs for 65% of those suppliers the average working week is less than 60 hours per week including overtime. Additionally, the number of people working less than 60 hours per week has increased 10% HP is making a concerted effort to reduce instances of excessive over the past 2 years. In particular, we have seen positive results working hours in our suppliers’ facilities, as this is one of the main when a facility’s management has acknowledged the benefits of sources of nonconformance in audits. HP’s EICC Code requirement reporting and monitoring these KPIs. states that workweeks are not to exceed the maximum set by local law and, further, a workweek should not be more than 60 hours per Currently, more than 70% (by spend) of supplier sites in China with week, including overtime except in emergency or unusual situations. major nonconformances related to working hours report monthly KPIs to us, and we aim to increase that to 75% by the end of 2012. Since 2009, we have required supplier sites in China with major In 2011, HP began verifying supplier KPI data as part of SER nonconformances related to working hours to report monthly KPIs supplier audits. We did not find any inaccuracies between our audit that track the amount of overtime and the number of days each findings and the self-reported data from our suppliers. worker has off per week. The data we have received showed that Collaboration The larger electronics manufacturers typically supply numerous • Supply chain best practice HP works with the Global Social major brands. In the information technology (IT) supply chain, many Compliance Program (GSCP)—a group of leading companies from companies are both suppliers to and customers of each other. the retail, clothing, and food industries—to improve social and environmental conditions in the supply chains of multiple sectors. Electronics manufacturers and brands therefore benefit from In 2011, the GSCP implemented a program to assist companies to collaboration. It allows them to share best practices and resources, benchmark their systems, tools, and processes against existing standardize tools and processes, avoid duplication, and develop best practices. HP is using this program to drive ongoing improveconsistent approaches to improving social and environmental ment of existing supply chain SER practices. HP Director of Social responsibility (SER) performance. Moreover, suppliers’ appreciation and Environmental Sustainability and Compliance Zoe McMahon of strong SER performance heightens when they receive a consisserves on the organization’s board, and several HP representatent message from many of their customers. tives participate as working group members. HP also learns from the experiences of companies outside of • Labor conditions in the Pearl River Delta The Dutch Sustainable our industry. This collaboration generally occurs through multiTrade Initiative (IDH), a multi-stakeholder effort, aims to accelsector initiatives. erate sustainable trade by building impact-oriented coalitions of leading multinationals, civil society organizations, governments, Examples of collaboration within our industry and across others and other stakeholders. In 2011, the IDH introduced a sustaininclude: ability plan for 100 electronics manufacturers located in the Pearl River Delta region in China, a heavily industrial area. The primary goal of the plan is to improve working conditions at factories. HP General is helping to develop the plan and encouraging suppliers to engage in IDH assessments. • Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) HP has been a member of the EICC, with board representation, since 2004. Through joint collaboration, the EICC has helped member compaEnvironment nies, and the electronics industry as a whole, achieve significant SER • Energy Efficiency Partnership program HP works with BSR to progress. In 2011, HP benefited from EICC collaboration through: reduce the environmental impact of HP’s product manufacturing • The collection of greenhouse gas emissions data for 95% of activities by creating and promoting local energy-efficiency suppliers by spend, as part of the EICC’s carbon reporting system programs at supplier factories in China. (See Manufacturing on page 38 for more information.) • The launch of EICC-ON, a technology platform that helps members store and share EICC Code of Conduct compliance data from suppliers 108 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Human rights Environment • Extractives issues HP led the establishment of the EICC Global • Climate Counts Company Scorecard HP ranked number two overall. e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Extractives Work Group on extracThe ranking scores companies on climate-awareness building tives issues. HP was one of the leading member companies among suppliers and partners, and companies’ use of life cycle contributing to the development of a conflict-free smelter validaassessment to improve the environmental performance of their tion program, an in-region mineral certification system, a regional products. HP was the leading company in the electronics sector. social support service, Organisation for Economic Co-operation Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance, and a concept Labor paper for a public-private partnership. (See Conflict minerals on • Labor rights in Mexico “The Crisis that Never Went Away,” Centro page 87 for more information.) de Reflexión y Acción Laboral’s (CEREAL) fourth report on conditions in Mexican electronics factories, raised concerns about low wages, • Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI) HP is a absence of freedom of association, and temporary employment. founding member of GBI. We aim to show leadership and raise The report ranked HP as “good” (one of only two companies to awareness of human rights issues within the business community receive that ranking, the highest received by any company and one and to contribute to the development of practical approaches by ranking short of “excellent,” the highest possible ranking), based testing emerging best practices in our operations and supply on the number of incidents and their severity, our willingness to chain. (See Human rights on page 85 for more information.) engage in dialogue, our efficiency in resolving cases, structural changes made to improve working conditions, and worker testimonies. Sharing experiences • Migrant worker mistreatment in Malaysia Several reports in 2011 alleged mistreatment of migrant workers in the electronics Our supply chain SER program staff regularly contribute to external industry in Malaysia. The allegations included: publications and share our experiences with other organizations. In 2011, these efforts included: • GoodElectronics, an NGO dedicated to improving the environmental and social performance of electronics companies, • The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) report, published a report profiling a Malaysia-based HP supplier. The “Social Sustainability Resource Guide: Building Sustainable report alleged that the supplier was mistreating migrant Communities through Multi-Party Collaboration,” features HP’s workers, withholding passports, enforcing excessive working collaboration with Hong Kong nongovernmental organization (NGO) hours, and overlooking certain health and safety issues. HP Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior (SACOM) to investigated the claim with the supplier, reviewed the company’s develop labor rights training programs for workers. HP’s former corrective action plan, and conducted a full follow-up audit that director of Social and Environmental Sustainability and Compliance, confirmed resolution of the issues. Judy Glazer, was a co-author of the report. • Malaysian media reported that an HP supplier had illegally • The Hong Kong Productivity Council (HKPC), a quasigovernemployed migrant workers without working permits, after the mental organization, published “Green and Ethical Procurement Malaysian Director General of Immigration delayed the approval Requirements,” a global sourcing guidebook that references of these permits. Subsequently, the Director General released a HP’s SER program as the pioneer and leader in green and ethical statement confirming that the Immigration Department will procurement. issue permits in a timely manner and that workers should hold on to their passports. External monitoring To raise awareness of the issue among suppliers, HP held a training program in August 2011 regarding the guidelines for employing A number of third-party organizations, particularly NGOs, raise migrant workers. concerns regarding specific issues in the electronics industry supply chain and aim to improve performance through producing assess• Poor working conditions in China NGO China Labor Watch (CLW) ment reports and direct contact with companies. This input is an released two reports regarding poor working conditions at elecimportant barometer of current and emerging supply chain issues. tronics manufacturing suppliers in China: Notable external monitoring in 2011 included: • One report alleged serious working condition issues at an HP supplier, including discrimination; excessive working hours; no paid sick, maternal, or marriage leave; and low wages. HP worked with the supplier to implement a corrective action plan, and the supplier committed to investing more resources into improving conditions. The supplier now reports monthly key performance 109 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report indicators (KPIs) to HP, allowing both companies to more closely • Supply Chain Ethics and Values Prize The Confederation of monitor performance. The KPIs showed that the supplier elimiIndustrial Chambers of Mexico (CONCAMIN), a business group, nated excessive overtime during the last 6 months of 2012 and awarded HP the Supply Chain Ethics and Values Prize for the third that it complied with EICC Code requirements relating to working consecutive year. The award, presented by Mexican President hours throughout the last 2 months. Felipe Calderón, recognizes best practices in Mexico in engaging suppliers in SER initiatives. • A broader report, entitled “Tragedies of Globalization: The Truth Behind Electronics Sweatshops,” investigated working condiHuman rights tions at nine electronics companies in China. HP was not one of those nine companies featured in the report; however, we were • Corporate challenges in repressive regimes and conflict zones mentioned in it. Our supply chain SER program addresses many Swedish business relations NGO Swedwatch’s report, “Passive of the issues that the report highlighted, such as working hours, Observers or Active Defenders of Human Rights?” discussed the labor contracts, and discrimination. positive impact of HP’s supply chain SER program, focusing on workers’ rights training. Capability building While HP’s audits help to assess the application of social and environmental responsibility (SER) standards and performance at Since HP began working with suppliers on capability building supplier factories, they are only one part of our program. We also programs in 2006, we have: work with suppliers to deliver substantial and lasting SER performance improvements on a broad range of issues. Creating lasting • Carried out 19 programs in 9 countries on topics such as antidischange, however, takes time. Our suppliers must not only improve crimination, energy efficiency, labor rights, and women’s health their management capabilities, but also often challenge a prevailing culture. Our work builds knowledge and strengthens processes, • Engaged about 60% of production suppliers (by spend) educating employees throughout supplier organizations. We aim to instill behavioral changes that shift less developed practices away • Impacted approximately 2,500 managers and 136,000 workers from historical norms toward ever-improving SER performance. • Trained about 150 second-tier suppliers Supplier capabilities are built most effectively through collabora• Confirmed performance improvements by suppliers engaging in tion. HP works with local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) capability building programs, as verified by audits and training groups to deliver our programs. These are directed toward supplier management and workers, and address general awareness of HP’s Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, ethics, labor, health and safety, environment, and management systems. Introducing new suppliers We introduce new suppliers to our supply chain SER program each year and hold supplier education forums to communicate our SER Demonstrating results expectations. In 2011, we held 10 events in China. The graphs on the following pages illustrate performance improvements made by suppliers that have participated in HP capability As our relationships with suppliers develop, we work to instill good building programs. These suppliers have shown greater decreases practices among lower-tier suppliers as well. HP has trained more in the number of major nonconformances found in full re-audits than 150 second-tier suppliers through programs conducted jointly (across all audit categories) than suppliers that did not participate. with our first-tier suppliers. 110 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP’s capability building Gender Equity Model (Modelo de Equidad de Genero—MEG) Certification Program initiatives 2011 Audience: Management (six suppliers trained and certified) Partner: Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres Below are examples of our main capability building programs in 2011. Led by the Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres in Mexico, a government institution, MEG trains and certifies suppliers on management EICC Code of Conduct awareness systems related to gender equality and harassment. The main objective of this model is to encourage companies to adopt nondisSupplier forum in China crimination policies and avoid harassment in the workplace. HP Audience: Management (more than 180 participants from invites suppliers to take part in the program. 90 suppliers) Migrant labor training We held a 2-day supplier meeting in China, which communicated our expectations and requirements regarding HP’s EICC Code to suppliers. Audience: Management (33 managers from 19 suppliers) Verite, one of our larger, long-term training partners, facilitated a Partner: Monitoring Sustainability of Globalization day-long training session on enhancing management systems. We also invited suppliers and specialists to share best practices and In response to rising issues regarding the use and treatment of experiences from previous capability building initiatives such as the migrant workers in Southeast Asia, HP delivered best practice HERproject and our Energy Efficiency Partnership program. training to senior managers of suppliers in Malaysia and Singapore. HP’s supply chain SER team shared HP’s new guidelines for employing migrant workers and carried out a gap analysis of Labor and ethics suppliers in the region to determine where the guidelines were not being used. HP plans to place more focus on management systems Hepatitis B anti-discrimination program for migrant workers in audits during 2012. Audience: Workers and management (70,000 workers at 15 facilities) Partner: Inno Community Development Organisation Predeparture training HP considers hepatitis B (HBV) tests in employee hiring processes to Audience: Facility and school trainers (180 trainers from 3 training be violations of the nondiscrimination provision of HP’s EICC Code. centers) We have held training programs in China since 2009 to raise awarePartner: Labour Education and Service Network (LESN) ness of hepatitis B and eliminate discrimination. In 2011, we NGOs have raised concern about suppliers in China recruiting labor expanded the program, reaching approximately 50,000 workers in from vocational schools under the pretense of internships to learn addition to 20,000 the prior year. Through handouts and on-site technical skills. Reports suggest these young workers are instead promotions, we educated employers about the risks of discriminaused as unskilled labor for manufacturing. In addition to our work tory practices and improved workers’ understanding regarding the to improve understanding of HP’s EICC Code, we have implemented spread of HBV. Facilities that have taken part in the Hepatitis B antipredeparture training for suppliers and schools to address the discrimination program have reduced the number of major issue. This teaches facility and school trainers how to prepare nonconformances found in full re-audits by about 30% on average, interns for work life, including knowledge of labor rights and occucompared with an average decrease of 10% for all other suppliers pational health, and how to adapt to city life. Each participant in the same region. received a guide on how to deliver the training. In 2011, sessions were held in three areas across China. We reached more than HBV training participation and SER performance, 2007–2011 23,400 graduates and interns through the program. (See (average number of major nonconformances) Perspective: So Sheung on page 113 and Goals: society on page 166 for more information.) 10 Suppliers participating in HBV training 8 All other suppliers in same region So Sheung 6 Chief Executive, LESN 4 So worked with HP to help suppliers and schools educate 2 interns about labor rights, occupational health, and other 0 issues. Read So’s full perspecInitial audit Full re-audit tive on page 113. 111 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Worker management communications HERproject participation and SER performance, 2007–2011 (average number of major nonconformances) Audience: Management and workers (more than 15,000 management and workers from 17 facilities) Partner: Xin Shi Min Zhi Jia (Chinese NGO) 8 Suppliers participating in HERproject HP introduced our worker management communications training in 2008. The program continues to help workers better understand 6 All other suppliers their labor rights and how they can raise grievances about their in same region working environment. We also provide training to workers’ representative committees. Facilities that have taken part in worker 4 management communications training or other labor rights awareness training have reduced the number of major nonconformances 2 found in full re-audits by about 30% on average, compared with a 15% decrease on average for all other suppliers in the same region. 0 Initial audit Full re-audit Worker management communications and SER performance, 2007–2011 (average number of major nonconformances) 8 Suppliers participating Job stress prevention in labor rights training Audience: Workers (16 suppliers) 6 All other suppliers Partner: Hong Kong Workers Health Centre in same region HP hosted sessions to encourage frontline workers to become 4 involved in improving their own working conditions, a preventative measure aimed at reducing stress. Sessions on work stress 2 management informed workers about the Mental Health Action checklist, which contains guidelines for workers to help them maintain a healthy, reduced-stress working environment. The instructor 0 was a well-known occupational health professional who previously Initial audit Full re-audit served as the director of Working Conditions and Environment at the International Labour Organization (ILO). In 2012, we will ask workers to evaluate their own mental health and occupational health issues. Health and safety Health Enables Return (HER) project Environmental Energy Efficiency Partnership program Audience: Workers (approximately 30,000 workers at 10 supplier sites in China and Mexico since 2008) Audience: Management Partner: BSR Partner: BSR The HERproject addresses the general and reproductive health In 2011, HP continued working with the BSR Energy Efficiency needs of women working in manufacturing in a range of industries, Partnership program in China to help major suppliers reduce energy including electronics. The program focuses on AIDS and sexually use, cut greenhouse gas emissions, and lower costs. See transmitted disease prevention, birth control, peer education, and Manufacturing on page 38 for more information. In 2012, we demonstrating the business benefits of encouraging worker health plan to expand our role by partnering with the World Wildlife Fund, and development. HP began participating in the project in Mexico in adding resources and extending the reach of the initiative to addi2008 (working with Pegatron and Foxconn). In 2011, the third year tional companies. Program participation will total 34 suppliers and we’ve run the program in China, we worked with eight suppliers 50 sites across China, up from 8 suppliers and 12 sites in 2011. sites, reaching more than 26,000 female workers. Facilities that have taken part in the HERproject have reduced the Management systems number of major nonconformances found in full re-audits by about Toward sustainable compliance 49% on average, compared with an 8% decrease on average for all other suppliers in the same region. Audience: Management (35 managers from 32 suppliers) Partner: Western Digital In 2011, HP expanded our hard disk drive supplier SER program to include suppliers in Malaysia, having previously only focused on suppliers in Thailand. HP and key first-tier suppliers use the program to raise awareness of HP’s EICC Code. The program also facilitated best practice sharing among supplier management 112 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report while supporting them to implement SER-related management To make this happen, HP includes SER considerations in all engagesystems. The 2011 training included HP’s first-, second-, and ment with suppliers—from contractual language to scorecards that third-tier suppliers. assess a supplier’s overall performance (see SER and procurement). Hard disk drive supplier SER program implementation Suppliers take seriously SER concerns raised by our procurement employees. And, Ghiya notes, suppliers appreciate HP’s focus in this Audience: Management (90 managers from 27 suppliers) area. “Suppliers know that HP invests considerable resources and Partner: Western Digital time to improve supplier accountability and performance with In 2011, HP ran a program to help first-tier suppliers prepare for an regard to SER. They appreciate the support that HP procurement EICC Code of Conduct audit. The program covered topics including professionals provide to get things right.” documentation and the importance of worker and management interviews, while also allowing suppliers to share experiences A recent supplier SER concern that HP has helped to address is regarding challenges and opportunities. migrant workers in Southeast Asia. Due to the rapid growth of the electronics manufacturing industry in Southeast Asia, facilities See descriptions of our historical capability building initiatives in increasingly employ migrant workers. According to some reports, our 2008, 2009, and 2010 Global Citizenship Reports. migrant workers may be unfamiliar with their rights and language barriers may prevent them from communicating freely. Case study: HP procurement and supply HP works to educate suppliers about these and related risks. We chain SER stress the importance of conducting thorough SER risk assessments, developing management tools to help prevent issues from HP’s procurement organization manages the company’s relationarising, and promptly addressing issues when they do arise. We ships with its suppliers. This involves a high level of ongoing also hold workshops and speaking events to convene suppliers to interaction. Our procurement employees share guidance and experlearn from HP and external experts, as well as from each other. tise with supplier representatives, which contributes to HP’s success as well as to the advancement and maturity of suppliers. For example, in 2011 HP held a training program to inform Malaysian suppliers of the appropriate guidelines for employing This close communication includes a focus on supplier social and migrant workers (based on the EICC Code as well as Foreign Migrant environmental responsibility (SER). Kinnar Ghiya, director of Worker rules and other requirements) and to share best practices. Strategic Sourcing and part of the Operations organization with Thirty-three managers from 19 suppliers participated in the event, HP’s Imaging and Printing Group (IPG), says that establishing a at which Ghiya delivered a keynote address. HP plans to continue to supplier base that shares our recognition of the importance of SER focus in this area during 2012. See Capability building on page 110 is crucial to HP’s ongoing success. for more detail. Perspective: So Sheung Note from HP: During the last several years, NGOs have raised and interns through the program. HP is also involved in the concern about suppliers in China recruiting labor from vocational Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Asia Steering Committee schools under the pretense of internships to learn technical skills. student workers project. The initiative is working to review the Reports suggest these young workers are instead used as unskilled status of student workers in the supply chain, summarize the legal labor for manufacturing. We have implemented predeparture requirements for employing student workers, and implement guidetraining for suppliers and schools, which teaches facility and school lines to drive compliance in this area. trainers how to educate interns about issues such as labor rights and occupational health, and how to adapt to city life. In 2011, We asked So Sheung, Chief Executive, Labour Education and Service sessions were held in three areas across China: Chongqing, Network (LESN), to speak about the issue and HP’s activities in Guangzhou, and Wuhan. We reached more than 23,400 graduates this area. 113 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Q: Can you explain the importance of HP’s role in providing this training? A: The use of student workers is highly problematic in China. One of the major risks is schools violating regulations and sending students under 16 to work in factories. HP is a crucial business partner for factories. HP raises student worker issues to factories by spreading awareness through this training. So Sheung Chief Executive, LESN Q: What impact has HP had through its involvement? A: HP has successfully introduced or increased awareness of issues relating to student workers to a few major suppliers, Q: Why are companies in China hiring students from technical and instigated several large-scale training programs. schools more regularly? A: Students make up a large and highly flexible labor pool. Official statistics from 2009 state that more than 17 million students Q: What else could HP do? were registered in more than 10,000 technical schools, and A: We expect the issue of student workers to continue to raise about 7 million graduate annually. All technical school students social concerns in China. It would be beneficial for HP to take are required to fulfill a 1-year internship or placement, and most an even stronger role in alleviating this growing problem. of them are sent to electronics manufacturing facilities. The internships are agreed to between schools and employers. Any HP has focused on initial induction trainings for teachers and school can send several hundred students to internships in one personnel. HP could develop more in-depth programs with key facility with only a few weeks “lead time.” suppliers and provide more comprehensive training for vocational school teachers. HP could also evaluate the effectiveness Students in internships are not regarded as formal workers of this model to understand how much awareness has been under Chinese labor law, so some factories use student workers raised among student workers. to lower costs. Q: What are the expectations of a young worker taking a job with a Q: How do you plan to evolve the program in the future? company like those that supply HP? A: We would like to make the program more in depth, delivering A: Younger generation workers are more aware of labor rights. training to vocational school teachers over a longer, more intenUnlike their parents, who typically returned to their home locasive period at certain schools or factories. The program should tions, younger workers expect to stay in the cities where they develop participatory evaluations with the workers receiving the find jobs. Work satisfaction, job prospects, respect, and quality trainings for continuous improvement. of life are as important to them as their salaries. Q: What are the objectives of predeparture training? A: The objective of predeparture training is to better prepare workers for living and working in new cities. It aims to: • Improve students’ awareness of labor rights and laws, occupational health and safety, reproductive health and hygiene, sexual harassment, and HIV/AIDS prevention, among other issues. • Improve students’ self-esteem and psychological preparation for working in cities. • Improve students’ self-preservation skills and awareness. We hope to train teachers and factory personnel to better understand student workers. This way, employers can provide suitable training and work environments for students, help prepare them for the type of work they will be doing, and inform them about students’ rights associated with this work. However, it can be challenging to find good teachers for the program. Teachers participate in predeparture training. 114 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report LESN Established in 2001, LESN is an independent labor NGO aiming to Feedback from training empower workers in mainland China. LESN provides a wide range of services to numerous migrant workers in the Pearl River Delta • 工厂需要多了解学生的期望 region, including labor dispute hotlines and support services, (Factories need to better understand worker expectations.) worker awareness raising activities, in-factory training workshops, • 解决新生代工人问题的方法是多样的 hospital visits and support to industrial accident victims, and (The new generation of migrant workers must be handled various recreational activities. To increase public support for differently.) migrant workers, LESN also publishes books on the poor conditions of some workers in China. With support from various government • 沟通与培训方式是留住员工的关键因素 and university partners, LESN also organizes labor service projects (Communications and training are crucial to decreasing and advocacy conferences on labor-related regulations. worker turnover.) Supplier diversity Register your interest in becoming a supplier to HP. and became corporate members of Minority Supplier Development China (MSD China) and the Australian Indigenous Minority Supplier Diverse suppliers bring innovation to HP’s supply chain, helping us Council (AIMSC). gain a competitive advantage while supporting our global citizenship efforts. HP’s Global Supplier Diversity program helps create a As the program has expanded globally, it has gained more recognisupply chain that is diverse, inclusive, and global—similar to our tion across HP. Employees are using diverse supplier events around customers and employees. the world to engage with customers more regularly. HP has maintained a Global Supplier Diversity Office for more than 40 years. We belong to more than 20 supplier diversity organizations in Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. Our supplier diversity program supports minority-, woman-, veteran-, lesbian-, Diverse supplier events bisexual-, gay-, and transgender-owned businesses, and small HP hosts events with local business councils and participates in businesses generally, to compete for HP business. We offer diverse regional and national events that introduce diverse suppliers to supplier development programs, access to technology solutions, potential customers. In 2011, HP procurement professionals particand educational scholarships. ipated in more than 20 such events in Australia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Supplier diversity is mandatory for fulfilling contracts with many government agencies around the world. Increasingly, large enterIn the United States these included: prise customers also expect HP to demonstrate a commitment to supplier diversity. In 2011, we estimate that more than $12 billion • Business matchmaking HP collaborated with SCORE, a resource USD of contracts required HP to demonstrate our efforts in this area. partner with the U.S. Small Business Administration, to sponsor the multicity Business Matchmaking program, offering small businesses the chance to participate in governmental and major corporate procurement opportunities. These events have faciliGlobal supplier diversity tated more than 75,000 seller-to-buyer meetings. • HP Connect These summits provide several hundred prescreened We continue to expand our supplier diversity program beyond the small and minorityand women-owned businesses the chance to United States into Asia, Canada, and Europe. Our work with governspeak face to face with HP commodity managers and targeted HP ments and others establishes appropriate regional definitions of tier-one suppliers. diversity that reflect local society and culture. In Shanghai, China, HP participated in Increasing the Global Value In 2011, we maintained our financial sponsorship of the Canadian Chain—Multinational Corporation Perspectives on Going Green Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council (CAMSC), WEConnect and Diversity, presented by WEConnect International. HP staff International, and Minority Supplier Development UK (MSDUK), also convened meetings with the Australian Information Industries Association, which supports government-focused small business programs. 115 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Supplier development Useful links HP sponsors programs that help diverse suppliers sharpen their business skills; enhance delivery, quality, and service; and compete U.S. government websites: more effectively in the marketplace. • Department of Defense These include: • General Services Administration • NASA • Diverse supplier development A mentor program designed to foster long-term relationships between HP and select diverse • Small Business Administration suppliers with whom we are already doing business. The program • Small Business Administration Pro-Net provides professional guidance and support to the supplier. • United States Public Sector Mentor-Protégé The Department of Defense’s program helps small diverse suppliers compete for State and local sites: prime contract and sub-contract awards by partnering with large • California Small Business and Disabled Veteran Business companies such as HP. Enterprise Services • Entrepreneurship education at Tuck School of Business HP sponsors diverse entrepreneurs to attend Building a HighPerforming Minority Business, focusing on the development and Business agencies: implementation of a customer-focused strategic plan, and • National Minority Supplier Development Council Growing the Minority Business to Scale, which focuses on strate• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council gies of organic growth, mergers and acquisitions, and strategic alliances. • Minority Business Development Agency • National Minority Business Council HP Tier II Supplier Diversity Reporting Initiative HP recognizes the influence we have beyond our first-tier suppliers, and we encourage diverse purchasing practices throughout our supply chain. The HP Tier II Supplier Diversity Reporting Initiative requests that our primary suppliers use diverse suppliers when fulfilling their contracts with HP, and report the amount of spending. See table below for more information. If you are an HP supplier that we have asked to participate in our Tier II Supplier Diversity Reporting Initiative, please log in here. Performance U.S. Supplier Diversity purchasing results*, **, *** [$ million USD] 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Small businesses [$ million USD] $3,106 $3,365 $3,691 $4,316 $4,400 Minority-owned businesses [$ million USD]**** $827 $733 Women-owned businesses [$ million USD]**** $861 $476 * All figures are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. ** Data is for the 12-month period ending September 30 of the year noted. *** Data beginning in 2009 includes HP Enterprise Services (formerly EDS) spending. Data prior to 2009 does not. **** HP did not report this metric prior to 2010, so data before that year is not available. Beginning in 2011, we did not allow companies to be counted in both the minorityowned businesses and women-owned businesses categories, which decreased the total amounts compared with the prior year. 116 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Privacy People rely on information technology (IT) in many aspects of their daily lives. And when they use IT, they expect to maintain their privacy and feel certain their personal information is secure. Leading the way in privacy • HP placed first among technology compaMany organizations use sophisticated systems to collect, aggregate, and analyze personal nies and second overall in the Ponemon information. These trends emphasize the need for companies to protect privacy while Institute’s 2011 Most Trusted Companies providing any-time, any-place functionality. for Privacy study among U.S. consumers. This constant use of data makes products and services more personalized, convenient, effi• HP’s chief privacy officer, Scott Taylor, cient, and widely available. However, it must occur with people’s full awareness and testified at a hearing on privacy of the U.S. understanding, to avoid fears that their data may be vulnerable to misuse. They question Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, whether social networking, location-aware services, and behavioral profiling and targeting and Transportation. threaten their privacy and safety. Organizational accountability for handling personal information is critical. HP’s privacy strategy is based on transparency and choice. We continue to apply an accountability approach to privacy in our business and embed the concept of Privacy by Design in our products and services. HP employees making an impact: Scott Taylor Effective legal frameworks are important, but many privacy laws were created before the widespread use of the Internet and sophisticated tracking technologies. It is often a As HP’s chief privacy officer, Scott Taylor struggle for regulations to keep pace with emerging technologies. Governments worldwide and his team work to ensure the personal are taking steps to address this, and we remain heavily involved in shaping these new data of HP customers remains secure by privacy policies and frameworks. We encourage collaboration between nations and regions integrating privacy and data protection to promote relevant, well-defined, and consistent rules. into HP’s processes, products, and services. Learn more about Scott Taylor For more information about our commitment to privacy, read the HP Global Master on page 145. Privacy Policy. 117 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Approach It is critical that organizations and their employees are held HP Privacy Accountability Framework accountable for the way they handle data and the potential risks they may create. HP’s approach is to create a chain of accountability for data privacy and security throughout our processes. Oversight HP teams work together to implement and monitor our privacy Identification of risks and opportunities program. We also collaborate with external partners to improve privacy protection and related regulations worldwide. Integrated governance model Contextual approach Accountability approach to privacy Commitment Implementation Validation Solid policies, Mechanisms to Monitoring and The HP Privacy Accountability Framework (see graphic) is a decimanagement ensure policies and assurance that sion-making model that helps our employees assess and manage commitment, and commitments validate coverage the risks associated with collecting and handling personal data. full transparency are put into effect and effectiveness with employees of implementation This ensures that HP uses transparent practices and meets our customers’ expectations. The framework goes beyond legal requirements, also taking into account our company values, ethical Demonstration considerations, contractual agreements, and local cultures. Demonstrate capacity to internal and external stakeholders, The HP Privacy Advisor tool helps employees apply our privacy and individual data subjects standards by guiding them through a privacy impact assessment Management, Internal Audit, HP Board of Directors, trust agents, regulators, and risk-management process. All employees who collect or use consumers, customers, employees personal information will use the HP Privacy Advisor tool to assess their projects for compliance. In 2011, more than 99% of permanent employees completed privacy training as part of our required Standards of Business Conduct course. A specific HP Privacy Advisor module has been developed that will be part of the course in 2012. who represents HP Cloud Services. Deployment of the HP Privacy Advisor tool has helped to mitigate risks arising from data sharing Employees in functions that routinely handle personal information, with partners, data collected by HP products, and data deletion and such as human resources, marketing, and client services, receive destruction. We have set minimum standards for suppliers handling additional privacy training specific to their role. information on data storage devices returned by HP customers. We audit suppliers to ensure these standards are met. Privacy and Data Protection Board Monitoring compliance The HP Privacy and Data Protection Board (PDPB) is responsible for privacy risk management at HP. It comprises executives from busiHP is one of the first companies to have established an internal ness units and functions throughout the company. The PDPB is part audit and assurance program to monitor compliance with our of our overarching Ethics and Compliance governance structure and privacy policies, and also do so through third-party certifications, meets quarterly. dispute-resolution mechanisms (for example, TRUSTe and Better Business Bureau), and customer and employee feedback. The PDPB assesses privacy risks facing HP each year, and then identifies appropriate ways to mitigate these risks. In 2011, the PDPB Our Privacy Assurance program assesses internal compliance with identified the following four risk areas: cloud computing, data our privacy policies and standards, and tracks and mitigates risks sharing with partners, data deletion and destruction, and data and potential noncompliance. The program covers all business collected by HP products such as PCs and printers. We are units and functions that collect, use, access, or store personal addressing the risks related to cloud computing by working with the information. In 2011, the Privacy Assurance program received HP Cloud Services organization to incorporate Privacy by Design certification from our Internal Audit organization. into our cloud offering. We have also added a new PDPB member 118 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report All suppliers and third-party vendors who handle HP customer and European Union employee data are contractually bound to comply with the applicable portions of our privacy policies and data security requirements. HP We remain one of only a few U.S.-based, multinational companies Enterprise Services is responsible for handling clients’ personal data that have been granted Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) certificaand defines our commitments in our client contracts. tion by European data protection authorities. BCRs demonstrate that multinational companies have adequate programs and Employees and customers can contact our privacy office in more processes in place to uphold the European Directive for Privacy than 30 languages with queries, concerns, or comments. We follow when transferring data between countries. This reduces the effort detailed protocols to ensure we handle inquiries and requests effecneeded to comply with national laws within the European Union tively, promptly, and appropriately. (EU) and assures consumers that they are dealing with a highly reputable organization. In 2011, we continued our role as one of the Trusted Advisors to the Privacy and our products and European Commission and data protection regulators as the region’s data protection framework is reviewed. We provided a detailed services response to the EU’s public consultation on cloud computing, emphasizing the need to streamline data protection rules and build We use companywide product development standards to integrate trust in the cloud. privacy and data protection into our new products and services—a concept known as Privacy by Design. Our business groups also carry out a privacy impact assessment for new products and services in Asia Pacific development using the HP Privacy Advisor tool and consultation In 2011, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Ministers of with the Privacy Office. Trade endorsed the implementation of the APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) system to reduce barriers to information Examples of products and services with privacy features include HP flows, enhance consumer privacy, and promote interoperability Enterprise Security products, whose Security Intelligence and Risk across regional data privacy regimes. This includes a commitment Management (SIRM) platform protects enterprise customers’ applito implementing the CBPR system as one step toward further cations and IT infrastructures from sophisticated cyber attacks. opening markets and facilitating regional trade. HP remains actively involved with the implementation of the CBPR system. In addition, scientists at HP Labs continue to work with our Privacy Office to develop new ways to protect privacy, with a focus on data stored in the cloud. Examples of HP Labs research projects include Latin America the long-running EnCoRe research collaboration into easy ways for We are providing guidance to several Latin American countries as people to provide and revoke consent for the use of their personal they introduce new privacy regulations. For example, HP has been information, and our Trust Domains research into ways to share data working with the Ministry of Commerce and business groups in in the cloud while maintaining data confidentiality and integrity. Colombia to contribute to the base law and secondary regulations and provide industry comments. When implemented, this will be the first of a “new generation” of laws that integrates traditional concepts of privacy with innovative new approaches such as External policy development binding co-regulatory programs and binding corporate rules. HP has provided similar consultation on the legislative process in New policy frameworks around the world are shifting organizaMexico, where new legislation came into effect in 2011. tions’ legal responsibilities away from simply following rules to demonstrating that they have the capacity to protect privacy and Global advocacy effectively manage risks. HP works closely with regulators, industry, and consumer advocates to contribute to the developOur Privacy Office has continued to work with international regulament of such frameworks. tors and industry groups through the Center for Information Policy Leadership on a multiyear project to define what it means for a Though the specific requirements of each framework differ by company to be accountable for its privacy practices. The first phase geography, all are based on well-established and recognized prinof this work identified the essential elements of accountability and ciples such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and the second phase defined ways to measure accountability. In 2011, Development (OECD) privacy principles, so compliance with one the third phase, sponsored by the Spanish Data Protection Authority, makes it easier for organizations to align their practices with the described the governance model companies should adopt to impleothers. This is leading toward greater global interoperability, which ment accountability in the marketplace. benefits organizations and improves consumer protection. 119 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP people HP’s people are integral to the company’s success. Recruiting, developing, and retaining the “HP’s success has best employees provides us with a competitive advantage, so we strive to create supportive, motivating workplaces where everyone can flourish. We foster a culture based always been built on on listening, sharing, inspiring, helping, and learning, and we regularly seek feedback on its people—they are how we can perform better. our legacy and our Our global workforce of nearly 350,0001 employees must be able to react and evolve as future. Their talent, rapidly as our industry and help us to anticipate future business needs. HP people are innovators and problem solvers, continually seeking new challenges. We support talent spirit, energy, and development wherever we operate. Investing in people—from a wide variety of diverse drive are rivaled only backgrounds—creates value for our business, customers, shareholders, local communities, by their potential.” and society at large. —Tracy Keogh, Executive Vice President, Over the past year, HP has made extensive changes to improve employees’ work experiHuman Resources, HP ence. We also launched a global effort to determine the key behaviors and actions we desire from a cultural perspective, engaging people from across the organization to receive as much input as possible. Based on what we heard, here are a few of the actions we implemented across the company in 2011: Work environment Building careers Rewards and benefits Pride in HP • Tailored core work environment tools • Shifted focus to filling job vacancies • Restored base pay to prereduction • Featured employees in the 2011 and services to meet the needs of distinct with internal talent levels for the vast majority of recruitment campaign showcasing employee segments • Allowed managers greater flexibility employees affected by base pay their personal stories • Continued to provide enhancements to in hiring decisions reduction in February 2009 • Reaffirmed HP’s commitment to virtual collaboration suite, especially • Revised redeployment policies to provide • Increased funding and eligibility volunteerism, including by raising leveraging social networking functionality better opportunities for people to move for bonuses awareness that every HP employee between HP roles • Implemented a new Employee Stock may take 4 hours of company time Purchase Plan per month to volunteer • Launched a global wellness program 1 As of October 31, 2011. 120 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Employment policies Our harassment-free work environment policy describes how we strive to achieve an environment where customers, employees, suppliers, business partners, visitors, and shareowners are treated Our global employment policies reflect our commitment to treat all with dignity, respect, and courtesy. employees fairly and to promote a culture of integrity and ethical decision-making everywhere we operate. Our policies often set a Our global citizenship policy lays out our company values of trust more demanding standard than local laws or customs require. and respect for the individual and conducting our business with uncompromising integrity. Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) is a resource for employees and all those who represent HP. The SBC is based on our Our Open Door Policy reflects our commitment to open communicashared values and represents the highest level of guidance. tions and a workplace where each person’s voice is heard. Our Best Work Environment Policy defines the standards of Our Global Human Rights Policy commits us to fair treatment of all personal conduct that we expect employees to meet to contribute employees wherever we operate, and to promote human rights to a positive, productive work environment. throughout our business. Our nondiscrimination policy outlines how we aim to maintain a We provide employees with the ability to report policy violations work environment free from discrimination. anonymously, and we fully investigate all issues raised. Engaging our people every interaction with honesty and respect, treating everyone we “Everybody is connected through HP’s encounter with absolute integrity. Relationships are at the core of many collaborative avenues. These what we do. We collaborate with people inside and outside of the connections promote an integrated global company, gathering insights and ideas that improve the way we do business and serve our customers. workforce, which has taught me several key lessons that I now want to share with One critical component of engagement is to continually connect to our people—we provide numerous forums and networks, collect other employees.” and respond to employee feedback, provide opportunities for —Leo Chan, Planning and Operations Lead, Asia Pacific and Japan community involvement, and offer a range of recognition programs. Human Resources Global Operations, HP An engaged workforce strengthens company performance. Forums and networks Employees who are invested in HP’s success are more likely to perform well, promote our brand, and stay with HP. They also Our employees often work across time zones and continents, enhance the quality of the relationships we build with our so virtual collaboration is essential. customers, communities, and other stakeholders. Our people exchange ideas and views, and collaborate on better Employee engagement begins with a culture that is open and ways of working, through online and in-person forums, as well as collaborative. At every level of the organization we are committed Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). The first ERG was formed more to fostering a level of openness and equality that is changing our than 30 years ago and now there are more than 120 ERGs across culture for the better. At company headquarters in Palo Alto, 30 countries. California, United States, for instance, we have taken down the walls of the executive offices in favor of an open-plan arrangement. Another employee group is the HP Sustainability Network, which helps employees learn about and share environmental practices We strive to engage people at all points, from the application and that can benefit the company and the planet. It includes 36 chaphiring process to training and developing employees to maintaining ters worldwide with thousands of members. Learn more in relationships with retirees after they leave HP. We aim to approach Employee engagement on page 23. 121 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Social media plays an increasingly important role in engaging In addition to the VoW survey, HP regularly carries out targeted employees. Many employees use WaterCooler, an internal business surveys to seek employee feedback on specific programs or issues. social networking platform, to stay connected and expand their For example, the staffing organization routinely surveys employees networks. HP Connections, another social networking platform, recruited into new roles from inside or outside of the company on the specifically supports conversations about products and salesquality and effectiveness of the recruiting and onboarding process. related topics. Open dialogue with leadership Employee feedback Employees can ask questions of HP leaders and review answers to HP gathers employee feedback through formal and informal common queries through the HP intranet Top of Mind feature, as channels. One of the most important is the annual Voice of the well as in all-employee meetings. Topics addressed in Top of Mind Workforce (VoW) global survey, which provides an opportunity relate to HP’s business and strategy—issues of interest to the for individual employees to influence the company as a whole. We global employee population. Employees can pose questions using expanded the VoW in 2011 to measure employees’ perceptions an online form or by making a video submission. of HP’s identity in the marketplace, training and development opportunities, and the connection between individuals’ and Most leaders also meet regularly in town halls or coffee talks to HP’s corporate objectives. During the year, 78% of all employees share information and respond directly to employee questions. took part in the confidential VoW survey, available online in Recurring intranet features including Top of Mind and CEO 26 languages. This compared with 75% in 2010. Perspective offer frequent opportunities for top executives to communicate to the company and receive feedback. HP managers use VoW survey results to better understand employees’ perceptions of their experiences at work by indentifying favorable aspects of the environment and areas for improvement. Results also help measure the impact of employee-related programs, thereby providing critical feedback for ongoing improvements. Employee volunteerism and giving HP people contribute their time, skills, and expertise to their Following the VoW survey each year, leaders across the company communities and also support our global social innovation launch systematic action planning processes. Follow-up actions are programs. Many employees also make financial contributions to implemented at many levels in the organization: HP-wide, at the support their local communities and assist in disaster relief efforts. business unit level, and within business groups. VoW actions for 2011 included development of a manager excellence training In 2011, HP employees and retirees donated more than 744,000 program, improvements in the physical work environment, and hours to volunteer projects. That time spent giving back to commuchanges in technical support for employees. nities is valued at nearly $26 million USD.1 The 2011 survey indicated that areas of strength include teamwork, In 2011, HP employees in the United States donated cash totaling the relationship between employees and their immediate managers, approximately $3.8 million USD, matched by $3.1 million USD from and integrity and ethical practices at all levels of the company. More the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation.2 Since 2007, HP and specifically, employees felt the company performed best on employees have donated $30 million USD through the program. In treating employees fairly, managers speaking openly and addition, U.S. employees can donate HP technology to qualified honestly even when the news is bad, and managers clearly charitable organizations or schools. For more information, see communicating ethical expectations. Employee volunteerism and giving on page 152. Opportunities for improvement included management’s ability to communicate a clear sense of direction, and employees feeling they do not receive enough support to drive innovation. We are working to address these issues. Retiree engagement Since the survey was conducted, our new chief executive officer Our approximately 85,000 retirees are important ambassadors for (CEO), Meg Whitman, has communicated a clear and succinct HP. We stay connected with them through communications, social strategy, along with corporate priorities for 2012. A chief communetworking, and the HP retiree website. In addition, HP plays an nications officer, reporting directly to the CEO, has also been active role in the HP Retiree Advisory Board and contributes content appointed, with oversight of employee communications. to local retiree clubs across the globe. Regarding innovation, the CEO has publicly announced an intent to boost research and development spending while limiting the size of acquisitions. 1 Value based on type of volunteering: $150 USD per hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skill-based; $20 USD per hour for hands-on. Uncategorized hours are not reflected in this total. 2 The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation will match up to $4 million USD in aggregate annually. 122 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Building careers We provide development opportunities through face-to-face “To be successful in a multinational corpotraining, live virtual training, and self-directed online courses. ration with a broad portfolio of offerings, The vast majority of our training courses (93%) are delivered in you need to gain broad experience across virtual sessions or self-paced online modules. These can reach more employees and allow flexible access for people to learn the organization. HP has given me opporanywhere and anytime. We offer more than 10,000 courses, tunities to grow in this area, and the which employees used a total of 2.5 million times during 2011, a 56% increase from 2010. rewards have been multifold.” —Kelly Tan, Managing Director and Vice President of Global Sales, In 2011, we aligned our learning investment to business priorities HP Singapore with increased focus on engineering and technology: • Technical: 68% HP has a longstanding commitment to recruit, retain, and develop • Sales: 21% the most skilled employees in our industry. Fostering the best • Professional skills: 7% talent relies on providing extensive opportunities for continual • Leadership: 4% learning and growth. This takes place through activities including training, mentoring, and leadership development. Employees also attend conferences, seminars, and training at accredited institutions, often receiving technical certifications. We continually assess how we can raise awareness of, and provide Recruiting talent access to, the most relevant learning and development opportunities. Between 2009 and 2011, the percentage of respondents to our Voice We increasingly use social media to connect with potential recruits, of the Workforce survey who replied that the learning opportunities communicate our values, and show our commitment to global citithey need are available to them increased by 10 percentage points. zenship—important criteria for many jobseekers. Our HP Careers presence on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn features content about our culture and commitment to social innovation. Our YouTube page includes brand and wellness videos to educate candidates HP employees making an impact: about HP’s accomplishments and employee benefits. Shelley Jeffcoat In 2011, 13% of our hires came from universities, so university Shelley Jeffcoat’s experience mentoring a struggling co-worker recruitment is important to HP. Each year our businesses establish helped her realize other HP employees could benefit from the same targets to hire interns and university graduates, from a wide range kind of support. So she set out to create a peer-mentoring program of backgrounds. They receive extensive training in many aspects of for her department that’s since grown into a sitewide initiative. our company and operations, and we make sure that they get to Learn more about Shelley Jeffcoat on page 139. know senior managers and build up a network of peers in their chosen field. During 2011, we increased our focus on developing internal talent and promoting from within at all levels of the organization, as well as on building a stronger leadership pipeline. Learning communities Employees may opt to join more than 30 learning and professional communities at HP to meet and interact with colleagues. Using Learning and development virtual platforms, they can participate in training, share experiences, and gain access to tools, presentations, podcasts, and videos. Topics HP offers all employees the opportunities and resources to excel in include everything from global sales development to technical their jobs and prepare for new challenges. Our global presence and career paths. networked workforce allow employees to learn from each other in many different ways and across a wide spectrum of specialties. 123 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Mentoring series, during which senior leaders provide insights on leadership topics, share helpful tips and best practices, and link to resources for HP employees. One of the best professional development resources available to HP employees is the skills and expertise of their co-workers. Also in 2011, HP launched Leadership Development Central (LDC) as a resource to search and source opportunities for self and team HP facilitates mentoring experiences through the Mentoring @ hp development. LDC rapidly rose to the top 10 list of sites on the intranet site, which contains advice and resources for both mentors @HP employee portal. The new Leadership Learning in a Box series and those seeking mentors. In addition, the site provides a direcis the most recent addition to LDC through which team leaders tory of mentoring programs, which helps connect groups as diverse conduct 1-hour discussion sessions focusing on skill building and as young employees, senior women leaders, and professionals in managing and motivating teams. finance, human resources, and sales with mentors in their fields. In 2011, more than 4,500 employees participated in HP’s formal We also help leaders enhance their skills while supporting social mentoring programs. innovation initiatives in communities. In 2011, as part of HP’s intensive Key Talent program, individual teams of 5 or 6 HP vice presidents brought their expertise and knowledge to 10 San Francisco Bay Area nonprofits in a 12-week social impact business Opportunities to broaden experience challenge. They provided pro bono recommendations to address the organizations’ most significant business challenges. Leaders In 2011, we ran the Global Career Development Connection, a also worked with the Global Health Corps (see below). companywide online event through which employees could find tips on how to build their HP professional network, learn about opportunities in other business units or functions, or just visit to get ideas and inspiration. The event also provided an opportunity for Collaboration with Global Health Corps employees from all regions to chat live with human resources representatives across the enterprise about how to develop their During 2011, HP partnered with the Global Health Corps to launch a careers. The event received a citation in the American Society for pilot advisory program under which HP executives cross borders and Training & Development’s 2011 BEST Awards, which recognize cultures to mentor the next generation of health leaders. Advisors excellence in workplace learning and performance. from HP offices in 12 countries were matched with a Global Health Corps Fellow and worked on healthcare-related projects including To supplement formal training, “learning by doing” builds skills and supply chain data analysis and pharmaceutical/medical consumable accelerates development. We encourage employees to pursue forecasting in Rwanda, helping to define and evaluate requirements hands-on experience through work-based learning opportunities for an e-learning platform for clinical training materials in Uganda, such as job rotations or new opportunities across business groups, and creating case management plans and illness prevention educaregions, and functional areas. tion strategies for homeless teens in the United States. Leadership development Redeployment Redeployment increases the workforce’s ability to adapt, helps HP The ability to think and act as a leader is crucial for every HP maximize and develop talent, and aids in responding to employees employee, regardless of role. All employees have the opportunity to when ongoing business decisions such as restructuring and realigncomplete a self-assessment against the HP leadership standards ment impact their positions. Redeployment provides HP with the and develop leadership skills through performance feedback, alternative to deploy talent instead of reducing the workforce. learning and training resources, or working with a coach or mentor. The redeployment program allows managers to match the compeHP’s Executive and Leadership Development team designs and tencies and skills of eligible employees with current job openings. implements leadership and management training for leaders at all Reassigning eligible employees to open positions within the levels. In 2011, we increased the scale and reach of training. During company helps HP retain internal talent and gives employees the the year, 7,500 employees participated in various leadership opportunity to apply their skills to other HP jobs. In 2011, HP proactraining sessions, including the HP Key Talent and Executive tively managed redeployment of employees impacted by divesture Leadership Excellence programs. Focus areas addressed business decisions (such as Halo and Palm). One of the program changes challenges, strategic thinking and planning, financial acumen, and adopted in 2011 supported redeployment by helping to position team leadership. employees for internal job opportunities and accommodated earlier employee engagement with our career-transition supplier. Leaders developing leaders continues to be part of our strategic approach. In 2011, approximately 400 HP leaders directly We also revised the redeployment and rehire policy to be more supported our leadership development programs and more than open, giving managers greater flexibility in hiring decisions and 12,000 employees attended our monthly Leading Ideas webcast in facilitating employee job rotation. 124 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Diversity and inclusion Diversity and inclusion are key drivers of creativity, innovation, and Our chief diversity officer is responsible for compliance with these invention. Worldwide, HP is putting our diversity to work to connect policies. Our vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer people to the power of technology in the marketplace, workplace, is responsible for the GuideLine. and community. We are committed to building an inclusive workplace where all employees can contribute and be successful. generations language religion Working with diversity race perspectives experiences organizations nationality job level culture gender HP has developed strategic partnerships with a number of organizations whose missions align with HP’s strategy of developing a physical abilities gender identity skills diverse workforce and creating an inclusive work environment. ethnicity thinking styles sexual orientation HP is a sponsor of Catalyst, a leading nonprofit organization that works with businesses to build inclusive workplaces and expand opportunities for women. HP has access to Catalyst’s global dataA workforce that includes men and women from different nations, base of research, which we use to inform and support our diversity cultures, ethnic groups, generations, and backgrounds, with a wide and inclusion priorities. We also participate in Catalyst’s annual range of skills and abilities, helps us to understand and reflect our awards dinner and attend many local events. customers’ values and demographics. A diverse workforce is also vital to attracting and retaining the best employees. HP has been a sponsor of Out & Equal Workplace Advocates’ Workplace Summit for more than 10 years. Out & Equal is a During 2011, we: nonprofit organization dedicated to achieving workplace equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender employees and profes• Held four “diverse talent” summits in the Americas, Asia Pacific, sionals. At the summit, HP employees present workshops, and Europe, at which more than 400 high-performing diverse demonstrate HP products, and talk about job opportunities at HP. employees learned about leadership and business strategy • Added sexual reassignment surgery benefits to a number of our A few of our many partners in our diversity and inclusion efforts U.S. healthcare plans (coverage beginning in 2012) include Anita Borg Institute, GettingHired, Leadership Education for Asian Pacifics, Inc., National Action Council for Minorities in • Added a provision to reimburse or “gross up” any U.S. income Engineering, Professional Business Women of California, and taxes that apply based on coverage for domestic partners and Simmons Women’s Leadership Conference. domestic partners’ children • Delivered more than 150 Employee Resource Group (see below) events that provided members with experiential leadership development opportunities Internal development opportunities Policies In 2011, we sponsored leadership summits for employees around the world with a broad focus on women and ethnic groups. These summits help to build global business and leadership capabilities, Our diversity and inclusion policies and practices help foster a and demonstrate HP’s commitment to grow and develop highpositive work environment at HP. We expect and require every performing diverse talent. These events also provide opportunities employee to treat others with dignity, respect, and courtesy. We to connect HP leaders with employees from diverse backgrounds, do not, under any circumstances, tolerate discrimination or fostering an inclusive work environment. harassment. We comply with diversity laws as basic minimum requirements, and our policies often set a higher standard than is legally required. We encourage employees to report suspected discrimination or HP employees making an impact: harassment by contacting local human resources departments or Chantal Martineau-Kirse using our confidential and anonymous 24-hour GuideLine. In Canada and the United States, the GuideLine number is 1-800-424-2965. Chantal Martineau-Kirse founded and coordinates the HP Women’s For employees outside of North America, we publish numbers on Network in Munich, Germany. The group promotes the professional our intranet. development, visibility, and retention of women at HP Germany. Learn more about Chantal Martineau-Kirse on page 141. 125 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Employee Resource Groups Performance Our Employee Resource Groups bring together employees with We track gender diversity globally and ethnic diversity in our U.S. common interests and backgrounds. HP has more than 120 such workforce. The charts below detail our performance over the past groups worldwide, representing aspects of diversity such as gender, 5 years. ethnicity or national origin, sexual orientation, age, and disability. In 2011, 23.9% of our top U.S. executives (director level and above) For additional information, see Diversity and inclusion on page 125. were women, up from 23.3% in 2010. In the United States, minorities constituted 13.4% of our top U.S. executives, down slightly from 13.7% in 2010. We also promote diversity in our supplier base. See Supplier diversity on page 115 for detail. Worldwide workforce demographics, 2007–2011 [women as a percentage of total employees]* Region 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Americas—employees 31.0% 30.8% 35.0% 34.3% 33.3% Americas—managers 25.3% 25.2% 28.3% 27.8% 28.7% Asia Pacific and Japan—employees 30.0% 30.9% 32.5% 33.1% 32.3% Asia Pacific and Japan—managers 18.6% 20.2% 21.2% 21.8% 22.3% Europe, Middle East, and Africa—employees 28.4% 28.1% 30.0% 30.5% 29.8% Europe, Middle East, and Africa—managers 17.6% 18.5% 20.0% 19.8% 20.9% Worldwide—employees 30.0% 30.1% 32.9% 32.9% 32.0% Worldwide—managers 21.5% 22.0% 24.3% 24.1% 24.8% * 2009 data excludes Brazil. Global new hires, 2007–2011 [as a percentage of total]*, ** Region 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Female 31.8% 34.9% 35.6% 35.2% 32.7% Male 68.2% 65.1% 64.4% 64.8% 67.3% * 2009 data excludes Brazil. ** 2009 data reflects the time period January 1 to November 30, 2009. 126 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report 2011 U.S. workforce demographics [as a percentage of total] Native Hawaiian All or other Two or minoriPacific more Native Male Female White ties Black Hispanic Asian Islander races American Total Officials and managers 71.67% 28.33% 80.81% 19.19% 3.60% 4.53% 10.47% 0.01% 0.22% 0.36% 11.25% Professionals 68.10% 31.90% 73.14% 26.86% 5.02% 4.96% 15.87% 0.08% 0.46% 0.47% 71.48% Technicians 78.91% 21.09% 69.02% 30.98% 14.57% 7.13% 7.19% 0.29% 1.08% 0.71% 9.82% Sales workers 50.99 49.01% 68.57% 31.43% 7.38% 15.60% 4.72% 0.23% 3.12% 0.38% 1.44% Office and clerical 16.52% 83.48% 62.54% 37.46% 19.80% 8.35% 7.27% 0.31% 1.00% 0.73% 5.25% Operatives (semi-skilled) 43.46% 56.54% 57.59% 42.41% 13.61% 12.57% 14.66% 0.52% 0.52% 0.52% 0.21% Laborers 49.21% 50.79% 41.87% 58.13% 15.87% 24.42% 17.06% 0.00% 0.20% 0.60% 0.55% Total 66.60% 33.40% 72.77% 27.23% 6.69% 5.58% 13.80% 0.11% 0.56% 0.49% 100.00% 127 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report U.S. new hires, 2007–2011 [as a percentage of total]* 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 White 69.0% 67.2% 65.0% 61.7% 52.4% All minorities 30.1% 32.4% 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% Black 6.8% 8.1% 11.2% 14.5% 7.7% Hispanic 6.3% 6.9% 7.1% 7.1% 6.7% Asian 16.5% 15.7% 12.5% 10.5% 14.6% Native American 0.5% 0.6% 0.7% 0.3% 0.4% * Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100% and the sum of “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for “All minorities” due to people who do not declare or who do not fall into these categories. “White” and “Black” figures for 2011 are markedly lower from previous years, as 16.1% of respondents placed themselves in a new “Other” category, which does not allow identification by ethnicity. Rewards and benefits HP demonstrates our commitment to our people by acknowledging that the company should be more transparent about bonuses and and rewarding them for their work through our compensation, raises. We are exploring ways to address these issues in 2012, such benefits, and recognition programs. as more clearly articulating the company’s compensation strategy. The issue of senior executive compensation is attracting increasing interest, including from our shareholders. In March 2011, shareCompensation holders voted against proposed executive compensation packages at HP’s annual meeting. Although the vote was nonbinding, HP has After several years of tough business conditions, during 2011 we carefully considered shareholders’ perspectives on compensation. brought base pay back to prereduction levels for the vast majority Our new president and chief executive officer, Meg Whitman, who of employees affected by pay cuts in 2009. We also reintroduced took up her position in September 2011, has a fixed annual salary the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, enabling employees to buy HP of $1 USD and works under the same open-ended contract as all shares at a 5% discount. employees. Her nonsalary compensation is tied to company performance and will be paid via shares of HP stock, not cash. Nevertheless, our 2011 Voice of the Workforce survey indicated that many employees feel HP can do a better job of recognizing and Senior executive remuneration is based not only on financial targets rewarding their hard work and commitment to the company—and but also on factors such as business objectives, customer satisfaction, and people development (including issues such as career development, employee engagement, and succession planning). 128 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Benefits • New benefit options with expanded flexibility in several countries throughout the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region In addition to base and performance-related pay and stock owner• Expanded parental leave and backup childcare benefits for U.S. ship, we offer benefits everywhere we operate. These are designed employees to support a wide range of employee needs, varying by country, and may include: For more details, visit the HP Benefits website. • Health and wellness plans supporting employee well-being • Income protection insurance covering risks from injury or illness • Retirement and savings plans helping employees secure their Recognition programs financial future Appreciating employees’ efforts and achievements at all levels has • Time-off programs to pursue interests outside of work always been important at HP. We acknowledge employee accomplishments through Recognition @ HP, a program that promotes We are continually adapting benefit programs, and we’ve made appreciation for good work. Focus areas include leadership, innovanumerous improvements during the past year designed to better tive thinking, and service excellence. support employee and business needs, while making benefits more relevant to our employees. Some examples include: Instant Appreciation e-cards, which enable any employee to acknowledge the contributions of others, are a powerful recogni• Expanded wellness and maternity care benefits in several countries tion tool introduced in 2011. Employees can choose from 11 card • Health benefit improvements in countries such as Colombia designs that express a variety of sentiments and include space to and India describe what the person did to help create a great result for HP. The sender may also opt to send the recipient’s manager a copy to ensure they are aware of the employee’s contribution. Wellness “I believe that having family and friends and a work-life balance makes you a better performer.” —Serena Yong, General Manager, Personal Systems Group, HP Singapore When employees feel well, they perform well. So HP strives to support our people at all levels of health and fitness. Our wellness programs vary by country, but all support employees’ physical health, financial well-being, and stress management. We strive to increase employees’ awareness about health issues and support healthier lifestyles. Our 2011 Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey found that 79% of In 2011, HP refreshed 30 HP fitness centers in 12 countries. HP employees felt their managers take a genuine interest in their wellness, compared with 76% in 2010. Reflecting our strength in this area, HP was named a 2011 Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles winner by the Washington, D.C.based National Business Group on Health. 129 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Maintaining work-life balance Winning with Wellness Hero New in 2011, we invited employees to nominate colleagues they We offer programs to help our employees manage personal and regard as wellness heroes. The Winning with Wellness Hero initiawork commitments, as the fast pace of our industry can be tive attracted hundreds of nominations, from which six were demanding. In many countries, these include concierge services, selected as particularly inspiring. Among them was Sushil Sharma backup childcare services, and stress-management resources. in Bangalore, India, who started a Back on Track program that provides his co-workers with daily fitness and diet tips, encourages Our annual VoW global survey showed that flexible work arrangethem to take the stairs instead of the elevator, and urges them to ments are one of the features of the HP work environment that exercise for at least 30 minutes a day. employees value most. These arrangements include: • Flex time Working a normal 8-hour workday, but adjusting start and finish times Other initiatives • Part time Working reduced hours on an ongoing or temporary basis; about 2% of employees work part time Additional wellness initiatives during 2011 included the following: • Telework Working full time from home • We refreshed 30 HP fitness centers in 12 countries with remod• Flexwork Occasionally working from home, but primarily based eling and/or new equipment. We also built two new centers at HP on HP premises facilities in Plano and Houston, Texas, United States, bringing the total number of fitness facilities to 48 in 13 countries. Additional programs that help employees improve work-life balance vary by country, including: • We opened three new on-site health centers in Palo Alto, California, and Plano and Houston, Texas, United States. HP • Adoption resources and assistance opened three on-site clinics in Bangalore, India, in early 2012. • Dependent care resources • In the United States, we improved our Backup Child and Adult/ Elder Care Program by expanding care from 5 days to 10 days • Education resources per calendar year and by eliminating a copay to allow care at no • Family and medical leave cost to the employee. We promoted these program changes as • New parent leave part of the overall wellness initiative. This helped increase awareness and program adoption. Usage between 2010 and • Vacation and paid time off 2011 rose, on average, from 70 to more than 400 instances per month. We also expanded our paid Parental Leave Program from For additional details about work-life programs, see HP Benefits. 3 to 5 paid leave days. • As part of a cancer awareness pilot, 46 sites in 7 countries held mammography and cancer screening sessions. Sixty thousand employees registered as part of a separate Power of Pink initiative Wellness Ambassador Network to help increase awareness of breast cancer. More than 250 Global Wellness Ambassadors promote HP wellness initiatives locally and help raise employee awareness of our programs. They plan events and work with local company leadership to integrate health, financial, physical, stress management, and other well-being strategies into daily employee routines and special Global Wellness Challenge activities. Wellness ambassadors get together to plan site-specific In 2011, we launched a Global Wellness Challenge to all employees, events and also meet virtually as a group to share best practices. inviting them to take on challenges related to walking and exercising more. Almost 54,000 employees in approximately 90 countries Wellness program participated, with many saying the challenges had changed their lives for the better. “I have lost more than 20 pounds and regained confidence,” said one employee. “I now feel good about myself, and I During 2011, we rolled out our wellness program, initially have also been able to motivate my family to have a healthier lifelaunched in the United States, to 32 other countries. It now covers style. The program has been priceless. It will benefit me for the rest about 90% of employees. Wellness programs outside the United of my life and for that I will forever be grateful.” States are customized to local needs, but they generally feature activities, challenges, and contests to increase employee involveParticipants walked or ran more than 4.5 million miles collectively ment in this area. between May and August. Together, they clocked more than 58 million minutes of exercise—about 110 years. The vast majority of those who took part (94%) were satisfied with the experience. For more information, watch our video on YouTube. 130 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Employee photos Hong Kong Dennis A. participating in the King of the Hills Time Trial race in Hong Kong. Georgia, United States Sue B. “upping her game” at the Tough Mudder, Georgia, United States, a 12-mile run through woods and on a motocross track with 20 challenging obstacles. Pam K., left, and HP colleague Veronica F. trained in Frisco, Colorado, United States, negotiating 23 arduous miles in a day. Lanzarote, Canary Islands, Beishi River, New Taipei Spain City, Taiwan Nacho P. at his first Ironman Triathlon in Tony L. kayaking down the Beishi Lanzarote, Canary Islands. River. Reading, United Kingdom Florianopolis, Brazil Tony S. at the English Standard Distance Marcus Z. in a 150-km relay Triathlon Championships in preparation marathon called the “Volta da for the Reading, United Kingdom, Ilha” or “around the island.” Olympic Distance Triathlon. London–Brighton, United Chennai, India Kingdom HP team exercising. Steve J. participating in the 54-mile Bike Ride for the British Heart Foundation from London to Brighton, United Kingdom. 131 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Health and safety Providing health and safety programs that support HP’s employees is of topics such as hearing protection, safe lifting practices, chemical one of our key commitments. We take seriously our responsibility to containment, and the proper use of forklifts. It also features interprovide a safe working environment at our facilities and offices. This views with managers about how they address health and safety reflects our values and also makes good business sense. Employees issues in their work settings and how EHS supports their are most productive when they are healthy—and the disruption businesses. caused by lost workdays costs us time and money. Slips, trips, and falls, as well as manual materials handling and office ergonomic incidents, are the leading causes of lost workdays at HP. We tailor our health and safety programs to try to minimize such incidents. Training During 2011, we increased our focus on health and safety at We emphasize health and safety from the first day of employment non-HP business locations, as an increasing number of employees at HP. We provide employees with an overview of our policies and spend time working from home or at customer locations. We redeadvice on preventing and responding to workplace injuries. signed, updated, and expanded our self-paced health and safety Employees take a required online refresher course annually, and we training courses to better reflect those employees’ needs. We also offer many of our training courses in multiple languages. emphasized the different groups of employees for which the course is applicable. Our HP Safety and Comfort Guide, which offers training on ergonomics, is available to all employees and can be accessed by Our health and safety programs are part of a comprehensive envicustomers and employees on HP’s external website, where the ronmental, health, and safety (EHS) management system that guide is posted in 35 languages. Our online risk-assessment tool meets or exceeds applicable regulatory requirements globally. This offers ways to assess office ergonomic risks and provides recomsystem aligns with the internationally recognized Occupational mendations to reduce those risks. Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) standard OHSAS 18001 as well as the American National Standards Institute’s (ANSI) We also tailor training to specific jobs and provide courses to reduce ANSI Z10 and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) ILO-OSH risks in various work environments, including office, laboratory, and 2001 standards. Six HP sites in Ireland, Romania, Scotland, warehouse settings. Ergonomics training focuses on reducing the Singapore, South Africa, and the United States are registered to risk of injuries and illnesses related to materials handling and dayOHSAS 18001. to-day office work. Our health and safety data collection and tracking system, which During 2011, we worked to publicize the online training and riskmonitors injury trends at the site and corporate level, adheres to assessment tool that helps members of our increasingly mobile the ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of workforce evaluate their home offices, shared or dedicated work Occupational Accidents and Diseases. spaces, and customer locations. We initially focused on employees in countries where this type of training, risk assessment, and risk Increasingly, the EHS organization is asked to provide information mitigation is required by law. in support of our sales, service, and contract teams responding to customer requests and completing new sales bids, implementing service agreements, and renewing contracts. Performance Communications Our primary performance metrics for work-related injuries are the following: During 2011, we upgraded our EHS intranet site, which, among • Lost workday case rate, which describes the number of workother things, provides instructions on safe chemical handling, related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 advice about health while traveling, and hints on how to audit sites employees working a full year. for health and safety risks. As part of the website update, we created a video for employees that explains the role of the EHS • Recordable incidence rate, which describes the number of inciorganization at HP, providing examples of the wide range of health dents requiring medical attention beyond first aid, whether or not and safety issues at the company, and emphasizing the importance they incur lost time, per 100 employees working a full year. 132 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Lost workday case rate, 2007–2011* 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Global 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.09 Americas 0.16 0.13 0.17 0.16 0.13 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.14 0.08 0.04 0.11 0.11 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. The U.S. industry average in 2009 was 0.3. (2010 data did not include the North American Industry Classification System code used in previous years. Thus, 2009 data was used because it was the most recent available.) Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Panama, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents occurring in Japan and Singapore. The lost workday case rate decreased in 2011 compared with 2010 in all regions except Asia Pacific and Japan, where it remained Leading causes of lost workdays, 2011 unchanged. Slips, trips, and falls continues to be the leading category for lost workday incidents. A health advisory notice on preventing such incidents is posted on the EHS website, and we Slips, trips, and falls 40% recently communicated health and safety practices that can help minimize these risks to all employees worldwide. This effort also Ergonomics—materials handling 20% targeted risks associated with materials and equipment handling, as well as ergonomic factors in the office environment. We posted a health advisory notice during 2011 on safe practices for manually Ergonomics—office environment 12% handling materials or equipment, with a link to a back safety course. Our regional office ergonomic websites link to tools that help Automobile accidents 11% employees identify, minimize, or eliminate office ergonomic risks. Struck by/against/cut by 6% Other 11% The proportion of lost workdays caused by slips, trips, and falls was the same in 2011 as in 2010, but the proportion caused by ergonomics—materials handling rose from 12% to 20%. As noted above, we have taken measures to attempt to address this situation. 133 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Location of lost workdays, 2011 HP sites 50% Customer sites 27% Business travel 15% Telecommuting/home office 5% Events/team building 3% Incidents at customer sites and during business travel increased in 2011 compared with 2010 (from 20% and 9%, respectively), so we have extended a health and safety course that was previously targeted only at customer engineers to also cover other employees. Recordable incidence rate, 2007–2011* 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Global 0.38 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.22 Americas 0.75 0.66 0.57 0.43 0.41 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.30 0.25 0.29 0.18 0.17 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.04 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.02 * Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a full year. The U.S. industry average in 2009 was 0.5. (2010 data did not include the North American Industry Classification System code used in previous years. Thus, 2009 data was used because it was the most recent available.) Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, the United States, and Venezuela. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents occurring in Australia, India, Japan, Singapore, and South Korea. Recordable incidence rates continued to decrease gradually in 2011, with reductions in every region compared with 2010. 134 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Leading causes of all recordable incidents (with and Location of recordable incidents, 2011 without lost time), 2011 HP sites 54% Slips, trips, and falls 32% Customer sites 25% Ergonomics—office environment 20% Business travel 14% Ergonomics—materials handling 16% Telecommuting/home office 5% Struck by/against/cut by 11% Events/team building 2% Automobile accidents 10% Other 11% In 2011 the majority of recordable incidents were at HP sites, with 25% on customer premises. This is the first time we have reported on the location of recordable incidents. In 2011, the leading causes of all recordable incidents remained similar to 2010, although ergonomics—materials handling and automobile accidents increased slightly (up from 12% and 7%, respectively). 135 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Employee gallery Tom Barrington 27 years of service For Tom Barrington, working as global energy program manager Tom is particularly enthusiastic about a recent project that promin HP’s Global Real Estate organization is a natural fit. He studied ises to deliver great returns. In 2011, HP implemented a software environmental engineering in college and has engaged in energy platform from Hara, a provider of energy and sustainability efficiency and sustainability efforts in every position he’s held management software, to help HP more accurately measure and during his 27 years with HP. As a volunteer on his local public utilimonitor energy consumption in its facilities. Because the software ties commission, he also helps the community by contributing his will integrate data from across HP’s entire real estate portfolio, Tom expertise in energy and environmental utilities, such as water and says his team will gain insights they’ve never had and can better waste management. identify areas with the greatest potential for savings. “It’s a major step forward in our ability to be complete and accurate in our Tom, who is based in Roseville, California, United States, is responmeasurements,” says Tom. “We can perform a much more informasible for driving energy efficiency and energy procurement strategies, tive analysis than we’ve ever done before.” reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and conserving water across HP’s facilities worldwide. His team helps set environmental The team’s work has the potential to make an even greater impact. goals for the company, and then works within Global Real Estate and HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) group is also other HP organizations to meet those goals. Tom’s team completes involved in this global implementation. The ESM group will apply dozens of projects every year, from retrofitting lighting to installing the insights and best practices they gain to benefit other customers sophisticated building-control systems. These complement other undertaking similar deployments. major activities around the company, such as real estate consolidations, that improve HP’s overall efficiency. Overall, Tom sees enormous potential to continue improving the performance of HP facilities. “I’m excited about going even deeper “HP has paid attention to energy efficiency all along, and over the into our buildings to find efficiency, and looking for cost-effective last 3 or 4 years, the company has really stepped up its investways to generate our own renewable energy,” he says. ments,” Tom says. “We’re focusing on things that deliver clear and solid returns.” Collectively, HP’s actions have paid off. In 2008, HP set a goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions associated with its facilities by 20% from 2005 levels. In 2011, HP reached this goal—2 years early. But that doesn’t mean Tom is satisfied. He’s already working with his team and others around the company on the next goal. 136 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Frances Edmonds 13 years of service From her vantage point in Toronto, Canada, Frances Edmonds Frances is no stranger to employee education and engagement. In oversees HP Canada’s partnership with World Wildlife Fund 2008, she initiated the HP Eco Advocate program, formerly known (WWF), one of her many duties as director of environmental as Green Advocates. The program prepares HP employees to talk programs for HP Canada. with customers and colleagues about environmental issues, such as climate change. It also trains them to speak about HP’s environIt’s a big task. Through a project called WWF Living Planet @ Work mental initiatives—such as the HP Planet Partners return and Championed by HP, the two organizations are helping to give small recycling program—and HP products that can help customers and medium businesses free tools they need to raise the visibility reduce their impact. This know-how has already benefited Living of sustainability issues within the workplace, pinpoint the most Planet @ Work. Two HP Eco Advocates who are enrolled in the effective ways to shrink their environmental footprint, and engage Living Planet @ Work project recently shared their knowledge at a employees to become advocates for change. webcast for businesses. “Canada is a land of small and medium businesses. We have more Frances sees a genuine need to increase and facilitate environthan a million of them. And typically, they don’t have a lot of mental education among business leaders and employees. As a resources or expertise in sustainability,” Frances says. “Yet, speaker at many events and educational institutions, and as a together, smaller organizations can make a major contribution to mentor to environment and business co-operative students at the the conservation of the planet’s resources. They just need a helping University of Waterloo, educational efforts are close to her heart. hand to make it happen.” “People don’t always understand how to procure greener products and services or change their lifestyles,” Frances says. “We have to HP and WWF are striving to enroll 500 companies in Living Planet @ play a role in educating as well as doing.” Work and raise $1 million in charitable donations through workplace giving by 2014. The contributions will be used for WWF research and conservation projects. Companies that sign up benefit from HP expertise in responsible IT purchasing, sustainability reporting, and employee engagement. The latter, Frances says, “is a really neat way to drive sustainability into the workplace.” 137 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report David Fuqua 28 years of service Data centers are notorious for their consumption of energy. David distribute air flow. David expected the change would allow each Fuqua, sustainability program lead for HP Enterprise Services’ facility to turn off 20% of its large air conditioning units on the Global Data Center Operations in Plano, Texas, United States, leads computer room floor, but was delighted to see they were able to a team dedicated to finding ways to conserve energy in HP’s clientturn off 38%, on average. serving (or “trade”) data centers. Their efforts often result in significant reductions of costs, energy consumption, and green“It was a huge success. We saved nearly 8 million kilowatt hours a house gas emissions—outcomes David takes pride in. year,” says David. “It’s really satisfying to see real savings as a result of our work.” He joined HP in 2008 after spending nearly 25 years with Electronic Data Systems (EDS), where part of his role was to measure the All told, David estimates that as a result of his team’s work in 2011, company’s global carbon footprint. He applied the expertise he HP’s trade data centers in North America will save about 13 million gained there to improve efficiency in HP’s trade data centers. kilowatt hours (kWh) on an annual basis—equal to about 7,200 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions. The energy saved is Over the past 3 years, David and his team have worked on a variety enough to power a 3,700-square-meter data center and office area of energy-saving projects, from an ultrasonic humidification system for a year.1 that reduces the energy needed to maintain data center humidity levels to containing rows of server racks to prevent hot and cool air Even when he’s not at work, David is looking for ways to save from mixing, which saves on cooling costs. energy. For example, he recently upgraded the air conditioning system in his home and insulated his attic. It’s just one of the ways In 2011, David’s team analyzed how cool air was escaping from his job inspires his life. “I really enjoy my work,” says David. “I have underneath the raised floor in several data centers. They discova good time in this role.” ered that in HP’s older data centers, a significant amount of cool air was escaping through cutouts in the floor where power and network cables passed through. In nine of these data centers, they sealed the gaps and rebalanced the perforated floor tiles to better 1 Based on the size of HP’s data center and office space in Markham, Ontario, Canada, which consumed 11.4 million kWh in 2009. 138 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Kathryn Hall Shelley Jeffcoat 28 years of service 2 years of service Kathryn Hall, HP statistician and quality systems engineer, is As a workforce planning program manager for HP’s human grateful for the wonderful math teachers who inspired her growing resources team, Shelley Jeffcoat is responsible for end-to-end up. Now she’s using her skills and enthusiasm to pass her passion management of several critical hiring initiatives. for math on to the next generation. Learn more about Kathryn. In February 2010, when Shelley started mentoring a struggling co-worker, she realized other HP employees could benefit from the same kind of support. So she launched a peer-mentoring program designed to help employees in her department develop successful careers and discover their untapped talents. The program has grown dramatically and is now available to all employees at the HP site in Conway, Arkansas, United States. “We have a team of about 10 volunteers who work very hard to make this program possible,” Shelley says. Participants in the voluntary peer-mentoring program exchange advice, problem solve together, and help each other develop the skills they need to accomplish their goals. For example, they often use meetings to practice public speaking. As the program grows and expands, the volunteer coordinators also look for ways to add other kinds of career-development opportunities. For example, they host monthly lunch-and-learn events, facilitate a Breakfast with a Leader series, produce educational podcasts, and organize special events designed to empower employees to network and learn from HP business leaders. Shelley estimates the program has helped more than 500 HP employees further their career-development efforts. “I’m passionate about motivating people and encouraging them to do their very best. I enjoy helping team members continue to grow at HP,” Shelley says. 139 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Sundeep Khisty Eberhard Koehler 17 years of service 14 years of service Sundeep Khisty considers himself lucky; his job allows him to apply a For Eberhard Koehler, business ethics involves more than simply personal passion. As the practice principal for HP Carbon Emissions following regulations. It means giving everyone a fair shot. Management Service working out of Sydney, Australia, Sundeep Eberhard is HP’s director of Worldwide Volume Operations Business provides tools that help HP’s enterprise customers better underRisk Management and Compliance and works in Cupertino, stand and accurately measure their companies’ carbon footprints. California, United States. He leads a team dedicated to ensuring that HP’s channel partners do business with customers and other Sundeep’s team helps companies set goals and track progress by third parties without the use of corrupt practices, such as coercion giving them tools to manage processes in a more sustainable way or bribery. His work helps HP comply with anti-corruption and and providing key performance indicators and dashboards. For global trade laws, while encouraging true competition. example, Sundeep’s team recently helped a major energy company justify the cost of various programs that had environmental benefits, “I believe that when you go to work and do your best, your end goal such as telecommuting. Another client, a midsize Australian bank, should be to win the deal because you are the best person,” says changed its procurement policy to include more energy-efficient Eberhard. “You shouldn’t miss out on an opportunity because products after Sundeep’s team demonstrated the potential savings. someone else is doing something unethical.” “These companies have a lot of good strategies, but they don’t Eberhard and his team design policies and educational programs know how to implement them. We bring them the database, meththat help HP partners understand regulations and avoid noncomodology, and reports to start their journey,” says Sundeep. pliant behaviors. “We level the playing field, so that everyone has the same chance to win deals,” says Eberhard. Sundeep, who regularly speaks at sustainability-focused conferences and events, is appreciative of what he calls an opportunity His team brings together experts from all over the world, from for personal contribution. Malaysia to Mexico, and everywhere in between. This cultural diversity helps his team communicate with partners on a global scale, “Being asked to fill this position was the equivalent of my calling. while maintaining good working relationships. It was a critical shift in my thinking—even in my belief system,” he says. “The impact of climate change will not just be felt for “Talking about bribery and anti-corruption is not necessarily a nice 1 or 2 years, but for the whole century. And it’s going to impact topic,” he explains. “You need to be very sensitive when addressing future generations.” ethical practices. You need to establish trust with your audience, and only then will you be in a position to talk about ethics.” HP Carbon Emissions Management Service is an important service in HP’s ongoing efforts to help customers reduce energy consumpAs HP continues to evolve its ethics and compliance programs, tion and address climate change. Beyond changing the way Eberhard is proud of the company’s efforts. “There’s no question at enterprises work, Sundeep and his team are also transforming how HP that this is the right thing to do. There’s a high ethical standard companies think about energy use. in this company.” 140 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Phillip Kong Chantal Martineau-Kirse 11 years of service 32 years of service As HP Enterprise Services’ green practice consulting manager for Chantal Martineau-Kirse is a project manager for HP Enterprise Asia Pacific and Japan, Phillip Kong works with some of HP’s Services. She was one of the founding team members of the HP largest customers to calculate the carbon emissions created by Women’s Network in Munich (one of four in Germany) in 2007, and their IT infrastructure and then helps them identify ways to currently serves as the coordinator. The network promotes the reduce those emissions. professional development, visibility, and retention of women at HP. Phillip also shares his skills and expertise with a broader group of Through the network, Chantal encourages women to take control of HP employees in his role as the global lead for the HP Sustainability their careers and to support each other, and she assists them in Network. This volunteer group consists of thousands of HP numerous ways. She ensures that the network’s members are aware employees across 36 chapters worldwide who are committed to of the many resources available to them through HP’s professional reducing the environmental impact of HP and its employees. Phillip development programs. Chantal promotes networking opportunities, works to support each chapter as the members develop projects such as HP’s Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), diversity conferthat are based on their unique concerns. He’s working to improve ences, and events like the HP German Women’s Summit. She also the way chapters report on their initiatives, giving them a deeper facilitates career development events including speakers, lunchunderstanding of their impact. This strategy helps create stronger and-learns, and workshops, in addition to mentoring new hires and engagement, and better results. “We allow each chapter the indistudents. And she supports HP women as they strive to achieve viduality and autonomy they need to address the issues they are work-life balance, by organizing events, such as yoga classes. passionate about,” says Phillip. “I have a very positive outlook on life, and I’m good at bringing Phillip understands firsthand the hard work volunteers put into people together to collaborate. Even though the work I do is not their projects. He established the Melbourne chapter in 2009, a part of my daily job, I love it,” says Chantal. the first in Australia, and has helped make it one of the fastestgrowing and most active employee groups at HP, with more than Over the years, the HP Women’s Network in Munich has grown to 300 members. “We have a fantastic group of committed people more than 260 members. The success of the group in part reflects who work really hard to make the network a success,” he says. Chantal’s dedication to creating a work environment where women are heard, feel supported, and can thrive. Although Phillip is well known inside HP for his work, he’s also gaining recognition outside of the company for his efforts. Phillip was recently 1 of 10 individuals to be selected for a sustainability leadership development program sponsored by the Corporate Eco Forum that will take him to the Amazon Rainforest in July 2012. “Sleeping in hammocks with no electricity for 3 days—that’s pretty immersive,” says Phillip. “We will be literally in the middle of nowhere, the nowhere being one of the most diverse ecosystems in the world.” The experience will help fuel Phillip’s understanding of the environment, while also informing his work within HP. Phillip says he is driven by his core belief of the power of the individual. “In the end, the only way to effect change is through the individual. Good policy is great, but a great attitude is unbeatable.” 141 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Paul Mazurkiewicz Zoe McMahon 14 years of service 14 years of service Dr. Paul Mazurkiewicz is a senior scientist at HP’s laboratory in Fort Zoe McMahon, director of HP’s Social and Environmental Sustainability Collins, Colorado, United States. He helps HP comply with environand Compliance program, leads the HP team focused on product and mental laws worldwide and alter product materials and related supply chain social and environmental responsibility. From her office policies that reduce the risk of health and environmental impacts. in Palo Alto, California, United States, she focuses on a wide range of issues including ethical sourcing, responsible manufacturing, He’s a member of the GreenScreen team—the HP group charged workers’ rights, product environmental compliance, and HP’s with categorizing certain materials used in HP products and identiproduct reuse and recycling programs. fying more responsible substances to be used as alternatives. The team uses a materials screening process based on the GreenScreen It’s a big job, and it requires Zoe to consider ways that HP can make a for Safer Chemicals framework developed by the nongovernmental positive impact on a global scale. So when she was invited in 2010 to organization, Clean Production Action. join the executive board of the Global Social Compliance Program (GSCP), a multi-sector, multi-industry initiative aimed at improving The HP GreenScreen team examines materials based on toxicity, working conditions in supply chains around the world, she welcomed the amount of energy it takes to create the material, and how easy the opportunity. As a passionate advocate of human rights, Zoe is the material is to recycle. They then create white lists of preferable eager to apply the lessons she’s learned at HP to her work on the substances that can be used to replace the old materials. For executive board. The board is tasked with creating and promoting a instance, as HP reduces the use of polyvinyl chlorides (PVCs) and standard for supply chains across multiple industries, and developing brominated flame retardants (BFRs) in its products, the HP principles to ensure that the human rights of workers are respected. GreenScreen team balances the sustainability of the replacement Zoe says it’s important that HP participates in organizations like the materials with other key performance attributes. “It’s not good GSCP. “To really have an impact, we need to ensure that brands and enough to take something out; you have to know what you’re retailers alike avoid duplicating efforts or confusing suppliers with putting in and make an informed decision,” Paul says. multiple requirements,” Zoe explains. “Only then can they focus on the real goal of improving their suppliers’ performance.” In addition to helping HP find better materials to use, Paul is the primary technical author of the HP Active Verification Material The GSCP’s work is ambitious. The board is currently focused on Testing Specification, a companywide standard for materials promoting the equivalence process, which allows companies from testing frequencies and methodologies referenced by HP suppliers different sectors to accurately compare their social and environworldwide. By providing HP suppliers with methods to accurately mental compliance systems, tools, and processes against an test for restricted materials—such as PVCs and BFRs—HP can be agreed-upon best practices standard. The GSCP is also working to confident that its products comply with company requirements and establish regional networks of experts in manufacturing centers, so government regulations. that suppliers who aren’t complying with human rights standards get the support they need to improve their performance. “We want Paul is currently using his testing expertise to create a faster and to empower factories to improve their conditions against the stanmore cost-effective way to check for the presence of phthalate dards we developed,” Zoe explains. plasticizers. HP recently restricted the use of certain phthalates in HP products and is considering additional limitations. Paul’s new While the GSCP undoubtedly benefits from HP’s expertise, HP benetesting method is more efficient than current methods, enabling HP fits as well. For example, through dialogue with GSCP’s stakeholder and suppliers to more easily and frequently test products and advisory board, which includes many of the world’s most respected materials. This will keep customer costs down while upholding HP experts on supply chain and human rights issues, HP stays on the and other environmental standards. Paul relishes quandaries that leading edge of human rights thinking. Zoe says the work is also allow him to use scientific tools to help HP reduce the impact its rewarding from a personal perspective. “I’m proud to be a part of products have on the world. “Environmental sustainability is an the GSCP,” Zoe says. “The mission is a big one, and whenever you opportunity for innovation. It’s a challenge to meet,” he says. can contribute to a mission that big, it’s empowering.” 142 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Cécile Mesmain Aziz Mohamed 11 years of service 10 years of service Cécile Mesmain, program manager of HP’s take-back programs for Aziz Mohamed is the health initiatives manager for the Office of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region, is committed to Corporate Strategy and Technology. He is responsible for coordimaking it easy for customers to return hardware and used HP largenating HP’s partnerships with organizations, such as the Clinton format supplies and media for recycling and recovery. Health Access Initiative and Partners HealthCare, and helping HP deliver innovative health programs to underserved people and Her behind-the-scenes legwork is crucial, as each country in the communities. EMEA region has its own regulations regarding waste collection, handling, treatment, recovery, and recycling. Currently based in Despite his work in the area of global health, Aziz had never volunBarcelona, Spain, Cécile is an expert at researching and interpreting teered before he took a life-changing trip to Kenya. the complex web of regulations, and finding responsible vendors who are able to meet them. Aziz and 20 HP colleagues traveled to an orphanage for children abandoned by their families due to disease or illness. The majority Cécile’s efforts make the management of used supplies—a potenof the 200 children, ages 2 through 18, had been diagnosed with tially challenging issue for customers—into a simple and intuitive HIV. The team brought food and essential supplies, but one of their process. “Many customers don’t know a lot about the regulations most important contributions was time. The volunteers spent hours regarding waste, and have no idea which companies to use,” Cécile playing games, singing, dancing, and talking with the kids. explains. “Our customers are reassured to know that if they give their supplies back to HP, we’ll make sure they’re managed in a After half a day being surrounded by such courageous but sick boys compliant and environmentally responsible way.” and girls, Aziz came home a different person. “I was personally touched and affected,” he says. “I saw tears in the eyes of my HP The programs’ growing participation rates are an indication that colleagues and friends, but I also saw determination and the will customers are pleased with HP’s efforts. “We receive a lot of to make the world a better place.” requests for new or expanded take-back programs,” she says. “Our programs have really grown in the past 5 years, and it’s exciting to Aziz was so moved by his experiences that when he returned home know we’re meeting our customers’ needs.” to his wife and three children he announced that he was going back—and taking his family with him. “I will spend my time, and my Although Cécile is proud of all of HP’s take-back programs, she’s family’s time, to do whatever it takes to make a positive change,” most enthusiastic about those created for HP Indigo supplies. The he explains. HP Indigo take-back program has been extremely successful, with approximately 80% of HP’s customers in the United Kingdom and Hear more about Aziz’s time as a volunteer in Kenya, in his France registering for the program—the highest participation rate own words. among all of HP’s EMEA take-back initiatives. For Cécile, the positive response is gratifying. “By responsibly managing the waste, we’re able to make a difference for HP and our customers, and make a positive contribution to society in general.” 143 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Christophe Mosby Chandrakant Patel 2 years of service 25 years of service HP attorney Christophe Mosby volunteers his time to help get Chandrakant Patel, HP senior fellow and interim director of HP minority high school students excited about pursuing a legal career. Labs, brings tremendous enthusiasm to his profession. He often Learn more about Christophe. says, “I am as excited Friday night as I am on Monday morning.” For more than 20 years, Chandrakant has played a central role in making HP a leader in energy-efficient computing. His research with HP Labs in the early 1990s led to the next generation of microprocessors and data centers. Later that decade, Chandrakant began investigating the concept of “smart data centers” that dynamically provision computing, power, and cooling for optimum efficiency. More recently, he has extended his research beyond data centers to cities in what he refers to as “City 2.0.” His vision is to create more sustainable urban infrastructures by embedding IT to monitor and manage resources, such as water, power, and waste. “It’s not just about making a better handheld device or a better desktop computer. It’s about using those devices to make a better future,” he says. Experience has taught Chandrakant that building a more sustainable world requires a diversity of expertise. He assembled and leads a multidisciplinary team of mechanical engineers, computer scientists, and even an economist—all collaborating to build solutions that are holistic and comprehensive. “I have built a very dedicated and passionate team. They are all here because they want to address society’s needs.” Chandrakant’s passion for a more sustainable future doesn’t begin or end at the lab. As he has done for more than 20 years, he starts and ends his days by taking San Francisco Bay Area public transportation to and from work, often engaged in animated conversations with colleagues, and he carries a sketchbook to capture ideas whenever they come to him. He’s also a prolific writer—having published numerous articles and more than 150 papers, many on the importance of implementing sustainable IT. Chandrakant sees boundless potential to create business and social value through sustainability. “I wish I were 20 years younger, because there are so many advancements that lie ahead,” he says. “We are not limited by technology. The challenges—and the opportunities—are in how we apply IT for sustainability.” 144 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Scott Taylor 25 years of service As HP’s chief privacy officer, Scott Taylor and his team work with To accomplish this, Scott and his team have created a holistic privacy our business groups, regions, and corporate functions to integrate accountability model that ensures the people handling data are privacy and data protection into our processes, products, and accountable and their practices transparent. One tangible example is services. the deployment of HP’s Privacy Advisor tool, which employees use daily to put the company’s privacy policies into practice. Scott has been with HP for 25 years, gaining experience with the company while still in college and joining full time after graduation. This approach is influencing regulatory models around the world, and Having majored in biochemistry and public relations, he forged an Scott believes other companies should develop similar mechanisms early career as a marketer who could speak the language of science. for privacy protection, working closely with nongovernmental After establishing HP’s first direct marketing efforts, from 1994 to partners and regulators. He’s optimistic that this will happen, as 2006, he led the team that launched our Internet presence. consumers demand higher standards and some companies’ highprofile missteps focus media attention on privacy. Importantly, Scott This role made Scott acutely aware of how much personal data was sees that leadership in this area provides competitive advantage: collected online, so his transition to chief privacy officer in 2006 felt “Customers increasingly care about what happens to their data, and natural. He’s continually motivated by the potential his work has to seek companies they can trust to protect them from financial and make a difference for the typical person. “It’s great to lead a personal harm.” program that impacts people’s lives every day,” says Scott. “One of our industry’s greatest challenges is to ensure personal data remains secure while providing more and better services. This requires putting privacy and data protection at the heart of all we do, so customers understand and have real choices about how their data is used.” 145 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Barath Venkatesh Ernest Wong 4 years of service 3 years of service Barath Venkatesh is based in Chennai, India, and leads a campaign Ernest Wong, a Hong Kong–based program manager for the HP analytics team within HP’s Global Analytics division. Shortly after Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility (SER) starting at HP in 2007, he took a year away to work as an education program in the Asia Pacific and Japan region, is instrumental in fellow for a social enterprise that expands access to financial ensuring that HP’s suppliers respect the rights of workers, provide services for educators. When he returned to HP, Barath knew the safe working environments, and improve their everyday social and skills he garnered and contacts he made could be valuable to the environmental practices. newly formed HP Catalyst Initiative, a program aimed at helping young individuals develop skills in science, technology, engineering, As part of his work, Ernest coordinates with nongovernmental and math (STEM). So he reached out to HP’s Sustainability and organizations (NGOs) to help train suppliers and create strong Social Innovation (SSI) team and offered his help. internal processes that lead to substantial and lasting improvements in SER performance. Ernest says this capability building can The SSI team was looking for partners for the Catalyst Initiative in take many forms, including increasing suppliers’ awareness of HP’s India, and Barath used his experience to help them identify several Electronic Industry Code of Conduct, holding trainings on antidisorganizations, including the Agastya International Foundation. crimination and labor rights, and creating more holistic Agastya is a hands-on science education program focused on management systems to help suppliers better meet their SER bringing mobile labs to poor, rural parts of India—helping children responsibilities. learn about science by experiencing it firsthand. Ernest says that good communication is the key to capability Agastya applied to become a leader for the HP Catalyst Initiative’s building. All parties—including NGOs, supplier managers, and New Learner consortium. Together with researchers and experts workers or worker representatives—need to have confidence in the from six other leading educational institutions around the world, program to make it productive. “We have to determine everyone’s Agastya is exploring how to create new, engaging models of common interests and learn how to trust one another,” he explains. student-driven STEM learning that lead to higher school completion rates and promote “learning how to learn.” Ernest says the work is always rewarding, but is especially gratifying when positive feedback comes from the suppliers themselves. Barath continues to look for places within HP to use his skills and “A factory manager told us the training helped clear up some knowledge to improve education. He supports HP’s SSI team on misunderstandings between workers and management, so that special projects, particularly those that impact India. In 2011, workers had a much better understanding of their rights and obliBarath served on the advisory panel for the HP Catalyst Summit, gations,” he says. “A very credible NGO did the training, and it held in India. The event brought members of the HP Catalyst helped build trust within the factory.” Initiative face to face to discuss global issues and identify new opportunities in STEM education. He pursues other opportunities The programs also demonstrate that a little bit of goodwill can go a that combine his passion for education and social enterprise as long way. “Not only are we expanding many of the programs, but well. For example, he was chosen as a fellow at the 2011 Global our key suppliers are beginning to share their best practices with Economic Symposium in Kiel, Germany, where he was invited to their peers in areas like labor relations and energy savings,” he discuss financing for rural private schools in India. says. “It’s a very positive development when our programs grow without our help.” Barath is excited about how HP can contribute to education, as well as his opportunity to be a part of making progress. “I think technology has a huge role to play in education, and that’s where HP can step in,” says Barath. “Given the limited resources and challenge of scale in developing countries, social investments—when directed carefully—have the potential to impact more people than traditional philanthropy.” 146 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Social innovation “We believe that when companies use their core strengths Highlights in 2011 as well as the skills and passions of their employees to address pressing social and environmental challenges, they can make a profound, positive impact on the world.” —Gabi Zedlmayer, Vice President, Sustainability and Social Innovation, HP 1.2 million Approximate number of people HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) provided training and technology to since 2007 At HP, our approach to social innovation is based on the concept of creating shared value. This approach uses guiding principles and practices that deliver an economic benefit for more than 744,000 companies, while simultaneously improving social and environmental conditions. We strive to use the same passion, energy, and culture of innovation that make HP commercially successful to make a profound and positive impact in the world. Our commitment to social innovation is integrated into our overall business strategy, helping us to create longNumber of hours HP employees and retirees volunterm value that benefits customers, shareholders, and employees. teered in communities worldwide, valued at nearly $26 million USD* We help address critical social needs through a powerful union of innovation and collabora65,000 tion. Our strategy involves treating our social innovation projects like business engagements. We work with our partners to understand a targeted need, and identify the capabilities and expertise we have to offer, harnessing all of HP’s assets—human, technological, intellectual, and financial—to develop a sustainable solution.1 Approximate number of infants tested for HIV through We apply our knowledge and expertise to help tackle challenges in education, entrepreHP’s Early Infant Diagnosis program neurship, and health, and to support community engagement and employee giving. In 2012, we are integrating social innovation and environmental sustainability, focusing our $ 10 combined efforts to make a positive impact in the world. Learn more about the creating shared value approach to social innovation. million USD Amount HP has invested in the HP Catalyst Initiative since 2010 * Value based on type of volunteering: $150 USD per hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skill-based; $20 USD per hour for hands-on. Uncategorized hours are not reflected in 1 Some of the data reported on social innovation programs in 2011 is based on information provided to HP from partner organizations. this total. 147 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Collaborations and partnerships Tackling social challenges in collaboration Taking a holistic approach is essential to delivering successful, scalable solutions that benefit communities over the long term. with HP Labs To address complex, multifaceted social challenges, we collaboFrom information analytics and cloud security to environmental rate with a range of organizations including leading businesses, sustainability, HP Labs works on the cutting edge of innovation. governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), thought Recent work from HP Labs helped meet critical social needs as well. leaders, social entrepreneurs, and academics. • HP Labs and Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford develThe following are a few examples of collaborations from 2011: oped a Patient-Centered Dashboard that can help prevent human error in medical settings. Watch a video for more information • Partnering with customers The United Nations is a long-term about this lifesaving innovation. customer of HP and together we partnered to support the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR in its efforts to help Kakuma refugees • The HP Software division’s Professional Services group and the gain greater access to education and improve their livelihoods Social Innovation team collaborated with HP Labs to create a through technology. cloud-based, global authentication service to fight the problem of counterfeit drugs in developing countries. • Partnering with government agencies HP and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) are committed to exploring collaboration as a way to promote education, global health, and responsible mineral trading systems, and to supporting economic John Elkington opportunity through entrepreneurship. Executive Chairman, Volans • Partnering with NGOs HP is working with NGO mothers2mothers to transform the organization’s information technology infraJohn sees HP drawing on its rich structure and develop new, more efficient processes for history, values, skills, and techinformation access and management. nologies to create new business models that help address global View a map that summarizes the geographical reach of our activities. challenges. Visit our online gallery of external stakeholder perspectives to see John’s video. Education Education drives personal achievement, seeds groundbreaking HP Catalyst Education Initiative highlights ideas, and fuels economic prosperity for individuals, communities, 6 15 and entire countries. HP focuses on strengthening science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education because we recognize how paramount it is to helping solve some of the world’s most critical challenges. By applying technology in creative ways to extend and enrich teaching and learning, we are helping the Number of consortia in the Number of countries the next generation of leaders, innovators, and workers develop the Catalyst network network reaches knowledge and skills they need to succeed in the global economy. HP Catalyst Initiative In 2010, HP launched the Catalyst Initiative to build a global network of educators who explore new approaches to STEM education. The network uses an interdisciplinary approach and emphasizes creativity, collaboration, and cross-cultural expertise. $ 10 million USD Amount HP invested in the 56 Number of organizations receiving Catalyst network since 2010 funding from the HP Catalyst Initiative Our goal is to transform STEM teaching and learning—from secondary education through the university level—and inspire 148 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report students to use their technical ingenuity and creativity to address create challenging, interactive games that demonstrate engiurgent social challenges. By the end of 2012, member organizaneering and physics principles. Another project from this tions estimate that more than 250,000 students around the world consortium comes from Northwestern University (Evanston, will benefit from the Catalyst Initiative by experiencing innovative Illinois, United States). The school is expanding a network of ways of learning and teaching. online laboratories that provides students in rural and urban high schools with access to science equipment, hundreds or even thouThe HP Catalyst Initiative selects network members through a sands of miles away. So far, participating schools have reported a competitive call for proposals open to educational institutions, 15% overall increase between preand post-program science test including schools, universities, and nonprofit and nongovernmental scores among schools using the online labs. The pilot program organizations. Network members explore new ways to transform includes nine schools, reaching students in a wide variety of lowSTEM education and are placed into six consortia based on their income, urban, and rural school districts. Learn more. areas of research. • Global Collaboratory The Masinde Muliro University in Kenya is improving chemistry education by delivering mobile technology to In 2011, HP added 21 new organizations to the Catalyst network, for rural areas within the country. Chemistry simulations are loaded a total of 56 organizations in 15 countries.1 HP also funded 20 new onto mobile workstations and brought to schools that have infreprojects and established a new consortium. The new consortium, quent electricity and no access to the Internet. Watch a video to STEM-preneur, led by the Tsinghua University School of Economics learn more. and Management in China, looks for ways to combine STEM educa• Pedagogy 3.0 Kingston Primary School in Western Australia is tion with the skills and passion of entrepreneurship. Each supporting teachers in remote schools by promoting collaborative consortium receives HP technology, cash, and professional support. models that use technology to connect teachers. This helps In 2011, HP contributed $4 million USD to the network, bringing the provide science teachers the support they need to be successful. total amount invested by HP to $10 million USD since 2010. • STEM-preneur The Learning Links Foundation empowers youths Watch a video to learn more about the HP Catalyst Initiative. You in India to identify local developmental issues and form a scientific can also find more information on our website, including a complete and innovative approach to address local problems. The goal of list of the network members. this initiative is to enhance living conditions and improve businesses and trade in rural India. Education in India “The Catalyst Initiative is one of the most In 2011, more than 100 educational leaders from 15 countries important, collaborative, technologically participated in the first HP Catalyst Summit in New Delhi, India. The event, sponsored by HP and organized by the International Society savvy, and innovative approaches to for Technology in Education, addressed global challenges related to enhancing STEM education that is in operSTEM education. During the summit, HP committed to investing $1 million USD to the Education Innovation Fund for India (EIFI), which ation today.” provides grants to individuals or organizations with scalable proj—John Bourne, Executive Director, Emeritus, of the Sloan Consortium ects capable of significantly changing the way education is (Leader of the HP Catalyst Initiative Multi-Versity Consortium) approached in India. Accomplishments in 2011 HP employees making an impact: HP provides financial support and technology to HP-Catalyst Barath Venkatesh consortia. The following are a few examples of what Catalyst members accomplished in 2011 with HP’s help (name of consortium Barath Venkatesh uses his experience to help HP make lasting is in bold). improvements in education—especially in his home country of India. Learn more about Barath Venkatesh on page 146. • Multi-Versity To increase student engagement, the engineering faculty at National University (San Diego, California, United States) replaced traditional lectures with projects requiring students to 1 There are 56 organizations receiving funding from the HP Catalyst Initiative. Many more organizations participate in the effort without receiving funding. 149 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Entrepreneurship All over the world, entrepreneurs drive innovation, create jobs, and fuel economic opportunity. HP works with organizations to help “Our partnership with HP allows us to recent graduates, young people, and aspiring and established provide students around the world with entrepreneurs acquire the information technology (IT) skills and what may be their first experience with knowledge they need to launch successful businesses and help their local communities prosper. social innovation principles. Our program shows tomorrow’s entrepreneurs the HP LIFE importance of integrating social innovaHP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) is a global training tion values into the businesses that they program that helps students, aspiring and established entreprewill lead one day.” neurs, and small business owners develop the IT and business skills necessary to build successful companies and create jobs. Since —Caroline Jenner, Chief Executive Officer, Junior Achievement Young 2007, HP LIFE programs have reached approximately 1.2 million Enterprise (JA-YE) Europe people with training, access to technology, and online activities. In 2011, HP added 40 new training centers to the program, increasing the total number of training centers HP works with to nearly 340 across 49 countries. In some cases, trainees have started their own Social Innovation Relay businesses, often creating jobs for others in the process. In other situations, the program has helped trainees gain the necessary Getting young people excited about entrepreneurship is an investskills to find employment. Overall, HP LIFE has helped to establish ment in future job creation. That is why HP, in partnership with and expand more than 19,700 businesses since 2007, and helped Junior Achievement (JA), created the Social Innovation Relay. This approximately 42,900 people find work. worldwide, interactive, Web-based competition allows young students, ages 15 through 18, the opportunity to think like social innovators and develop ideas to help solve some of the world’s The following are a few examples of people who succeeded with most pressing challenges. Groups of students from 11 participating help from HP LIFE in 2011: countries work with HP employees as mentors through a global, online system. • Washington Mvelase, a young entrepreneur and Internet café owner in South Africa, struggled to manage his new business. In 2011, nearly 10,000 students and 185 HP volunteers participated After taking training classes with HP LIFE, he developed the in the learning program. The winning team, Fortuna, from professional skills necessary to expand his business and manage Nizhnekamsk, Russia, developed an innovative approach to waste his finances more efficiently. Watch a video to learn more. management. Their idea to transform items that had been thrown • Neha Gupta took classes with HP LIFE to help her develop the away into new products of practical and aesthetic value has taken business and IT skills she needed to start a jewelry business in off. They now have a marketing strategy that has helped drive India. Watch a video to learn more. demand for their goods in a niche market. Watch a video about the • Bano Fatima’s organization provides a small community of winning idea. weavers in India with the tools they need to sell their products. Her two biggest challenges in starting her small enterprise were IT Junior Achievement (JA) and communication skills. HP LIFE taught her how to manage her HP has worked with JA since 1996 to develop new ways of building expenses and give presentations that are more engaging. Watch a entrepreneurship and business skills among young people. Many video to learn more. HP employees volunteer in JA tutorial and training programs. Learn more about other success stories from HP LIFE. 150 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Health Good health is fundamental to a good quality of life. But today, Working to prevent errors in medical settings access to even basic health services is beyond the reach of billions of people. Public and private health systems are struggling to HP and Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital (LPCH) in Palo Alto, deliver effective care in developed as well as in emerging markets. California, United States, have been collaborating on patient safety research for more than 2 years. In 2011, HP and LPCH released an HP believes technology can transform global health and help electronic Patient-Centered Dashboard that helps prevent human increase access to affordable, quality healthcare worldwide. We error in medical settings. During the evaluation phase, the dashapply our broad portfolio of products and solutions, our technical board alerted staff with recommended changes in care for one out and business expertise, our partnerships, and the time and experiof three young patients. The reminders range from replacing or ence of our employees to tackle pressing health needs and drive removing equipment that might otherwise cause infection to structural, systemic improvements throughout health systems altering the type or quantity of medication, or adjusting beds to globally. The UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) help us prevent children on ventilators from developing pneumonia. Read prioritize our efforts to focus on some of the greatest health chalmore or watch a video about the Patient-Centered Dashboard. lenges facing the world today, including reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, and combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases. Reaching remote areas The Lake Tanganyika Floating Health Clinic (LTFHC) is an internaA collaborative approach to problem solving and a diverse set of tional nongovernmental organization that offers medical care to skills and experience help drive innovations in health. HP works hundreds of thousands of people living in the isolated Lake with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), governments, and Tanganyika Basin/Great Lakes region of Central Africa. As LTFHC health organizations to help deliver lifesaving solutions. We focus moves toward its ultimate goal of operating a ship-based regional on two primary areas: strengthening health systems and accelerhospital on the lake, HP is providing funding and in-kind donations to ating electronic and mobile health solutions. support the organization’s outreach programs to local communities. We’re also collaborating with LTFHC and others to help develop infrastructure that is expected to improve access to quality healthcare. Strengthening health systems In 2011, HP’s support helped LTFHC conduct a women’s reproducWe work closely with governments and strategic partners to structive health outreach effort to provide fistula patients with surgery, turally improve health systems around the world. Learn more. counseling, and education. This outreach is believed to be the first of its kind in the Lake Tanganyika basin. The funding we provided in 2011 continued to help LTFHC in early 2012 as it upgraded the Accelerating early infant diagnosis of HIV Moba Territory Ministry of Health communications network, giving HP and the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) are working with remote health clinics the ability to communicate with each other the Kenyan government to reduce the amount of time it takes to and the Moba Regional Hospital. Learn more. diagnose an HIV-positive infant. The Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) project automates the HIV testing process, significantly speeding up the reporting of test results and helping to save lives. As of 2011, five state-of-the-art HP data centers connect with four Accelerating electronic and mobile existing laboratories, providing a platform to speed the transmishealth solutions sion of data. Samples are now assigned a barcode, tested, and then recorded in a database. Instead of postal mail, results are sent by We apply our expertise in mobile and cloud-based solutions to text message to SMS-enabled HP printers in rural clinics. If clinics help improve and transform the way healthcare is accessed and have Internet access, they can also receive the results by email or delivered. Learn more. access the data online. A process that used to take several months now reliably takes less than 30 days, allowing HIV-positive patients to receive antiretroviral treatment early. Commencing treatment at Helping prevent the transmission of HIV an early stage is critical in controlling the virus and is directly South Africa–based NGO mothers2mothers (m2m) provides counrelated to survival rates. seling and educational services to new mothers and HIV-positive pregnant women—helping to prevent the spread of HIV to the next The technology infrastructure supporting this program is rolling out generation. Since its founding in 2001, m2m has counseled more in Uganda and is expected to transform and improve other health than 1 million women in seven countries across sub-Saharan Africa. programs as well. In 2011, approximately 65,000 infants were tested in Kenya through EID, and HP expects that more than 70,000 tests will be completed in 2012. Read more or watch a video about EID. 151 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP is working with m2m to transform its information technology Reducing the spread of malaria (IT) infrastructure and develop new, more efficient processes for information access and management across its nearly 600 sites. HP, CHAI, and Positive Innovation for the Next Generation, an NGO In 2011, HP helped m2m update its record-keeping system from based in Botswana, developed an application and service available paper to digital. Read more or watch a video about m2m. via mobile phone that gives Health Ministry officials in Botswana the vital information they need to help track, respond to, and prevent malaria epidemics. The mobile solution, which also Fighting counterfeit drugs launched in Kenya, speeds up the flow of information, enabling faster, more effective decisions during outbreaks. HP plans to An estimated 700,000 people, or more, die every year from help roll out this system in multiple countries in 2012 for use in counterfeit drugs.1 HP is collaborating with governments, pharmonitoring other deadly diseases. Learn more. maceutical companies, telecommunications companies, and leading NGOs and social entrepreneurs to combat this problem. The Global Authentication Service allows consumers to use a code printed on their medication package to easily check the authenJackson Hungu ticity of their medications via mobile phone. Within seconds, they CHAI Deputy Country Director, receive a reply letting them know whether the medication is Kenya authentic. The service started in Ghana and Nigeria in 2010, and launched in India in 2011. HP expects this service will roll out to Jackson describes HP’s approach at least three more countries in 2012. Learn more. to social innovation as a breath of fresh air, thanks to the company’s technology and its people. Visit our online gallery of external stakeholder perspectives to see Jackson’s video. Employee volunteerism and giving At HP, we value supporting the communities in which we live and work. Thousands of HP employees around the world volunteered Employee volunteering their time or donated money to support local communities and assist in disaster relief efforts during 2011. The following numbers HP encourages employees and retirees to apply their abilities and reflect those employees who reported their volunteer efforts to HP expertise to volunteer efforts. We support their efforts to volunteer or donated money through HP company channels. during both company and personal time. With manager approval, every HP employee can use 4 hours of company time per month to • HP employees and retirees donated more than 744,000 hours to volunteer. volunteer projects. That time spent giving back to communities is valued at nearly $26 million USD.2 • HP employees donated $5.6 million USD to nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), schools, and disaster relief efforts.3 1 “Keeping It Real: Protecting the world’s poor from fake drugs,” International Policy Network, May 2009. (Approximately 700,000 deaths from malaria and tuberculosis alone are attributable to fake drugs.) 2 Value based on type of volunteering: $150 USD per hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skill-based; $20 USD per hour for hands-on. Uncategorized hours are not reflected in this total. 3 Value based on fiscal year donations made to NGOs and schools, and calendar year donations made to disaster relief efforts. 152 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Pro bono work We are committed to strengthening the nonprofit sector by contribHP employees making an impact: uting time, as well as professional expertise (pro bono work). Below Kathryn Hall are snapshots of some of the pro bono projects our employees are doing all over the world in the areas of marketing, information Kathryn Hall, HP statistician and quality systems engineer, is technology, legal, finance, human resources, and engineering. grateful for the wonderful math teachers who inspired her growing up. Now she’s using her skills and enthusiasm to pass her passion • HP legal Members of HP’s legal team in Germany visit schools to for math on to the next generation. Learn more about Kathryn Hall teach students how to protect themselves online. They share their on page 139. expertise on issues such as illegal downloads, copyright infringement, fraud, privacy, freedom of speech, and cyberbullying. Since the program launched in 2010, HP attorneys and other legal staff have led more than 40 training sessions and reached more than HP employees making an impact: 300 students in grades 5 through 12. Christophe Mosby • HP human resources HP human resources departments provide job-skills training in several locations around the world. During HP attorney Christophe Mosby volunteers his time to help get 2011, HP volunteers discussed resumé writing, interview skills, minority high school students excited about pursuing a legal career. and career paths with participants in Canada, Mexico, Singapore, Learn more about Christophe Mosby on page 144. the United Kingdom, and the United States. Random Hacks of Kindness HP employees making an impact: Random Hacks of Kindness (RHoK) is an online community of Aziz Mohamed programmers who create apps, platforms, interfaces, and systems Aziz Mohamed traveled to Kenya and visited an orphanage. The that have a positive social impact. They give their apps away to children there had been abandoned by their families due to people or organizations facing social or environmental challenges. disease or illness, and the majority of them are HIV positive. The experience inspired Aziz to return and do whatever it takes to make In 2011, HP became an RHoK global partner. Together we hosted a positive change. Learn more about Aziz Mohamed on page 143. several hackathon events in more than 30 cities worldwide to create apps that help address a variety of social needs. Examples (still in the development stage) include: • An app that helps people with autism learn to cope with various Partnering with customers challenges, including safety measures, expressing feelings, More than 100 HP and UPS employees volunteered together to managing time, and bullying. Watch a video for more information. clean, paint, and landscape schools in California and Georgia, • An app that provides people in the United States with the United States. nearest location of farmers’ markets accepting Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits (formerly known as the HP and Clorox volunteers also teamed up to clean and install new, food stamp program). donated HP IT equipment at the East Oakland Youth Development Center (Oakland, California, United States), helping the center • The Helping Hands app connects organizations that have excess continue its 33-year tradition of providing education, physical amounts of food, such as restaurants and hotels, with NGOs that development, computer literacy, and more to at-risk children. provide food to those in need. Learn more about the work HP employees are doing with RHoK. Employee giving The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation provides employees Helping refugees in the United States with one-to-one cash matching for gifts to HP partnered with its long-term customer, the United Nations, to qualified nonprofit organizations, at up to $1,000 USD per support the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) in its efforts to help employee, per fiscal year. In 2011, HP employees in the United refugee camps around the world, particularly the Kakuma refugees States donated cash totaling approximately $3.8 million USD, in Kenya. For the last 15 years, Kakuma refugees, displaced due to matched by $3.1 million USD from the Hewlett-Packard Company drought and conflict, have lived with limited access to water, nearFoundation.1 Since 2007, HP and employees have donated impossible farming conditions, and a lack of transportation. During $30 million USD through the program. In addition, U.S. employees 2011, HP employees volunteered to help identify potential employcan donate HP technology to qualified charitable organizations or ment and entrepreneurship opportunities for refugees. We also schools. Employees contribute 25% of the product list price, up to provided technology to help increase access to educational materials $5,000 USD, and HP contributes the remaining amount. In 2011, and training opportunities in more than 30 UNHCR camps, giving HP and its employees in the United States donated products worth refugees many of the skills needed to create a better future. approximately $5 million USD. Since 2007, HP and employees have donated products valued at approximately $30 million USD. 153 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Disaster relief 2011 donations for disaster relief [$ USD] In 2011, HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation donated money, equipment, and expertise in response to natural disasters, including the earthquake and subsequent Japan (earthquake/tsunami) $2,302,000 tsunami in Japan. Thailand (flooding) $368,000 At right are the approximate values of cash and product contributions from HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation in response to 2011 disasters:2 East Africa (drought) $300,000 United States (storms/tornadoes) $210,000 Australia (flooding) $100,000 Brazil (flooding) $100,000 New Zealand (earthquake) $100,000 Sri Lanka (flooding) $100,000 Turkey (earthquake) $50,000 Performance HP addresses critical social needs through a powerful union of • Financial impact We track total investment by HP and funding by innovation and collaboration, measuring our progress by the posipartners in support of our programs. tive impact of our programs. In past years, we tracked the total amount invested by HP in our programs. In 2011, we began using The information we gather through this measuring process helps us metrics to measure new areas. The following are the current areas strengthen our programs. we measure: Although many benefits of our social innovation programs cannot • Social impact We measure how many people and places we be measured purely in terms of dollars spent or products and impacted through our programs. services donated, we understand the importance of tracking and • Business impact We measure how our programs impact our reporting our financial investments. The total value of our social competitive advantage and reputation. investments, including contributions from HP’s business units for social projects, was approximately $51.5 million USD in 2011. • Operational excellence We track how many employees support our programs, on-time delivery of cash and product donations, and completion of milestones. 1 The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation will match up to $4 million USD in aggregate annually. 2 Figures are for the 2011 calendar year. 154 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Social investments, 2007–2011* [$ million USD] 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Overall Total $49.8 $52.5** $56.1 $44.9** $51.5 Percentage of pretax profits 0.54% 0.50% 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% Type Cash $23.3 $24.9 $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 Products and services*** $26.5 $27.5 $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 * Data excludes contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations, but includes HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations as a part of this data. All years represented in this chart have been updated to reflect these contributions. ** Due to rounding of this total, the sum of the constituent parts of this figure listed under the types of investments below does not match this figure. *** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. We currently report employee volunteerism and contributions data for U.S. employees only. Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Giving Program. 2007–2011 [number of employees] 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Giving Program 5,700 6,700 5,400 5,600 7,000 155 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Cash and products donated by employees and HP and Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched funds* [$ million USD] 15 12 9 6 3 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Cash donated by U.S. employees** $3.0 $3.6 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8 C  ash from Hewlett-Packard Company $2.0 $3.0 $2.3 $2.7 $3.1 Foundation matched funds Value of products donated by U.S. employees*** $1.9 $1.5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3 Value of products from HP matched funds*** $6.5 $4.7 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8 Total $13.4 $12.8 $11.3 $10.8 $12.0 * Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation cash matching began in 2007. ** Does not reflect donations made to disaster relief efforts. *** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 156 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Tech gallery: social innovation HP innovations help address critical environmental and social chalILA Trust The Ila Trust brings healthcare via mobile medical units lenges. We design with the environment in mind, and apply and to very poor people in suburbs of New Delhi. HP helped equip scale technology to transform and improve how people live and mobile clinics to use electronic health records—providing better work. This gallery is just a sampling. monitoring for patients who cannot afford hospitals. Learn more. HP leverages our expertise to help solve pressing social challenges. Partners HealthCare HP helped build Partners HealthCare, a The following case studies showcase how we are using technology to powerful IT infrastructure with innovative software, ample storage address critical problems in education, entrepreneurship, and health. memory, and processing power to support advances in genetic sequencing technologies. Learn more. Mobile and cloud solutions HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) HP LIFE, the Global Authentication Service The Global Authentication Service global, online training program, helps students, aspiring and estaballows patients to easily check the authenticity of their medications lished entrepreneurs, and small business owners develop the IT and via mobile phone, using a code printed on their medication package. business skills necessary to build successful companies and create Learn more. jobs. Learn more. Disease Surveillance HP and Positive Innovation for the Next Generation (PING), the Botswana-based nongovernmental organizaResearch and innovation tion (NGO), developed a mobile phone app that provides Health Patient-Centered Dashboard HP, in collaboration with the Lucile Ministry officials in Botswana with vital information to track, respond Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford, created an electronic to, and help prevent malaria epidemics. Learn more. Patient-Centered Dashboard that helps prevent human error in medical settings. Learn more. Technology infrastructure Social Innovation Relay The Social Innovation Relay allows young Early Infant Diagnosis The HP Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) project, students the opportunity to think like social innovators and created in collaboration with the Clinton Health Access Initiative, develop ideas to help solve some of the world’s most pressing chaluses HP data centers and technology to automate the HIV testing lenges. During the worldwide, interactive web-based competition, process, dramatically reducing turnaround times for test results students receive mentoring from HP employees through virtual and helping to save lives. Learn more. rooms. Learn more. mothers2mothers The South Africa-based NGO mothers2mothers HP Catalyst Initiative The HP Catalyst Initiative works to transform (m2m) provides counseling and educational services to new mothers teaching and learning in the areas of science, technology, engiand HIV-positive pregnant women. HP is working with m2m to transneering, and mathematics (STEM). HP provides technology and form its information technology (IT) infrastructure and develop new, financial support to dedicated consortia to foster research in more efficient processes for information access and management. advancing STEM education worldwide. Learn more. Learn more. 157 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Public policy Sharing knowledge and experience with government officials and Market access regulators is an important role for business, as industry insights can contribute to effective policies. HP engages with policy makers Sixty-six percent of HP’s sales were outside the United States in to pursue laws and regulations that encourage growth and innova2011. We support comprehensive and progressive trade agreements tion in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. HP’s that include commitments to liberalize markets for our products and public policy work complies with all applicable laws and our services and increase transparency in government procurement, Standards of Business Conduct (SBC). regulations, and standards. We also support agreements that include strong commitments based on clear rules to protect intellectual property, labor standards, and the environment. In 2011, the United States Congress passed free trade agreements (FTAs) with Policy priorities in 2011 Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. HP executives and employees supported these FTAs by writing more than 1,000 letters to members of Congress and composing opinion editorial pieces that Our public policy work focuses on the areas below. In addition, were featured in local publications in Washington, D.C. HP strongly several themes cut across our priority areas, such as cloud supported these trade agreements as they eliminate barriers to the computing, privacy and data security, and education. More detail on spread of technology, enabling businesses to be more productive as our policy positions and activities is available in our global issue briefs. well as encouraging economic growth and job creation. Tax and economic incentives Intellectual property rights HP promotes tax policies and economic incentives that encourage Our business is based on innovation and relies on fair and efficient innovation, growth, and job creation. We advocate comprehensive intellectual property protection. However, many current patent and tax reform that will move the United States’ worldwide tax system copyright systems do not provide adequate protection for legitito a competitive territorial tax system, to help ensure U.S.-based mate digital content distribution, so we support policy reform that companies like HP can compete in global markets. We also work provides a reasonable balance between the interests of consumers, with national governments to devise attractive incentives such as technology equipment manufacturers, and intellectual property research and development credits to encourage companies to rights holders. We also support further reform to curb abusive operate in those countries. patent litigation and strengthen the patent system in the United States. Additionally, we support the need for new, more effective systems for rights holders’ compensation. 158 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Anti-counterfeiting Memberships and coalitions Counterfeiting poses a sizable challenge to HP globally and is more sophisticated and pervasive than ever before. It costs the informaMost of our public policy engagement is carried out by our tion technology industry an estimated $100 billion USD of annual Government Relations team. In addition, industry associations revenue globally.1 The sale of fake goods can damage our brand, provide a collective voice that can efficiently reach government offiand the loss of income lessens our ability to create jobs and develop cials. We list the major associations HP belongs to worldwide on our new technological advancements. We work with law enforcement Government Relations website and disclose the proportion of our and government officials worldwide to help remove illicit goods membership fees that each association in the United States used from the market. for lobbying purposes in 2011. HP seeks to toughen laws and prosecute counterfeiters, whether We enhance our work with key officials in regions where we have small vendors or large manufacturers. We are focusing on countries significant business interests by engaging external consultants, in the Americas, the European Union (EU), the Middle East, Eastern including professional contract lobbyists with particular expertise Europe, and East Asia. We are forming country-specific partnerwithin their region. While not HP employees, they work with us ships to address the most pressing local concerns. closely and strictly adhere to regulations within their country or region, as well as HP’s SBC. In 2011, we supported recently passed U.S. legislation that allows U.S. Customs to share information on suspected counterfeit imports with the rights holder. We also led initiatives around the world to educate government officials on the economic and social implicaPolitical engagement tions of allowing counterfeit products into a local marketplace. In 2011, HP contributed $1,136,447 USD to state and local candidates, political memberships/sponsorships, and ballot measure Social and environmental responsibility campaigns in the United States. These contributions aligned with HP continues to drive advancements in public policy that help our policy positions and complied with HP’s political guidelines, address global environmental and social concerns. A few examples SBC, and applicable laws. from 2011 include: U.S. law prohibits corporate contributions to federal political • Signing the 2°C Challenge Communiqué produced by the Corporate candidates. However, eligible employees can make voluntary Leaders Network for Climate Action, in advance of the COP17 donations to the HP Political Action Committee (PAC) and legacy United Nations Climate Change Conference in Durban, South EDS PAC. These are separate legal entities from HP that contribute Africa. Signed by hundreds of corporate leaders worldwide, the to campaigns for Democrat and Republican U.S. congressional communiqué calls for international government action to stabilize candidates who share our policy views. In 2011, these PACs global average surface temperatures at a maximum 2°C above contributed a combined $542,200 USD. HP does not make political preindustrial levels. contributions outside the United States. • Our response to the EU Commission’s public consultation on cloud See historical data in Public policy on page 165. computing, which highlighted our work on protecting privacy and personal data. Consultation responses will inform the European cloud computing strategy, due for publication in 2012. Learn more on our Government Relations website: • Our leadership in the development and support of a public/ • Policies for corporate and PAC political contributions private alliance for the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) focused on in-region minerals traceability and certification. We • Criteria and responsibilities for approving political contributions also worked hard to develop practical regulations aimed at • List of candidates that received corporate or PAC contributions creating transparency on the use of conflict minerals in products. in 2011 In 2011, we supported the U.S. Congress, U.S. Securities and • List of section 527 organizations2 that received contributions from Exchange Commission, and U.S. Department of State on the HP in 2011 implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act introduced in 2010. See Conflict minerals on page 87 for full details. 1 Managing the Risks of Counterfeiting in the Information Technology Industry, page 2, KPMG LLP and the Alliance for Gray Market and Counterfeit Abatement. 2 The term “527 organization” refers to a U.S. political organization that is not regulated by the Federal Election Commission. These organizations are created under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code. 159 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Economic impacts As the world’s largest technology company, HP both contributes to economies worldwide and is influenced by broader economic factors and market trends. Our economic contribution results directly from our financial transactions and indirectly as a broader result of our business. • Direct impacts include customer sales as well as employee salaries, supplier and tax payments, shareholder dividends, and social investments. • Indirect impacts occur when the money we spend circulates through the economy, for example when employees, suppliers, and investors spend their earnings from HP. In addition, HP products and solutions may help make businesses, health, and education systems more productive and profitable, while also saving money by decreasing energy use. Economic trends that influence our business include the continuing rapid shift to an information economy and the burgeoning middle classes in emerging markets, which represent growth markets for our products and services. Performance in fiscal year 2011 The table below outlines our direct and indirect economic impacts on each stakeholder group during fiscal year 2011 (FY11). The data dashboard summarizes HP’s economic performance. For more details, please see our financial statements, interactive stock chart, and annual report and 10-K. 160 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Group Direct economic impacts in FY11 Indirect economic impacts in FY11 Suppliers HP made purchases from more than 1,000 production Our spending continued to support employment in suppliers* and tens of thousands of nonproduction supplier companies. Additionally, suppliers and their suppliers worldwide. workers pay taxes and support local economies, and suppliers may pay dividends to their investors. Employees HP provided compensation and benefits to nearly HP’s workforce grew by 8%, and those employees pay 350,000 employees.** taxes and generate further economic activity by spending the money they earn. Customers HP’s net revenue was $127 billion USD.*** We continued to offer reliable, high-quality products and services to help customers improve productivity. For business customers, this may increase the employment they create and taxes they pay. Customers can save money through improved energy efficiency. Sales, marketing, HP helped create business for sales and service Our partners’ commercial relationships with HP can and distribution partners worldwide. contribute to their growth. partners Local, state, HP paid net cash income taxes of $1.134 billion USD. Taxes paid help enable government spending and national and programs. governments Local, regional, HP invested $51.5 million USD in cash, products, Our social investment activities supported and national and services for nongovernmental organizations further economic activity by improving education, communities and communities. employment, and health. Investors HP paid $844 million USD in dividends to Investors may pay taxes on dividends. shareholders. * HP uses the term “direct suppliers” in other sections of this report to include both “production suppliers” that provide materials for HP products and “nonproduction suppliers” that provide services related to HP products. ** As of October 31, 2011. *** FY11 non-GAAP net revenue includes an additional $0.2 billion USD of revenue resulting from the exclusion of contra revenue associated with sales incentive programs implemented in the fourth quarter in connection with the wind down of HP’s webOS device business, net of fourth quarter webOS device revenue. Non-GAAP earnings and operating profit information excludes after-tax costs of $3.3 billion USD, or $1.56 USD per diluted share, related to the wind down of HP’s webOS device business, impairment of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring charges, and acquisition-related charges. 161 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Data dashboard: society Supply chain responsibility 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Suppliers engaged in SER program [total, cumulative] 601 631 716 879 907 SER audits conducted [total, cumulative] 354 486 591 681 760 Initial audits [total, cumulative] 204 236 261 294 329 Follow-up audits [total, cumulative] 144 220 291 319 339 Full re-audits [total, cumulative] 6 30 39 68 92 Audit findings (See Detailed audit findings on page 102) Suppliers engaged in capability building [total, cumulative] 32 55 68 80 126 U.S. purchasing with small businesses* [$ million USD] $3,106 $3,365 $3,691 $4,316 $4,400 U.S. purchasing with minority-owned businesses*, ** $827 $733 [$ million USD] U.S. purchasing with women-owned businesses*, ** $861 $476 [$ million USD] * All figures are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. Data is for the 12-month period ending September 30 of the year noted. Data beginning in 2009 includes HP Enterprise Services (formerly EDS) spending. Data prior to 2009 does not. ** HP did not report this metric prior to 2010, so data before that year is not available. Beginning in 2011, we did not allow companies to be counted in both the minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses categories, which decreased the total amounts compared with the prior year. 162 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP people 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of HP employees (approximate)* 172,000 321,000 304,000 325,000 350,000 Worldwide workforce demographics—employees** [women as a percentage of total employees] Americas 31.0% 30.8% 35.0% 34.3% 33.3% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 28.4% 28.1% 30.0% 30.5% 29.8% Asia Pacific and Japan 30.0% 30.9% 32.5% 33.1% 32.3% Worldwide 30.0% 30.1% 32.9% 32.9% 32.0% Worldwide workforce demographics—managers** [women as a percentage of total managers] Americas 25.3% 25.2% 28.3% 27.8% 28.7% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 17.6% 18.5% 20.0% 19.8% 20.9% Asia Pacific and Japan 18.6% 20.2% 21.2% 21.8% 22.3% Worldwide 21.5% 22.0% 24.3% 24.1% 24.8% Global new hires, by gender*** [as a percentage of total] Female 31.8% 34.9% 35.6% 35.2% 32.7% Male 68.2% 65.1% 64.4% 64.8% 67.3% U.S. workforce demographics (See Diversity and inclusion on page 125 for detailed data) U.S. new hires, by ethnicity**** [as a percentage of total] White 69.0% 67.2% 65.0% 61.7% 52.4% All minorities 30.1% 32.4% 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% Black 6.8% 8.1% 11.2% 14.5% 7.7% Hispanic 6.3% 6.9% 7.1% 7.1% 6.7% Asian 16.5% 15.7% 12.5% 10.5% 14.6% Native American 0.5% 0.6% 0.7% 0.3% 0.4% Lost workday case rate† Global 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.09 Americas 0.16 0.13 0.17 0.16 0.13 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.14 0.08 0.04 0.11 0.11 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 163 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP people 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Recordable incidence rate†† Global 0.38 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.22 Americas 0.75 0.66 0.57 0.43 0.41 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.30 0.25 0.29 0.18 0.17 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.04 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.02 * As of October 31 of the year noted. Numbers are rounded. ** 2009 data excludes Brazil. *** 2009 data excludes Brazil and reflects the time period January 1, 2009, to November 30, 2009. **** Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100%, and the sum of “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for “All minorities” due to people who do not declare or who do not fall into these categories. “White” and “Black” figures for 2011 are markedly lower from previous years, as 16.1% of respondents placed themselves in a new “Other” category, which does not allow identification by ethnicity. † Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. The U.S. industry average in 2009 was 0.3 (2010 data did not include the North American Industry Classification System code used in previous years. Thus, 2009 data was used because it was the most recent available). Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Panama, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents occurring in Japan and Singapore. †† Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a full year. The U.S. industry average in 2009 was 0.5 (2010 data did not include the North American Industry Classification System code used in previous years. Thus, 2009 data was used because it was the most recent available). Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, the United States, and Venezuela. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents occurring in Australia, India, Japan, Singapore, and South Korea. Social innovation 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Social investments* [$ million USD] $49.8 $52.5 $56.1 $44.9 $51.5 Cash $23.3 $24.9 $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 Products and services** $26.5 $27.5 $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 Social investments, percentage of pre-tax profits 0.54% 0.50% 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Giving Program 5,700 6,700 5,400 5,600 7,000 [number of employees] Cash and products donated by employees and HP and $13.4 $12.8 $11.3 $10.8 $12.0 Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched funds*** [$ million USD] Cash donated by U.S. employees**** $3.0 $3.6 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8 Cash from Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation $2.0 $3.0 $2.3 $2.7 $3.1 matched funds Value of products donated by U.S. employees** $1.9 $1.5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3 Value of products from HP matched funds** $6.5 $4.7 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8 * Data excludes contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations, but includes HP's matching contributions and contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations as a part of this data. All years represented in this chart have been updated to reflect these contributions. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. *** Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation cash matching began in 2007. **** Does not reflect donations made to disaster relief efforts. 164 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Public policy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Contributions to U.S. state and local candidates, political $888,416 $1,035,650 $1,052,400 $1,284,900 $1,136,447 memberships/sponsorships, and ballot measure campaigns [$ USD] HP Political Action Committee contributions* [$ USD] $225,300 $219,600 $260,000 $378,000 $542,200 * Reflects combined HP Political Action Committee and legacy EDS Political Action Committee contributions. Economic impacts 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net revenue [$ million USD] $114,552 $126,033 $127,245 Net investment in property, plant, and equipment $3,200 $3,531 $3,540 [$ million USD] Research and development spending [$ million USD] $2,819 $2,959 $3,254 Number of patents (total, approximate) 33,000 37,000 36,000 401(k) expense* [$ million USD] $568 $535 $626 Advertising cost [$ million USD] $700 $1,000 $1,200 Total dividend payments [$ million USD] $766 $771 $844 Share repurchases [$ million USD] $5,140 $11,042 $10,117 * HP match and expenses for employee 401(k) retirement accounts. 165 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Goals: society Ethics and human rights Ethics and compliance Year Goal 2011 Continue to increase the volume of consulting matters. Progress: We increased the volume of consulting matters by 34.8% in 2011, compared with 2010. This resulted from a widespread internal communication campaign. Further improve quality of communications and training, including “tone at the top.” Progress: In 2011, we refreshed our ethics and compliance training for new employees and introduced tailored training for country managers and salespeople. See Communication and training on page 83 for details. Conduct wellness assessments for 44* compliance functions and manage remediation plans to completion. Progress: In 2011, the Compliance Office continued to assess the maturity of compliance functions throughout our business and regions against predefined standards. This process identifies new legal risks and tracks progress against recommendations identified during our “wellness assessment” process, which began in 2009. 2012 Assess effectiveness of training and consulting programs. Lead growth market compliance. Improve localization of training and programs. Begin expanding Wellness Assessments to HP subsidiaries. Mature HP’s human rights program to mirror other compliance programs. *During 2011, several new compliance functions were added but the total number of compliance functions at HP changed from 47 to 44 due to the consolidation of several functions. 166 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Conflict minerals Year Goal 2011 Actively participate in the pilot program implementation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance* to support broad use and best-practice development. Progress: We are participating in a 1-year pilot implementation to test the guidance, and will provide feedback to the OECD through a series of three questionnaires and in-person multi-stakeholder meetings. *Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for responsible supply chains of minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. Supply chain responsibility Year Goal 2011 Train more than 13,000 workers (cumulative) in HP’s Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct labor rights. Progress: Achieved. HP reached more than 16,800 workers by the end of 2011. Launch predeparture training for suppliers and schools to address the emerging issue of recruiting new hires from vocational training schools. Progress: Achieved. In 2011, more than 9,000 graduates and almost 4,000 student workers completed predeparture training. Expand public health training, including the HERproject, anti-discrimination training, and hepatitis B prevention, to an additional 20,000 workers. Progress: Achieved. HP reached 50,000 new workers in 2011. Increase social and environmental responsibility (SER) awareness and introduce capability building to 25 nonproduction suppliers in each of China and India. Progress: Twenty-one nonproduction suppliers joined capability building programs in China and 10 suppliers joined in India. Suppliers representing 50% of high-risk production spend will report on key performance indicators. Progress: Achieved. 167 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Year Goal 2012 Transparency Promote supplier SER ownership and transparency by engaging with suppliers representing 90% of final assembly spend to develop strategies and/or participate in training for publication of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)–based annual corporate social responsibility reports. (See Supplier list for information on which suppliers currently publish GRI-based reports.) Outreach Advance outreach efforts by formalizing our supply chain SER partnership with multi-stakeholder programs and/or governments in high-risk areas. Promote worker rights awareness and grievance mechanisms in emerging supply chain regions. Performance management Extend the reach of our highest-priority supplier improvement programs by requiring 75% of highrisk production suppliers (by spend) with working hours major nonconformances to report on key performance indicators.* Expand our audit program by increasing the number of supplier audits by 40% from 2011 levels and reaching 850 cumulative audits. Expand the scope of our nonproduction audit program by performing audits in new geographic regions. Standardize auditor capabilities by ensuring 100% of HP lead auditors are trained in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Labor and Ethics Lead Auditor course, and pursuing certification of all HP lead auditors to the International Register of Certified Auditors (IRCA) EICC-GeSI Auditor Certification. Promote conformance to SER standards further down in the supply chain by validating that 75% of high-risk production suppliers (by spend) have SER programs in place with their suppliers.* *Goal reworded from previous years for clarity. 168 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Supplier diversity Year Goal 2011 Increase the number of suppliers reporting Tier II diverse spending. Progress: Achieved. Reported Tier II diverse spending increased 9.5% in 2011 compared with 2010. Expand Global Supplier Diversity programs outside the United States. Progress: Achieved (see Supplier diversity on page 115). We have increased local employee participation in supplier diversity events. Institute pan-HP Global Supplier Diversity Ambassadors Council to support Global Supplier Diversity initiatives and outreach. Progress: Achieved. We also introduced a Global Governance Council in 2012 to ensure compliance with global public sector enterprise customer needs. 2012 Increase the number of suppliers reporting Tier II diverse spending and the total amount of spend. Privacy Year Goal 2011 Deploy a clear, simplified privacy notice to improve transparency. Progress: We introduced quick links to make our online privacy policy easier to navigate and read. Mandate the companywide use of the HP Privacy Advisor tool to improve compliance. Progress: HP Privacy Advisor has been implemented companywide. Address high-risk areas identified by the Privacy and Data Protection Board (PDPB) through the integration of HP’s Privacy Assurance audit capabilities. Progress: Four priority areas identified by the PDPB have been addressed through our Privacy Assurance program, Privacy by Design, and HP Privacy Advisor. See Privacy on page 117 for full details. Obtain HP Internal Audit certification for the Privacy Assurance program. Progress: Achieved. 2012 Continue to participate in key privacy initiatives to expand external thought leadership and drive next-generation policies and practices, working with regulators, nongovernmental organizations, and industry. Our aim is to advance new concepts of accountability and to further develop meaningful choice and protection for consumers that also allows companies to innovate. Participate in the international implementation of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation CrossBorder Privacy Rules. Integrate current HP Records Management team into the HP Privacy Office to create a Privacy and Information Management organization. 169 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report HP people Engaging our people Year Goal 2011 Align all recognition initiatives to a global framework, make best practices in recognition training available to all managers, encourage managers to use both nonmonetary and eAwards to recognize employee contributions, and encourage and support peer recognition. Progress: Achieved Improve employee engagement as measured by Voice of the Workforce scores. Progress: Achieved 2012 Increase employee engagement by 5% as measured by the Employee Engagement Index (EEI).* Increase HP vs. industry score on “Recommend HP as a great place to work.” *HP’s EEI is a set of survey questions that rate employees’ experiences related to productivity and engagement, measured in HP’s annual Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey. Building careers Year Goal 2011 Drive next-generation learning strategies and enhance learning at HP by increasing the number of solutions with manager coaching, mentoring, and new technologies, and increasing reach of training to 100%. Progress: Achieved Enable corporate transformations in supply chain, sales, and emerging markets groups by showing the business impact of learning solutions. Progress: Achieved Deliver rapid, effective on-boarding and manager training, aligned to business priorities as measured by exceeding learner and instructor evaluation metrics. Progress: Achieved 2012 Develop and deliver world-class learning across onboarding, leadership, sales, professional skills, and technical development priorities. Drive next-generation learning strategies through learning and development innovation, technology, and tools. 170 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Diversity and inclusion Year Goal 2011 Hold six face-to-face diversity leadership summits at HP locations worldwide. Progress: Achieved 2012 Expand global focus on diverse talent to align with business need. Broaden focus on inclusion to drive employee engagement. Health and safety Year Goal 2011 Improve risk identification, auditing, and issue resolution at HP sites through our new global assurance initiative. Progress: Achieved. Implemented a worldwide site ranking system and standardized audit templates to guide our Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) auditing activities, established a central issue management tool to analyze results and track resolution, and provided auditor training to our worldwide EHS staff. Social innovation Year Goal 2011 Build on the progress and experience of project implementation in 2010 by scaling and replicating flagship programs. Progress: We scaled, expanded, and replicated several programs, including Early Infant Diagnosis, Global Authentication Service, HP Catalyst Initiative, HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE), and Social Innovation Relay. Expand and accelerate our collaborative efforts to define, develop, and implement new and/or enhanced solutions for global health (in support of Millennium Development Goals 4, 5, and 6). Progress: • Millennium Development Goal 4 (reducing child mortality) HP continued its work with the Clinton Health Access Initiative to expand the Early Infant Diagnosis program to Uganda. We also developed an electronic patient-centered dashboard to help prevent human error in medical settings. • Millennium Development Goal 5 (improving maternal health) HP continued to support mothers2mothers by implementing an electronic database to help improve efficiency across the organization. • Millennium Development Goal 6 (combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases) HP and Positive Innovation for the Next Generation created a mobile app in Botswana and Kenya to track, respond to, and help prevent malaria epidemics. We continued to expand the Global Authentication Service, and in 2011 announced availability in India, allowing more people to verify the authenticity of their medication. We partnered with SafePoint Trust to develop a software platform to encourage medical staff to use a syringe only once and then discard it. 171 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Year Goal 2011 Engage senior HP leadership to communicate HP’s renewed commitment to global community involvement through pro bono and skill-based volunteering. Progress: Our senior leaders established pro bono programs in various countries, including Canada, China, Mexico, Singapore, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Create necessary infrastructure, tools, metrics, and partnerships to enable strategic community involvement throughout the company at local, country, regional, and corporate levels. Progress: We launched the Social Impact portal and network to help employees find volunteer opportunities. Moreover, the vast majority of HP employees are in a country with a Social Impact lead who helps identify volunteer opportunities that match an employee’s interests. Pilot various signature programs that recognize HP employees’ commitment to communities around the world. Progress: We launched a new human resources pro bono program in China, where HP volunteers used their expertise in technology, engineering, human resources, manufacturing, and other areas to help local communities. Collaborate with global education leaders to improve educational opportunity, quality, and outcome in STEM+ education. Progress: We expanded the HP Catalyst Initiative consortia by adding 21 new organizations. Reward solutions and create new models that incubate the innovative use of technology in formal and informal education. Progress: We added a new consortium, STEM-preneur, and supported new education experiences in rural and urban settings. Build capacity in entrepreneurship education through the HP Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) and the partnership with Junior Achievement (JA). Progress: We added 40 new training centers in 2011—expanding the HP LIFE program to 340 training centers in 49 countries. HP LIFE continued to develop strong online and offline learning content in a variety of different languages. JA and HP launched the interactive, web-based competition Social Innovation Relay. In its first year, nearly 10,000 students across 11 countries participated. 172 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report About this report This report provides an in-depth look into HP’s global citizenship policies, programs, and performance through 2011. Each year, we report on the progress we’ve made toward our goals and include perspectives from external stakeholders about our global citizenship efforts. 174 Overview 175 Assurance 176 UN Global Compact 177 GRI index Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report Overview This report describes HP’s global citizenship policies, programs, • The information on this site covers all HP operations, but does not and performance through the 2011 fiscal year (which ended cover joint ventures. October 31, 2011). It is intended for people seeking in-depth • All references to years are to HP’s fiscal year, which ends October information in these areas, including customers, industry analysts, 31, unless otherwise stated. socially responsible investors, nongovernmental organizations, employees, and sustainability specialists. Our global citizenship • All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars (USD). website provides summary information for readers seeking an • “Tonnes” refers to metric tonnes. (One metric tonne is equivalent overview of our approach and performance. to 2,205 pounds.) We report yearly to reflect our progress, changes to our business, emerging issues, and stakeholder feedback. We consider external standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact, as well as Metrics and goals reporting trends and best practices. The metrics and goals in this report are established by the HP teams responsible for measuring and achieving them, in consultaPrevious reports are available from the downloads page of tion with internal, and in some cases external, stakeholders, and our global citizenship website. with reference to leading practices. This ensures our metrics provide a meaningful and balanced picture of HP’s performance, and that our goals are realistic yet challenging. Reference pages Collecting data from hundreds of sites worldwide is complex, and the process can vary by business unit, function, and geography. As a The pages listed below provide quick access to commonly result, it can be difficult to define and implement measures for the requested information. whole company. We continue to work on standardizing our measurement systems and metrics. Data is rounded as needed to In this report: reflect the appropriate level of certainty. • Assurance on page 175 Another challenge is to report performance beyond our immediate operations. For example, we must make assumptions when • Data dashboard: environment on page 69 and estimating product energy consumption and the resulting greenData dashboard: society on page 162 house gas (GHG) emissions, or the percentage of HP products sold • GRI index on page 177 that are recycled. • UN Global Compact on page 176 Wherever possible, we describe the context for performance data On our global citizenship website: so readers can understand any limitations and draw appropriate conclusions. • Affiliations and memberships See Data dashboard: environment on page 69 and Data dashboard: • Awards society on page 162 for more detail. • Tech gallery • Perspectives Your feedback • Policies We welcome feedback and consider it when reviewing our approach and reporting our performance for subsequent years. We invite readers to provide feedback on our global citizenship activities and Scope, dates, and measures this report using our online form. • The information in this report is current as of the date of its initial publication. This report has not been updated to reflect any changes that may have occurred after such date, including, among Forward-looking statements other things, any changes to HP’s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update this report to reflect This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, any such changes. uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP 174 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such uncertainties, and assumptions include the impact of macroecoforward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other nomic, market, and geopolitical trends and events; the than statements of historical fact are statements that could be development and transition of new products and services, and the deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management needs and respond to emerging technological or other trends; the for future operations, including the expected development, implecompetitive pressures faced by HP’s businesses; the protection of mentation, and achievement of environmental, social, and HP’s intellectual property assets, including intellectual property governance policies, goals, and objectives; statements concerning licensed from third parties; integration and other risks associated the existing or expected development, performance, addressable with business combination and investment transactions; the hiring market, or market share relating to products or services and the and retention of key employees; expectations and assumptions impact of those products and services on global issues, the envirelating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs ronment, and other elements of society; statements regarding and restructuring and integration plans; the resolution of pending current or future macroeconomic or market trends and events and investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial described in HP’s filings with the Securities and Exchange performance; statements about the merits of an investment in HP Commission, including HP’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the securities; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statefiscal year ended October 31, 2011. HP assumes no obligation and ments of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Assurance We realize that many readers seek assurance that the information we provide in our report is an accurate and complete reflection of Other external reviews our performance. Our approach combines external verification of selected content, other forms of external review, and assessment As part of HP’s global ISO 14001 and site Occupational Health and by HP’s internal audit group. Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 registrations, we are assessed by independent, accredited auditors, including Bureau Veritas Certification and BSI Management Systems. External verification We provide external verification for information in three focus areas: Internal Audit • Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions In addition to an internal review, HP Internal Audit assesses risk and evaluates control environwe commission independent auditor Bureau Veritas Certification ments for several operations, including, but not limited to, to verify our global GHG emissions measurements and annual financial transactions and reporting, systems security, and process reporting under the GHG measurement and reporting protocols of flows. However, compliance and ethics, privacy, and environment, the World Resources Institute and World Economic Forum. Learn health, and safety may be evaluated, depending on the nature of the more in Energy and GHG emissions on page 53. operation being audited. • Product reuse and recycling In 2011, HP completed its fourth In addition, qualified HP professionals conduct internal audits of round of reuse and recycling vendor audits under its expanded the environmental, health, and safety management systems at program guidelines. Our third-party auditing firm, Environmental our operations, and we report the results to senior management. Resources Management (ERM), assessed 14 reuse and 39 recycling vendor facilities in 24 countries. Learn more in Vendor audits on page 51. • Supply chain responsibility HP engages third-party audit firms to conduct verification audits of our suppliers. These include suppliers associated with a specific allegation in nongovernmental organization reports. We also use third-party audit findings to validate our internal audit results. Learn more in Our approach on page 96. 175 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report UN Global Compact HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of HP’s support for the Global Compact in her executive letter. The voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, table below links to the sections of this report that address the labor conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption controls. Global Compact’s ten principles. Our president and chief executive officer, Meg Whitman, expresses Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human rights on page 85 proclaimed human rights. Conflict minerals on page 87 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 HP people on page 120 Privacy on page 117 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights on page 85 Conflict minerals on page 87 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Human rights on page 85 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights on page 85 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights on page 85 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and Human rights on page 85 occupation. Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Diversity and inclusion on page 125 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Materials on page 36 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental sustainability on page 19 Products and solutions on page 29 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 HP operations on page 52 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Products and solutions on page 29 technologies. HP operations on page 52 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Ethics and compliance on page 82 extortion and bribery. Supply chain responsibility on page 91 176 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI index We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) when preparing this report. HP self-declares this report to GRI Application Level B, as stated in the table below. GRI Guidelines Application Level C B A Key Self-declared X Full coverage Partial coverage No coverage GRI guideline Coverage Location within report Vision and strategy 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organizaLetter from CEO Meg Whitman on page 4 tion about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Global citizenship strategy on page 7 Performance and challenges are described throughout the report Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. HP profile on page 5 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. HP profile on page 5 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main diviHP profile on page 5 sions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. HP 2011 Annual Report 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. HP profile on page 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names HP profile on page 5 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically HP list of major operations on page 65 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Detailed audit findings on page 102 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. HP profile on page 5 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors HP profile on page 5 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. HP profile on page 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, HP 2011 Annual Report structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. News and awards 177 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information Overview on page 174 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Downloads 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Overview on page 174 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Feedback 3.5 Process for defining report content. Global citizenship strategy on page 7 Overview on page 174 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, Overview on page 174 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). HP list of major operations on page 65 Detailed audit findings on page 102 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of Overview on page 174 the report. Data dashboard: environment on page 69 Data dashboard: society on page 162 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Overview on page 174 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, Data dashboard: environment on page 69 including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations Data dashboard: society on page 162 applied to the compilation of the indicators and other informaNoted in relevant sections as appropriate tion in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information Data dashboard: environment on page 69 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement Data dashboard: society on page 162 (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature Noted in relevant sections as appropriate of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Data dashboard: environment on page 69 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Data dashboard: society on page 162 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in GRI index on page 177 the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Assurance on page 175 assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 178 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Ethics and compliance on page 82 under the highest governance body responsible for specific Global citizenship governance on page 10 tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also Ethics and compliance on page 82 an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Ethics and compliance on page 82 number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recomContact the board mendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Corporate governance guidelines governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate governance guidelines conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Corporate governance guidelines members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Policies on page 17 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, Ethics and compliance on page 82 and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Global citizenship governance on page 10 organization's identification and management of economic, enviEthics and compliance on page 82 ronmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed upon standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own Corporate governance guidelines performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Materials on page 36 principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charUN Global Compact on page 176 ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Supply chain responsibility on page 91 subscribes or endorses. Collaboration on page 21 Management and compliance on page 53 Approach on page 118 Health and safety on page 132 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Affiliations and memberships on page 15 and/or national/international advocacy organizations. 179 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder engagement on page 12 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Stakeholder engagement on page 12 to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Stakeholder engagement on page 12 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Collaboration on page 21 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeStakeholder engagement on page 12 holder engagement, and how the organization has responded to Collaboration on page 21 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Performance: economic Disclosures on management approach. Economic impacts on page 160 HP 2011 Annual Report EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including reveData dashboard: society on page 162 nues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and HP 2011 Annual Report other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. (Core) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Management and compliance on page 53 organization’s activities due to climate change. (Core) We report our GHG emissions yearly through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. HP 2011 Annual Report (Core) EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. (Core) EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared with local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (Additional) EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based Supplier diversity on page 115 suppliers at significant locations of operation. (Core) EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. (Core) EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Social innovation on page 147 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Economic impacts on page 160 impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional) 180 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report Performance: environmental Disclosures on management approach. Environmental sustainability on page 19 Products and solutions on page 29 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 Management and compliance on page 53 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (Core) Materials on page 36 Packaging on page 41 Paper on page 27 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Materials on page 36 (Core) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core) Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core) Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy and GHG emissions on page 53 (Additional) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based Use on page 44 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Energy efficiency on page 55 achieved. (Additional) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core) Water on page 61 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Water on page 61 (Additional) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional) EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Remediation on page 65 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Remediation on page 65 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Remediation on page 65 impacts on biodiversity. (Additional) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Data dashboard: environment on page 69 (Core) 181 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Data dashboard: environment on page 69 (Core) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Energy efficiency on page 55 achieved. (Additional) Renewable energy on page 57 Travel on page 58 Manufacturing on page 38 Transport on page 43 Use on page 44 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. (Core) Ozone-depleting substances on page 64 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. HP does not report on this indicator because (Core) its emissions in this area are insignificant given our current operations. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core) Data dashboard: environment on page 69 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core) Waste and recycling on page 59 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core) Remediation on page 65 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. (Additional) EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. (Additional) EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Products and solutions on page 29 services, and extent of impact mitigation. (Core) Tech gallery EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that Product reuse and recycling on page 47 are reclaimed by category. (Core) EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. (Core) EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Transport on page 43 other goods and materials used for the organization's operaTravel on page 58 tions, and transporting members of the workforce. (Additional) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. (Additional) 182 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report Performance: labor practices and decent work Disclosures on management approach. Human rights on page 85 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 HP people on page 120 Diversity and inclusion on page 125 Health and safety on page 132 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and HP people on page 120 region. (Core) LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. (Core) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. (Additional) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. (Core) LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. (Core) LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. (Additional) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenHealth and safety on page 132 teeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. (Core) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Health and safety on page 132 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. (Core) LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (Additional) LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Building careers on page 123 category. (Core) LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Building careers on page 123 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. (Additional) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. (Additional) LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Diversity and inclusion on page 125 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. (Core) LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. (Core) 183 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report Performance: human rights Disclosures on management approach. Human rights on page 85 Supply chain responsibility on page 91 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. (Core) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Our approach on page 96 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. (Core) Performance on page 50 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (Additional) HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Performance on page 50 (Core) HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Performance on page 50 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, Capability building on page 110 and actions taken to support these rights. (Core) HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Performance on page 50 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination Capability building on page 110 of child labor. (Core) HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Performance on page 50 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Capability building on page 110 elimination of forced or compulsory labor. (Core) HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional) HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. (Additional) Performance: society Disclosures on management approach. Management and compliance on page 53 Ethics and compliance on page 82 Public policy on page 158 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices HP operations on page 52 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. (Core) SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. (Core) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiEthics and compliance on page 82 corruption policies and procedures. (Core) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Core) 184 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy developPublic policy on page 158 ment and lobbying. (Core) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Public policy on page 158 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. (Additional) SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. (Additional) SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. (Core) Performance: product responsibility Disclosures on management approach. Products and solutions on page 29 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 Privacy on page 117 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Products and solutions on page 29 and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of Life cycle assessment on page 31 significant products and services categories subject to such Design on page 34 procedures. (Core) Materials on page 36 Manufacturing on page 38 Packaging on page 41 Transport on page 43 Use on page 44 Product reuse and recycling on page 47 PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, HP provides a wide range of information and percentage of significant products and services subject to related to many of its products, including such information requirements. (Core) materials safety data sheets (MSDS), product environmental information, ecolabels, technical regulations and certificates, and disassembly documents to tell recyclers how to dismantle our products. PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional) 185 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report Contents Commitment Environment Society About this report GRI guideline Coverage Location within report PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes HP’s Standards of Business Conduct and related to marketing communications, including advertising, corporate guidelines set expectations promotion, and sponsorship. (Core) regarding its advertising practices. These resources require that advertisements and marketing collateral are fair, factual, and complete. Advertising claims must be formally substantiated with current factual data before publishing. PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional) PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. (Core) 186 HP 2011 Global Citizenship Report
