Competitive advantage C&C Group Email through technology Bourne House info@candc-uk.com 475 Godstone Rd Internet Whyteleafe www.candc-uk.com Surrey, CR3 0BL Telephone +44 (0)1883 621006 Facsimile +44 (0)1883 621007 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director Statement from the company's Managing Director expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 25th July 2012 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that C&C Group Holdings Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Steve Kinder Managing Director C&C Group Holdings Ltd Registered in England No. 5106541 Human Rights (Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.) C&C Group actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. C&C Group has Fair Employment Practices and is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated equally and with respect. In the coming year we will work with our supply chain partners to see if they are signatories to the Global Compact and if they are not to actively encourage them to support and join the Compact. Implementation (Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.) C&C Group employees are aware that they are responsible for complying with the Fair Employment Practices and for ensuring that the standards of behavior required by the company are observed. We have a range of Human Resources policies which reflect C&C Group pro-active stance on human rights within our Fair Employment practices which includes Dignity at Work Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy and Grievances Procedure. Measurement of outcomes (Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.) In the past year C&C Group has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. Labour (Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.) C&C Group supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization who uses forced or child labour. All C&C Group employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates and Page 2 of 5 overtime pay arrangements. All staff are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Implementation (Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.) C&C Group consults with staff on a continuous basis. Each member of staff has an annual review whereby the MD does a re-cap on the past year, appraising staff of what we have achieved, where we are going and thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. C&C Group has a range of HR Policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including Equal Opportunities Policy, Appraisal Procedure and Grievances Policy. Measurement of outcomes (Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.) At the most senior level there are 3 male managers and 8 male managers with a range of ages across the spectrum. C&C Group works in areas which are by their nature quite male dominated e.g. software developers, but this in no way reflects our approach to encouraging and promoting staff within the organization. We run annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are actioned where ever financially possible. C&C Group has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Environment (Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.) C&C Group are ISO 14001:2004 certified and as such has an Environmental Manual which describes our Environmental Management System, Environmental Policy, Policy and Practice Review Cycle and Competence, Training and Awareness Processes. Page 3 of 5 Implementation (Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.) All employees and representatives of C&C Group are actively encouraged to consider improvements to their working practices and business processes that can provide a positive impact the environment. It is the responsibility of the Environment Manager to plan, execute measure and take corrective action of the C&C Group Environmental Management policy, encouraging others to recommend improvements at all times. The Environment Manager will work with the executive board and non-executive team in reviewing and impacting suggested improvements and managing the delivery of such changes with the assistance of nominated members of the C&C group Team. Measurement of outcomes (Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.) C&C Group has recently undertaken a review of our travel policy. A number of our clients are remote from our two offices, requiring our personnel to travel to attend meetings and workshops etc. C&C Group worked with a number of these key clients to review this process and have agreed to reduce the need for face to face meetings in favor of more teleconferences, video conferences and web meetings where possible. If a face to face meeting is required, relevant C&C Group project managers are encouraged to schedule meetings with other clients in a similar geographic area and in a similar timeframe to reduce individual journeys, reducing our costs and our travel time and hence our carbon footprint. C&C Group has not had any environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption (Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.) C&C Group employees have received a briefing on the Bribery Act and we will not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. C&C Group supports the UN Convention against Corruption and we will not operate in countries or with organizations who are corrupt. Page 4 of 5 In the coming year if our export demand expands C&C Group will investigate all countries and organizations we are working with to ensure their integrity. Implementation (Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.) Training has been provided to all C&C Group employees. The Technical Director is ultimately responsible for anti-corruption within C&C Group. Measurement of outcomes (Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.) C&C Group has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. C&C Group submits audited accounts each year to Companies House which are verified by external auditors and this is used as one of the methods of identifying any spurious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. Page 5 of 5
