CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME for a better world Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 contents A. Μessage from the Chairman and CEO 04 V. Human Resources 48 Brieﬂy 48 B. About our Report 06 1. Job Positions 50 2. Health and Safety 51 Ι. Introduction 08 3. Fair Employment 53 1. Mobile Telephony 09 4. Freedom of Association 54 2. Our Company 10 5. Employee Development 54 3. Our Products and Services 11 6. Αdditional Beneﬁts 56 7. Εmployee Brieﬁng 56 ΙΙ. Strategy and Management 12 8. Εmployee Satisfaction 57 Brieﬂy 12 9. Targets 2010 and 2011 57 1. Strategy and Responsibility Framework 14 2. Management Approach 16 VΙ. Marketplace, Suppliers, Customers 58 3. Recognition – Membership 19 Brieﬂy 58 4. Stakeholder Engagement 19 1. Corporate Governance 60 5. Targets 2010 and 2011 21 2. Ethical Competition 62 3. Responsible Marketing 62 ΙΙΙ. Environment 22 4. Responsible Procurement 66 Brieﬂy 22 5. Public Awareness 67 1. Strategy and Management 24 6. Customer Satisfaction 69 2. Energy and Climate Change 25 7. Data Security 69 3. Raw Materials and Waste 28 8. Targets 2010 and 2011 70 4. Ozone Layer 32 5. Water 32 VII. Information about the Report 71 6. Transportation 32 1. Summary Table 71 7. Biodiversity 33 2. Global Compact, GRI, AA1000, ISO26000 Tables 72 8. EMF 33 3. Glossary 75 9. Visual Impact 36 4. External Assurance 76 10. Noice 36 5. Feedback Form 80 11. Awareness 36 12. Targets 2010 and 2011 37 ΙV. Society 38 Brieﬂy 38 1. Social Products and Services 40 2. Social Contribution 41 3. Economic Development 44 4. Volunteering 45 5. Business Enterprising 46 6. Digital Divide 47 7. Targets 2010 and 2011 47 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 3 A. Μessage from the Chairman and CEO Dear friends, As expected, 2010 was a challenging year, with the need to contribute to society and the environment more pressing than ever. As a communications provider and responsible corporate citizen, COSMOTE, member of the OTE Group, returns to society a share of its success with the aim of covering tangible needs. Through our products and services we continued to oﬀer our customers more communication with considerably lower cost. We have not scaled down our plans to improve customer experience by invoking the recession and we are committed to continue doing so in the future. Our network coverage across Greece and state-of-the-art technology, coupled with our product and service oﬀerings, contribute to the country’s growth and help narrow the digital divide. Many things are still to be done and conditions have to mature. In the given environment we are called to operate in, last year we launched “Surﬁng in the World”, a program building on our strengths and expertise in technology and communications. Through providing technological equipment for wireless Internet access to schools in remote regions of the Greek islands, we have opened a window to the “digital era” for over 1,500 children in far-ﬂung islands, creating conditions conducive to more advanced education, growth and a better quality of life. Our contribution to society is further enhanced through our support to Non-Governmental Organisations’ programmes which continued unabated despite the substantial cost cuts implemented across the board. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 4 MESSAGE Our eﬀort to ensure that our business growth does not have a negative impact on the Environment, plus our actions to inform and raise public and employee awareness to the same end, are central components of our Environmental program implemented across our operations with solid measurable results. Responsible operations is key for us. This responsibility is vested both within the respective Corporate Responsibility Team, as well as within all our people whom we inform and educate, so that they do their share both as employees as well as citizens. In 2010, 84% of our managers participated in tailor made training seminars on Corporate Responsibility, a prerequisite, in my opinion, for sound and good management. Adopting new technologies, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, increasing productivity through transparent and reliable means as well as improving quality of life while minimising our environmental footprint remain the main objectives of COSMOTE Group. At a time when well-grounded optimism and good news need to be fostered, it is our obligation to continue growing in order to be able to return to society a share of our prosperity. This is the added value of our business. Michael Tsamaz BoD Chairman and Chief Executive Oﬃcer of OTE – COSMOTE Group 5 Β. About our Report CΟSMOTE’s present Corporate Responsibility Report, is the 6th report our company issues. Its content reﬂects the overall perception our company has, about the essence of Corporate Responsibility (CR) and the programmemes we implement, in order to support the world’s sustainable development and our company’s responsible operation. Report Scope This CR Report: refers to the period 1/1/2010-31/12/2010 (unless otherwise indicated in certain points), refers to all mobile telephony activities of COSMOTE Greece (COSMOTE Mobile Telecommunications S.A.) and partially to operations of our subsidiaries in Greece and abroad, contains, as a norm, quantitative results for all indicators presented, for at least the last three years, covers elements from all our company’s operations (network, oﬃces, sales, aker sales), summarises in a table (see section VII-1) absolute ﬁgures of consumption, whereas in the main body of the Report, also efﬁciency ﬁgures are presented, all measurements are direct, in limited cases where estimations are made this is explicitly mentioned, in limited cases restatement of past data is made, this is explicitly stated. Report Principles To facilitate the evaluation of its content, our Report follows the basic principles, guidelines and directives “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (publication G3.1, 2011) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), while the following have also been used: for the principles of the Report, the UN’s Global Compact, for the content of the Report, the AA1000-Assurance Standard of AccountAbility, for the presentation of Report data, the EFQM’s RADAR Card. Report Development In our continuous eﬀort to improve our Report, we particularly emphasized this year: presenting more quantitative results within the Report (see section ΙΙ-2C), using internationally recognized guidelines on Corporate Responsibility, responding to issues raised by our Stakeholders in 2010 (see section ΙΙ-4A), balanced presentation of all Corporate Responsibility areas, external assurance of our Report content (see section VII-4). Report Restrictions Our company recognizes limitations in the Report it publishes (limitations, it intends to handle in future publications), such as: setting targets for all Report sections, alignment of quantitative indicators, throughout its subsidiaries. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 6 ABOUT OUR REPORT GRI Application Level The level of application for our company’s CR Report according to the «Sustainability Reporting Guidelines» of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRΙ), is indicated in the following table. The “B+” application level has also been checked by the GRI itself. GRI REPORT Report Application Level C C+ Β B+ Α A+ Report on Same as requirement OUTPUT 1.1 for Level B G3 Profile 2.1-2.10 Disclosures 3.1-3.8,3.10-3.12 Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured 4.1-4.4,4.14-4.15 Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach OUTPUT G3 Managements Disclosures for each Approach Indicator Category Disclosures Report on minimum of Report on each core G3 and 10 Performance indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator including at least one from with fue regard to the OUTPUT G3 Performance each of: Economic, Social Materiality Principle by either Indicators & Sector and Environmental a) reporting on the indicator of Supplement Performance b) explaining the reason Indicators for its omission Feedback The CR Report is one of the main tools to discuss and collaborate with our Stakeholders, but also a means to communicate with them. For this reason, we welcome potential comments, thoughts and remarks (for which you can also use the respective questionnaire in our website). Kindly forward your comments to: Mrs Anna Malti , CR Manager COSMOTE S.A., 44, Kiﬁsias Ave. Marousi 151 25, Athens Greece, Fax: +30-210 6177239, E-mail: csr@cosmote.gr Reading of the Report For convenient reading of this Report, please pay attention to the following terms and symbols, which are widely used: Terms the terms “company”, “we”, “COSMOTE” and “COSMOTE Group”, refer to COSMOTE and its subsidiaries’ activities in Greece and abroad (which this Report addresses), the term “COSMOTE Greece”, refers to COSMOTE’s mobile telephony activities in Greece, the term “OTE Group” refers to OTE Group, to which COSMOTE constitutes a subsidiary, the terms “Report” and “CR Report” refer to the present 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report, terms indicated as “II-3, V-2” etc. refer to the area and section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder Tables). For example, the term “III-5Α” makes reference to area III (Environment), section 5 (Water) and paragraph A. Symbols For further information, Case Studies of our company Practices from our Subsidiaries please visit www.cosmote.gr are indicated are indicated Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 7 I. Introduction 8 INTRODUCTION 1. Mobile Telephony Mobile telephony constitutes one of the most dynamic techFurthermore, mobile telephony reduces signiﬁcantly the Dignological business sectors. Its rapid evolution and growth, ital Divide, can signiﬁcantly reduce the Climate Change imwhich was founded on customers adopting innovative new pact, while also facilitates business operations and products and services, over-exceeded even the most opticontributes to economic growth, through signiﬁcant investmistic estimations made. Today, mobile phones are an imments, know-how transfer and creation of new job positions portant everyday tool and the main communication means (Source: Smart 2020). for human beings all over the world, almost substituting traditional means of communication, such as the fax and the In parallel, contribution of the mobile telephony sector to the telegraph. According to estimates of the International Greek economy in 2009 was signiﬁcant, as it contributed: Telecommunication Union (ITU), mobile telephony users by 1.88% to the national GDP, reached approximately 5.3 billion in 2010, while over 50% of to the increase of public income by €2 billion, with €1.65 bilthe world’s population use mobile phones. In parallel, mobile lion being tax payments and €350 million insurance paytelephony has resulted signiﬁcant changes in society, espements, cially in under development countries, where lack of to the creation of 69 thousand direct and indirect new job telecommunication infrastructure is considered as being a positions (with a gross income of €2.2 billion) signiﬁcant obstacle for economic growth. to the reduction of national inﬂation rate, as the overall mobile telephony prices have decreased by 35.5% between In Greece, as well as in the other 3 countries where COSMOTE 1999 and 2009. operates (Albania, Bulgaria, Romania), mobile telephony has rapidly developed, unavoidably leading the market to become (Source: “Socio-economic evaluation of mobile telephony in Greece”, saturated. In these 4 countries, where some of the largest ICAP & OPA, on behalf of the Association of Mobile Telephony ComEuropean telecommunication providers are active, mobile panies, October 2010). penetration has already largely surpassed the 100% milestone. On the other hand, the rapid increase of mobile penetration also resulted negative impacts, for example on resource conBeyond oﬀering the right of communication, mobile telephsumption and mainly on waste creation, from disposed deony can signiﬁcantly support competitiveness of economies, vices and their packaging, while the use of internet bears productivity of companies, ﬁghting of Climate Change and imsafety issues for children. Handling these issues constitutes proving citizens’ quality of life. More speciﬁcally, according to an important challenge for all mobile telephony companies a study assessing incorporation of 14 mobile communication around the world, among which also for COSMOTE. applications in various business sectors, positive impacts till 2020 can be the reduction of operational costs by €23.7 billion for corporations, as well as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 4.9 millions tns CO2eq. On quality of life, the average time saved for a person can reach 234 hours per year, simply by adopting a number of mobile applications. (Source: Study “Mobile Communications: a catalyst in the new developmental model of Greek economy”, IOVE, October 2010.) Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 9 2. Our Company Α. Shareholder structure COSMOTE owns 100% of the Cypriot Holding company COSCOSMOTE is a member of OTE Group and started its comMOHOLDING CYPRUS LTD, which is the holding company of mercial operation in April 1998, with headquarters in GERMANOS ABEE. Deutsche Telekom A.G. owns 30% of ΟΤΕ Athens. Today, it constitutes a multinational Group, with dyS.A stocks. namic presence in the SE Europe region, as besides Greece The Participations in the shareholder structure of ΟΤΕ Group it also operates in Albania, Bulgaria and Romania through and the corresponding voting rights, are as follows: its subsidiaries AMC, GLOBUL and COSMOTE respectively, with the customer base being approximately 21 million people. A signiﬁcant leverage factor for new customers is GERShareholder Structure OTE Group MANOS, the most successful ICT retail chain in SE Europe. International Funds 11.20% Greek Government OTE Group (Hellenic Telecommunications Organization) holds Deutsche Telekom 100% of our company’s shares. OTE Group constitutes the 10.20% Greek Funds largest telecommunication service provider in the South28.50% Other Investors East Europe region, employing over 30,000 individuals, in 4 * Data of 4/11/2010 countries (Greece, Albania, Bulgaria and Romania), while also possesses 20% of shareholder stake, at the Serbian 30% Telecommunications Organisation. 20% Β. Organizational structure COSMOTE’s organizational structure in 2010 is depicted below: GENERAL SHAREHOLDER MEETING Audit Committee BOARD OF DIRECTORS (Consists of 3 members of BoD) Remuneration & Nomination COSMOTE Group Internal Audit Committee & Compliance Department (Consists of 3 members of BoD) CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD CEO Executive Committee COSMOTE Legal Counsel Competition, Executive Committee COSMOTE Group Legal & Regulatory Aﬀairs Division Compliance & Corporate Governance CommitteeofCOSMOTEGroupofCompanies Technical Financial Commercial Operations Human Division Division Division & IT Systems Resources Division Division Information Security & Telecom Corporate Aﬀairs, Enterprise Risk Fraud Management Dpt Management (ERM) & Business Continuity Management (BCM) Department Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 10 INTRODUCTION C. Signiﬁcant changes Β. Buildings and telecommunications network Main changes within 2010, related to organisational, shareOur company has developed privately-owned, mobile teholder and management aspects of our company, were the lephony networks in countries we operate in. These networks following: are mainly divided in a Backbone Network (MTX controllers In November, OTE Board of Directors appointed Mr. Michael etc.) and thousands of Base Stations (BTS), which ensure Tsamaz as Chairman and CEO of the organization. Mr Tsamaz the unhindered provision of our services. Besides these Netis also Chairman and CEO of COSMOTE. works, our company also owns buildings, where administrative operations are allocated. In December, Mr Dimtris Blatsios undertook CEO of AMC, subsidiary company of COSMOTE in Albania. Τhis way, COSMOTE oﬀers extensive population and geographical coverage, in all countries it operates in, exceeding regulatory requirements. 3. Products and Services C. Commercial Network Α. Main products and services COSMOTE owns an extensive, modern commercial network in all COSMOTE oﬀers mobile telecommunication services in all countries it operates, with over 2,500 points of contact with its countries it operates. More speciﬁcally, COSMOTE covers all customers. Our commercial network consist of GERMANOS spectrum of mobile telephony products and services, from shops, exclusive shops of our Group, as well as a network of planning a network, developing a network, selling services commercial representatives and distributors, ensuring the abiland oﬀering aker-sales services. ity to address its customer base in a ﬂexible and eﬀective way. Our main products and services are described below: Only in Greece, our products are sold in over 1,000 points all Post Paid Services, for retail and corporate customers. over the country. Pre Paid Services. Value Added Services, such as SMS, mobile internet, video calls etc. Roaming Services. Mobile Internet Services from computer and mobile phones. Mobile devices and Αccessories, such as headphones, Bluetooth products, chargers, data transfer products etc. Telecommunications Network MTX Base Station Base Station Backbone Network (BTS) (BTS) Base Station Controller Customer Β Customer Α Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 11 ΙΙ. Our world, our Management 5 81 5 fully covered GRI indicators members within pillars of Briefly Corporate the Corporate Responsibility 11 Responsibility section stakeholder groups identiﬁed 12 MANAGEMENT How can we integrate responsibility in our everyday operations? Our Objective: Our Achievements in 2010: COSMOTE acts as a responsible corporate citizen from the beWe renewed our certiﬁcations according to ISO9001, ginning of its commercial operation, in order to contribute to ISO14001, OHSAS18001. our world’s sustainable growth, to collaborate harmoniously All our employees follow the Compliance Management Syswith its Stakeholders and to take into consideration economic, tem of COSMOTE Group. environmental and social parameters, in its decision-making We increased by 26% the number of quantitative indicators processes. and by 10% the number of GRI Indicators, we make referOur objective is to operate in an responsible way, to be acence to our Report, in comparison to 2009. countable for the potential impact our operations have and at We further deployed our Corporate Responsibility Framework. the same time improve our competitiveness and ensure our growth. We conducted Corporate Responsibility training for 84% of Upper, Higher and Senior Managements of COSMOTE Group in Greece. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 13 1. Strategy and Responsibility Environment: Our objective is not to have a negative impact on the environment (where this is not feasible, we aim to minFramework imize the negative impact, which inevitably originates from all human activities) and in parallel to raise awareness of our Α. We precisely deﬁne the areas of Corporate fellow citizens, on acting more responsibly on the issue of enResponsibility related to our operation vironmental protection. Society: To combine our business success with the prosperDeﬁnition ity and the quality of life, for citizens in local communities in Corporate Responsibility constitutes a fundamental corporate Greece and other countries we conduct our business in. principle, which embraces all our operations and inﬂuences our attitude towards social, economic and environmental issues. Human Resources: To create a workplace, which is safe, fair and facilitates the professional and personal developWithin COSMOTE, we have clearly deﬁned what Corporate Rement of our employees. sponsibility means for us, in order to streamline our actions, faMarketplace, Suppliers and Customers: To follow a cilitate a homogeneous understanding by our employees and management approach based on the principles of transfocus on adding value to all our Stakeholders. parency and ethics, while at the same time contribute to the responsible operation of the Marketplaces, where we conduct our business in. Corporate Responsibility for COSMOTE Corporate Responsibility is the commitment of our company to Methodology contribute to global sustainable development, by taking ecoThe present Report describes our Philosophy, Strategy, Pronomic, ecological and social objectives into consideration in grammes and Practices implemented, in these ﬁve Pillars and our decision-making processes, to take responsibility for the the related Sections. For this reason, every 3 years we conduct impact of our organisation’s activities, by working and coma Risk Analysis and Assessment. Through this analysis we recmunicating with internal and external Stakeholders, while at ognize those Areas our company can negatively inﬂuence its the same time improving the competitiveness of our company. Stakeholders (including the Environment) or can have a negative eﬀect on our reputation and image. Ιn 2009, through a systematic process and participation of over 30 employees, we recognized 23 issues, which were quantitatively prioritised Pillars of Activity and were handled in 2010, according to a speciﬁc action plan The ﬁve Pillars of Corporate Responsibility were determined and prioritisation. through a process which combined internal analysis and dialogue with our Stakeholders and are described below: The outcome of this 1st phase analysis is summarised in the Strategy and Management: Our objective is to operate in following Framework. This Framework is used by our company a responsible way, to be accountable for the potential imto manage systematically Corporate Responsibility areas, in pact of our operations and at the same time improve our an eﬀort to avoid focusing on topics, not related to the nature competitiveness and ensure our growth. of our business. Corporate Responsibility Framework COSMOTE External Internal Environment Society Marketplace, Human Resources Reduce impact Fulﬁll needs Suppliers, Customers Improve conditions Energy Social Contribution Strengthen responsible Job Positions Raw Materials & Waste Social Products & Services operations Health & Safety Ozon Layer Economic Development Corporate Governance Fair Employment Water Volunteering Ethical Competition Freedom of Association Transportation Enterprising Responsible Marketing Employee Development Biodiversity Digital Divide Responsible Procurement Additional Beneﬁts EMF Customer Satisfaction Employee Brieﬁng Visual impact Connect Public Sensitisation Employee Satisfaction Noise the Unconnected Date Secutiry Awareness Low Carbon Connected Life & Work Society Strategy & Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 14 MANAGEMENT B. We deﬁne our Strategic and Operational Low Carbon Society: priorities The Information and Communication Technology sector (ICT) can contribute to the reduction of energy consumption (and At a 2nd phase, COSMOTE recognizes its Operational priorities respective carbon dioxide emissions), up to 15% till 2020 from the areas identiﬁed in the above Framework, by taking (corresponding to 7.8 GtnCO2), according to the SMART 2020 into consideration (a) the eﬀect each area has on our Stakestudy (see section III-2). holders and (b) the degree of control our company has on each area. At the same time, the analysis is used to determine the exConnect the Unconnected: tent each area has within this Report. For example, in the secA mobile telephony company provides consumers with access to tor Environment, the area of Energy constitutes a priority, while information-communication, reducing the digital divide, supthe area of Noise constitutes a secondary area and is therefore porting disabled people in having a normal life etc. (see section not extensively presented. IV-1,2,6, VI-5). At a 3rd phase, COSMOTE recognizes the critical long term posConnected Life and Work: itive contribution it can have on selected areas of Corporate ReMobile telephony services can contribute to work eﬀectivesponsibility. These Strategic priority areas are brieﬂy described ness, independent of locations and travelling, social networkbelow and are further analyzed in respective sections of this ing and work/life balance (see section IV-2). Report. 1 Risk Analysis and Negative Impact Assessment Inﬂuence st Phase CR Areas (CR Framework) Stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Expectations 2 nd Phase CR Operational Areas (Priorities) Level of Impact Level of Control 3 rd Phase Long-term Inﬂuence CR Strategic Areas Strategic Priorities Low Carbon Society Connect the Unconnected Connected Life and Work Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 15 2. Management Approach d) An EMF Team for Base Stations and Electromagnetic Field issues, responsible to monitor, coordinate and manage isΑ. We incorporate Corporate Responsibility in our sues related to the operation of Base Stations and EMF, in structure which oﬃcials from the Corporate Aﬀairs, ERM & BCM Department, the General Technical Department and the GenSince 2004, we have established a Corporate Responsibility eral Department of Competition, Legal Services and Section, which ensures that our company handles Corporate Regulatory Aﬀairs participate. Responsibility issues systematically, at a strategic, organisae) A Health and Safety Committee and Team. Τhe Health & tional and operational level. We have also established a CorSafety Team is responsible for applying health and safety porate Responsibility Team, from the beginning of 2006, with policies and processes. The Health and Safety Committee representatives from all company functions, aiming to: comprises of 6 members from Athens and 3 from Thesa) integrate the principle of Corporate Responsibility, within saloniki, which are elected by our company’s employees, functions of our company, every 2 years. b) systematically raise awareness of our employees on ref) A Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee, responsibility issues. sponsible for monitoring the application of the ManageOur company has also established a number of inter-department Compliance System Programme (CMS), for mental Committees, Teams and specialised units, which ensupporting the Compliance Director, as well as examining sure that speciﬁc issues are managed, in a responsible and Corporate Governance issues and recommending approsystematic way: priate actions. The Committee constitutes of General Dia) An Environmental Management Committee and Team, rectors and Directors of relevant departments. responsible to ensure the application of environmental policies. Overall, the management structure of Corporate Responsibilb) A Crisis Management Team, responsible to coordinate acity in 2010 (which includes responsibility for internal societal, tivities in case signiﬁcant incidents occur. external societal, economic and environmental issues), at a c) A Business Continuity Committee (BCC), responsible for directive and management level, is indicated below: planning and implementing Operational Continuity plans, in order to protect our company from unexpected events. LEVEL BoD/Committees/ COSMOTE Subsiiaries Board of Directors BoD/President CEO Directive Environment Corporate Aﬀairs Committee Director, ΕRM & BCM Health & Safety CR, Public Relations Committee & Internal Communications Deputy Director Management Subsidiaries Corporate Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Representatives Manager Environmental Corporate Corporate Management Team Responsibility Responsibility Team Section Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 16 MANAGEMENT Compliance Management System: COSMOTE has impleΒ. We integrate Corporate Responsibility in our mented a Compliance Management System, in order to proway of Management tect our Shareholders’ and Stakeholders’ interests and at the same time strengthen our responsible internal operation (see For our company, Corporate Responsibility does not constiSection VI-1C). The Compliance Management System is based tute an isolated activity. On the contrary, we strive to inteon three basic functions: brieﬁng and prevention, localization grate the parameter of responsible operation in our everyday and research, response and management (see section VI-1C). activities and in our management practices. Management Systems: We have developed Management Code of Conduct: We recognize that both ensuring our corSystems, which are certiﬁed by respectful bodies and help us porate long-term success, as well as safeguarding our Stakemanage our operations in a systematic way, including issues holders’ interests, are closely related to the extend our related to Corporate Responsibility, such as environmental managers and employees will follow the principles of Corpomanagement and employees’ health and safety. More speciﬁrate Responsibility and ethics. cally, we apply the following systems: For this reason, we have developed a Code of Conduct, which ISO 9001:2008: Quality Management System, certiﬁed by constitutes a statement of our values and principles and dethe Hellenic Standardisation Body (ELOT). ﬁnes the way our managers and employees should behave, on a daily basis. The Code is communicated to all new employISO 14001:2004: Environmental Management System, cerees and is available in our Website, as well as our corporate Intiﬁed by TϋV Hellas/TϋV NORD. tranet. All employees are subject to the Code, despite contract OHSAS 18001:2008: Health & Safety Management System, type (permanent, part time), hierarchical level, country of emcertiﬁed by TϋV Hellas/TϋV NORD. ployment etc. At the same time, we have developed a whistle blowing mechanism, to identify gaps in implementation of our Code. The sections of this Code are: Our enterprising principles. Behaviour towards colleagues. Behaviour of Management towards employees. Behaviour of employees towards the company. Subsidiary Glance: Behaviour towards customers. It is worth mentioning that, during 2010, COSMOTE Romania Behaviour towards shareholders and investment was certiﬁed according to ISO9001:2008. community. Behaviour towards suppliers and partners. Behaviour towards competitors. Behaviour towards authorities. Behaviour towards the media. Behaviour towards the environment. Our Code of Conduct deﬁnes amongst others: We conduct our business activities with sincerity, respect and integrity. We follow the law and adopt principles of corporate ethics. We do not tolerate bribery and corruption. We collaborate eﬀectively and cultivate a team spirit. We keep our promises and are sincere. 17 C. We focus on measurable results Case Study Focus on quantitative data COSMOTE recognizes the international practice of Corporate Responsibility GRI Reports to include reliable, complete and measurable indicators, in order to We increased by 26% the number be transparent to Stakeholders. For this reason, our company focuses on of quantitative indicators and by 10% the number of GRI Indicators we make presenting more quantitative indicators, objectives and ratings in it’s Report, reference in our 2009 CR Report as indicated in the following graph. Quantitative Data within the Report 237 200 _ 188 150 _ 112 100 _ 76 65 52.6 47 50 _ 37 39 40 44.9 34 31 44.6 33 22 29 27 31 25 24 8 11 0_ 2007 2008 2009 2010 Quantitative indicators (number) Graphs and tables (number) Fully covered GRI indicators (number) Targets for 2009 (number) Partially covered GRI indicators (number) Accountability Rating Greece (%) EMDI of WWF (%) D. We ensure data credibility The disclosure of reliable quantitative data is a prerequisite for credibility. For this reason: We follow a systematic data gathering process, segmented in four levels: information owner, supervisor (organisational level check), Corporate Responsibility Manager (functional level check), Corporate Responsibility, Public Relations & Internal Communication Deputy Director (management level check). At the same time, to independently verify the data announced to Stakeholders: We control environmental, health & safety data, within the annual re-certiﬁcation process of our corporate management systems. We conduct a Report Assurance (for the ﬁrst time in 2009), by an independent external veriﬁcation body (see Section VII-4). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 18 MANAGEMENT 3. Recognition-Membership B. Our eﬀorts are recognized Recognition of our eﬀorts to become more responsible proA. We participate in International and National vides us satisfaction and energy to continue the application institutions of our longterm programmes. In 2010, we received a numOur company participates in a number of International & Naber of recognitions, such as: tional Organizations and Institutions, through which we seek During the “Enterprising Rewards MONEY”, COSMOTE reto promote issues linked to obstacles the Mobile Telephony ceived the “First Award Corporate Social Responsibility sector faces, as well as the importance of Corporate Respon2010”, according to votes of the wider business community. sibility. Indicatively, we are members in the following organiDuring the “BRAVO, Sustainable Development Awards”, our zations and institutions: 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report, was recognized as the Best overall Report. Telecommunications sector: GSM Association (GSM-A): our company is member of the During the 5th HAA Corporate Social Responsibility ExcelWorld Association of Mobile Communications Services and lence Awards 2009, our company won the award for our participates actively in many of its work groups. project When you have the knowledge, you have the world in your hands”: Information initiatives for the Safe Use of Association of Mobile Telephony Companies (EEKT): our Mobile Services, within the Business Environment / Market company is a founding member of the established associacategory. tion, which aims to strengthen collaboration and promote issues of common interest, among mobile telephony Within the ΕΜDI (Environmental Management and Discloproviders in Greece. sure Index) Assessment, conducted for the 1st time in Greece by WWF Hellas, COSMOTE Greece was assessed in European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI): Band F, receiving a score of 44.6%. our company is a member of the European Organisation for Telecommunications Standardization, since 1998. Association of ICT Companies in Greece (S.E.P.E.). Association of Greek Companies and Industries (S.E.V.): our company participates in the Committees of Wireless Communications and Mobile Communications. Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry (A.C.C.I.). Corporate Responsibility sector: GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative): the objective is to Snapshots from the event Awards sustainable Snapshots from the event for inform the public and promote technologies that contribute Development Corporate Excellence Social Accountability 2009 to Sustainable Development. Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility. Hellenic branch of UN’s Global Compact. 4. Stakeholder Engagement Information and Alert Action (www.saferinternet.gr) of the Greek Node for Safer Internet. Α.We conduct dialogue with our Stakeholders Our Code of Conduct, has been communicated to all our emRoad Safety Institute ”Panos Mylonas”. ployees (see section II-2B) and addresses behavioural princiMinistry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Working ples, on which our relationship with Stakeholders is based Group: the objective is to investigate the inﬂuence of Inforupon. mation and Communication Technologies (ICT) on climate changes. Today, Stakeholders (which are deﬁned as those directly or indirectly aﬀected by our decisions) require not only transOther organisations: parency, but also active involvement of companies on social Athens Chamber of Commerce & Industry (A.C.C.I.). issues, societal progress and environmental protection. ReForum “Next generation’s access networks”. sponding to this requirement, we systematically identify Stakeholders (through a workshop with representatives of corporate departments) expectations and questions of our Stakeholders and respond to them in various ways, as described in the Report and summarized in the following table: Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 19 Stakeholder Means of dialogue Topics raised Section in Group (annual /continuous) this Report Customers Customer Satisfaction Surveys Quality of services (in relation to costs) Marketplace: (Corporate Customer Service Centers Mobile telephony operations VΙ-2,3,5,6,7 & Retail) Corporate Responsibility Surveys Safe use of services Environment: III-8 Special Surveys EMF Sales Network Responsible Marketing (e.g. consumer rights) Social Media Pricing Commercial Corporate Responsibility Surveys Transparency Marketplace: VΙ-1,2 Network Special surveys Governance Society: IV-3 Economic growth Suppliers Attendance in sector-based unions Transparency Marketplace: VΙ-2,3,4 Meetings Market Policy Society: IV-3 Corporate Responsibility Surveys Economic growth Suppliers’ evaluation Employees Negotiation with Union representatives Professional Development Human Resources: (including Employee Satisfaction Survey Health and Safety V-2,3,5 Unions) Internal Corporate Responsibility Survey Fair work (diversity, work-life balance) Organization of events Education Publication of informative forms Meetings Corporate Responsibility Laboratory (Upper, Higher and Senior Management) Appraisal system Trainings Authorities Dialogue with representatives of national and Transparency Marketplace: VΙ-1,2 local authorities Governance Society: IV-3 Attendance in associations and unions Economic growth Academia Cooperation within programmes Environment Environment: III-2-8 Corporate Responsibility Surveys EMF Marketplace: VI-3,7 Mobile use safety Human Resources: V-1 Job positions Local Systematic visits Environmental impact Environment: III-2,4,7,8 Communities Dialogue with local representatives and Covering local societies’ needs Society: IV-2,6 other authorities Support of local business enterprising Marketplace: V-5 EMF Public Corporate Responsibility Survey Environmental impact (e.g. recycling, pollution) Environment: III-2-7 Informative meetings with citizens Social Contribution (e.g. poverty, social exclusion, Society: IV-1,3 disability) Market: VI-3,6 Economic growth Employees: V-1,3 EMF Responsible Marketing (e.g. child protection, pricing) Employees’ equality Job positions Non GovernCollaborations Environmental impact Environment: III-2-8 mental Meetings with NGOs Use of natural resources Society: IV-2 Organizations Corporate Responsibility Survey Social Contribution Assessments & Indexes Media Press Announcements (Press Releases) All above issues Management and other articles Environment Press Conferences, Events Marketplace Informative contacts with media representatives Human Resources Society Special Media Surveys Shareholders Meetings of executives All above issues Management (OTE / Adoption and utilisation of policies Environment Deutsche and principles Marketplace Telekom) Daily collaboration Human Resources Society Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 20 MANAGEMENT Β. We monitor our Stakeholders’ opinion Moreover,COSMOTEconductsdedicatedsurveystorecognizeand COSMOTE monitors the needs and expectations of its Stakeholdidentify issues, which concern various social groups. Especially ers, as described above. Indicative examples are described below: within 2010, a qualitative survey was implemented and respondents were asked, among other issues, to evaluate existing CorPublic: Our company participates and monitors surveys carporateResponsibilityprogrammesofourcompany.Finally,through ried out by independent institutions, addressing our Stakeperiodic quantitative surveys, COSMOTE systematically monitors holders’ perception, regarding our responsible operation. For speciﬁc indicators, in relation to the public's perception about our example, within the quantitative survey “Social Barometer company’s social sensitivity. A.S.B.I.”, COSMOTE is assessed as: The third most recognizable company for its social contribuEmployees:Ouremployees’opinionisparticularlyimportantand tion within the Greek market (and ﬁrst in the telecommunitherefore, aker 2009 when we conducted a survey on Corporate cations sector). Responsibility (CR) issues among 871 employees, within 2010, Thesecondcompanyintermsofpervasivenessofitssocialconwe utilized a Corporate Responsibility training course (including tribution within the Greek market (and ﬁrst in the telecommuEnvironmentalmanagementissues)for84%ofCOSMOTE’sUpper, nications sector). Higher and Senior Managers, in order to receive feedback for our (Source: ASBI Awareness & Social Behavior Index 2010). CorporateResponsibilityProgramme.Mainﬁndingswerecollected COSMOTE is and incorporated in the 2010 Report. Corporate Responsibility Survey evaluated by the (Source: Corporate Responsibility Course COSMOTE 2010). public as the most 120 100 105 109 «socially sensitive» 98 95 Customers (Special Groups): Since safety of internet and mo100 86 83 71 79 mobile telephony 80 60 company for the bileservicesisincreasinglybecomingimportant(seesectionVI-3), 40 last four years. we conducted a speciﬁc survey in 2009 among parents, teachers 20 0 and youngsters, in order to: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Monitor their habits and perceptions, as far as internet and moCOSMOTE is “ a company with social sensitivity” (%) bile usage is concerned. 2nd best mobile telephone company (%) Broaden perceptions regarding the use of internet and mobile *Data refer to COSMOTE Greece and represent average multiplicity yearly results. phone. **Figure 100 is deﬁned as the result of COSMOTE Greece, for the year 2006. Identify the role and eﬀect of school, family, COSMOTE and insti(Source: Tracking Study 2010, Centrum). tutions in brieﬁng youngsters, with regard to proper use of internet and mobile services. (Source: Safe Internet and Mobile Services use survey 2009, Alternative). 5. Targets 2010 and 2011 We said We did Progress We will Target (in 2010) (in 2010) (in 2011) Date To improve our rating at the Greek The assessment was not Αccountability Rating, by 5%. conducted in Greece. To increase the reference to GRI See Section ΙΙ-2C To increase the reference to GRI 2011 100% Indicators in the Report, by 10%. Indicators in the Report, by 5%. To conduct a Risk Assessment See Section ΙΙ-1A Το issue a Corporate Responsibility 2011 at COSMOTE Romania and Conducted for Report at least for one foreign GLOBUL Bulgaria. environmental issues 50% subsidiary. To expand the collection and data See Section ΙΙ-2 To expand the collection and data 2011 control system, related to our Corporate control system, related to our Corporate Responsibility Report. 75% Responsibility Report. To deploy our management practices See Section IΙ-VI To export our management practices 2011 to our subsidiaries in Greece and Abroad. 75% to our subsidiaries in Greece and Abroad. To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement See Section II-4A,B To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement 2012 Survey for all stakeholders. 25% Survey for all Stakeholders. To train our Director Team on Corporate See Section II-4B To train our subsidiaries on developing 2011 Responsibility. 100% CR Reports. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 21 ΙΙΙ. Our world, our Environment Briefly 837thousand bio-degradable bags 136.5 tones of packaging material 1.9 million liters 24.7 thousand cubic meters of water 159 of petrol 5 million EMF measurements GWh of electricity 22 ENVIRONMENT How can we maintain our operations, without harming the environment? Our Objective: Our Achievements in 2010: Due to the nature of telecom services, our company has a relWe recycled 12.02tn of mobiles-accessories. atively low impact on the environment. However, our activities, We deployed our mobile recycling system in 100% of our products and services are analyzed, to identify interactions with COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network. the environment and prioritize programmes to reduce our imWe recycled 24.02 tn electrical and electronic devices pact, by applying credible and scientiﬁcally robust tools. Our (100% of the quantity we withdrew). objective is not to have a negative impact on the environment We recycled 469 tn of batteries (100% of the quantity we (where this is not feasible, we aim to minimize the negative withdrew). impact, which inevitably originates from all human activities) We recycled 17,266 lt of oil-lubricants (100% of the quanand in parallel to raise awareness of our fellow citizens, on acttity we withdrew). ing more responsibly on the issue of environmental protection. We continued the operation of photovoltaic panels in 37 Base Stations (installed over the last years), to utilise solar energy. We prevented 3,500 tn of carbon dioxide from being emitted, due to programmes we have implemented. We reduced electricity consumption per Base Station by 3.5%, due to programmes we have implemented. We reduced energy consumption within our stores by 14.4%. We reduced total petrol consumption by 15%. We use only bio-degradable bags in 100% of our COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network. We recycled 77.9% of solid waste from our warehouse. We recycled 42.3 tn of paper (over 80% of the total purchased paper). We reduced water consumption per employee by 5%. We reduced fuel consumption per kilometer by 19.6%. We increased by 6.5% the number of EMF measurement stations in all of Greece, through our “Pedion 24” programme. We helped our customers to reduce paper consumption by 80tn, which corresponds to more than 1,370 trees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 23 1. Strategy and Management Α. We operate in a systematic way Within the frame of our Environmental Management System, our environmental performance, by setting goals, determinwhich is certiﬁed according to the ISO 14001 standard, we ing indicators and taking actions, which are economically analyze all our activities, products and services with referfeasible, through our multifaceted Environmental Strategy, ence to their impact on the environment and try to improve which is based on three main axes: Environmental Strategy Reduce Brief and raise Contribute to reduction own environmental Stakeholder of environmental footprint of footprint awareness other business sectors COSMOTE’s commitment to protect We have an open dialogue with our employees and stakethe environment is also expressed in holders. its Environmental Policy and is transWe expect our suppliers and our contractors to demonstrate formed into action through the develenvironmental care and put into practice environmental manopment of Environmental programmes agement programmes. described within this chapter We contribute to the sensitizationmobilization of our cusCOSMOTE GROUP’s Εnvironmental Policy tomers on environmental issues, such as recycling of mobile phones, batteries, ink cartridges, the use of ecological “We, at COSMOTE, are committed to handle any eﬀects materials, such as bio-degradable bags in our shops, as well our operations have on the environment, by taking into as services like e-billing. consideration the continuous improvement of our environmental performance. This commitment deﬁnes the We stay in contact with the local society, we anticipate and way we operate within COSMOTE.” correspond to their needs to confront critical environmental issues. Issues We participate in public dialogue and environmental discusApplication of current legislation and participation in achieving sions in general. national goals, constitutes the starting point for the development Remaining faithful to our environmental principles, we put into of our environmental policy. practice, everywhere in Greece, the Environmental ManageWe recognize and measure our impact on the environment. ment System, according to ISO 14001:2004 standard, in all the We seek for ways to reduce our impact, by utilizing the best breadth of our operations and services. available techniques and practices: Minimizing pollution and waste we emit to the environment The reduction of our impact on the environment, requires continuous eﬀort and monitoring of results. Environmental issues Reducing unnecessary use of raw materials and energy conconstitute an integral part of our philosophy and are integrated in sumption all internal operations of our company.” Recycling raw materials, such as lubricants, papers, but also WEEE. Μichael Tsamaz We educate, raise awareness and encourage our employees’ to BoD President and CEO participate in the operation of our Environmental Management System, but also more generally, to adopt an environmentally responsible way of life. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 24 ENVIRONMENT Carbon Dioxide Sources 0.11% Oﬃces Petrol (%) Subsidiary Glance 1.78% Oﬃces Electricity (%) Our subsidiaries GLOBUL Bulgaria and COSMOTE Romania and 4.13% 8.98% 0.96% Shops Electricity (%) Core Network (MSC & BSC) AMC Albania are in the process of developing environmental Electricity (%) management systems according to ISO14001. BTS Electricity (%) 13.14% BTS Petrol (%) Transportation (Vehicles, Air travel) (%) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. ** Conversion factor: Electricity 0.7312 tn 2. Energy and Climate Change 70.91% CO2e /MWh, Gasoline 0.002327 tn CO2e/lt, Petrol 0.002681 tn CO2e/lt Α. We analyze energy consumption sources Our company recognizes the importance and risks associated Sources: IEA CO2 emissions from Fuel combustion 2010 Edition GHG Protocol Calculation Tools with the issue of Climatic Change. Therefore it strives to im(2006 IPCC Guidelines for National GHG Inventories / 2007 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report). prove its energy eﬃciency and reduce the negative impact it has directly (e.g. petrol use in Base Stations,) and indirectly (e. Carbon Dioxide Emissions . electricity use from the Public Power Corporation) on the at1220 Transportation (Vehicles, Airtravel) (tn) 2198 mosphere, due to the corresponding greenhouse gas emis120000 1639 5949 5112 BTS Petrol (tn) BTS Electricity (tn) sions (such as carbon dioxide). 6812 Backbone Network (MSC &BSC) Electricity (tn) 90000 Shops Electricity (tn) The direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions, which are Oﬃces Electricity (tn) related to our company’s energy consumption, are presented 92800 87747 Oﬃces Petrol (tn) 83372 below per sector and activity, while corresponding energy 60000 consumptions are described analytically in the following sections of this chapter. 30000 17219 15680 16256 Total (direct and indirect) emissions of carbon dioxide were 1135 100501370 111131184 0 7142206 230 137 reduced by 2.8% (from 127,299 tn in 2009, to 123,747 tn in 2008 2009 2010 2010) with the overwhelming majority being attributed to our * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Network operations (Backbone Network and Base Stations). Based on this analysis, priorities for our company are identiVia programmes described below, we seek to decrease our ﬁed as being: energy reduction programmes within our netenergy consumption from all sources, and therefore the corwork operations and secondary within our oﬃce operations. responding emissions of carbon dioxide. Without these programmes, the consumption of energy would be over 6,500 MWh higher (or 3.5% of total). This corresponds to 3,500 tn of carbon dioxide emissions (or 2.8% of total emissions) Case Study and saving of over €850,000. Energy & Carbon Dioxide Savings Energy Monitoring Model For the conﬁguration of our energy strategy, COSMOTE has de7_ We prevented emission 6.5 veloped an Energy Monitoring and Forecasting Tool, in order to: 6 of 3,500 tn of carbon Monitor energy consumption. 6_ dioxide, through targeted Forecast future energy consumption. programmes implemented. 5_ Register energy saving, due to respective programmes. Deﬁne future energy and carbon emission targets. 4_ 3.5 3.5 _ 3 2.8 3 2.7 _ 2 2 1_ 0_ 2009 2010 Energy savings (GWh) Percentage of energy savings (%) Avoidance of CO2 emissions (thousand tn) Percentage of CO2 savings(%) Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 25 Subsidiary Glance For 2010, petrol consumption for oﬃces, Network and Base Stations for all COSMOTE Group reached 2,402,581 lt, while also 7,051 lt. of propane was consumed at our subsidiary E-Value. C. We control the electricity consumption in our Backbone Network and B/S Growth of our network and deployment of a new third Generation (3G) network, require installation of new Base Stations (BTS) and additions of new equipment in our Core Network. Therefore, reduction of energy consumption is a challenging goal, for any mobile telephony company. The company has not monitored directly the total electricity consumption in BTS and Network, a practice it intends to complete in the near future, with the installation of digital energy consumption monitoring systems, a programme initialized in Β. We reduce consumption of petrol in our Base 2010. However, in order to prioritize energy reduction proStations and Oﬃces grammes, we conducted direct measurements and estimations, In order to continuously provide our services in all Greek terin order to focus on areas, where the highest energy conritory, we install Base Stations (BTS) in the remotest locasumptions (and corresponding carbon dioxide emissions) origtions, where electricity supply (via the Public Power inate from. Corporation network) is diﬃcult, or even impossible. At these Electricity Consumption in Backbone Network and BTS locations, it is necessary to use electricity generators, which 128.01 function 24 hours a day, or at least temporarily (when energy 114.99 120 Due to the 120 supply from the Public power Corporation is not available). programmes we have implemented, 90 we reduced energy Our company, in order to reduce petrol consumption, which consumption per has particularly aggravating impact on the environment, ap60 Base Station by plied a programme for fuel measurement and maintenance 3.5% of 674 generators (24-hour and emergency operation), aim30 21.64 22.23 ing to ensure their proper function. 6 1.9 More analytically, in 2010 the petrol consumption in Base Sta0 1.8 tions reached 1,907,080 lt, heating petrol consumption in 2008 2009 2010 Electricity consumption in Backbone Network (GWh) buildings reached 44,002 lt, while petrol consumption for Electricity consumption in BTS (GWh) generators in oﬃces (Dachtilidi and Acharnon) reached 7,300 Energy reduction per Base Station due to programmes lt. The decrease is attributed to the upgrading of PV systems * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. used in Base Stations. These amounts correspond also approximate emissions of 1.23 tn of SO2 and 4.2 tn of NOX. In order to decrease current electricity consumption in Base Stations, our company: Petrol Consumption in Base Stations and Oﬃces Continues the installation of free cooling air-conditioning systems, aiming to reduce energy use (utilizing the diﬀerence beWe reduced the total tween external and internal temperature in BTS). In 2010, we consumption of petrol installed 47 free cooling systems, increasing the total number 2500 76.74 85.97 by 15% to 1,448. 51.3 2000 Has installed, up to the end of 2010, photovoltaic panels in 37 1500 Base Stations in total. Through these systems, renewable solar 2,483.15 2,260.2 2,224.6 energy is utilized, replacing electricity from Grid and petrol con1000 1,907.08 sumption, which have negative impact on the environment. 500 Implements a programme for the gradual replacement of old 0 telecom equipment with new type equipment, achieving a 2007 2008 2009 2010 worth mentioning reduction in energy use. The programme will Petrol consumption in oﬃces (heating, generators) (th. lt) Petrol consumption in BTS (th. lt) be continued and new Base Stations will be designed, according to new energy facts. * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 26 ENVIRONMENT It must be noted that, due to progammes we have impleSubsidiary Glance mented, we managed to reduce the consumption of energy in For 2010, electricity consumption at Oﬃces and Warehouses, our Network by 3.5% per Base Station. This is particularly imin all COSMOTE Group, reached 35.81 GWh. Indicative example portant, as our Network is accountable for the majority of our of good practice, is the logistics center of GERMANOS in energy consumption. Avlonas, with light-tubes installed in an area of 8,500 m2, resulting an energy reduction which exceeds annually the amount of 200 MWh. Subsidiary Glance For 2010, electricity consumption in COSMOTE Group’s Network and Base Stations reached 235.2 GWh. Indicative examples of good practices, is the use of free cooling systems in approximately 1,500 Base Stations of COSMOTE Romania and the use of a free cooling and heating-cooling system combination, in approximately 860 Base Stations in GLOBIL Bulgaria. D. We control electricity consumption in Oﬃces In order to reduce oﬃce energy consumption, we have taken Ε. We control electricity consumption in Shops proactive measures, such as: Our company’s remodeling project resulted a signiﬁcant deWe increase awareness of our employees about the consecrease in our per store energy consumption. quences of energy consumption on the environment. We monitor consumption and take actions, such as decreasing Electricity Consumption in Shops We reduced the the air-conditioning use, limiting lighting in exterior places etc. energy consumption We initiated a building upgrading programme. per store by 14,4% 2000 1,892 1,620.21 1,566 1500 In 2010, oﬃce energy consumption reached 15.2 GWh, while 1000 the corresponding consumption per employee was 6.45 MWh. 500 94.6 74.09 81 The increase of energy con0 sumption at oﬃces is due 2008 2009 2010 to the inclusion of measElectricity consumption in own shops (MWh) Electricity consumption indicator per shop (MWh/shop) urements from two new facilities in Athens (Grabias * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece’s own shops (20 of 22 shops). and Fragkoklissias), as well as the deployment of the Data Center in our Acharnon building. Electricity Consumption in Oﬃces Εlectricity consumption per employee in our oﬃces increased by 4% 20 13.88 15.2 13.03 9.04 9.85 5.87 5.05 6.2 6.45 3.95 Electricity consumption in oﬃces (GWh) Electricity consumption indicator per employee (MWh/employee) Subsidiary Glance * Data corresponds to over 95% of COSMOTE Greece’s oﬃces (Kiﬁssias 44 A' , C' , Kiﬁssias 95-97, Acharnon, For the year 2010, electricity consumption at own Shops Metamorphosis, Gravias, Fragoklisias, Patras, Crete, Eyosmos and Porto Canter in Thesaloniki). ** Data given in 2007 were adjusted, due to 2007 electricity accounts, arriving mid-year 2008. of COSMOTE Group reached 12,260 MWh. *** Data of 2006 and 2007 also include consumption in shops (which is now reported separately). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 27 3. Raw Materials and Solid Waste Α. We analyze the use of raw material Our company recognizes that raw materials are not inexConsequently, depending on the type of materials (general or haustible and that a more eﬃcient use of natural resources is special-hazardous), our company: a priority for the whole planet. For this reason, we follow the Monitors materials used. principle “Reduce – Reuse – Recycle”, in order to achieve the Reduces materials used. more eﬃcient use of limited resources, while we also aim to Reuses materials used. reduce the production of solid waste, that inevitably emanate Recycles materials used. from any corporate activity. Properly disposes materials produced. Reduce Materials + Recycle Materials + Proper Material Disposal = Reduce Environmental Used + Reuse Materials Footprint Monitor Materials Used Β. We use recycled materials C. We control consumption of Packaging Material COSMOTE, in 2010, acquired 837,000 environmentally Our company implemented a product packaging control friendlier bio-degradable bags, which are used in all COSprogramme, for products manufactured in-house and posiMOTE Greece shops. Consequently, all bags consumed by tioned in our shops. our shops are now bio-degradable. Moreover, our company uses only recycled paper in all materials related to Corporate Responsibility activities. Consumptions of our product packaging materials 2007 2008 2009 2010 We use only Aluminium (tn) 12.46 8.81 9.98 1.9 bio-degradable bags Wood (tn) 52.93 35.27 37.48 1.4 in 100% of Plastic (tn) 85.94 100.19 102.81 48.15 COSMOTE and GERMANOS shops. Paper-cardboard (tn) 146.46 129.36 140.64 85.00 Packaging (pieces) 4,748,894 6,001,672 5,843,520 6,083,743 Bio-degradable bags (number) 1,000,000 1,600,000 1,210,000 837,000 * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece, refers to own production and are estimations. Subsidiary Glance The objective to expand, in 2010, the use of bio-degradable bags in GERMANOS retail network, was achieved, as 4,127,029 bags were acquired. In parallel, recycled paper is also used in GLOBUL Bulgaria for the coverage of needs in oﬃces and shops. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 28 ENVIRONMENT In 2010, we stopped production of prepaid metallic boxes, deactivations etc.) and for the employees’ payment proceresulting a signiﬁcant decrease in Aluminum usage (produres (it is estimated that over 1,200 kgr of paper will be duction of which is energy intensive), while the overall raw saved, an amount corresponding to 20 trees). material usage reached 136.4 tn. As a result, the average Possibility of two-side photocopying and printing, for docweight of our packaging, decreased to 22.4 gr per unit. uments in Greece. Packaging Materials At the same time, by having systematized the recycling pro297.78 gramme, we emphasize proper use of paper. In 2010, 42.3tn 273.63 290.91 300 of paper was recycled, while the increase in paper use was 200 136.45 due to the obligatory procedure of registering all prepaid cus62.7 45.6 49.8 100 22.4 tomers in Greece. 2007 2008 2009 2010 Use and Recycling of Paper Use of packaging material (tn) Average weight of packaging unit (gr) 100 89.8 * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece, refers to own production and are estimations. 79.4 80.6 80 61.7 60 53.8 46.68 42.29 General Waste Management 40 21.5 26.5 27.63 20 18.05 17.11 20.25 22.19 13.28 12.5 13.6 D. We recycle Warehouse Materials 0 9.7 40 11.9 29.5 38.67 44.75 52.24 Within 2010, we continued our programme to manage al2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ternatively materials of our warehouse in Metamorphosis In Paper use (tn) We recycled 42.3 tn total, 78.19 tn packaging materials were delivered for recyRecycled to bought paper (%) Recycled paper (tn) of paper (over of the quantity 80% cling through our warehouse (66.56 tn cardboards, 11.63 tn Recycling per employee (kgr) we bought). plastic), while 22.29 tn of non-recyclable materials were diUsage per employee (kgr) rected for disposal, to the Ano Liosion waste area. * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Recycling and Disposal of Solid Waste 77.6 74.8 77.9 We recycled 100 80 77.9% Subsidiary Glance 60 of solid waste from Paper consumption of COSMOTE Group, within 2010, reached 40 20 our warehouse. 159.2 tn. In parallel, paper recycling of COSMOTE Group reached 22.4 25.2 22.1 0 62,04tn, with respective programmes being also applied at 2008 2009 2010 GERMANOS in Greece (which recycled 3.9 tn), GLOBUL and Solid material recycling (%) Solid material disposal (%) GERMANOS in Bulgaria (6.8tn), COSMOTE and GERMANOS in Romania (4.07 tn), as well as ΑMC in Albania (5tn). Subsidiary Glance We recycled 85.95 tn of cartons from the warehouse of Germanos in Avlona. Ε. We reduce usage and recycle Paper The reduction of paper used in our oﬃces and shops, is a practice that COSMOTE has implemented for years. This eﬀort is based on the following practices: Use of targeted messages to increase the awareness of our employees. Application of electronic paper management tools, such as for customers’ electronic signature at COSMOTE and GERMANOS shops (for contract renewals, address changes, Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 29 Special Waste Management G. We recycle Electrical and Electronic Waste WEEE COSMOTE was the ﬁrst mobile telephony company in Greece, which responded to the requirements of the relative legislaF. We recycle Mobile Phones, Accessories tion (117/2004) and signed a contract with the Appliances and Batteries Recycling company, the only licensed company in Greece, for Since 2005, we have implemented a mobile phone, accesrecycling Electrical and Electronic Waste Equipment. sories and battery recycling programme in all COSMOTE shops, GERMANOS shops and COSMOTE buildings. As a result, 12,021 Through this environmental programme, we forward 100% kgr of phone devices and mobile telephony accessories were of telecommunications equipment and 100% of IT Hardware gathered in 2010, over-achieving our target (which was to equipment withdrawn for recycling, which in 2010 reached collect 20 kgr per collection point), as 25.57 kgr per collecthe quantity of 24.02 tn. tion point were gathered. Furthermore, within the frame of a corporate assets withElectrical and Electronic Waste Recycling drawal programme, 7.35 tn of mobile phones and accessories 120 100 100 100 100 100 from COSMOTE’s warehouse and also 37.47 tn of batteries 100 from GERMANOS’s warehouse in Avlona were recycled. These 80 amounts are not included in the data of the graph below, as 60 they are not related to customers’ participation. 40 72 20 31.66 23.4 17.78 24.02 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Recycled quantity (tn) Subsidiary Glance Percentage of recycled material (%) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. In 2010, a similar mobile phone and accessories recycling programme was continued in GLOBUL and GERMANOS in Bulgaria (1,470 kgr), as well as in COSMOTE and GERMANOS Romania (206 kgr). The total recycled quantity, within COSMOTE Group, We recycled 24.02 tn reached 13,696 kgr. electrical and electronic waste, 100% Recycling of Mobiles, Batteries and Accessories of the quantity we withdrew. 160 140 120 100 100 100 100 80 60 94.22 135.76 120.21 40 25 33 20.66 29.32 25.57 20 16.67 0 13,2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Subsidiary Glance Quantity of recycled mobiles etc. (hundreds kgr) During 2010, 88.85 tn of electrical and electronic waste were Percentage of shops and buildings with recycling scheme (%) recycled within COSMOTE Group. Recycling per collection point (kgr) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece and GERMANOS Greece customers. We deployed our mobile recycling scheme Η. We recycle Base Station Batteries to 100% COSMOTE and GERMANOS In order to continuously provide our services to customers, we shops. We recycled 12.02% tn of mobiles accessories, while collection per point have installed lead batteries in our Base Stations, which are acreduced by 12.8% tivated when electricity provisioning problems occur. When the life cycle of batteries is completed, they are collected by specialized companies and transported to licensed establishments, in order to be recycled (since lead batteries are characterized Apart from phone devices, batteries and accessories, our as hazardous). company also enables recycling of domestic batteries and ink cartridges in its shops, for the public. In 2010, 53,059 kgr of Our objective for 2010, was the recycling of 100% of withdrawn domestic batteries were collected from 470 collection points batteries. This objective was achieved, as 469 tn of lead-acid (i.e. 112.9 kgr per point), as well as 1,524 pieces of ink carbatteries were forwarded for recycling. tridges (or 3.2 items per collection point). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 30 ENVIRONMENT We recycled 469 tn of batteries, Recycling of Lead Batteries 100% J. We reuse Ink Cartridges of the quantity Since the very ﬁrst year of our operation, COSMOTE has we withdrew. 600 adopted a policy to handle ink cartridges for printers, since in 500 469 some cases, these contain hazardous substances. 400 300 The target for 2010 was to reuse 30% of bought ink cartridges. 192 96.4 200 45.6 93.49 The target was overachieved, as reuse reached 41.3%. More 100 100 100 100 100 100 speciﬁcally, 4,734 new ink cartridges were bought, of which 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1,953 were delivered and reﬁlled (aker their reconstruction, Recycled quantity (tn) in case they had a repairable dysfunction) and 1,406 items, Percentage of recycled material (%) were sent for alternative recycling. * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Reuse and Disposal of Ink Cartridges I. We recycle Oil-Lubricants 120 100 100 100 100 100 80 It is ecologically important to avoid rejection of lubricants to 60 45 48.7 40.2 41.3 the environment, which are used in generators located in Base 40 Stations, as these are considered dangerous materials. For this 20 28.08 34.06 47.34 16.77 reason: 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 We invested in installing special collection buckets in all BTS, Used (hundreds) with 24-hour operating generators (or generators used for Reused to bought (%) backup operation), for outcast oil-lubricants and maintenance Disposal of non-recycable (%) waste. * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. 17,266 lt of lubricants were collected, for recycling. At the same time, we cooperate with a licensed company, which collects and forwards for recycling the whole quantity of lubricants rejected, during generator maintenance. Κ. We recycle Lamps In 2010, we initiated a new recycling programme for lamps, The achieved target for 2010 was the alternative managewith the total amount gathered and recycled reaching 180 kg. ment of 100% of outcast Lubricants and Oils, which are the result of BTS generators maintenance. Consequently, in 2010 Lamps Recycling over 16,994 lt of lubricants were bought, while 17,266 lt were collected and delivered, to the respective Alternative Management Collection System. The diﬀerence is due to the 200 180 fact that acquisition and replacement of oil and lubricants 160 100 do not completely coincide with the calendar year. 120 80 40 Oil Lubricants Recycling We recycled 17,266 lt 2010 of oil-lubricants, Recycling of lamps (kgr) 120 100 100 100 100 100% of the quantity Recycling (%) 100 we withdrew. 80 60 40 20.34 17.26 20 3.61 6.96 2007 2008 2009 2010 Quantity recycled (thousand. lt) Percentage of recycled (%) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 31 4. Ozone Layer Subsidiary Glance Α. We reduce our impact on the Ozone Layer In 2010, water consumption of COSMOTE Group reached Our company has stopped installing equipment, which use chlo148,269 m3. An indicative example of water reduction practice rine-ﬂuorine-carbons (CFCs), which are extremely harmful for is the use of biological cleansing at GERMANOS’ distribution the ozone layer. Progressively, our company has replaced these center in Avlona. The system operates without stench and substances with refrigerating and extinguishing substances, noise, treats waste water produced at the distribution center which are environmentally friendlier (as they correspond to a and reclaims the treated water for watering the surrounding lower Ozone Depleting Potential ODP), such as the cooling gardens. substances R407, R410C, R134A and the extinguishing substance FM200. However, the existing materials which inevitably leak to the atmosphere are gradually replenished. 6. Transportation It is worth mentioning that, according to existing legislation, Α. We reduce our transportation impact handling and reuse of existing R22, is allowed until 2014. Our company’s products are distributed to all our sales points, according to speciﬁc processes, which include: The employment of trained drivers and application of a control system for drivers, loads and routes. Material Quantity leaked to Quantity leaked to The systematic control of our distribution ﬂeet, at the Techatmosphere in 2009 (Network, Buildings) atmosphere in 2010 (Network, Buildings, Shops) nical Vehicles Control Centers (T.V.C.C) and the supply of exhaust-gas cards. R22 (elaborated)(kgr 2,057 172.3 (94.7 kgr CFC-11eq) R407 (kgr) 655 462 R410 (kgr) 520 159 The number of vehicles for COSMOTE Greece in 2010 was, on R134 A (kgr) 117 24 average, 365, while in 2010 these vehicles consumed in total Total (kgr) 3,349 817.3 (94.7 kgr CFC-11eq) 791,250 lt of fuel (938 lt of those were diesel). This corresponds * Data refer to activities of COSMOTE Greece. to an increase of 8% in comparison to 2009. The vehicles were used to cover a distance of roughly 7.5 million km. This corre5. Water sponds to a 19.6% reduction of fuel consumption per kilometer (from 0.130 to 0.105 lt/km), due to the more eﬀective manΑ. We monitor our water consumption agement of our corporate ﬂeet, as well as use of lower conSincewaterisnotconnectedtoouroperations,weconsumewater sumption cars. (acquired solely from public water companies), exclusively for our employees’ hygiene, plant watering and oﬃce / shops cleaning, therefore do not signiﬁcantly aﬀect water sources. Since all waste water is directed to public waste networks, our Fuel Consumption We reduced by company does not apply water recycling practices, while the 19,6% fuel 8000 7,521.56 consumption amount of waste water can not be monitored. At the same time, 7000 per kilometer. 5,563.11 5,486.59 5,595.23 our company seeks to make aware our employees on the re6000 5000 sponsible use of this signiﬁcant natural resource, while no signiﬁ4000 cant spills occured. Consumption in 2010 was 24,791 m3, which 3000 2000 777.1 745.8 731.9 791.2 corresponds to a slight increase of 1%, in comparison to 2009 1000 321 317 331 365 (being 24,498 m3). However, the per capita consumption de0 2007 2008 2009 2010 creased by 5%. Fuel (thousand lt) Vehicles (number) Water Consumption Distance (thousand km) We reduced water * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. 30 consumption 24.49 24.79 per employee 25 20 14.42 20.01 by 5% 15 11.21 11.09 10.53 6.29 8.86 10 5.06 5 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water consumption (thousand m3) Water consumption indicator per employee (lt/employee) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 32 ENVIRONMENT 8. Electro Magnetic Frequency ICNIRP and SCENIHR Rulings Based on rulings of the EU Scientiﬁc Committee (SCENIHR) and the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), the scientiﬁc studies published till today, do not correlate exposure of human population to electromagnetic ﬁelds lower than the proposed levels by ICNIRP, with negative impacts on public health. 7. Biodiversity Α. We follow by design the Precautionary Principle A. We monitor our impact on biodiversity The important beneﬁts mobile telephony oﬀers to citizens in The inﬂuence of our activities on biodiversity is minimal and their everyday life, is the main reason, which has led to a dydoes not constitute a priority for action, in comparison to other namic growth of mobile telephony. However, at the same time, issues addressed in this chapter. Nevertheless, our company: we recognize public concerns, about potential consequences of electromagnetic radiation on health issues. Even though: Identiﬁes the potential impact of Base Station construction on the natural and urban environment through Environmental (a) relative research, conducted and assessed by the World Impact Studies for Base Stations and strives to integrate Base Health Organization did not indicate any such correlation and Stations within the environment, with the least possible (b) independent measurements estimate the percentage of repercussions. electromagnetic emissions attributed to Base Stations to Has already completed the development of 3.100 Environbe up to 30% of the total electromagnetic ﬁelds in popumental Impact Studies, which have been registered for aplated areas, our company follows by design the precautionproval, at the respective Regions of the country. Till the 31st ary principle applying a number of practices, such as: December 2010, only 53% of these cases have been apThe levels of electromagnetic ﬁelds, in all of our Base Staproved by the respective authorities. tions, are in compliance to the suggested limits by the World Protected areas near Base Stations, such as NATURA, SPA Health Organization and ICNIRP, as amended by Law (Special Maintenance of Bird Species), RAMSAR, CORINE (pro3431/2006. More speciﬁcally, legislated limits in Greece are tection of biotopes), IBA (important areas for birds) are in all 70-60% of ICNIRP limits (which are already approximately cases referred in respective Environmental Impact Studies 50 times stricter than deﬁned levels by the scientiﬁc comand are evaluated, within the context of relative processes. munity), in all points with free public access. Commits to restore potential negative repercussion, which For every COSMOTE Base Station a radiation study and an our oﬃces and Base Stations might have on the ecosystems. electromagnetic background study is conducted by specialized personnel, with the surrounding electromagnetic According to Law 3431/2006 for electronic communications, all ﬁeld being calculated (both due to the COSMOTE Base Stamobile telephony Base Stations-Antennas in Greece, were tion, as well as due to other electromagnetic radiation retroactively imposed to be accompanied by Environmental Imsources), within an area of up to 300 meters. The results pact Studies, which have to be approved by the 13 Regions of are compared against the strict limits set in Greece, in order the country. Overall, the Base Station licensing process in Greece to ensure that all COSMOTE Base Stations operate within is complicated: up to 18 diﬀerent public agencies are involved these deﬁned legislative limits. The corresponding studies in a licensing process (versus 1-2 in the E.U.), while the averform also part of respective environmental studies conage time required for this process is over 45 months (correducted and registered by COSMOTE for approval by responsponding time in E.U. countries is 7.2 months). sible authorities. (Source: ICAP and OPA, Department of Management Science and Technology, Study: “Socio-economic evaluation of mobile telephony sector in The amount COSMOTE spent on programmes concerning elecGreece”, Athens 2008). tromagnetic ﬁelds was, on average, €400,000 in 2010. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 33 Β. We monitor the levels of EMF radiation from Furthermore: Base Stations The stations cover the prefectures of Attica, Arcadia, Arta, Our continuous EMF measurement programme, called “PeAchaea, Voiotia, Dodekanisoy, Evia, Evrytanea, Ilia, Iraklion, dion24”, has been developed by the Laboratory of Mobile Radio Thessalonica, Corfu, Kilkis, Kozani, Korinthia, Cyclades, LakoCommunications at the National Technical University of Athens, nia, Larissa, Lesvos, Lefkada, Magnesia, Messinia, Pelli, Pieria, the Radio Communications Laboratory at the Aristotelian UniPreveza, Rethimno, Rodopi, Samos, Serres, Trikala, Fthiotiversity in Thessalonica and the ICT Laboratory at the Aegean dos, Florinis, Chalkidiki, Chania and Chios. University, with the support of COSMOTE. The programme aims The stations are located in sensitive areas all over the counto continuously and openly inform the public, about the levels try (e.g. near schools and in densely populated regions). of electromagnetic ﬁelds, around mobile telephony Base Stations, including all other EMF sources, such as radio transmitThe measurement stations monitor, at a 24/7 schedule, the ters, televisions, radars and other telecommunication total electromagnetic ﬁeld, caused by various sources, such applications. as broadcasting, television and mobile telephony. Every 24 hours, the measurement stations communicate with the management centre and forward measured data, to a central server, where they are stored. Akerwards, the measurements are automatically available in the programme’s website www.pedion24.gr, where anyone interested can be informed about the results in every measurement station. We increased by 6,5% “Pedion 24” Programme the number of measurement stations in our “PedionEvery 24”year, programme. 200 188 150 155 165 100 73 80 107 106 50 86 22 58 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Measurement stations (number) Over the limit indicator (%) Other measurements per year (number) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. COSMOTE’s participation in the programme refers to supplying all essential equipment: leading edge technology measurement stations (with suitable detectors of electromagnetic ﬁelds), as well as certiﬁed appliances, compliant with the European speciﬁcations and latest scientiﬁc models. In order to continuously record electromagnetic ﬁeld radiation levels in even more regions of the country and achieve respective brieﬁng of all citizens, every year we install more measurement stations all over the country while in 2010 University of Aegean joined the programme. Aker the ﬁrst pilot phase, at the end of 2005, the programme was fully deployed during 2006, oﬀering continuous ﬂow of inInforming the students on “Pedion 24” programme formation, regarding the levels of electromagnetic ﬁelds, throughout the day. The system consists of: we try to increase the number of measurement stations. To the Theelectromagneticradiationmeasurementstations,positioned 155 stations already installed in 2009, 18 more stations were in various locations. added in 2010, versus our goal to install 50 new stations, durThe management centre, located in the Mobile Radio Coming 2010. These stations, conducted over 5 million measuremunications Laboratories of the National Technical Univerments within 2010, without indicating cases of EMF sity of Athens, the Aristotelian University in Thessalonica and measurements exceeding the legislative limits. in the Computer Systems and Communications Laboratory of the Aegean University. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 34 ENVIRONMENT In 2010, 86 further measurements were conducted by speTherefore, in order to provide to every citizen access to inforcialized scientiﬁc personnel of COSMOTE, while in addition 15 mation, regarding how mobile telephony functions, we issued more measurements were conducted by independent instituand distributed through our commercial network the following tions (Universities, Ε.Ε.Α.Ε). Again, public exposure safety limits informative material: were not observed to be exceeded (in points of free public acThe leaﬂet called “Pedion 24 Continuous Measurements of cess), in any of these measurements. Electromagnetic Radiation Programme”, where the way the It is worth mentioning that, the website visits for the “Pedion24” respective programme functions is described. The leaﬂet was programme (for the continuous measurement of electromagdistributed to over 6,700 citizens , all over Greece. netic radiation), are on average 160 visits per day. The leaﬂet called ”How mobile telephony works’’, distributed In 2010, we were imposed 5 ﬁnes, the total amount of which to over 7,400 citizens. was €63,000, for the Lack of Environmental Terms (LET). It must be noted that in our opinion, imposing ﬁnes for LET is not D. We conduct an open dialogue with local commulegal according to current legislation (Ν. 3431/06), however nities our company has decided to proceed with respective payments During 2010, we intensiﬁed our contacts with relevant bodies, and reclaim the amounts through legal proceedings. representatives of local communities, activist and citizen committees all over Greece, responding to requests for dialogue, brieﬁngs and presentations. At the same time, we strengthened C. We systematically inform our fellow citizens the Team which manages Base Station and Electromagnetic According to the pan-european Eurobarometer survey in 2010 Field issues and therefore is responsible for monitoring, coorregarding concerns of citizens in relation to Electro Magnetic dinating and managing issues related to the operation of Base Fields, 81% of Greeks worry whether mobile radiation aﬀects Stations. Within this Team, oﬃcials from the Department of Cornegatively their health, while the corresponding European porate Aﬀairs, ERM & BCM, the General Technical Division and Union average is 46%. Also 54% of Greeks state “not satisﬁed” the General Division of Legal Council-Competition, Legal and by the information provided to them on the likely repercusRegulatory Aﬀairs, participate. Members of this Team conducted sions of health from mobile radiation, while the European avbrieﬁngs to 807 students from 9 schools and Universities, while erage is 40%. also distributed approximately 14.000 informative leaﬂets. Moreover, we have established a dedicated e-mail address for questions regarding electromagnetic ﬁelds (emﬁnfo@cosmote.gr), as well as a relevant section in COSMOTE’s corporate How concerned are you about the potential health website. risks of electromagnetic ﬁelds? Positive E. We systematically inform our employees Answers Very & Fairly Stable Our employees, more than anyone else, owe to understand how Negative concerned mobile telephony functions. For this reason, within the last years we have materialised a dedicated programme to inform all COSMOTE and GERMANOS employees in Greece. Through this programme, we provided responsible and scientiﬁcally documented information, about mobile telephony operation. Subsidiary Glance It should be mentioned that, similar practices are followed in EL 81% FR 50% DE 29% all subsidiary companies of COSMOTE: the electromagnetic CY 80% UK 37% NL 24% ﬁelds, due to our Base Stations, are below the respective legIT 81% PT 45% CZ 31% islative limits in all countries (e.g. in the case of COSMOTE RoLU 47% EU 46% EE 23% mania the ICNIRP levels), while informing the public and employees, is performed by corresponding practices (e.g. in SI 56% IE 49% HU 23% COSMOTE Romania via an informative leaﬂet, also located in PL 46% AT 38% DK 16% the website of the Communications and Technology Ministry MT 37% LT 39% FI 21% of Romania; in GLOBUL Bulgaria via a leaﬂet located in the BE 53% LV 21% SE 17% company’s website, including a short questionanswer section) www.globul.bg RO 51% ES 54% BG 48% SK 43% Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 35 9. Visual Impact Announcing results for our Environmental Management System within our Intranet. A. We reduce our Base Stations’ impact Participation in WWF’s “Earth Hour”. A mobile telecommunications company, has relatively small visual impact on the environment. However, our company, apUtilisation of corporate sponsorships (see unit VI-5A). plies a number of practices such as: Materialising a Corporate Responsibility training (including exWe build new Base Stations, which are signiﬁcantly smaller in tensive Environmental issues), for 84% of all COSMOTE Mansize than old constructions. agers and Directors in Greece. In many cases, we locate Base Stations in installations in coConducting a dedicated Environmental training for employees operation with the other two mobile telephony companies of COSMOTE’s subsidiaries, who are responsible for Corporate (or respectively allow placement of Base Stations on our own Responsibility and Environmental issues. installations). In this way, the overall visual impact of mobile telephony Base Stations is reduced. Suppliers: Within 2010, we assessed our Suppliers, according We create special constructions (especially in urban areas), to a newly developed Supplier Evaluation Methodology, which which are harmonised with the surrounding environment. includes, among other, also Corporate Responsibility Environmental evaluation criteria (see section ΙV-4A). Data 2007 2008 2009 2010 Public: An important objective for COSMOTE in 2010 was inNew Base Stations (number) 50 70 150 233 creasing our customers’ awareness on ways to reduce their own New Collocations (number) 11 4 2 10 environmental footprint, through their active contribution. New Special Constructions (number) 30 40 50 110 Therefore: We oﬀer pre-paid customers the option to renew their air It is worth mentioning that, in all COSMOTE Group, a total of time by using e-voucher, which results saving of 56 tn paper, 12,500 Base Stations have been installed, while information corresponding to approximately 960 trees. for licensed Base Stations in Greece are available at the relevant EETT website at www.eett.gr We oﬀered an e-bill service to customers, in order to issue their accounts only in electronic form, therefore reducing required paper consumption by approximately 24 tn, which cor10. Noise responds to 410 trees. Respective practices are also A. We monitor our impact implemented in GLOBUL Bulgaria and COSMOTE Romania. The noise impact of COSMOTE is insigniﬁcant, since: We oﬀered our customers the option to buy on-line services Our buildings are located within urban areas (while generaand devices, through our internet E-shop, which is available tors are used only in cases of electricity failure). in our corporate website. Base Stations powered by electricity have practical zero noise On the World Environment Day, new customers received an levels. ecological mobile device Sony Ericsson Elm (made of recycled Base Stations using generators are located in isolated areas. plastic), as well as a Bluetooth Iqua BHS 603 sun (which charges through solar energy) free of charge, with each new In special cases, where sound levels from generators should connection in programmes COSMOTE UNLIMITED 25 Euros be reduced, we proceed with noise isolation or install hybrid and above. systems, to reduce the time generators operate. Last but not least, we inform, sensitize and encourage participation of the public through systematic initiatives (see 11. Awareness section VI-5A). A. We brief and raise awareness of our Stakeholders We helped our customers to reduce Employees: We aim to engage our employees towards a compaper consumption by 80 tn, mon objective: our people to be particularly sensitised, as far as which corresponds to avoid cutting down environmental protection is concerned, in order to participate in more than 1,370 trees. respective initiatives. Examples of such initiatives in 2010 are: Raising awareness, on the occasion the World Environment Day 05/06/2010, with the message «Even the smallest action to help the environment… makes the world a better place!». Continuation of our recycling programme for employees’ Home Electric & Electronic devices, in all our buildings (1,214 kgr were gathered and forwarded for recycling). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 36 ENVIRONMENT B. We inﬂuence positively other business We supported, along with other telecommunication compasectors’s environmental footprint nies, the IOVE Study titled “Mobile Communications: a cataCOSMOTE’s main objective is the eﬃcient use of natural relyst within the new development model of the Greek sources, however, an equally important area is inﬂuencing the economy” (see section IV-5B). impact other business sectors have on the environment. Indicatively: Case Study We participate in the subsidised European research proFleet Management gramme ECOGEM (Cooperative Advanced Driver Assistance Our Fleet Management service is based on monitoring the loSystem for Green Cars). Objective of the project is to develop cation of vehicles with the use of a GPS satellite system, transan advanced system to assist driver of electrical vehicles (Admitting information via our 2G/3G network to the customer’s vanced Driver Assistance System ADAS). The system will Control Center and monitoring the information on a digital map. propose the most economic and environmental friendly route The result is the optimization of vehicles’ routes and the correand provide useful information for charging stations (locasponding reduction of fuel consumption and carbon dioxide tion, distance, reservation etc). emissions. 12. Targets 2010 and 2011 We said We did Progress We will Target (in 2010) (in 2010) (in 2011) Date To expand the environmental data See Section ΙΙΙ-4Α,9A To certify GLOBUL (Bulgaria) 2011 measurement system (e.g. to refriger75% and AMC (Albania) according ants and ﬁre suppressants). to ISO 14001. To improve the energy consumption See Section ΙΙΙ-2 Το improve the mechanism of data 2011 100% measurement system collecting. (e.g. to Core Network and BTS). To prevent the emission of more See Section ΙΙΙ-2B To prevent emission of over 4,000 tn 2011 than 3,000 tn CO2, due to programmes CO2, due to programmes we apply. 100% implemented. To reduce petrol consumption To reduce petrol consumption in buildings, by 3%. in our network by 5%. Το prevent use of electricity energy See Section ΙΙΙ-2D,C Το prevent use of electricity energy 2011 by 2% per Base Station, due to 100% by 4% per Base Station, due to programmes implemented. programmes implemented. To recycle 100% of packaging waste, See Section ΙΙΙ-3D To recycle 100% of packaging waste, 2011 100% in our central warehouse. in our central warehouse. To recycle 100% of WEEE materials See Section ΙΙΙ-3G To recycle 100% of WEEE materials 2011 withdrawn. 100% withdrawn. To collect 20 kgr phone devices and See Section ΙΙΙ-3F To collect 20 kgr phone devices and 2011 accessories and 145 kgr of domestic 75% accessories per collection point. batteries, per collection point. To recycle 100% of lead batteries See Section ΙΙΙ-3H 100% To recycle 100% of lead batteries 2011 withdrawn. withdrawn. To reuse 30% of ink cartridges See Section ΙΙΙ-3J To reuse 30% of ink cartridges 2011 bought and manage alternatively 100% bought and manage alternatively 100% of the non-recyclable. 100% of non-recyclable ones. To recycle 100% of oil-lubricants See Section ΙΙΙ-3I To recycle 100% of oil-lubricants 2011 withdrawn. 100% withdrawn. To increase by 10% the quantity See Section ΙΙΙ-3E Το apply a pilot packaging recycling 2011 of paper recycled per employee. 0% programme in our oﬃces (i.e. plastic, metal, glass). To reach 200 points of EMF See Section ΙΙΙ-8B To reach 190 points of EMF measurement 2011 measurement, in 2010 (Pedion 24). (Pedion 24). 50% To certify the EMF Measurement Laboratory according to ISO 17025. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 37 ΙV. Our world, our Society Briefly 2.8 440 blood donators 1.36 million emergency calls 36 million Euros social support 193.2 million Euros for investments scholarships and honorary awards 38 SOCIETY How can we holistically support society, beyond financial aid? Our Objective: Our Achievements in 2010: In COSMOTE, we believe that our development model must We deposed the amount of €563.8 million for direct and combine continuous growth of our company, with prosperindirect taxes to the Greek state. ity of those who are inﬂuenced by our operations. Our obWe oﬀered 10 Scholarships and granted 26 Honorary jective is to combine our business success, with prosperity awards to first year students. and quality of life, for citizens in local communities in Greece We increased the number of employee blood donators by and other countries we conduct our business in. 16%, reaching a total of 440 donators. We oﬀered €325,000 through the Institution Love New Year’s SMS and €263,226 through the service “I Oﬀer”. We gathered 120 boxes of toys, school and clothing supplies, in order to distribute them to people in need. We informed over 807 students, on the way a mobile telephony corporation operates. We launched 4,850 specially designed devices, suitable for elderly and / or people with sight disabilities. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 39 1. Social Products and Services ΜobiTalk: We oﬀer our MobiTalk service to individuals with sight problems, in collaboration with the Institute for Language and Speech Processing. This service aims to make Α. We develop products and services for mobile phone use easier for these individuals, by installing Disabled People a high-tech sokware, via which all screen information are In COSMOTE, we believe that our obligation is to oﬀer everytransformed to voice, while the user scrolls through menus. body equal access to communication services, despite abilThe service is oﬀered free of charge, in our COSMOTE and ities and particularities. For this reason, we seek to exploit GERMANOS retail chain. technology, through products and services developed, in order to improve the communication options available (and Voice e-mail: This service provides people with sight probtherefore quality of life), for anyone and especially for Dislems the ability to manage easily their electronic post. Via abled People. voice recognition technology, users are able to hear and answer their e-mails, by giving phonetic commands (free of charge), as well as hearing out loud their inbox. At the same Services for people with time, they can forward, or erase, electronic messages. sight disabilities Case Study “Communication for everyone” In 2010, COSMOTE launched a specially designed mobile phone, suitable for elderly and / or people with sight disabilities. The mobile phone: costs less than €50 (or is free for post-pay contracts and prepay products), in order to be accessible for everyone, has large sized keys and screen fonts, has easy functionalities, in order to enable communication for people facing diﬃculties in using common mobile phone Services for people devices, with hearing disabilities features an emergency storage key, enabling storage of up to 5 emergency numbers, Video Call: We provide an advanced Video Call service with features intense volume capabilities (up to 110dB), for 50% discount, both for pre-pay and contract customers. people with hearing disabilities. SMS Messages: Following the same philosophy, contract Overall, in 2010 we distributed 4,850 pieces of such devices. and pre-pay customers with hearing problems, are able to send written messages (SMS) with 50% discount, as well as use free of charge emergency services, by sending written messages. Hands Free: We were the ﬁrst company in Greece, to oﬀer, in 2007, the hands free NoiZfree for users of acoustic aides and helicoids implants. This innovative technology, oﬀers high clarity, quality and volume, facilitating the daily communication of users with hearing problems. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 40 SOCIETY Β. We utilize mobile telephony technology Subsidiary Glance for the common good In Bulgaria, the three mobile telephony companies initiated COSMOTE believes that, research for utilizing new techa similar service. As a result, 738,485 messages (SMS) were nologies can improve the quality of life for disabled people, sent in 2010. Respectively, COSMOTE Romania activated 34 therefore intensively invests in this area. support lines, gathering approximately €240,000 for charity purposes. Emergency calls for the public Emergency Services: Mobile telephony, apart from oﬀering the capability to communicate, also strengthens the so 2. Social Contribution called “weak links” within society. Additionally, it facilitates COSMOTE recognizes the need to ﬁnancially support weaker calls to emergency numbers. Indicatively, within 2010, social teams and organizations which support these teams, 2,825,869 emergency calls were made to numbers like 166, via ﬁnancial aid. Therefore, we focus on the following areas: 100, 199, 116000, 116111, 116123 etc. Equal opportunities rights for Disabled People. Equal opportunities in education. Donation service Alleviation of society, from consequences of natural disasters. for the public Taking care and protecting children. Protecting minor children during Internet usage (see section “I Oﬀer” Service: Within the last years, even more instituVI-3C). tions make use of short written messages (SMS), in order to conduct radio and tele-donation programmes Social Contribution In order to support social institutions and non-governmen5 4 tal organizations, COSMOTE along with the other two mo3 bile telephony companies (VODAFONE and WIND HELLAS), 2 3.45 4.2 1 2.65 for ﬁkh continuous year, collaborated to provide the “I Oﬀer” 1.36 Service: 2007 2008 2009 2010 This service is supported by 3 ﬁve-digit numbers and is Social contribution (million euros) exclusively activated for charity purposes. * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. ** Commercial sponsorships, are not considered to be part of Corporate Responsibility practices Activation of the service requires a timely application, as and are therefore not included. well as deposit of required supporting documentation (authorization for conducting a charity by the Ministry of Α. We support equal opportunities for Disabled Health and Solidarity), by the charitable Institution / AsPeople sociation. At COSMOTE we believe that, Disabled People should be ofThe end user sends an SMS with a subject (linked to the fered the same opportunities and living conditions, as any speciﬁc charitable cause), to the pre-deﬁned four-digit other citizen. For this reason: number and is charged 1€ / SMS, plus taxes. The gross For the ﬁkh consecutive year, we supported the important income from the service is given to the Institution / Asweb site www.DISABLED.gr, with visitor’s being approxisociation, which requested the service activation. mately 170,000 per month. This web site provides useful information to help disabled people in their everyday life. The “I Oﬀer” service was activated 12 times during 2010 and the total sum COSMOTE received and forwarded to charFor the ﬁkh time, we supported the magazine “DISABILITY ities, was €263,226. NOW”, a magazine sent to over 14,000 readers in Greece, Cyprus and Greeks expatriates. Its objective is to support disActivation of “I Oﬀer” abled people through value adding articles, advise and consultations. 400 For the fourth consecutive year, we sponsored “Autonomia 300 EXPO 2010”, the ﬁrst exhibition concerning Disability, Re200 340.9 habilitation, Special Treatment and Independent Living, which 263.2 100 attracted over 80 exhibitors and 5,000 visitors. At a dedi2009 2010 cated kiosk, especially prepared for this occasion, we preAmount gathered (thousand euros) sented our services and products for Disabled People and informed visitors, about the progress of relevant programmes we support. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 41 Β. We support the right for Education Subsidiary Glance The education sector, constitutes an important priority, to Our subsidiary company COSMOTE Romania applies a respective support local societies: programme, by oﬀering 5 nine-month scholarships of €150 / month to talented new students. Our subsidiary company GLOBUL Bulgaria, for the ﬁkh year, oﬀered 10 scholarships to Soﬁa Technical University students and oﬀered other students the opportunity to practice inside the company. For the 9th year, AMC in Albania oﬀered scholarships of €1,500 / year to 16 students, as well as a 3-months internship within the company’s Construction Department, for those scholars ﬁnishing their bachelor studies “COSMOTE Scholarship Programme for Greek Rural Regions”: Since 2002, when the programme started, COSMOTE Scholarships have covered more than once the entire Greek region. Through this programme, we have granted AMC Scholarships 91 Scholarships and 204 Honorary Distinctions in total (the value of which exceeds the amount of €1 million), to ﬁrst year students, in rural regions. In 2009, we increased the scholarship amount by 25% (from €12,000 to €15,000) and honorary distinctions by 50% (from €1,000 to €1,500). More speciﬁcally: We oﬀered 10 Scholarships to ﬁrst year students from prefectures of Aitoloakarnania, Evros, Ioannina, Kilkis, Kozani, Korinthos, Larisa, Lesvos, Halikidiki and Hania. Scholars received a lap top with free use of “Internet on GLOBUL Scholarships the GO” for one year, as well as a prepay COSMOTE mobile device with free ﬁxed charge for one year. We also granted 26 Honorary Distinctions to candidates choC. We contribute to the alleviation due to natural sen through an assessment process, addressing curriculum disasters and extra-curriculum achievements. Our mobilization to alleviate regions aﬀected by devastatFor the convenience of candidates, as well as to reduce ing ﬁres and ﬂoods continued within 2010, focusing on the paper consumption, we simpliﬁed the procedure to parenvironmental sector and art activities of local societies: ticipate in the programme, which was, for the ﬁrst time, utilised only in electronic form, via a specially designed website. For the Environment In Penteli, we supported the reforestation of the Kokkinara region, as well as taking care of the region during the summer season, via the Union for Protection and Reforestation of Penteliko (SPAP). We also ensured acquisition of a 10tn ﬁre pump vehicle, to meet the needs of preventive forest protection and ensure immediate intervention, in case of ﬁre, as well as watering of reforCOSMOTE scholarship for the Greek region ested areas. In Aegina, we ﬁnancially supported the Greek Centre for Wild Animal Care to re-establish ﬂood damages. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 42 SOCIETY In the Municipality of Glyfada, we supported the reforestation of 40 acres in the region of old quarries, via the Hymettus Development Protection Union. In the Municipality of Kalyvia, we supported the Civil Protection Volunteers. In Patra, we supported the Achaia Volunteer Fire Fighters. In the Municipality of Peykon in Thessalonica, we supported the reforestation of 100 burned acres In Western Attica, we supported an educational programme of environmental activities for twenty ﬁrst and secondary degree schools, as well as reforestation in mountain Aigaleo, via the Western Attica Developmental Union. Case Studies “Love Institution” New Year's Day SMS For eleven consecutive years, through our “LOVE INSTITUTION” programme, we oﬀer an important part of our income from New Year's Day SMS (sent between 00:00 to 07:00), to support 7 children institutions. More speciﬁcally, seven institutions were supported this year: Parents and Guardians Association of Children with Neoplasmatic Illness “FLOGA”. Spastics Protection Company. Social Pediatric Friends “OPEN EMBRACE”. “ΕLEPAP . Social Support. Charity Institution «Child Care». Center for Special Needs in Lesvos “Melissa”. For Culture Τhe corresponding amount, in 2010, was €325,000. In Andritsainas Municipality, we completed, in collaboration with the Aristotelian University of Thessalonica (AU.TH), the documentation and digitalization of selected books of the Nikolopoulos collection, within the Andritsaina’s library. Publication of the Library’s Historical Files was completed in 2010, as expected. In the Municipality of Figalias, we renovated the municipal school’s roof and organised the construction of a Members of the “LOVE INSTITUTION” SMS New Year’s Day 5x5 football ﬁeld in the school playground, which will be concluded in 2011. D. We support programmes for children Subsidiary Glance For COSMOTE, carrying for children, constitutes an imporIt is also worth mentioning that our subsidiaries have impletant area of activities. mented similar programmes: COSMOTE Romania implements programmes to support children. Social initiatives for children: For the tenth consecutive As an example, the company donated € 50,000 from the income year, we oﬀered to a children care institution the amount of SMS messages, sent by customers, during the New Year's Day which corresponds to acquiring Christmas business presto 5 NGOs. Also, AMC Albania, donated a signiﬁcant proportion of ents. In 2010, we chose Parents, Guardians and Friends of the income due to messages, sent by customers, during New Disabled People Association at Naxos prefecture for supYear's Day, to buy equipment for treating Leukemia at the «Pediporting the establishment of a play ground. atric Hospital» of Tirana. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 43 3. Economic Development Α. We support Economies of countries we operate in The company aims to protect the company value and repuParticularly important is the contribution of COSMOTE, to the tation. For this reason, since 2005 the company has impleGreek economy (as well as economies of SE Europe counmented the principles of Business Continuity Management tries it operates in), by systematically investing in telecom(BCM), within the Corporate Governance frame, and since munications infrastructure, providing products and services 2007 a full Business Continuity Management System (BCMS), tailored to local needs, as well as providing working condiaccording to the BS25999 standard. tions, which allow professional growth and development of In 2010, our actions were focused on the following issues: employees. COSMOTE Group: ImprovementofourBusinessContinuityManagementSystem. Had a turnover of €2,797.1 million. A signiﬁcant proportion of this amount, is re-directed to local societies, via payroll, Evaluation of processes and procedures and their aligninvestments, tax contributions and supplier payments. ment, if deemed necessary, according to BS25999. Investedover€420millionforitsdevelopment,whileourcomEvaluation and improvement of our recovery strategies pany invested over €193 million, only in Greece. aker testing, if deemed necessary. Paid the amount of €563.8 million in taxes (direct and indiEmployees’ brieﬁng, as well as applying continuous educarect), to the Greek State. tion to the Business Continuity team. Paid the amount of €41.4 million, for employees’ insurance To implement all above, advanced techniques and Business programmes. Continuity tools are used, as well as educational and inHas created in all SE Europe, over 9,000 direct and thouformative seminars, in order to ensure that all employees sands indirect employment positions (in relative to mobile have the appropriate understanding about their role and retelephony business sectors, but also due to our products sponsibility, with regard to our business continuity proand services oﬀered). gramme. Economic Development of South East Europe 34.6 41.4 1000 38.1 800 448.3 445.8 563.8 600 400 4.5 3.2 2.4 200 494.6 402.5 424.1 2008 2009 2010 Insurance payments (million €) Taxes paid (million €) Employee training (million €) Investments (million €) 2010 COSMOTE Greece Albania Bulgaria Romania Group (million €) Turnover 2,797.1 1,812.1 119.3 423.3 468.8 EBITDA 972.0 667.6 58.3 172.2 73.7 Investments For 2010, COSMOTE’s Business Continuity structure man(mil. €) 424.1 193.2 28.8 72.3 136.7 aged over 50 extraordinary incidents, during which over (millions) 2,000 COSMOTE Group members were trained, both through Customers 20,785,268 7,993,492 2,022,541 3,919,767 6,849,468 general brieﬁngs, as well as targeted and specialised training courses, in order for employees, infrastructures and corFor further information please visit: www.cosmote.gr/content/el/attached_ﬁles/Company/ porate processes to be capable of responding, in the best EkthesiOikonomikonKatastaseon31122010.pdf possible way, to unanticipated incidents. (page 88) COSMOTE’s Business continuity Team was recognized as the Β. We protect the company, through a Business 3rd best international Team (International Business ContiContinuity Management System nuity Awards), by the specialised British magazine ContinuCOSMOTE, as the leading Greek mobile telecommunications ity Insurance & Risk (CIR). These Awards started in 1999, in company, considers as its obligation to maintain its stable order to identify leading Business Continuity practices growth and ensure the continuous supply of qualitative worldwide and today constitute the most recognized institelecommunication services according to needs and extution within this particular area. pectations of all stakeholders and respond to extraordinary conditions. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 44 SOCIETY Reforestations: Our employees actively participated in the reforestations organized by our company, in various regions: Kokkinara area in mountain Pentelikon, with the participation of about 2,500 people and 70 employees of COSMOTE. An area of 50 acres was covered with 50,000 trees. Pikilon Oros area at Aigaleo, with the participation of about 850 children and the Golden Olympic Champion Pirros Dimas. An area of 15 acres was covered with 1,150 trees. Palaio Latomio area at Glyfada, with the participation of about 300 citizens and 15 COSMOTE employees. An area of 10 acres was covered with 200 trees, while the respective area was cleaned from waste and garbage. Volunteer Participation 250 200 150 100 207 50 113 2009 2010 Participations (number) 4. Volunteering A. We encourage volunteerism Aiming to mobilize and make our employees aware, in order to develop responsible and active citizens, we cultivate volunSubsidiary Glance teerism, through various actions. Examples of such actions, Ιt is worth mentioning that, over 100 GLOBUL Bulgaria emare described below: ployees volunteered during the WWF Bulgaria National Nature Park Day and contributed to collecting 15tn of garbage and renGathering Clothes:The programme “COSMOTE’s Family helps ovating the visitor infrastructure. Greek Families”, was initiated in 2005, when employees were asked to contribute clothes, games, books and foods, which AMC Albania, aiming to support and alleviate vulnerable social were forwarded to charitable institutions. In 2010, we gathgroups, applied for the fourth year a voluntary visit programme ered 120 boxes of toys, school supplies, but mainly clothes, to Orphanages and Nursing Homes of Albanian cities, as well which were given to “Social Support” Institution. A similar proas to Hospitals for children in Tirana. gramme was also implemented in COSMOTE Romania, with over 15 boxes of food, books, clothes etc. gathered. Sports: With the occasion of COSMOTE supporting the 28th Athens Classic Marathon, 122 of our employees voluntarily participated in the Marathon, as well as the 5 and 10 km routes. For every kilometer one of our employees run, COSMOTE oﬀered a symbolic amount to the ”Life Line” Institution. It is worth mentioning that, our employees’ participation increased by 8%, in the 2010 Marathon. “Life Line” Insitution event Reforestation at “ Pikilon Oros” area National Nature Park Day Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 45 B. We encourage blood donation Voluntary blood donation becomes a conscience, to more and In 2010, more than 807 high school and university students more employees. Employees voluntarily oﬀer blood within from 9 schools and universities all over the country (from events organized by OTE Group twice a year, in collaboration Athens, Thessalonica, Hania and Messologgi) visited our with the G.Gennimatas hospital. Alternatively, employees can company, attending the above educational programme. oﬀer blood at any hospital of the country and mention the OTE Group blood bank. At the same time, visitors have the opportunity to be informed, in an interactive and innovative way, about Base OTE Group’s policy deﬁnes that blood-donators can use half Stations and their operation, at the mobile telephony secthe quantity of blood donated (for a relative of any degree, or tion of OTE Group’s Telecommunications Museum. a friend), while at the same time, a work leave is provided. Students Visits In 2010, a total of 440 employees participated (oﬀering 639 Student’s visits blood bottle), a number increased by 16%, in comparison to to our company 2009. 1000 decreased 800 600 by 15% Employee Blood Donations 400 947 807 200 600 We increased by 500 400 16% the number 2008 2009 2010 300 of blood donators Students visiting (number) 200 380 440 in our company. 287 324 * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 Blood donators (number) * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Β. We support technological development A central pylon of our enterprising operation, is exploiting new technologies and services, to facilitate business innoSubsidiary Glance vation, competitiveness, as well as customer facilitation (see Ιt is worth mentioning that, 23 employees of AMC Albania section IV-6A). participated in a blood donation programme of the Red Cross in Albania. Case Study Impact of Mobile Communication COSMOTE, among other companies, supported the study titled “Mobile Communications: a catalyst in the new developmental 5. Business Enterprising model of Greek economy”, conducted by IOVE. Within this study, the incorporation of 14 mobile communication applications in Α. We inform young people on modern corporate various business sectors was assumed, with the contribution, practices within the main scenario, being cumulatively till 2020: In COSMOTE, we undertake initiatives to systematically brief adults and young people, materializing speciﬁc educational Operational cost: reduction of operational costs for enterprogrammes for high school and lyceum students, as well prises can reach €23.7 billion. The progressive accumulation as for students in Universities and Polytechnic Colleges. The can lead to an annual cost reduction of €3 billion in 2020 visit takes place on the premises and includes: (which corresponds to approximately 1% of anticipated GNP). A brieﬁng about technology by our engineers, as well as professional orientation and the way a modern company Environment: emission of greenhouse gases can reach 4.9 operates. million tons CO2eq, which corresponds to 3.7% of emissions in A presentation of our network architecture and our control Greece 2005 (4.6% for 1990). center. Quality of life: by adopting 6 applications, average time savA presentation on Base Stations’ technology, 2nd (2G) and ing for a person can reach 234 hours per year, which corre3rd generation (3G) networks, microwave junctions etc. sponds to 2 years of a 75-year old person. . A brieﬁng by our scientiﬁc personnel (actinophysics), about electromagnetic radiation of Base Stations and mobile phones. During this brieﬁng, we conduct an ad-hoc measurement of electromagnetic radiation level, with a spectrum analyst. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 46 SOCIETY 6. Digital Divide Country Population Coverage 2G Population Coverage 3G % % Α. We utilize technology to reduce the digital divide The deployment of broadband penetration remains a chalGreece 99.8 95.9 Αlbania 99.8 lenge for our country. Despite the continuous improvement Βulgaria 99.98 85 taking place, Greece remains within the last positions Romania 99.29 through ZAPP’s network among EU member states, as broadband penetration access reached 18.6% by the end of the ﬁrst semester of 2010, while our country was placed in the 23rd position among the 27 EU states. . Case Study «Surﬁng the World» (Sourse: Observatory for Information Society, 11th Semester Progress Report, September 2010). Through the programme «Surﬁng the World», COSMOTE aims to diminish existing inequalities between urban and rural reCOSMOTE utilises its products and services, in order to reduce gions of Greece. The company supplies technological equipthe “digital divide” phenomenon, namely the unequal access ments (such as monitors, pc units, wi-ﬁ routers, and web to information and data, which inevitably leads to social and cameras) to schools in isolated island regions, by oﬀering stueconomic imbalance. The dynamics of mobile telephony and dents and teachers free high speeds wireless Internet access. mobile broadband internet, the leading position of COSMOTE in In parallel, the company updates its local telecommunication the sector, the continuous growth of our 3rd generation network, providing advantages not only to students, but also to telecommunications network (with coverage reaching 95.9% in teachers and indirectly to citizens. 2010, from 91.59% in 2009), as well as the provision of innovative broadband services, have established COSMOTE as a piThe programme was initiated in boarder region of Irakleia and oneer in the eﬀort to make access to information and data, was applied, until the end of 2010, in 13 schools of Lesvos, as through digital technology, accessible to all citizens. well as in the islands Anaﬁ and Kithno. It must be noted that, there is no regulatory obligation for complete geographic and demographic coverage for these services. 7. Targets 2010 and 2011 We said We did Progress We will Target (in 2010) (in 2010) (in 2011) Date To improve our Business Continuity See Section IV-3B To continuously evaluate our 2011 strategies at COSMOTE Romania. 100% recovery strategies. To develop an employee volunteer See Section ΙV-4A,B To develop an employee volunteer 2011 programme, utilising employees skills. 25% programme, utilising employees skills. To launch a new product or service See Section IV-1A To launch a new product or service 2011 for disabled people. 100% for disabled people. To continue the «Love Institution», 2011 with one institute being chosen by our employees. To continue the Scholarships Programme 2011 for Rural Regions. To expand the pilot programme “Surﬁng 2011 the World” in Aegean islands and Crete. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 47 V. Our world, our Human Resources Briefly 32 years average age of employees 194,695 hours of training 9,137 6 employees companies 4 countries of operation 48 HUMAN RESOURCES How can we ensure excellent work conditions, within a competitive landscape? Our Objective: Our Achievements in 2010: We deﬁne policies to respect human rights, provide equal In COSMOTE Greece, we achieved a 50% proportion of opportunities among employees, avoid discriminations, enfemale Directors reporting to the CEO, which broadly sure meritocracy in developing our employees, as well as to corresponds to the analogy of female employees overall. protect freedom of association. Το achieve the above, our In the last 5 years, over 50% of our employees were objective is to create a workplace, which is safe, fair and fatrained, at least once annually. cilitates the professional and personal development of our We achieved our standing target of zero fatal accidents employees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 49 1. Job Positions A. We create a positive workplace Some characteristics of our employees in COSMOTE Greece are: At COSMOTE, we oﬀer our employees a positive workplace, With the exception of one employee, all employees have by attracting specialized workforce and providing the best full-time and permanent contracts. possible conditions, to work and professionally develop. We The employee turnover was 2.06%, compared to 2.66% in directly occupy 9,137 employees, while, due to our busi2009, without signiﬁcant diﬀerentiations, according to age, ness activity, have indirectly inﬂuenced the creation of tens gender or region. of thousand more job positions. The average age is 36 years (while the corresponding ﬁgure for COSMOTE Group is 32 years). Αllocation of Employees per company COSMOTE Group COSMOTE Greece employees’ analysis is showed below. COSMOTE Greece 1099 173 ΑΜC Albania 734 GLOBUL Bulgaria Position Directors Managers Employees Sum COSMOTE Romania (CEO, General (Deputy Directors 1194 GERMANOS Greece Directors, Directors) Managers) Employees (number) 31 268 2,055 2,354 GERMANOS Romania 466 2354 GERMANOS Bulgaria Corporation COSMOTE OTE (detachment) ZAPP Romania Employees (number) 2,354 26 E-Value Greece 1289 Type of employment Permanent FixedTerm FullTime PartTime Employees (number) 2,353 1 2,353 1 494 1334 Sex Woman Man Employees (number) 1,252 1,102 Gategory Special Needs Foreigners Αllocation of Employees per country COSMOTE Group Employees (number) 27 7 4000 1200 Age <25 26-35 36-45 >45 3500 Employees (number) 17 1,237 988 112 3000 2500 2000 1099 1194 Areas of employment Stores Oﬃces 1500 2354 Employees (number) 183 2,171 1000 500 1334 1462 494 Education Basic I.V.T. University Masters Greece Αlbania Βulgaria Romania Hight School Doctora Employees (number) 1,172 113 784 284 Commercial (GERMANOS, E-VALUE) Mobile Telephony (COSMOTE, AMC, GLOBUL, ZAPP) * Data refer to 31/12/2010. ** Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. Human Resources COSMOTE Group 12000 10000 9652 9137 7883 8844 8000 7031 6000 4000 2197 2220 2259 2210 2354 2000 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Employees in COSMOTE (number) Employees in COSMOTE Greece (number) * For comparison reasons, COSMOTE's former subsidiaries in FYROM, are not included in this chapter. ** 26 employees, working in COSMOTE from other Group OTE companies on the 31/12/2010, are not included in the above analysis. *** Group data for 2009 have changed, due to addition of ZAPP Romania employees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 50 HUMAN RESOURCES 2. Health and Safety A. We focus on Health and Safety at our workplace Having as a priority to oﬀer our employees a safe workplace, we focus on ensuring suitable work conditions and follow health and safety rules, in order to protect our employees. This priority, is also reﬂected in our oﬃcial workplace Health and Safety Policy. Health & Safety Policy COSMOTE believes that the Health and Safety of its personnel at Work, constitutes a value integral to the company’s general culture. The health and safety of its employees constitute a ﬁrst priority duty for management. COSMOTE aims to achieve Health and Safety at Work conditions, which will fully respect the requirements laid down by legislation. We follow the corporate procedure “Accident-Incident ReCOSMOTE adopts a preventive approach in all activity sectors, porting”, according to which all accidents within the company taking Health and Safety issues into account in all decisionare analytically investigated, identifying a suitable suggestionmaking, prior to all actions aiming at the implementation of such proposal to handle the underlying reasons. At the same time, decisions. Thus, it consults with the personnel and encourages we notify accidents to the responsible state authorities, acits participation in the respective issues. cording to respective legislation. We have established a Health and Safety Committee, which Management executives should act as role models of safe meets quarterly, along with company representatives, in behaviour and thus convince all employees of their commitorder to discuss issues concerning workplace risks. ment to the Company’s Health and Safety at Work Policy. Medical centres have been established in all our buildings, in order for medical personnel (e.g. nurses) to provide ﬁrst COSMOTE commits to providing information, updating and aid and Occupational Doctors to conduct their scheduled training to the personnel working on its account, so that the visits. personnel itself can contribute, as it is obliged, to the preservation and improvement of Health and Safety conditions at Work. We operate a Psychological Support Service in Athens and Thessaloniki, in order to support our employees on common life and health everyday problems (e.g. family life, divorce, Michael Tsamaz parent illness, isolation, work stress, work relations etc). BoD Chairman and CEO of COSMOTE Within 2010, 461 hours of individual sessions took place. We inform our employees about importat health topics: Doctor Visits for preventive examination of skin cancer (190 attendances). For this reason: Seminars for prevention of Breast diseases (76 attenAll COSMOTE Greece’s operations are certiﬁed, according to dances). OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Series Newsletter about Breast cancer for all female employees. OHSAS 18000), for Health and Safety at the workplace. Informative articles on the Intranet for hepatitis, diabetes, We identify labour risks, via documented Occupational Risk AIDS, nutrition etc. Assessments. These studies allow us to reduce the risks, by At the same time, within 2010 we implemented: taking suitable actions, such as training employees and 1 unannounced and 5 scheduled building evacuations, providing suitable Means of Individual Protection (if necwith the attendance of 83% of our employees. essary). 231 eyesight examinations for refractive problems; when Our safety technicians control the safety measures of our pathological ﬁndings were identiﬁed (e.g. myopia, astigconstruction sub-contractors. matism) proper instructions were provided. We annually check our climbers’ health, through specialized medical examinations. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 51 B. We closely monitor our performance The results of our systematic eﬀorts on Safety issues , are accidents (from 41 to 26). 82% of accidents occurred outreﬂected in the following table, where incidents related to side the workplace of COSMOTE, such as road accidents or Health and Safety, are summarised, for the last few years. slipping (before attendance or aker leaving from the workplace), while the total percentage of employees involved in In comparison to 2009, work accidents increased from 22 work accidents was a little over 1% of the total. Following to 28, while the number of accidents within the workplace investigations, no corrective actions for the 18% of accidecreased (from 8 to 5), as well as absence days due to dents taking place within the workplace, were required. Losses in Losses in Number of Number of Percentage of Total days of Employees Collaborators Accidents Accidents involved absence (absence of > 3 days) employees from work COSMOTE Greece 2006 0 1 11+14 10+10 1,14 115+208 2007 0 0 7+24 4+17 1,42 40+310 2008 0 0 4+12 1+11 0,71 8+131 2009 0 0 8+14 4+7 0,98 41+137 2010 0 0 5+23 5+16 1,18 26+209 COSMOTE Group 2006 0 1 11+16 10+12 482 2007 0 0 7+39 4+32 365 2008 1 0 4+35 1+34 163 2009 0 0 41+15 37+8 258 2010 0 0 8+23 8+17 274 * Where two ﬁgures are presented, ﬁrst ﬁgure refers to accidents within the workplace, while the second one to accidents outside the workplace (e.g. road accidents). C. We train our employees on Health & Safety issues Health and Safety Trainings Our company places particular emphasis on training and sen1000 sitizing our employees on Health and Safety issues. Therefore, aker 2009, when 474 trainings took place and over 800 5,200 man-hours of training on safety issues were invested, 151 23 on health and safety issues, within 2010 a total of 587 train600 82 ing sessions were conducted, dedicating over 3.300 man193 75 hours. 400 202 142 315 35 148 74 200 70 28 Particular focus was given, as every year, on training climbers 70 122 103 58 170 145 on work safety issues, as a total of 75 people were trained 72 45 61 and over 1,650 corresponding man-hours were dedicated. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Moreover, training of COSMOTE’s stores employees was emPreventive measures for store safety (trained) phasised, in behaving and handling robbery Electromagnetic radiation dosimeters (trained) Health and mobile telephony (trained) situations (Critical Incident Stress ManSafe driving (trained) agement), with 151 trainings Climbers (trained) First Aids (trained) conducted and 604 man-hours Emergency and evacuation situations (trained) invested. * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 52 HUMAN RESOURCES Particularly important is that, the proportion of male-female employees is almost equal (both within COSMOTE Group, as well as COSMOTE Greece), the corresponding proportion of female Directors reporting to the CEO is 50% (compared to 44% in 2009) in Greece and 23.4% within the entire COSMOTE Group, indicative of our equal opportunities policy. It is worth mentioning that: Ιndicator Percentage Percentage Percentage of female of female of female (total) (in management (Directors positions) reporting to the CEO) COSMOTE Greece (%) 53.8 28.2 50 COSMOTE (%) 50.2 29.4 23.4 3. Fair Employment Within 2010, we reached A. We condemn child, forced and unfair labor a 50% proportion of female Directors reporting to the CEO Our company respects the internationally recognized principles (similar to the total analogy of human rights, as deﬁned within the UN International Declaof female employees), ration of Human Rights and within the ten Principles of the UN in COSMOTE Greece. Global Compact (which our company has subscribed to). The fundamental principles, which deﬁne our relationship with our employees, are included in our Code of Conduct, which has been communicated to all employees (see section II-2B). Based on these principles, we are committed not to proceed with emThere are no inequalities in compensation of male /female ployment engagement of individuals, which are below the legal with a similar hierarchical grade. work age limit (as deﬁned by the Greek labour legislation), and under no circumstance will we engage employees below the The lowest wage within the company is 22% higher than age of ﬁkeen years. the legal basic salary. We also commit ourselves not to follow, or even tolerate, coer7 employees of COSMOTE Greece are foreigners. cive work in our premises. At the same time, we anticipate our Employees with special needs are 26 (with over 50% dissuppliers not to occupy individuals below the legal work age, or ability and one employee with 25% disability) in COSMOTE to tolerate practices of physical harassment, exploitation, or Greece, while 47 work in COSMOTE Group. use of coercive work, in any of their premises. It must be noted that, no discrimination incidents occurred B. We oﬀer a fair work environment within COSMOTE for another year. Within this frame of meriThe principle of equality is the cornerstone of our relationtocracy, our company continued the institutionalisation of oﬃship with our employees, enabling them to advance procial Job Position Roles (Job Families Model). fessionally, according to their performance, their skills and corporate needs. Our company is committed not to make More speciﬁcally: any discriminations due to race, religion, colour, origin, age, special needs, sexual orientation, political beliefs, gender or In cooperation with COSMOTE Directors, all employees were family status, in any decisions linked to employment issues matched against the various job position roles, according to (e.g. discrimination of wage based on gender). their current role, within the organization. Society’s diversity is also reﬂected within our company, as Through a web application, all employees were informed, we occupy corresponding proportions of male and female, about the correspondence of roles-employees, in all corpoyounger and older employees, as well as employees from rate business units. various regions, while we seek to harmoniously integrate disabled people, within our company. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 53 The Job Position Roles (Career Paths) planning for ComB. We promote our employees mercial, Technical and Information Technology Functions We place emphasis on developing our own employees, therewas completed, while it is expected to be completed for fore we apply a respective procedure, according to which: the remainder corporate Functions, within 2011. The Human Resources Division assesses which job positions can be ﬁlled from within and announced internally The application of this Job Family Model, further strengthAkerwards, a selection process is followed, which includes a ens COSMOTE’s commitment for employee development, series of interviews for candidates fulﬁlling the position reequal treatment and advancement opportunities, accordquirements. ing to their qualiﬁcations and skills. In order to establish a robust and long term internal promotion system, we have created Assessment Centres, in which candidates for promotion, as well as for re-position (to posiSubsidiary Glance tions with extended duties), participate. Within 2010, over The Model has also been applied to COSMOTE Romania, GLOBUL 70 Assessment Centres were conducted. Bulgaria and AMC Albania. As a result of this policy, within 2010, 91% of job openings in COSMOTE Greece (and 20% in all COSMOTE Group) were covered from within. 4. Freedom of Association A. We respect freedom of association Ιnternal Filling of Job Positions COSMOTE respects freedom of association of its employees and their right to form labour unions. Οur company’s Management 100 91 80 conducts negotiations with the Employee Union of COSMOTE 60 54 Greece, in order to sign the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 39 40 30 27 17.3 17.2 20 Overall, 70% of COSMOTE Greece employees participate in the 20 0 Employee Union of COSMOTE Greece, while election of Union 2007 2008 2009 2010 representatives is performed directly by our employees Internal ﬁlling COSMOTE (%) Internal ﬁlling COSMOTE Greece (%) In 2010, the analogy of internal job ﬁllings increased by 73,8% B. We respect the right to strike at COSMOTE Greece Our company also respects the right of employees to strike. and by 2,7% The causes of strikes and stoppages, in their majority, were diat COSMOTE Group rectly related to Pan-Hellenic strikes, due to social policy issues (e.g. insurance schemes). Only in a few cases, strikes were attributed to issues related to COSMOTE. Overall, within 2010, 8 strikes and 6 stoppages took place. 5. Development of Employees A. We appraise our employees Our Performance Appraisal System is critical for the development of our employees. Through this system, we identify strengths and areas for improvement, while actions to facilitate professional advancement of employees are recorded. At the same time, our employees’ performance is rewarded, as the Performance Appraisal system is linked to the «bonus» system. For 2010, all COSMOTE Greece employees, which fulﬁlled the criteria of the respective appraisal procedure (being occupied for over six months), have been appraised through a sokware system, which manages all the necessary approval ﬂows. 54 HUMAN RESOURCES C. We train our employees Our company seeks to develop and train all its employees. Indicative of this policy is the fact that, we managed to train over 50% of our employees, at least once a year, both within Group, as well as within COSMOTE Greece. Within the frame of developing our employees and in parallel achieve our strategic objectives, we have designed and implemented an extensive training programme, addressing issues related to technology, products and services, competencies, people management, customer service, corporate responsibility etc. In 2010, we materialized in total 2,050 training programmes within COSMOTE Group, which correspond to over 194 thousand training hours (with over €2.4 million spent) and 21.3 training hours per employee, in comparison to 1,532 programmes, 309 thousand hours and 34 hours per employee, Average training hours per employee within 2009. We also conducted a Corporate Responsibility decreased by 14.6% in COSMOTE Greece. training (addressing also Environmental issues), for 84% of Upper, Higher and Senior Managers in Greece. However, οver 50% of our employees have been trained at least once annually, Employee Training COSMOTE (Group) in the last 5 years. 310.64 295.43 309.96 300 250 201.59 205 200 150 123.1 145.7 157.4 153.2 194.7 D. We induct our new colleagues 100 Through the induction programme «Welcome to our world» 28.7 39.1 33.4 34 21.3 50 our new colleagues are familiarized with our corporate prin2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ciples, structure, culture, policies and procedures. Within Hours of training (thousands) the frame of this ﬁve-day programme our new colleagues, Number of training (tens) are also informed about: Average training per employee (hours) corporate operations, proper communication channels where they can receive Employee Training COSMOTE Greece further information, the main customer service principles, 70 61.45 our Corporate Responsibility principles. 60 51.89 48,5 50 40 43.8 44.9 44.5 40 37.7 34.5 31.8 30 23.62 27.68 19.88 21.9 18.7 20 10 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Hours of training (thousands) Number of training (tens) Average training per employee (hours) * Training data for 2009 have changed, as GERMANOS Greece and E-Value data are now integrated within Group ﬁgures. ΕκπαίδευσηParticipation Employee Εργαζοµένων in Training COSMOTE (Όµιλος) 79 78.2 80 70 62 64 65.5 58.4 62.7 60 55 49 40 20 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of employees trained COSMOTE (%) Percentage of employees trained COSMOTE Greece (%) Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 55 6. Additional Beneﬁts Family: Subsidising for nursery cost, up to €280 monthly, for each child of preschool age (till the ﬁrst degree of elementary A. We oﬀer additional beneﬁts school). Οur company oﬀers employees an extensive additional beneﬁts package, which covers 5 main categories: Favourable policies for working mothers, aiming to achieve a better work-life balance. Flexible daily work attendance for all employees (except those employed in shiks). Additional days of leave, in cases of special need. Monetary reward for employees’ children, who rank high in their studies (Lyceum, University). A symbolic Mother Day gik, for all mothers working within COSMOTE. Experiential seminars on child-rearing techniques (attendance of 185 parents in 2010). Sports Team Building: Salespeople and Customer Care Representatives Motivation Programme, aiming to identify and reward best employees (approximately 27% of participants were rewarded). Salespeople Motivation Programme, regarding promotional activities in our shops (in 2010, 65% of the total Insurance Medical Care: stores workforce was rewarded). Private medical care programme, for all employees and Organization of athletic activities (e.g. internal 5X5 football their protected members. and volleyball championship) and other events, aiming to Private life insurance programme, for all employees. cultivate a team spirit and, at the same time, employees becoming more active physically. Private retirement programme, utilised for the company to strengthen savings options, for all employees. Establish a COSMOTE Basketball Team, participating in an external Championship. Mobile Telephony Products: Free corporate mobile phone, for all employees, as well as Stock Options: an additional 30% in preferential tariﬀs, within 2010. Managers of our Greek companies and directors of our abroad subsidiaries (approximately 4% of all employees Discounts for corporate products, in privately-owned COSMOTE and 13% of employees in Greece), participate in OTE’s shops. stock options programme, with a three year time horizon. Discounted corporate products during our corporate Bazaar. Discount for corporate mobile phone upgrades, the amount of which varies, according to each employee’s hi7. Internal Communication erarchical grade. A. We systematically brief / inform our employees Other privileges for employees (such as receiving a disSystematic brieﬁng and reciprocal communication, concount on their mobile bill, by using the COSMOTE EUtribute towards creating a homogeneous corporate culture. ROBANK VISA). For this reason, starting in 2005, we have established a systematic dialogue with our employees, via internal commuOther Products: nication processes, utilising various means, such as: Gik vouchers, for the Christmas and Easter festive periods. Intranet called «Mikrocosmos», Cooperation with various companies, to ensure preferenelectronic brieﬁngs (e-mails), for corporate and other issues, tial treatment of employees, for products and services. web2sms (written messages send to employees’ corporate mobiles), informative leaﬂets, via hard copy correspondence, face-to-face brieﬁngs in targeted audiences, posters, stands, etc. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 56 HUMAN RESOURCES It is worth mentioning, that once again in 2010, our Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 was uploaded on our Intranet, en8. Satisfaction of Employees couraging employees to review it in sok version, for environmental reasons. At the same time, we strive to develop a A. We monitor our employees' level of satisfaction common perception and to stimulate active participation of We monitor and analyze, in a systematic way, our employees’ all employees, in our Corporate Responsibility programme. perception about the work environment, in order to identify both our strengths, as well as our potential areas for imTherefore, we conduct extensive brieﬁngs to newly-hired emprovement. This registered perception, combined with our ployees, as well as regular brieﬁngs for all our employees, via company’s strategic objectives, is the basis to develop plans printed and electronic material. and implement targeted actions, to continuously improve our workplace. In 2006, we conducted the ﬁrst employee satisfaction survey at COSMOTE Greece, the results of which were presented to our employees within 2007. In 2010, for the ﬁrst time, the Employee Satisfaction Survey was conducted at Group level, while the respective survey will be communicated internally, within 2011, in order to take appropriate corrective actions. Particularly important is that the participation rate reached 88% for COSMOTE Group and 87% for companies in Greece. 9. Targets 2010 and 2011 We said We did Progress We will Target (in 2010) (in 2010) (in 2011) Date To certify GERMANOS Greece, according See Section V-2C To implement a programme 2011 to OHSAS 18001, for occupational health Cancelled. 0% to cultivate health. & safety. To implement the Job Family Model, See Section V-3B in our subsidiary in Albania. 100% To expand and implement the career See Section V-3B To expand and implement the career 2011 path system, in all our functions. 75% path system, in all our functions. To implement further Corporate See Section V-7A To communicate the Employee 2011 Responsibility in our induction Satisfaction results and develop 100% training programme. respective programmes. To implement Corporate Responsibility See Section V-5A,B To implement a “Diversity” 2011 principles to Competencies, Performance 25% programme. Review procedure and training programmes. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 57 VI. Our world, our Μarketplace 10 Briefly 20.8 leaﬂets to inform the public million customers 9 BoD members 2.8 billion turnover 58 MARKETPLACE How can we positively influence the markets we operate in? Our Objective: Our Achievements in 2010: We believe that our size and large number of customers, reOut of 9 BoD members, 3 are independent and 7 are nonquire a corresponding level of accountability, regarding reexecutive. sponsible operation of the Marketplaces we conduct our We issue 10 leaﬂets, to inform and make citizens aware. business in (including our sales and supply chain), our own We informed over 1.2 million citizens, about issues such responsible internal operation, as well as transparency, toas safe use of mobiles, recycling etc. wards end users of our products and services. We assessed 77% of our Suppliers (in terms of monetary acTherefore, our objective is to follow a Management apquisitions), on applying Corporate Responsibility practices. proach, based on the principles of transparency and ethics and, at the same time, facilitate responsible operation of We improved customer satisfaction from our call centres Marketplaces, where we conduct our business in. and shops, by 7.3% and 6.8% respectively, in comparison to 2009. We conducted over 30 presentations to 340 managers for Compliance Issues. We oﬀered a 15% monthly ﬁxed charge discount to postpay pensionists and unemployed customers. We conducted 18 information system and 20 critical processes audits, for information security issues. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 59 1. Corporate Governance The Remuneration & Nomination Committee, is composed of A. We operate according to Corporate Governance 3 non-executive BoD members (two of which are independpractices ent). The CEO and the Human Resources General Director parThe highest ranking governance board of our company, reticipate in the Committee as well, without however voting sponsible to take decisions for important corporate issues rights. Objective of the Committee is to prepare and submit (according to legislation KN 2190/20 and the Corporate proposals to the BoD, addressing the company’s compensaCharter), is the General Assembly of Shareholders. tion policy, as well as to approve placements of General Directors within the company (following the Managing Director’s As described in our Internal Code of Operations, the Board proposal). of Directors (BoD) is responsible to take any decisions reThe Audit Committee is composed of 3 non-executive BoD garding administration, management, resource utilisation members (two of which are independent). The Committee and overall in order for our company to achieve its corporate supports the Board of Directors, in overseeing conformity of objectives. our company, in terms of compliance with laws and regulaThe BoD constitutes of nine (9) members, which are elected tions, completeness and accuracy of published ﬁnancial stateby the General Assembly of Shareholders. ments, eﬀectiveness of our corporate audit system, Out of 9 BoD members, 3 are independent and 7 non-executive. independence and qualiﬁcations of external ﬁnancial conWages and other compensation of BoD members are detrollers, as well as performance of our company’s Audit Deﬁned, according to legislation KN 2190/1920. partment. Audit Committee members evaluate annually their conducted work and present respective results to the Board of BoD is supported, in its operation, by an Audit Committee Directors, which is responsible to further assess performance. and a Remuneration & Nomination Committee. In parallel, a Compliance & Corporate Governance Committee has been established, consisting of Executive Management members (see section ΙI-2Β). Name Executive Non Executive Independent Audit Committee Remuneration Member Member Member (3 Members) Committee (3 Members) M. Tsamaz CEO BoD President K. Apostolides BoD Vice President (President) Y. Ioannidis Z. Piperides Κ. Copp P. Tabourlos R. Rathgeber G. Mavrakis I. Vezanis * BoD Members on the 5.1.2011. B. We control our internal operations COSMOTE Group’s Internal Audit & Compliance Department, Also, during the annual Sarbanes-Oxley conformity check, the supports the company in achieving its corporate objectives, by Internal Audit & Compliance Department examines and reviews oﬀering a systematic approach in evaluating and improving its the control points, which have been established by managerisk assessment methodologies, while conducting internal aument and are related mainly to ﬁnancial operations and overdits of departments and processes, to identify and report non all governance issues of our company. conformances. According to results of these assessments, which could inﬂuence the company and indirectly our stakeholders, the Department examines the existence and impleSubsidiary Glance The same practices are also followed by our subsidiaries, where mentation of check points (to identify and avoid respective localInternalAuditDepartmentsconductcorrespondingactivities. incidents), in order to suggest additional approaches and compliance (see section VI-1C). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 60 MARKETPLACE C.WeimplementaComplianceManagementSystem Case Study In order for our management practices to protect our Share“Whistle blowing” mechanism holders’ and Stakeholders’ interests and, at the same time, strengthen our responsible internal operation, COSMOTE has COSMOTE Group, has established a Complaints and Reporting implemented a Compliance Management System. The SysManagement Policy, to handle reports related to issues of pubtem deﬁnes the employees’ responsibility boundaries and belic interest, such as breaching of legislation (e.g. thek, money haviour rules, in order to avoid legal implications and potential laundering), misconducts related to corporate policies and proconﬂict of interest, between executive management and corcedures (e.g. Code of Conduct, Sarbanes-Oxley), infringements porate shareholders. The Compliance Management System, which could aﬀect the corporate reputation (employee relawhich has been veriﬁed for its deployed implementation by tions, misconducts, discriminations, corruption) or any attempt external auditors, is based on three areas: to support such activities. Within the frame of this Policy, each employee can, anonymously or not, report to the Compliance Desk potential ethical misconducts, which fall into their attention: by sending a letter to a dedicated postal address, by sending an e-mail (cosmotecomplianceoﬃce@cosmote.gr or whistleblowing@cosmote.gr), by calling the dedicated phone line +30-210-6177800. It must be noted that: The Compliance Oﬃcer reports respective complaints to the Compliance Committee, which decides on corrective actions, aker receiving the results of a respective inquiry. Brieﬁng and Prevention: The System includes the following Results of particular serious cases are handled by the BoD regulations and policies: Audit Committee. Internal Code of Operations. Code of Conduct (see section II-2B). Τhe Policy clearly deﬁnes that COSMOTE does not allow any diInternal Personnel Code and Collective Bargaining rect or indirect retaliation actions by corporate management (or Agreement. other corporate bodies), to anyone who will, in good faith, proSupplier Code of Conduct (see section VI-4A). ceed with reporting, expressing a concern or complaint, reIdentiﬁcation of Financial Fraud Policy. garding infringements of our policies or legislation. Complaint and Accusation Management Policy. Within 2010, we received overall 4 cases of complaints, which Information Misuse Policy (Information Asymmetry). were handled according to the above procedures. Corporate Events Policy. Donation and Sponsorship Policy. Personal Data Protection Code of Conduct. Present Acceptance and Oﬀer Policy. Conﬂict of Interest and Corruption Handling. In parallel, in 2010 over 30 presentations to managers and selected operational units of our company were conducted, with over 340 people attending, to train and increase awareness. Identiﬁcation and Inquiry: Internal procedures have been established to investigate incidents. Response and Management: In order to register cases of non-compliant behaviour, a Complaints and Reporting Management Policy was established, as described below: It must be noted that, following our policies, we did not fund political parties in 2010, nor did we receive ﬁnancial aid from public authorities. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 61 company to sign the Memorandum, in February 2007, among 15 other European mobile telephony and content provider companies. The Memorandum addresses issues, which aim to ensure the safe use of mobile telephony services by minor users, such as access control mechanisms, sensitization and communication, categorization of commercial content, as well as handling illegal content in products and services of mobile telephony and / or the Internet. The collaboration with other mobile telephony providers in Greece, in order to develop a “Common Code of Conduct for added value services, via mobile phones and protection of minor users”. Objective of this mobile telephony sector selfregulation process is for minor users to be oﬀered a common level of protection, such as in other European countries. Participation in the non-proﬁt organisation “Association of Mobile Telephony Companies” (with the approval of EETT, the Greek National Regulatory Authority). The Association 2. Ethical Competition aims to be an advisory board in regulative processes, to participate in the decision-making processes of legislative or A. We comply with competition rules technical committees (at an international, European and naThe responsible regulator regarding electronic communicational level), as well as to collaborate with institutions and tions in Greece is the Hellenic Telecommunications and Post associations in other countries, within the scope of bilateral Commission (EETT), whereas in countries our subsidiaries opor multilateral collaborations. Its objective is the collective erate, corresponding local regulators exist. modernization and development of the mobile telephony COSMOTE’s companies, in the countries they operate, comsector. To achieve its founding objective, the Association, ply with the institutional requirements, related to free comseeks to update its members, follow-up on issues of collecpetition (national and EU). For this reason in 2006, our tive interest, establish positions on respective issues, as well company developed a respective Policy, to inform employees as represent and promote the opinion of its members, in on the importance of a company to comply with free market Greece and abroad. competition rules and deﬁne the guiding lines of our employees’ behaviour, in order to conform to these rules. The Policy, which was revised in 2010, is accessible to all em3. Responsible Marketing ployees, through our corporate intranet, while was adopted by our foreign subsidiary companies, aker adjustment to reA. We apply Responsible Marketing practices spective local legislation. From the ﬁrst day of our operations, COSMOTE has adopted a COSMOTE is suitor in a number of legal and administrative simple, clear and friendly communication style, towards its cases, the majority of which is related to operation of Base customers. Stations. We ensure that our communication material is legal, appropriate, fair, sincere, corresponds to reality and respects For further information please visit: www.cosmote.gr/content/el/attached_ﬁles/Company/ peoples’ diversity, in terms of age, gender, race, religion and EkthesiOikonomikonKatastaseon31122010.pdf physical or mental status. (page 88) To guarantee the above, the company's Marketing Division controls all advertising messages and campaigns, before deploying them to the public. B. We contribute to improving the marketplace The company follows the SEE (“Committee of CommunicaThe collaboration of mobile telephony providers, within the tion Control”) code of Responsible Marketing, in order to frame of oﬃcial institutions and state laws, can be positive ensure that communication is according to market rules for consumers, quality of services provided and safe use of and societal codes. mobile telephony services. Some examples are: Our active participation during the consultations, which As a result, no respective ﬁne was imposed in 2010, by retook place in Brussels, under the auspice of the European sponsible authorities. Committee for the establishment of a European Memorandum, addressing the safe use of mobile phones by children and teenagers. COSMOTE was the ﬁrst Greek Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 62 MARKETPLACE B. We apply transparent and reduced pricing Development of Roaming Services: We initiated a series of practices actions to upgrade our roaming services, such as expanding our Greece is one of the few countries where a special tax is imRoaming network to cover 389 networks in 178 countries, exposed to the use of mobile telephony services. As a result, taxes panding our COSMOTE TRAVELLER service, reducing prices for as percentage of average invoices are the highest of all EU inbound and outbound calls, in order to contribute towards opcountries. The only corresponding tax within the tax system, is timizing the quality / price ratio, of our services. related to luxury products. Therefore, the mobile telephony sector is classiﬁed as a uniquely high tax category. Usage Monitoring for Internet On the Go: Via an application called “COSMOTE Internet On the Go Connect”, we provide, to all For this reason, the low pricing policy our company follows, is of our Mobile Internet customers, access to an indicative usage particularly important for consumers, as the following exammonitoring tool (for downloaded data), as well as deﬁning maxples indicate: imum limits of use. Finally, our customers are also oﬀered the Pensionists and unemployed post pay customers were given option to review historical data of this monitoring tool at a daily, the option to receive a 15% discount on their monthly ﬁxed weekly or self-deﬁned time interval. fee, for all 2010. Post paid customers were given oﬀers, which provided a monthly ﬁxed fee discount of up to €20. Our pre-paid “What’s Up” users, oﬀered 1,500 free talk minutes and 1,500 SMS, with only 5€ renewal. Οur post-paid customers had the option of a discount instead of device subsidy. Our broadband users had increased discount on ﬁxed fees and free usage. Our post-paid customers, through our COSMOTE Traveller service, can use their free time in EU countries despite network (95 networks in 35 countries) just like in Greece, with a minimal extra charge. On pricing and charging issues, we communicate with clarity and transparency and systematically provide essential information, following all legal procedures (e.g. publications, website updates, messages in customer invoices), in order for our customers to receive an objective and clear brieﬁng. In parallel, we oﬀer services which enable our customers to be informed and manage their accounts. For example, the following practices can be mentioned: Usage Information Service: This service is oﬀered automatically and free of charge to all domestic contract subscribers, Multimedia Information Services: We are aware that attenwith free talk minutes. The service briefs customers, through tion should be placed by our customers on multimedia infortheir printed and electronic account, about the consumption of mation services, based on subscription that are value added (e.g. free talk minutes, messages and data in all tariﬀ programmes. series 901, 909, 806, 812, 825, 850, 875, 14, 190-195 and 54), where subscribers are charged upon receiving not sendingan Outstanding Service Control: This free of charge service (acSMS. Those services are primarily developed and deployed by tivated via SMS), informs post-pay customers with pre-paid 3rd party providers (licensed by the Hellenic Telecommunicaservices regarding their outstanding free call time, SMS, MMS, tions & Post Commission), with COSMOTE not being responsible ΜΒ or / and respective amount in euros, until the issuing of the for their content and content provision methods. commencing invoice. For further information please Service Upgrade for Remaining Time Extension: With this visit www.cosmote.gr service, our customers are allowed to upgrade the extension of their remaining talk time. Consequently, even if no call time is remaining, our customers can extend their speech time, simply by calling a 4-digit number. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 63 C. We protect minor users of our services Self-Regulation and Self-Commitment Initiatives: The use of mobile phones, is gradually deployed to younger The objective of the mobile telephony sector self-regulaage groups, a fact requiring continuous alerting of parents. tion process and of our company, is for minor users to enjoy Parents should be informed properly, about mobile phone a common level of protection, as in other European counfunctions (such as accessing services, voice calls, sms, tries. Therefore, our company: sending and receiving photographs and videos, access the Participates, since 2007, in the European Memorandum, for internet), to be able to properly decide, about the mobile safe use of mobile phones, by children and teenagers (in coltelephony services, they will permit their children to use. laboration with other European mobile telephony companies). From an operational perspective, COSMOTE has impleCollaborated with other mobile telephony companies in mented a series of Policies and Procedures such as: Greece, to develop the “Common Code of Conduct for added The company does not promote Adult / Erotic / Chatting / value services, via mobile phones and protection of minor Horoscope services. users”. Within 2008, the Code was further adapted to the European standards. COSMOTE services (e.g. Flirt SMS) do not permit access, if stated age (or searched age) is below 18 year Service providers are contractually obliged to follow guidelines (e.g. legally prohibited to utilize customers’ data for service promotion etc.). Within this frame -being convinced that prevention and proper brieﬁng can ensure proper usewe have developed a multifaceted strategy, for safe use of our services. This strategy, focuses on the following areas: 1. Participation in European Initiatives for Self-Regulation and Self-Commitment. 2. Development of Parental Control Services, at European level. 3. Collaboration with credible Institutions. 4. Awareness within the company. 5. Brieﬁng, training and sensitization of the public. Parental Cooperation Awareness Control with credible within the Services institutions company (NGOsAcademia) Self regulation and Self commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 64 MARKETPLACE Case Study Parental Control Services Parental Control Services: Our company developed a line of In addition, during the subscription to the service, the potential services, for parents to have the option to manage their chilcustomer receives an SMS informing that the service is available dren’s access to services, which are exclusively addressed to only to adults (by subscribing the user accepts that he is an adults. For this reason, we simpliﬁed the registration process for adult) and that the service can be blocked by calling 13838. these services (as described below) and published respective The user has also the option to quit the service and delete his informative material, which is distributed in all our shops and all personal data simply by sending an SMS with the text QUIT to countries, where these services are provided (see section VI-5A). 19519. It is worth mentioning that, COSMOTE Romania, AMC Albania and COSMOTE Μy View: The Erotic Zone and Chat & GLOBUL Bulgaria also oﬀer Parental Control Services (e.g. for iDate services, within COSMOTE my view catemode Erotic and Chat & Date services), simply by calling the Cusgories are addressed only to adult users, who actomer Service Center. cept the terms of use. Parents have the option to block the access to this content. This can be done Collaboration with Credible via calling the Customer Service Center at 13838 or 1200 for Institutions: Our company corporate customers. collaborates with Institutions, which aim to increase citizens’ awareness and inform them on ways to be protected, but also Calls Services: Parents have the option, to block their children’s to eﬀectively protect their children, from risks associated with calls to value added service numbers. More speciﬁcally, we proimproper use of interactive technologies, such as the Internet vide, free of charge, the service to block calls to added value and mobile phones. For this reason, we support, as Golden Sponvoice services (i.e. to 10 digit numbers, like 901 and 909, exclusor, the brieﬁng and awareness initiatives of the Greek Center of sively intended for adults). A customer can ask to block all 901 Safer Internet “saferinternet.gr” (under the auspice of the Euroand/or all 909 numbers simply by calling the COSMOTE Customer pean Commission; national representative of the Pan-European Service Centre (at 13838 or 1200 for corporate customers). Awareness Center INSAFE), who’s awareness and campaign is materialized under the auspice of the European Committee. Chat Services: We developed a “Bad Words List” system, applied to our WAP / SMS chat service, restricting use of inappropriate language, within Chat Rooms. At the same time, our company maintains the right to prohibit the use of chat services to individuals, who violate fundamental rules of proper behaviour. Snapshot of the event for the celebration of Safer Internet Day Sensitization of Public and Employees: Our company systematically informs and make aware our employees, parents, Subsidiary Glance teachers, as well as the wider public, both through its retail network, as well as through targeted communication programmes. It is worth mentioning that, both COSWithin this frame we inform the public, by distributing three dedMOTE Romania, as well as GLOBUL Bulgaria, have also signed icated leaﬂets, through our entire retail network, with the mesthe European Memorandum, for Safe Internet Use. COSMOTE sage “when you have the knowledge, you have the world in your Romania distributed over 50,000 informative leaﬂets, while over hands”. 120,000 customers of GLOBUL Bulgaria were briefed through SMS messages and over 43,000 received informative leaﬂets.. It is estimated that, within 2010, over 18,000 citizens were informed via these leaﬂets. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 65 4. Responsible Procurement Supplier Assessments (in monetary terms) 100 A. We inﬂuence our Supply Chain 80 We recognize, that our own responsible operation can be in60 ﬂuenced by our suppliers’ activities and that, due to our size, 77 40 we have a moral obligation to inﬂuence positively our value 20 chain, by deploying Corporate Responsibility principles. Therefore, we developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, in the frame 2010 of which: Monetary acquisitions covered (%) We expect from our partners and suppliers to apply best practices of corporate ethics, to operate according to respective legislation and internationally agreed regulations, but also to Subsidiary Glance be socially and environmentally sensitive. It is worth noticing that, the process was also applied in our subsidiaries COSMOTE Romania, GERMANOS, AMC Albania and We expect our collaborators to respect the principles and GLOBUL Bulgaria as a pilot, while our subsidiaries have also aspects of this Code. adopted the Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct, within 2008, in Conformity to the Code, is a criterion within our vendor seorder to ensure that suppliers follow the same principles as our lection and evaluation process. company, as far as environmental, health and safety issues are We recognize our responsibility to have a dialogue with our concerned. collaborators, as well as to educate them, when required, on the Corporate Responsibility practices we follow. Β. We respect our Suppliers’ rights Our Principles, which deﬁne our relationship with Suppliers, are Within 2009, we re-designed our Supplier Evaluation System included in our Code of Conduct, which has been communi(with Corporate Responsibility issues contributing to the overcated to all employees (see section II-2B). Within this frame, all evaluation). Within 2010, we evaluated suppliers correour company: sponding to 77% of our overall acquisitions in monetary Behaves towards partners and suppliers with respect and terms. transparency, in all countries we operate in. Provides equal opportunities for vendors to become our suppliers, by following an objective and fair selection process. The Code includes, among other, the following Follows payment terms according to our contractual obligasections: tions, something particularly important due to the economic Labor (based on the SA8000 standard) crisis. It is worth mentioning that, the average payment time Free Choice of Employment of suppliers, in 2010, was 100 days. Avoidance of Child Labor Work Hours Although a signiﬁcant part of our acquisitions are electrical Terms and Payments and electronic equipment (which are constructed abroad), Behaviour we seek to utilise local suppliers. Non-Discrimination Freedom of Association C. We ensure safe products for our customers Particularly important is the provision of safe products, which Health and Safety are manufactured according to international standards and conWork Safety ventions. For example: Locations Electronic and electrical devices sold in our stores have relaPhysical Intense Labor tive labelling (e.g. CE), as regulatory requested. Health and Safety Policy COSMOTE inquires suppliers about data regarding SAR levels Environment of mobile devices, data which are made available to our cusPollution Precaution / Reduction of Natural Resource Usage tomers. Hazardous Substances, Liquid and Solid Waste Mobile phones sold in our shops, have relative CE labelling Environmental Policy (declaring completion of all essential conformity evaluation Ethics processes) and operate within electromagnetic ﬁeld safety Corruption, Extrusion and Abuse limits, as deﬁned by the Speciﬁc Absorption Rate (SAR), which Information Reveal should not exceed 2 w/kgr locally, as described within the Illicit Advantages Presidential Decree (PD) 44/2002 and at European level Intellectual Property Protection within the Directive 1999/5/EK. As a result of the above is that, during 2010, no ﬁne was imposed considering company’s products. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 66 MARKETPLACE 5. Public Awareness A. We provide information to the public Case Study Informing the Public We are convinced that, we can contribute to inform the public on social and environmental issues, as well as on issues speciﬁcally related to our products and services. For this reason, we utilise various communication channels (such as printed leaﬂets, informative SMS), to communicate useful and practical messages, with regard to mobile telephony and social issues, in all Corporate Responsibility pillars in which we operate. Some examples, are mentioned below: Pillar “Environment” Recycling: We distribute the informative leaﬂet “Join us in Recycling”, providing information to citizens on the options they have to recycle mobile phones, accessories and batteries, ink cartridges and domestic batteries, in all our retail shops in Greece (see section III-3D) (approximately 5,000 leaﬂets in 2010). We inform the public about the importance of recycling in general (as well as speciﬁcally for mobiles, accessories, batteries and ink recycling), by utilizing major artistic and athletic events, sponsored by our company. Among other we supported and utilised: For the 2nd year, the sponsorship activities at the “Αstir Beach”, where 7,500 leaﬂets, 1,000 ecological giks, solar chargers were distributed, special bins for recycling were placed and two recycling and reused workshops were conducted, with over 60 children attending. Τhe tennis tournament ”Status Athens Open 2010”, the “Green ICT Forum”, the exhibition “Αrt Athina 2010”, the “CEO & CSR Money Conference 2010”, by distributing respective informative leaﬂets and placing recycling bins. Educational activities for children on the Vouliagmeni beach We conducted a Pan-Hellenic campaign on Recycling of Mobiles, Accessories, Batteries and Toners “Join us in Recycling”, initiated on the World Environment Day 5th of June, while also forwarded respective mass SMS messages to over 370,000 customers and developed an interactive environmental protection game for our employees. Pedion 24: This refers to our EMF Measurement Programme (see section III-8B) (approximately 6,700 leaﬂets in 2010). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 67 Καλή Πρακτική Case Study Κοινού Ενηµέρωση Informing the Public Pillar “Society” Life with our Mobile Phone: We created a leaﬂet, which proΑwareness / Health: vides useful information on mobile etiquette, safe driving and We utilized technology to avoiding mobile phone thek etc. (approximately 9,000 leaﬂets send targeted SMS messages to fellow citizens, such as to parin 2010). ticipate in the Love Institution (30,000 messages), to participate in precautionary medical examinations for prostate cancer Products: Within these three informative leaﬂets, we describe (185,000 men over a certain age) and thick intestine cancer our products and services for Disabled people (see section IV-3A) (200,930). (approximately 260,000 leaﬂets in 2010). Pillar “Marketplace” Mobile Telephony and Parenting: Within this leaﬂet, we provide information on how parents can ensure, that their children use mobile services safely, in case they are allowed to use mobiles (see section VI-3C) (approximately 9,000 leaﬂets in 2010). In parallel, we distributed presents with tips on safe internet use at major sponsoring events, coupled with respective presentations (e.g. at camps, conferences) (over 2,000 presents) (see section VI-3C). Safer Internet: We distributed 2 leaﬂets (“ABC of internet”, “Frequent questions on the safe use of mobile services”), of the Hellenic Center for Safer Internet, through our commercial network How Mobile Telephony Functions / Questions & Answers and major sponsoring events, which provide information, on how for Mobile Telephony: A leaﬂet which describes how mobile teto use safely the Internet (see section IV-3C). In parallel, we forlephony functions (approximately 10,500 leaﬂets in 2010). warded a respective mass SMS to over 113,000 customers, during the Safer Internet Day on the 9th of February. Safe Driving: COSMOTE maintained, for the 2nd year, membership of the “Roads to the Future”, which was initiated by I.O.AS “Panos Mylonas”. Our company handled the axis “mobile & driving”, distributing respective informative leaﬂets at major sponsorship events (such as the “CEO & CSR Money Conference 2010”, the 8-day event “Drive Safely”, the “Green ICT Forum”). In parallel, during the “Drive Safely” Week we conducted an awareness campaign titled “Bluetooth on the ear, eyes on the wheel!” and oﬀered a 20% discount on Bluetooth devices in all corporate shops. Overall, it is estimated that over 300,000 citizens received the above leaﬂets, while over 900,000 received the informative SMS. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 68 MARKETPLACE Customer Satisfaction (agreement with statement) Subsidiary Glance 140 122 131 114 108 117 114 122 It is also worth noticing that, GLOBUL Bulgaria in cooperation 120 100 103 100 with GERMANOS Bulgaria organized, for the second continuous 80 69 70 71 73 year, a national campaign addressing safe driving, under the title 60 100 40 “Drive Safely! Use HANDS-FREE!”. The campaign, aimed to pro20 mote the safe use of mobile phones while driving, with the use 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 of Hands-free devices, by distributing over 205,000 leaﬂets and “Good call center service” (%) 243,000 stickers. COSMOTE Romania continued the campaign “Good service at shops” (%) In 2010, we improved “Overall satisfaction” (% absoluterly satisﬁed) satisfaction of customers «Take life in your own hands», with over 1,000,000 people being from our call centers * Data refer to COSMOTE Greece. briefed about the rules of using safely a mobile phone while ** Figure 100, is deﬁned as a base and corresponds to 2006 and shops, by 7.3% driving. Also GERMANOS Romania developed and distributed over results (with the exception of Overall Satisfaction). and 6.8% respectively, in comparison to 2009. 130,000 informative leaﬂets “G-etiquette”, containing rules of etiquette regarding mobile phones. C. We provide reliable services Oﬀering reliable and uninterrupted services is an important 6. Customer Satisfaction issue for our company. The eﬀort to create a reliable network, is highlighted in the following elements: A. We handle our customers’ requests Our pan-Hellenic average network availability, in 2010, was On a monthly basis, we roughly handle 2,700 written remarks99.7%. complaints and 1,300 e-mails by customers, the majority of Our call success rate reached the 99% limit. which (over 72%) are processed in less than 2 working days, Our drop call rate is lower than 1%. with the National Regulatory Authority’s Code of Conduct deﬁning a respective threshold of 20 days. Although the number of customer complaints is below 1% of 7. Data Security overall monthly contacts by our customers, the importance we place on proper complaints handling is high. The basic A. We ensure personal data protection Conﬁdentiality of personal data and communication content of principles of our methodology are: our customers is of utmost importance for our company. Our soCentral follow-up. phisticated mechanisms and specialized personnel, co-ordinated Single registration application and follow-up of progress. by the Information Safety Department, focus around three main Homogeneous customer-centric management philosophy, areas: by all involved parties. Application of an information safety management system Quality assurance. (policies, processes and models), according to legislation and Strengthening corrective / preventive actions. international best practices. Annual or by-annual review, to adopt to customer expectations. Detailed monthly management reporting. Implementation of control mechanisms, utilising modern technological means and infrastructures. Within 2010, 18 auIn parallel, we received 816 written complaints via the National dits to information systems and 20 audits to critical internal Regulatory Authority and 708 complaints via other formal chanprocesses (e.g. access rights, private data usage) were connels, such as Ministries. ducted, to ensure absence of security breaches. Continuous and targeted brieﬁngs and trainings of employees, B. We monitor our customers' satisfaction regarding Information Security and Safety (e.g. through InWe seek to be the preferred choice of customers, by cultivatduction training). ing a reciprocal, sincere and trustful relationship with them. For Ιt is worth mentioning that, within 2010, we handled 39 rethis reason, we closely monitor our performance on satisfying spective customer complaints, with the average response our customers, through a series of surveys, which are carried time being 2 weeks. It must be noted that, aker respective out via telephone interviews on a representative sample of the enquiry, none of these complaints was justiﬁed. public. As indicated below, our customers’ satisfaction regarding services provided within our retail shops and call centres, has improved since 2006 (2006 results are deﬁned as the basis, representing the number 100), by 22 and 14 percent respectively. At the same time, the percentage of our customers, which stated “absolute satisfaction” by our company, is consistently positioned in the particularly high level of 73%. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 69 8. Targets 2010 and 2011 We said We did Progress We will Target (in 2010) (in 2010) (in 2011) Date To expand our campaign, about safe See Section VI-5Α driving. 100% To inform citizens about the use of See Section VI-3C To expand our blocking services to 806, 2011 parental control methods. 100% 812, 825, 850, 875, 14, 190-195 and 54 numbers. To communicate recycling issues, See Section VI-5A To communicate recycling issues, 2011 through major events we sponsor. 100% through major events we sponsor. To assess Suppliers corresponding to See Section VI-4A To assess Suppliers corresponding 2011 32% of our acquisitions. 100% to 47% of our monetary acquisitions. To conduct a Data Security Risk See Section VI-4A Evaluation Study, for critical corporate 100% information systems. To train at least 50% of our employees 2011 on Compliance issues (e.g. personal data, asymmetry of informative). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 70 INFORMATION VII. Information about the report 1. Summary Table SECTION 2007 2008 2009 2010 STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Quantitative indicators within the Report (number) 37 112 188 237 GRI indicators within the Report (G3.1 & Telecom number) 30 66 90 99 Members in Corporate Responsibility Section (COSMOTE Greece number) NR 4 5 5 Stakeholder Groups (number) NR 11 11 11 ENVIRONMENT – COSMOTE Greece Overall CO2 emissions (from oﬃces, transportation, shops, backbone network, BTS) (tn) NR 117,525 127,299 123,747 Overall non-renewable energy consumption (from oﬃces, transportation, shops, backbone network, BTS) (MWh) NR 150,163 165,410 159,051 Renewable energy use (BTS number) NR 37 36 37 Petrol consumption (thousand lt) 2,483.15 2,336.93 2,310.57 1,907.08 Water consumption (m3) 14,420 20,006 24,498 24,791 Packaging material consumption (tn) 297.7 273.6 290.91 136.45 Oﬃce paper consumption (tn) 29.5 38.6 44.7 52.24 Mobile & accessories recycling (tn) 1.32 9.42 13.5 12.02 Lead batteries recycling (tn) 45.6 93.5 96.4 469 Paper recycling (tn) 26.5 46.7 27.6 42.29 Lubricants recycling (thousand lt) 3.61 20.34 6.96 17.26 Light bulb recycling (kgr) 72 17.78 31.66 180 WEEE recycling (tn) 72 17.78 31.66 24.02 Bio-degradable bags acquired (million) 1.0 1.9 5.7 0.837 EMF measurements (million estimation) NR 4 5 5 Road transportation distance (million km estimation) 5.56 5.48 5.59 7.52 Legislative ﬁnes (COSMOTE Greece €) NR NR NR 63,000 SOCIETY Investments (million €) NR 494.6 402.5 424.1 Taxes paid (million €) NR 448.3 445.8 563.8 Social Contribution (COSMOTE Greece million €) 3.45 4.2 2.65 1.36 Social Products (number) ΜΑ 3 3 4 Employees blood donatοrs (COSMOTE Greece number) 287 324 380 440 WORKPLACE Number of employees (number) 7,883 8,844 9,067 9,137 Fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 0 Accidents with absence >1 of day (number) 46 39 56 31 Women Directors Reporting to CEO (COSMOTE Greece %) NR NR 44.4 50 Training (thousand hours) 310.64 295.43 309.96 194.7 Employees participating in Unions (COSMOTE Greece %) NR 70 70 70 MARKETPLACE, SUPPLIERS, CUSTOMERS Customers (million) 15.5 20 21.9 20.8 Turnover (billion €) NR 3.2 3.03 2.8 Βase Stations (number) NR ΝR NR 12,500 Independent BoD Members (number/total) NR 2/9 2/9 3/9 Non-Executive BoD Members (number/total) NR 7/9 7/9 7/9 Whistleblowing cases (number) NR NR NR 4 Citizens informed (COSMOTE Greece million) NR NR NR 1.2 NR = Not Reported Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 71 2. Global Compact, GRI, AA1000, ISO26000 Tables The correspondence between the content of this Report with the 10 UN Global Compact’s Principles, the Guidance ISO26000 (recognizing ISO 26000 as a reference document that provides guidance on social responsibility), as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI G3.1 issue 2011) Proﬁle and Performance Indicators, is presented in the following tables: Additional GRI Indicators are indicated in grey background, while Core GRI Indicators are indicated in grey background Core Indicators are indicated in white background. Telecom Supplement Indicators are indicated in blue background. Coverage of Indicators is characterised as Full (F), Partial (P), Not Reported (NR) or Not Applicable (NA). A.Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Section Coverage Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights V-3 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses V-3, II-2 F Labour Standard 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining V-4 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour VI-4, V-3 F 5. Abolish eﬀectively child labour VI-4, V-3 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation VI-4, V-3 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges III-8 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility III-1-8 F 9. Encourage development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies III-1-8 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery VI-1,2,4, II-2 F B. GRI Principle Table GRI Summary Report Coverage/ Paragraph of Aspect Section Omission Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Most senior executive statement A F 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities A, II-1A, B, II-5 F Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization B F 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services I-3 F 2.3 Operational structure of the organization (main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, joint ventures). I-2B F 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters I-2A F 2.5 Number of countries organization operates (and those with major operations or speciﬁcally relevant to TBL) I-2A F 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form I-2A, B F 2.7 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, types of customers). I-2A, 3A, IV-3A F 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization I-3A, V-1A, IV-3A F 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes in report period (size, structure, owner) I-2C F 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ΙΙ-3Β F Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. ﬁscal/calendar year) B F 3.2 Date of previous report B F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial) B F 3.4 Contact point for questions B F Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 72 INFORMATION GRI Summary Report Coverage/ Paragraph of Aspect Section Omission 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content ΙΙ-1A, B F 3.6 Boundary of the report (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers, see Protocol ) B F 3.7 Limitations on scope or boundary of report B F 3.8 Basis for reporting (on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourcing) can signiﬁcantly aﬀect comparability from period to period B F 3.9 Data measurement techniques, bases of calculations, (assumptions, estimations techniques, compilation, diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols) B F 3.10 Eﬀect and reasons of information re-statements (mergers/acquisitions, change of base years, methods). B, V-1A F 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes (scope, boundary, methods) B, Ι-2C F 3.12 Table for location of Standard Disclosures VΙΙ-2 F 3.13 Policy and practice for seeking external assurance VII-4 F Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure (e.g. BoD committees strategy or oversight) VΙ-1A, II-2A F 4.2 BoD Chair also executive oﬃcer VΙ-1A, Ι-2Β F 4.3 ΒοD members that are independent and/or non-executive VΙ-1A F 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees recommendations to BoD VΙ-1A,C F 4.5 Link of BoD members, senior managers, executives’ compensation (incl. departure arrangements) with TBL VΙ-1A F 4.6 Processes for BoD to ensure conﬂicts of interest avoided VΙ-1C F 4.7 Determining qualiﬁcations of BoD for guiding TBL strategy VΙ-1A F 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct, principles relevant to TBL II-2A, B F 4.9 BoD procedures for overseeing management of TBL (risks, opportunities, compliance with standards, codes, principles) II-2A, VI-1A F 4.10 Processes for evaluating BoD performance on TBL II-2A, VI-1A F 4.11 Whether and how precautionary approach addressed IIΙ-8A, Β, VI-3A, III-1A F 4.12 TBL principles and initiatives the organization subscribes II-3A F 4.13 Membership in associations (industry, national/international, governance bodies, projects, committees, substantive funding beyond membership, strategic membership) II-3A,Β, VI-2B F 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization II-4A F 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders II-4Α, B, ΙΙ-1A F 4.16 Stakeholder engagement approach (frequency, type, group) II-4Α,Β F 4.17 Concerns raised by stakeholders and responds (report) II-4Α F C. GRI Indicator Table GRI Report Coverage / GRI Report Coverage/ GRI Report Coverage / Indicator Section Omission Indicator Section Omission Indicator Section Omission ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT EN6 III-2C, IV-1A P Goals and Performance IV-3A,IV-0 F Goals and Performance III-0,12 F EN7 III-2Β,C,D F Policy (commitment) A,IV-0 F Policy (commitment) III-0, III-1A F Water Additional Contextual Organizational EN8 III-5Α F Information (success, Responsibility EN9 III-5Α F shortcomings, risks, (operational structure) II-1A, 2A F opportunities) IV-3A F EN10 III-5A F Training and Awareness III-8C, VI-5A, V-7A F Economic Performance Biodiversity Monitoring and Follow EC1 IV-3A F Up (supply chain, EN11 III-7Α F EC2 III-2, I-1 F certiﬁcations, auditing) II-2B, VI-4A F EN12 III-7Α F EC3 V-3A,B, 6A P Additional Contextual EN13 III-7Α, 9A F Information (success, EN14 III-7Α F EC4 II-2A, VI-1C F shortcomings, risks, Market Presence EN15 III-7Α P opportunities) III-0,9 F EC5 V-3B F Emissions, Eﬄuents, Waste Materials EC6 NR EN16 III-2Α, VII-1 F EN1 ΙΙΙ-3, VII-1 F EC7 V-1A,3B P EN17 III-2Α, VII-1 F EN2 III-3B F Indirect Economic Impacts EN18 III-2 F Energy EC8 IV-3A, IV-6A F EN19 III-4A F EN3 VII-1, III-2 P EC9 IV-3Α F EN20 III-2B P EN4 VII-1, III-2 P EC13 VI-4A,2A,B, III-3F F EN21 III-5A F EN5 III-2 P EN22 III-3, VII-1 F Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 73 GRI Report Coverage/ GRI Report Coverage/ GRI Report Coverage/ Indicator Section Omission Indicator Section Omission Indicator Section Omission EN23 III-5A F Monitoring and Follow PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY EN24 III-3F, G, H, I, J F Up (supply chain, Goals and Performance VI-0,8 F EN25 III-7A,5A F certiﬁcations, auditing) II-2B, VI-4A F Policy (commitment) VI-0, II-1A F Additional Contextual Organizational Products and Services Information (success, EN26 ΙΙΙ-2,3 F Responsibility (most shortcomings, risks, senior position) I-2B F EN27 III-3F P opportunities) V-0,9 F Organisational Risk Training and Awareness VI-5A, V-7A, II-2A F Compliance Assessment II-1A, VI-4A, V-3A, B F Monitoring and Follow EN28 VI-2A, III-8B, VII-1 F Up (supply chain, Transports Impact Assessment II-1A, VI-4A, V-3A, B F certiﬁcations, auditing) II-2B, VI-4A F EN29 III-6Α, II-1B F Investments and Procurement Practices Additional Contextual Overall HR1 VI-4A, V-0 P Information (success, EN30 III-8A M HR2 VI-4A F shortcomings, risks, HR3 VI-1B, II-2B P opportunities) VI-0,8 F LABOUR PRACTICE Goals and Performance Non-discriminations Customer Health and Safety (link to universal HR4 V-3Β F PR1 III-3F, ΙΙΙ-8A-D,VI-4C F standards) V-0,9 F Freedom of Association and Bargaining PR2 VI-3A,B F Policy (commitment, HR5 V-4A, VI-4A F Labelling link to universal PR3 VI-2A, 4C F standards) V-0,3A F Child Labour HR6 V-3A, VI-4A F PR4 VI-2A, 3A F Organizational Responsibility (most Forced and Compulsory Labour PR5 VI-6A, B F senior position) I-2B F HR7 V-3A,VI-4A, ΙΙ-2Α F Marketing Communication Training and Awareness II-2A, V-5C, V-7A F Security Practices PR6 VI-3A F Monitoring and Follow HR8 ΙΙ-2B, VI-4A P PR7 VI-3A, B F Up (supply chain, Indigenous Rights Customer Privacy certiﬁcations, auditing) II-2B, VI-4A F PR8 VI-7A, VI-2A F Additional Contextual HR9 V-3A F Assessment Compliance Information (success, shortcomings, risks, HR10 NR PR9 VII-1 F opportunities) V-0,9 F Remediation TELECOM SUPPLEMENT Equal remuneration for HR11 NR INTERNAL OPERATIONS women and men V-3B F IO1 IV-3A F SOCIETY Employment IO2 IV-6A NR Goals and Performance IV-7,0 F LA1 V-1Α F IO3 III-8, V-2C F Policy (commitment) IV-0, II-1A F LA2 V-1A P Organizational IO4 VI-4C F LA3 V-6A F Responsibility (most IO5 III-8A,B F Labour/Management Relations senior position) II-2A, I-2B F IO6 VI-4C F LA4 V-4 F Training and Awareness II-2B, V-7A F IO7 III-9A P LA5 NR Monitoring and Follow IO8 III-9A F Occupational Health and Safety Up (supply chain, certiﬁcations, auditing) II-2B, VI-4A F PROVIDING ACCESS LA6 II-2Α F Digital Divide Additional Contextual LA7 V-2Α,B F Information (success, PA1 IV-6A F LA8 V-2, III-8E F shortcomings, risks, PA2 IV-2A, III-8A F LA9 V-2A, II-2A F opportunities) IV-0,7 F PA3 VI-6C F Education and Training Community PA4 IV-6A, VI-6A F LA10 V-5C P SO1 IV-2A, B, C, ΙV-3, 4, PA5 VI-3B, IV-2A P LA11 V-5A, B, C P 5, 6, III-8A F PA6 IV-1Γ, 3Α, 3Β F LA12 V-5A F SO9 NR Access to content Diversity and Equal Opportunity SO10 NR PA7 VI-3C F LA13 V-1A, 3B, VI-1A F Corruption Customer relations Equal Remuneration SO2 VI-1A, B, II-2A P PA8 III-8, VI-5A F LA14 V-3B P SO3 II-2B, VI-4A F PA9 III-8A, VI-5A F LA15 ΝR SO4 VI-1 F PA10 VI-3Β F HUMAN RIGHTS Public Policy PA11 VI-3A, VI-5 F Mngt Practice V-0,9 F SO5 II-3A P TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS Policy (commitment, link SO6 VI-1C F TA1 NR to universal standards) V-0,3A F Anti-Competitive Behaviour Organizational TA2 I-1A, IV-1A P SO7 VI-2A, III-8A F Responsibility TA3 IV-3A, 6A NR Compliance (most senior position) I-2B F TA4 ΙV-6A P SO8 VI-2A, III-8B P Training and Awareness II-2A, V-5C, V-7A F TA5 NR Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 74 INFORMATION D. AccountAbility Principles Standard (AA1000 APS) Table Principle Applied Through Report Section Coverage/Omission Inclusivity Identiﬁcation and dialogue with stakeholders for understanding signiﬁcant issues. II-4 F Materiality Identiﬁcation of issues which are important to the company and stakeholders. II-1,2 F Responsiveness Responsiveness to important issues and transparency with regard to our performance. II-5, III-11, IV-7, V-9, VI-8 F Ε. ISO26000 Τable (International Standard) Clause Report Section Coverage/Omission 1.Scope II-1A F 2.Deﬁnitions II-1A F 3.Understanding Social Responsibility II-1A,B F 4.Principles of Social Responsibility II-1A,B F 5.Recognising Social Responsibility & Engaging Stakeholders II-4 F 6.Guidance on Social Responsibility Core Subjects a. Organizational Governance II-2 F b. Human Rights IV, V F c. Labor practices V F d. Environment III F e. Fair operating practices IV-2 F f. Consumer issues VI-3,5,6 F g. Community involvement and development II-4, IV F 7. Guidance on Integrating SR throughout the Organization a. Enhancing Credibility II-2 F b. Communication VI-3,5,6 F 3. Glossary Biodiversity (or Ecosystem): The variety of livCorporate Social Responsibility or Corporate International Commission on Non-Ionizing ing organisms, in a geographical area. Responsibility (CSR, CR): The voluntary comRadiation Protection (ICNIRP): The internamitment of companies to include in their cortional institution which deﬁnes acceptable levels Business Continuity Management (BCM): porate practices economical, social and of non-ionising radiation levels. A management approach, which proactively hanenvironmental criteria and activities, which are Solid waste: Solid by-products of domestic or indles issues a company could face (e.g. disaster, beyond the legislative requirements and are redustrial activities, such as construction. crisis), in order to ensure the continuation of oflated to their impact on Stakeholders. fered services and products. Sustainable Development (Sustainability): Electro Magnetic Field (EMF): The non-ionisTheconceptofaimingateconomicdevelopment, Base Station (BTS): Installations in a region (ining radiation emitted by mobile phones and base without undermining the potential of future gencluding antennas), which are used to transmit stations (used to transmit data and voice). erations, to satisfying their own needs. data or voice, from a mobile through the backWorld Declaration on Human Rights: The bone network and further to another mobile. European Foundation for Quality Managedeclaration voted by the General Assembly of ment (EFQM): A non for proﬁt organisation, Customers / Subscribers: The ﬁnal users of the UN in 1948, deﬁning the worldwide recogbased in Brussels, which promotes Business ExCOSMOTE’s products and services. nised fundamental human rights (ww.un.org). cellence,and within thisframealsoCorporateReCompany: Refers to COSMOTE. sponsibility. EFQM has more than 800 member organisations all over the world, including corporations, public institutions, universities etc. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 75 4. External Assurance A. Audit Statement Independent assurance statement Independent assurance statement by Deloitte Hadjipavlou Soﬁanos & Cambanis S.A. (‘Deloitte’) to the management of COSMOTE Mobile Telecommunications S.A. (‘COSMOTE’) on the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report (‘CR Report’) for the year ended 31 December 2010. Limitations of our review In the event of any inconsistency in the translation between the English and Greek versions of the Report, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the English version prevails. The scope of our work was limited to COSMOTE’s activities in Greece. Our conclusions Based on the scope of our work and the assurance procedures we performed we conclude that: 1. COSMOTE has implemented processes and procedures, as described on page 75, that adhere to the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 (‘AA1000APS’); and 2. Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the speciﬁc CR performance indicators, as deﬁned below, as well as COSMOTE’s self-declaration on page 7, that it has applied the GRI guidelines at level B+ in preparing the Report, are materially misstated. Our observations and recommendations COSMOTE has made the following key improvements in managing and reporting its CR performance during 2010: Improved the process of engaging with the stakeholders by holding a meeting between the CR team and the representatives of COSMOTE’s departments in order to re-assess the identiﬁcation and recognition of stakeholders as well as the signiﬁcant CR issues that concern them. Evaluated its suppliers on the basis of a system which includes CR criteria. Enhanced the cooperation between the CR team and the executives responsible for managing material issues. In order to improve in the future the management and reporting of CR issues in accordance with the AA1000AP Standard, we would make the following recommendations to COSMOTE: Inclusivity: Expanding the scope of the CR Report to the activities of Germanos S.A. would give a more comprehensive picture of the material CR issues of COSMOTE and its subsidiaries. Materiality: The Report presents the CR issues that relate to 2010. In order to provide to the stakeholders a more complete and prompt information, we recommend to also report the signiﬁcant CR events and initiatives that take place aker the period covered by the CR Report. Responsiveness: The CR Report lists a number of short-term targets for each pillar of Corporate Responsibility. Setting long-term CR targets as well as CR targets that cover all the departments that handle signiﬁcant CR issues would assist COSMOTE in enhancing its CR performance. We recommend that the procedures for the preparation and the publication of the CR Report be incorporated in the formal corporate policies and procedures followed by COSMOTE. The above observations and recommendations have been taken into account in forming our conclusions on the CR Report as set out in this statement. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 76 INFORMATION Scope of our work and the assurance standards we used COSMOTE’s Corporate CR team engaged us to: 1. Provide Type 1 limited assurance in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (‘AA1000AS’): Inclusivity how they identiﬁed and engaged with stakeholders to gain a full understanding of issues; Materiality how they assessed the relative importance of each issue; and Responsiveness how they responded to stakeholder issues and how this is reﬂected in the CR Report. 2. Provide limited assurance on the following selected key performance data Total number of accidents and days of absence from work, page 52 Total number of training sessions to climbers on work safety, page 52 Employee turnover, page 50 Proportion of women within COSMOTE in management positions that report to the CEO, page 53 Quantity of recycled Oils and Lubricants (litres), page 31 Quantity of recycled Base Station Batteries (tonnes), page 31 Quantity of recycled Packaging Materials (cardboards and plastic) and nonrecyclable materials directed for disposal (tonnes), page 29 Electricity consumption in Backbone Network, Base Stations, Oﬃces, Shops (GWh), page 26-27 Quantity of recycled Mobile Phones, Accessories & Batteries (kilos), page 30 Number of measurements on EMF conducted by specialized scientiﬁc personnel of COSMOTE and independent institutions, page 35 Percentage of customers which stated “absolute satisfaction” by COSMOTE, page 69 Results of CR survey with regard to social sensitivity, page 21 Customer complaints and percentage of complaints processed in less than two working days, page 69 Number of trainings to employees, page 55 Number of suppliers evaluated in terms of annual purchases in euro, page 66 3. Provide assurance in relation to the GRI self-declaration Whether COSMOTE’s self-declaration on page 7, of a B+ Application Level, with regards to the GRI guidelines is not materially misstated. We carried out Type 1 limited (i.e. moderate) assurance in accordance with AA1000AS. A Type 1 engagement requires us to report on the nature and extent of adherence to AA1000 APS. To achieve moderate-level assurance we have used the criteria in AA1000AS to evaluate adherence to AA1000APS in combination with our robust evidence-based and quality-assured approach to professional, independent assurance. We carried out limited assurance on the selected key performance indicators in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). To achieve limited assurance the ISAE 3000 requires that we review the processes, systems and competencies used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance. This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to that obtained in the review of interim ﬁnancial information. It does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating eﬀectiveness of processes and internal controls. Our key assurance procedures To form our conclusions, we undertook the following procedures: Analysed and tested on a sample basis the processes related to stakeholder identiﬁcation and engagement, including review of a sample of engagements and the outcomes of engagement; Reviewed the process that COSMOTE used to identify and determine material issues to be included within the CR Report. This included a review of external media coverage and peer reporting on CR in 2010 to corroborate issues identiﬁed by COSMOTE; Interviewed a selection of COSMOTE executives and senior management who have operational responsibility for CR issues, including the COSMOTE CR team to understand the governance structures used for managing CR, engagement with stakeholders on CR issues, as well as implementation of CR related policies and initiatives in 2010 and the monitoring of these activities; Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 77 Analysed and reviewed on a sample basis the key structures, systems, processes, procedures and controls relating to the collation, aggregation, validation and reporting processes of the selected CR performance indicators; Reviewed information and explanations about the Reports’ assertions regarding CR performance in 2010; Reviewed COSMOTE’s approach to ensuring application of GRI guidelines, including checking that the GRI conformance index available on pages 72-74, contains the relevant indicators; and Reviewed the content of the CR Report against the ﬁndings of the aforementioned procedures and, as necessary, provided recommendations for improvement. Our independence and competencies in providing assurance to COSMOTE We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies, which address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as independent auditors, and in particular preclude us from taking ﬁnancial, commercial, governance and ownership positions which might aﬀect, or be perceived to aﬀect, our independence and impartiality, and from any involvement in the preparation of the report. We have conﬁrmed to COSMOTE that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year and in particular that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. Our team consisted of a combination of qualiﬁed Accountants with professional assurance qualiﬁcations and professionals with a combination of environmental, CR and stakeholder engagement knowledge, who also have experience in providing CR report assurance. Roles and responsibilities The Corporate Aﬀairs Division of COSMOTE manages all the procedures for the development, implementation and publishing of the annual CR Report, in cooperation with the Company’s business units involved with CR issues, for the intended audience of stakeholders as outlined in section II-4 ‘Stakeholder Engagement’. They are also responsible for determining the CR targets and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived. Our responsibility is to independently express conclusions on the subject matters, as deﬁned within the scope of work above, and in accordance with our letter of engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to COSMOTE those matters we are required to state to them in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than COSMOTE for our work, for this statement, or for the conclusions we have formed. Athens 31 October 2011 Deloitte Hadjipavlou Sofianos & Cambanis S.A. Assurance & Advisory Services Paris Ekhymiades Partner Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 78 INFORMATION B. GRI Statement Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 79 5. Feedback Form You are invited to improve COSMOTE’s Corporate Responsibility Report, by completing this Feedback Form, which is located in our website www.cosmote.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 80 NOTES Notes 81 Notes Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 82 External Consultant (content and data): STREAM Management / www.stream-eu.com Τhis report has been printed on paper, certiﬁed with ECO LABEL by the Ε.U., including 40% recycled paper and 55% FSC Sustainable Wood. 44 Kiﬁsias Ave. 151 25 Marousi, email: csr@cosmote.gr, www.cosmote.gr
