Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report Þehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 Izmir Turkey Tel: +90 (232) 482 22 00 (10 Line) Faks: +90 (232) 484 17 89 483 46 59 www.yasar.com.tr Contents Reporting Approach 2 Energy Efficiency 56 Contents Chairperson's Message 4 Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations 62 Chief Executive Officer's Message 6 and Sector Representatives Yaþar Holding At a Glance 8 Employees 64 Mission and Corporate Values 10 Environmental Consciousness and Principles 78 Corporate Profile Relations with Society 86 Pýnar Dairy 12 Management Systems 94 Pýnar Meat 14 Support to the Development of Sectors Yaþar Holding is Active 96 Pýnar Water 16 Social Contribution Projects 98 YBP 18 Education and our Publications 102 Çamlý Feed 20 Sponsorship and Recognitions 112 Dyo Coatings 22 GRI Index and UNGC Principles 116 Dyo Printing Inks 24 Viking Tissue 26 Altýn Yunus 28 Desa Energy 30 Astron 32 Governance at Yaþar Group Corporate Governance 34 Corporate Reputation Management 36 Risk Management 38 Business Ethics 40 Yaþar Group's Sustainability Approach 42 Energy and Combating with Climate Change 44 Reporting Approach Reporting Approach What is sustainability? In its broadest sense, sustainability means 2010. This year, we decided to adopt a different companies; and the data and information Identification of the Report's Content incorporation of a social and environmental approach in reporting our sustainability efforts gathering process was carried out under the Our report covers the activities and projects that perspective into company activities, along with to our stakeholders. Beginning with this report, management of the Corporate Affairs have been carried out in Turkey during the period a traditional economy-based perspective. we are planning to publish annual sustainability Coordinatorship Department. Besides, GC 01/01/2011 31/12/2011. This year, we have reports. Reporting Team and the Sustainable Development expanded the scope of our report to include Desa This approach, which always has been an integral The UNGC constitutes the backbone of our report, Committee were participated in the process of Enerji Elektrik Üretim A.Þ. Thus, the number of part of our tradition, is being implemented by while taking account of the sustainability reporting the report preparation studies. group companies covered by our report has Yaþar Group more systematically since 2007, followed by reports issued for submittal to our principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Please visit following links to get online access increased from 10 to 11. stakeholders since 2009. What is GRI? to our report in Turkish or English: Besides, the report also includes Yaþar University, The fundamental target of Yaþar Group has always Similar to financial reporting, the fulfilment of www.yasar.com.tr which was founded by the Yaþar Education and been to increase life quality by offering high reliability, coherence, and comparability principles http://www.unglobalcompac Culture Foundation in collaboration with the Selçuk quality, reliable products to achieve For a Better is of high importance in sustainability reporting. t.org/participants/detail/102 Yaþar Sports and Education Foundation. However, Life in all geographies, where we conduct In this sense, the GRI is one of the most significant 28-Yasar-Holding-Cothese foundations have been excluded from the business. guiding mechanisms. The GRI provides a globally data contained in the report in general. The report shared conceptual framework on sustainability. includes the activities thereof, only. Yaþar Holding signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2007 and published Our report has been prepared with the support Communication on Progress reports in 2009 and of all related departments of Yaþar Group Company name: Yaþar Holding A.Þ. Field of business: Food & Beverges, Coatings, Agro Business, Tissue Paper, Services & Trade Number of employees: 6.750 GC member since: 12th November 2007 Address: Þehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 Izmir, Turkey Authorized Person and Position: Dilek EMÝL, Coordinator, Corporate Affairs Contact: Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 E-mail: dilekemil@yasar.com.tr Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 2-3 Chairperson's Message Sustainability... Value Created by Yaþar Heading out for For a Better Life , Yaþar Group's level of life standards will bring along an increased activities are all focused on the creation of value demand for energy, food, and natural resources. for the society, environment, and all stakeholders. The expected result of all these factors is an Yaþar Group increased pressure on environment. Yaþar Group companies meet the needs of companies meet the customers and consumers by an innovative UNGC principles constitute the backbone of our approach, a sense of productivity, and values sustainability report. Because UNGC is an needs of customers created by their contributions to sustainability. important anchor, which has to be included into and consumers by Following the signing of the United Nations Global sustainability agendas so as to keep current vital an innovative issues such as human rights, working conditions, Compact (UNGC) in November 2007, we shared environment, and corruption. But to take one approach, a sense of our 2009 and 2010 Communication on Progress with our esteemed stakeholders. step further at this point, from now on we will productivity, and publish Sustainability Reports instead of Today, we are all well aware of the increasing values created by Communication on Progress, aiming at a more importance of sustainability in our lives. detailed share of both values created by Yaþar their contributions This has been also emphasized in the OECD Group and activities, with which we touch upon to sustainability report Environmental Outlook to 2050 . The society, upon person, as an expression of our report points out four main topics that have to respect paid to the planet on which we live. be included into the agenda of all societies and It is a great pleasure to share our first Sustainability governments: climate change, biodiversity, water, Report, which we generated by an intensive work and impacts of environmental pollution on human in 2011, and to thereby contribute to our country's health. Despite of the recent recession, it is sustainability efforts. estimated that global economy will grow approximately fourfold until 2050. An increased Ýdil Yiðitbaþý Chairperson of the Board of Directors Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 4-5 Chief Executive Officer's Message Sustainability Alignment As Yaþar Group, we have been attaching huge We have initiated our corporate carbon footprint importance to sustainability. We have belief in calculation studies simultaneously with our 10 the added value of sustainability and are carrying companies. We aimed at adopting an integrated Sustainability on our activities in alignment with sustainability. approach by employing one and the same methodology. The aim of establishing carbon alignment Our sustainability studies, which we have begun to report more systematically with the signing of teams and training carbon leaders in our conceptions and the UNGC in 2007 as an integral part of Yaþar companies was to raise awareness beginning activities from an individual level, while turning the carbon Group's tradition, aim at a continuous improvement issue into an integral part of all work processes accompanied by of our environmental, social, and economic performance. Thus, our vision For a Better Life by virtue of aforementioned teams. You may find sustainabilityis to prioritized the person, quality in every sense the results of these studies in our report. oriented and the future in our business. Besides, it also We believe that sustainability alignment communications serves as an efficient, short description of our conceptions and activities accompanied by major priority. This priority plays a key role in sustainability-oriented communications with with stakeholders improving the ways of business, operations, and stakeholders will take Yaþar Group much further. will take Yaþar organizations of Yaþar Group companies. Because sustainability will bring along priceless Group much further Turkey's Ecological Footprint Report published results such as close relations to consumers, on 6th March 2012 identifies the amount of customers, and investors along with concrete resources available to us, along with information results such as decreased operational costs and on by whom such resources are used to which increased productivity. amount, while making an evaluation on the I am very happy to share our sustainability question whether we have a sustainable life as initiatives with you by this report, which we will a country. The report emphasizes that carbon improve year-by-year. emission is the most profound reason of the ecologic limit excess in Turkey. If our country continues its carbon-intensive growth, we won't Dr. Mehmet Aktaþ be able to live within our national biological Chief Executive Officer capacity limits. Turkey's Ecological Footprint Report revealed once again that Yaþar Group is on the right track. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 6-7 Yaþar Holding At a Glance Yaþar Holding At a Glance Founded in 1945, Yaþar Holding's main field of The Food and Beverage and Coatings group activities are Food and Beverage and Coatings conducts business also in Germany by Pýnar Foods among many other consumer goods. GmbH, while HDF FZCO was founded in Dubai Our Food and Beverage group has a wide with the mission to turn Pýnar into a high-quality, product range that is sold under the name Pýnar , reliable regional brand in the Middle East, in a very well-known brand with a high market particular Gulf Countries. share. The brand continues its sector leadership In the Coatings group, Kemipex has been engaging in the field of milk, fresh cheese, charcuterie in the sales, marketing, and distribution of Yaþar's Food & Beverages Coatings Group Tissue Paper Trade & Services Foundations products, and ready-to-serve frozen meat products. Coatings Group products in Russia since 1996. Group Group Group Yaþar's history in the coatings sector roots back Besides, a production facility commenced operations in 2010 at the Russian city of Krasnodar. the most beloved flavors technological leadership environment-friendly superior service a highly to 1927. Today, the company serves its customers the most wholesome strong brands and production, approach responsible under the coatings Dyo with over 1.000 products, Founded in 2003, S.C. Dyo Balkan S.R.L has been 3.500 different packages, and 6.000 different carrying on business in Romania with the products distrubituon network innovative products corporate citizen colour options. countrywide sales of construction coatings and the most advanced Dyo Coatings Viking Tissue Altýn Yunus Yaþar Education Yaþar Group incorporates a total of 20 companies, wood varnishes. technology Dyo Printing Inks Bintur and Culture Foundation whereof 6 companies are quoted on Istanbul Dyo Sipes Mediterranean Trade for Paints Co. Pýnar Dairy Kemipex Joint-stock Co. Yaþar Foreign Trade Selçuk Yaþar Stock Exchange the number of directly employed was founded in 2004 in Egypt as a joint venture (Russia) Pýnar Meat YADEX International Sports and personnel is 6.750, currently. with Sipes group. This cooperation covers the S.C. Dyo Balkan SRL GmbH (Germany) Pýnar Water Education Our products are exported to various countries, production, sale, and marketing of auto refinishes (Romania) Foundation Desa Energy and furniture coatings. Çamlý Feed in particular to Gulf and European Countries in Mediterranean Trade for Astron YBP the Food and Beverage group and to Asian, In 2011 Yaþar Holding booked a gross turnover Paints Co. (MTP Co.) European, and Gulf Countries in the Coatings amounting to nearly TL 3.0 billion. Pýnar Foods GmbH (Egypt) group. (Germany) HDF FZCO (Dubai) Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 8-9 Mission and Corporate Values Mission and Corporate Values Our Consumers and Customers Come First All our business units strive to quickly and accurately identify the needs of our customers. Our approach is to be agile, proactive, and innovative in meeting Mission their ever-changing expectations for a better life. Our mission is to add value to the lives of consumers by providing high quality products and services with reliable brands. Our Operational Excellence Corporate values Our approach to operational excellence includes effective use of technology in all areas, pure lean operational processes, well-defined business systematic, Yaþar Holding's studies for the review of its Our corporate values were launched on 6th fast and data-based decision support systems. Agility is a core competence we Corporate Values commenced in the last quarter November 2010 at a meeting that took place seek in our organization. of 2009 and concluded in early 2010. At search under the participation of Yaþar Group's mid-level conferences, which took place under the and senior managers, followed by a workshop participation of Yaþar Group's top managers, we aiming at a rapid adaptation of our corporate Our People discussed the Group's values that come to the values into life, while facilitating their internalization Under our Science, Unity, Success motto, our people, who are well-trained forefront in the eye of stakeholders, resulting in by all employees. and experienced, who have a high sense of possession and loyalty, who are following 5 major values being starred as our We shared our corporate values with all employees open to science-based developments, who value free exchange of information corporate values . at the traditional establishment anniversary and unity, who embrace participatory management and success-oriented Our Consumers and Customers Come First celebrations of Yaþar Holding and its group culture, are among our most valuable assets. companies. Subsequently, we placed images to Our Operational Excellence public places such as company entrances, dining Our People Our Ethical Stance halls, recreation areas, meeting halls in order to Our Ethical Stance address the employees' visual memory. Everywhere our operations are located; we are respectful to the social, political, and cultural values. Our actions are transparent and in compliance with all Our Environmental and Social Responsibility requirement of law and rules of ethics. We emphasize honesty, open communications and fairness in all our activities. Our Environmental and Social Responsibility In all our operations, we follow an approach that values the environment and nature while contributing towards creating a better future. As a socially responsible company, we continue our long-standing support for education, sports, arts and culture to further improve the quality of life. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 10-11 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pýnar Süt Mamülleri Sanayii A.Þ. (Pýnar Dairy) Founded in Izmir in 1973 as the largest facility Employing cutting-edge technology in the in the Middle East and the most advanced one, production of milk and dairy products making up Pýnar Dairy is deservedly described as the source indispensable components of healthy nutrition of novelties , health , taste and life and as and in their delivery to the consumers, Pýnar such, was quickly embraced by the Turkish people. Dairy optimizes the hard work put in by more Pýnar Dairy rapidly paves the way leading to than 35.000 producers and supports them, thus becoming a global brand with its dairy products contributing to the increase of milk production not only in terms of domestic consumption but in Turkey. also as a product group exported to major To serve this purpose, we have made an expansion countries across the world. Having undersigned investment at the Eskiþehir plant which is amount many firsts since the date started production in of 22.000 m2 at the end of 2011. 1975, Pýnar Dairy takes pride in being the first www.pinar.com.tr brand name to establish healthy dairy products concept in Turkey. the most liked taste the most healthy products the advanced technology Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 12-13 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pýnar Entegre Et ve Un Sanayii A.Þ. (Pýnar Meat) Turkey's first privately owned integrated meat product range according to the consumers' facility, Pýnar Meat presents healthy, reliable and demands, expectations, and needs. Inspected tasty meat and meat products, unwavering from every year by the independent inspection agency its commitment to ensure high quality and hygiene SAI Global, Pýnar Meat proves that it totally ever since its foundation. deserves the trust placed in it by the consumers Pýnar Meat enjoys sustained leadership in its with the top ratings earned. sector thanks to the trust of the consumers www.pinar.com.tr secured by its high quality. Pursuing its R&D and marketing activities centered on the vision of presenting differentiated products to the consumers in targeted countries, Pýnar Meat exports its products to various countries. Pýnar Meat attaches huge importance to food safety and traceability two of today's most significant requirements while renewing its healthy, trusted, tasty meat and meat products Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 14-15 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pýnar Su Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Þ. (Pýnar Water) The first spring water bottled in one-way packaging systems allowing no air inflow. Making use of its produced and introduced to Turkish consumers laboratory facilities, Pýnar Water carries out in 1984 bore the signature of Pýnar Water. physical, chemical and microbiological water tests Sourced from Turkey's natural springs in Madran, at every phase of production from the spring up Gökçeaðaç, and Akçaðaç, Pýnar's Yaþam Pýnarým to the filling stage. Pýnar Water is Turkey's first Natural Mineral Water brings this unique gift of bottled water brand holding a TSE (Turkish nature to its domestic and foreign consumers in Standards Institution) certification and the first its purest, highest quality and most convenient Turkish beverage to have its quality endorsed by form. earning the qualification certificate from the US National Sanitation Foundation (NSF). Having defined its developmentand innovationoriented vision in 1984, Pýnar Water has gained Pýnar Water carries on its operations in compliance place in everybody's life in Turkey by the advantage with highest service quality standards, while to have foreseen the water sector's future at such renewing its product range according to the an early time. Employing the world's most consumers' demands, expectations, and needs. advanced technologies in all of its filling facilities; www.pinarsu.com.tr Pýnar Water constantly follows-up the technologic developments of the sector. The automated water filling operations are carried out in a fully hygienic environment under sterile air and positive pressure conditions, equipped with constant air cleaning Pýnar My Source of life presents 100% of purity and naturality Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 16-17 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Yaþar Birleþik Pazarlama Daðýtým Turizm ve Ticaret A.Þ. (YBP) The domestic sale and distribution of Pýnar products a leading brand of the food sector are carried out by the well-experienced, strong staff of the YBP company. Supported by a large vehicle fleet, each staff member is an expert in its field and adopts a customer-oriented work approach. Over the range of 500 products included into Pýnar's product group sub-categories are transported by YBP to 150.000 sales points. With its customer-oriented staff expert in sales and its 100 well-experienced dealers, YBP continuously improves its broad productivitybased distribution strategy with each passing day. www.pinar.com.tr customer-oriented experienced strong team the wide range of transportation fleet 150.000 points of sale Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 18-19 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Çamlý Yem Besicilik San. ve Tic. A.Þ. (Çamlý Feed) Çamlý Feed was founded in 1983 as a company creation of competitive advantage. Being conscious producing only dairy cattle feed. In time, it became of its responsibilities both for the sector and a leading company with its firsts in the field of society, Çamlý Feed has adopted the principle of agriculture and livestock, and made remarkable carrying out its productions in compliance with contributions to creating a modern and competitive ethical rules, sensitive to environment and animal sector in its 29-year history. welfare. Being conscious of cognitive capital to Today, with its hundred kinds of products that be in the foreground within the information society, reach to final consumers in the areas of feed Çamlý Feed invests in information, education, and production, turkey and cattle breeding, farmed research. Çamlý Feed has devoted itself to the fish and plant nutrition, Çamlý Feed has become agriculture of the country and will continue to an Agriculture, Livestock and Fishery Group taking work for realizing efficient production and its part in each ring of the food chain from farm promoting the market through strong cooperation to table. with farmers, suppliers, enterprises and retail sector. Çamlý Feed aims at developing such products, services, and solutions that will meet the market www.camli.com.tr demand in the fields of agriculture, livestock and fishery, and achieving growth enhanced by the from the farm to the dining table in every part of the food chain Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 20-21 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Coatings Group Dyo Boya Fabrikalarý Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Þ. (Dyo Coatings) Being recognized as a leading company of the a softone colour card comprising 7 colours has coatings sector, Dyo Coatings has a fairly wide been put on the market to meet customer range of products. The products produced by demands on the basis of colour preferences Dyo include construction, marine industrial, and changing in time. furniture coatings and varnishes as well as Drawing on its solid R&D structure, the Business synthetic resins, polyesters, car refinishes, and launched nanotechnology products in the Turkish thermal insulation systems. Dyo Coatings is the market for the first time in the second half of country's single coatings company that makes 2005, and once again proved its traditional productions in all of these sub-sectors. The innovative and spearheading competencies. productions are carried out at two plants located Breaking new ground in the industry with its in Çiðli-Izmir and Dilovasý-Gebze. nanotechnology products, the Company earned The factory in Izmir-Çiðli manufactures furniture a patent with (substantive) examination for its coatings and varnishes, industrial coatings, nanotechnology products from the Turkish Patent specialty coatings, polyesters, synthetic resins, Institute, thereby authoring another first in car refinishes, and marine coatings. The plant nanotechnology, as well as in the industry. ranks among the coatings sector's model plants Nanotechnology products, which the Company by virtue of the advanced technologies and introduced to the market so far, include capacities employed by it. The plant is the largest Nanoipekmat, Nanomat, Nanotex, Nanosön, one in the Turkish coatings sector with an area Nanolacke, Nano Wood Range, and Nano Marine of 67.000 m2. Range. The highly automated factory in Gebze is updated Along with nano-technological coatings, PTFE according to technologic developments and (Teflon) added coatings and coatings produced produces construction coatings and chemicals. by hybrid technology hold a special place in Dyo The plant is established on an area of 65.000 Coatings product range. m2. Dyo Coatings has been the first company having By virtue of a Colour Fountain able to create an R&D Centre in the Turkish coatings sector. over 6 thousand colours, the company is capable www.dyo.com.tr to produce diverse products for indoor/outdoor metal and wooden surfaces. The company operates 220 colour fountain machines and 24 colour houses across the country. Along with colour cards showing the entire colour scale, with Dyo Dream, Act, Become Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 22-23 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Coatings Group Dyo Matbaa Mürekkepleri San. ve Tic. A.Þ. (Dyo Printing Inks)1 Founded in 1968, the company leads the Turkish printing inks market with a market share of nearly 35% and an annual production capacity of 25.000 tonnes. It is the first and single company of the Turkish market that is engaged in the production, marketing, and sale of newspaper magazine inks, sheet offset inks, serigraphy inks, flexo and rotogravure inks, and metal packaging systems. Having a wide range of products, the Dyo Printing Inks company produces printing inks and auxiliary products suitable for each and every printing technique. The company continues its productions at its new factory, which was commissioned in December 2010 at the Organized Industrial Zone of Manisa (MOSB) in an indoor space of 12.000 m2 built on a ground area of 20.000 m2, along with its Colour Production Centre in Istanbul. Thanks to its 35 dealers countrywide and its sales offices located in 4 cities, the company is accessible to each and every typographer, while meeting any individual colour demands of its customers in shortest time by virtue of its new facility and the Colour Production Centre in Istanbul. www.dyo.com.tr (1) Bornova Matbaa Mürekkepleri San. ve Tic. A.Þ changed its company title to Dyo Matbaa Mürekkepleri San. ve Dyo Printing Inks Tic. A.Þ. on the 2nd of January 2012 make true your special demand for colors Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 24-25 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Tissue Paper Group Viking Kaðýt ve Selüloz A.Þ. (Viking Kaðýt) Established in 1969 in Izmir/Aliaða to supply products for the industrial paper sector, Viking Kaðýt ve Selüloz A.Þ. is Turkey's first foreigninvested privately-owned paper mill. The company was incorporated by Yaþar Group in 1982 and is carrying on business in foreign and domestic markets in the field of tissue paper products and semi-finished products since 1996. The company's major strategies include the achievement of sustainable growth and the maintenance of its current market position by offering featured products fitting the preferences of consumers taking strength from its powerful tissue paper brand and distribution channels, while increasing its export share by giving weight to final product sales in foreign markets. www.viking.com.tr healthy life personel hygiene environmental friendly products Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 26-27 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Altýn Yunus Çeþme Turistik Tesisler A.Þ. (Altýn Yunus) Serving the Turkish tourism since 1974 in the Izmir/Çeþme, Altýn Yunus Holiday Village is one of largest facilities in Turkey with its 1080 -bed capacity and 465 rooms in total expanding on an area of 140.000 m2. The facility has spearheaded the Turkish tourism with numerous international organizations hosted, and contributed to the growth and developmet of the sector. The resort welcomes its guests all year round with its marina services and blue flag-holder beach in summertime, and the healing thermal water in wintertime, while the Thalasso therapy pool at the Bio Venus unit addresses health tourism. Besides, a conference room offers the perfect setting for congresses, weddings and seminar organizations, all seasons. www.altinyunus.com.tr a Spa day for all seasons heathy living warm and cheerful hospitality for your organisations Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 28-29 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Desa Enerji Elektrik Üretim A.Þ. (Desa Energy) Founded in 1996 as an auto-producer for Yaþar Group companies, Desa Energy continued to serve the group as an electric generation company in 2011. Desa Energy generates and provides the Yaþar Group Companies with electrical and thermal energy using natural gas at the Pýnarbaþý Power Plant with an installed capacity of 9,8 MW. While meeting the partners' energy requirements, the company also allows for the gain of cost advantages. In line with its growth target, the company makes researches on renewable energy based investment opportunities. Development = Energy Growth Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 30-31 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Yaþar Bilgi Ýþlem ve Ticaret A.Þ. (Astron) YH Information Systems (Yabim)-Astron was In the procurement of services, Astron generates founded in 1983 to execute and manage Yaþar rapid solutions that meet the companies' needs Group's information system functions. Until 1996, to the fullest extent. Its efforts are directed Yabim used to conduct business in the field of towards ensuring that the products generated by hardware and software. it are capable of both reinforcing the business On 1st October 1996, the Astron organization processes and increasing the productivity of group was established to carry out the installation and companies. generalization of SAP R/3 for Yaþar Holding and Acknowledging human resources as the most the companies incorporated by it; and Yabim was important input of service procurements, the included into the body of Astron. organization endeavours to equip said human The Astron organization is the first example in resources with contemporary skills, taking aim Turkey to apply a world-class ERP package. Having at providing high benefits for Yaþar Group as a carried out Turkey's first and most comprehensive whole through the support of team work and SAP Project, Astron paved the road for and shed participation. light on subsequent applications. Compliance with applicable laws, expectations of Astron merged with all group companies' inand out-house stakeholders as well as any information systems in 2001 and became capable regulations, decisions, and policies of Yaþar of meeting all companies' information system Holding and companies incorporated by it requirements. With its structure spread all over constitutes a factor that is taken into consideration Turkey at the present day, Astron renders in each single step. information services both to our country and www.astron.ws foreign locations. Astron in short, continues its services in line with the mission to strengthen Yaþar Group's technologic infrastructure by means of information system technologies, processes, and methods, while contributing to our companies gaining competitive advantage to achieve their targets. efficent technological infrastructure fast solutions Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 32-33 Governance at Yaþar Group Governance at Yaþar Group Corporate Governance Having adopted compliance with applicable laws indication of the Yaþar Group's attitudes towards Detailed information is provided about group of the Committees have been announced in the and legislations, ethical values, transparency, and good management is to be seen in its introduction companies, their principal business activities, and web pages of the companies. Furthermore the fairness as indispensible and uncompromisable of International Financial Reporting Standards their brands on the Yaþar Group's website, from Holding Company has appointed two independent principles of the mission and vision adopted by (IFRS) in all group companies beginning in 2003. which there is also access to Investor Relations members to the boards of the public companies. it from past to present, Yaþar Holding seeks to All executive functions of Yaþar Group are under modules containing further information about Profit distribution and payment policies have been impartially protect the interests of all of its the responsibility of the Yaþar Holding Chief those group companies whose shares are publicly identified for said companies, which we declared subsidiaries, investors, and other stakeholders Executive Officer, who is held accountable for traded. to the public in all transparency. while taking a socially responsible approach as them by the Yaþar Holding Board of Directors. The progress that publicly traded Yaþar Group Investor Relations Units have been established it strives to maximize both customer satisfaction companies make in the area of corporate in Yaþar Group's all public companies. To ensure The Yaþar Holding Board of Directors consists of and shareholder value. Well before the subject governance is publicly disclosed through corporate that all stakeholders, the public, and all other seven members, four of whom are independent of corporate governance principles was on governance principles compliance reports, which beneficiaries are provided with complete, accurate, members. There also exist a Sub-Committee for anyone's agenda in Turkey, Yaþar Holding had are prepared for inclusion in their annual reports and comprehensible information accessible under Auditing and Risk Management and a Subalready begun voluntarily taking steps to develop as required by Turkish capital markets laws and equal conditions as provided for under applicable Committee for Human Resources and Governance, its own best practices on such issues thanks to regulations. In 2011, the Corporate Governance legislation, an availability policy has been both of which report directly to the board. its foresightful understanding of the benefits that Grade Score of Pýnar Dairy was (8,34). Thus, the established on the basis of transparency and good corporate governance promised to provide. It is a fundamental requirement that all Yaþar company began to be traded at the Corporate accuracy, which we declared to the public. employees fully comply with Yaþar Group Rules Governance Index of the Istanbul Stock Exchange. Following the publication of OECD corporate Continuing to work in line with its long-term of Business Ethics, which was published in 2009. governance principles in 1999, Yaþar Holding split Audit Committees and Corporate Governance sustainable growth targets, Yaþar Holding has the duties and accountabilities of the CEO's office At Yaþar Holding, corporate reputation is managed Committees have been established at Yaþar adopted corporate governance principles in all and the board of directors from one another in as a significant value that is formed through long Holding's public companies as provided for under aspects including the protection of shareholders' 2000. In this way, all work processes and years. To that end, Yaþar Holding established a the Turkish Capital Markets legislation in rights, illumination of the public, transparency, responsibilities pertaining to both management Corporate Reputation Committee and five separate conjunction with CMB's corporate governance and any decisions and transactions that are of and organization were clearly set forth in the subcommittees within the scope of the Corporate principles. In addition, the Committees for interest for both the Board and beneficiaries. All Yaþar Group Management Handbook . Reputation Project initiated in 2010. The aim of Candidate Nomination, Early Recognition of Risks activities are carried out in line with said corporate the Corporate Governance and Ethics Committee and Wage Setting are formed in the Committee governance principles. The group-wide structure that was formulated in as one of said subcommittees was to create for Corporate Governance. The working principle this way was subsequently reviewed in light of projects with positive reflections on reputation, Corporate Governance Principles published by to implement such projects, and to share them the Turkish Capital Markets Board (CMB) in 2003 with inand outhouse stakeholders on most and then revised again in 2005 and 2011. Another appropriate platforms. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 34-35 Governance at Yaþar Group Corporate Reputation Management Beginning from the mid 1980's, we realized the An increased awareness and consciousness level a sustainability strategy for Yaþar Group, which strategic need for establishing and maintaining was achieved in terms of in-house reputation enjoyed broad participation from every level. corporate reputation so as to gain competitive management as result of our activities, which we Thus, we identified the priority aspects of advantage. initiated by the establishment of aforementioned environment-oriented sustainability. committees. The sector analysis results of the Turkish Corporate reputation comprises a general assessment of an enterprise in the eyes of The committees carried out benchmark studies Reputation Index are declared to the public by employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, on the functioning of reputation management at RepMan (Reputation Management), which is and the public. The basic point is the reputation diverse companies. Thereby, they got familiar to carried out by GfK Turkey. Reputation is an results from perceptions. different structures and developed projects indicator of and enterprise's admiration and appropriate for our Group. reliance in the eyes of different stakeholders. At Yaþar Holding, corporate reputation is managed Yaþar Group is well-aware that employees In this sense, it means much more than mere as a significant value that is formed through long constitute the fundaments of any corporate admiration. In the assessment of reputation, years. To that end, Yaþar Holding established a following main topics are dealt with: The RepMan Reputation Research Centre declared Corporate Reputation Committee and five separate reputation process. Internal communication plays Turkey's most reputable sectors and companies. subcommittees within the scope of the Corporate an important role in the employees' participation • Recognition According to the research that was carried out Reputation Project initiated in 2010: in the corporate reputation process. Therefore, • Properties relating to governance by Gfk Turkey in 7 geographic regions covering the Committees of Corporate Communication and • Corporate Communication • Properties relating to product and service 15 provinces among 14.176 people including 929 Corporate Values organized meetings with broad • Sustainable Development quality opinion leaders, Pýnar ranked among Turkey's participation in order to ensure an active process top 10 most reputable companies. • Social Responsibility inclusion of our employees. • Properties relating to employees Revealing the outcome of our Corporate • Corporate Governance and Ethics The Sustainable Development Committee • Financial stability Reputation studies, this success has been a source established under the Corporate Reputation • Social responsibilities • Corporate Values of motivation for us and accelerated our studies. Committee organized many workshops to form • Emotional loyalty Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 36-37 Governance at Yaþar Group Risk Management Corporations have to identify, measure, and • Assessment of already present controls to manage risks so that they can achieve their goal avoid any risks the cause and results of which of sustainable growth , because under the are known, conditions of the present day, it does not suffice • Implementing an efficient, permanent risk to focus on financial risks in a classical management and monitoring process by understanding of risk management. In particular, designing new and efficient controls. operational and strategic risks are at least as Thus, we will ensure that our companies gain important as financial risks in corporations that competitive advantage over their competitors, incorporate different sectors and different ways that our companies reassure their shareholders of business. of a better protection and improvement of Understanding of Risk Management company assets, and gain a higher level of selfA Corporate Risk Management , a systematic confidence in seizing opportunities by a clearer process that defines, analyses, controls, and view to risks. monitors risks, is implemented at companies On the other hand, our group companies have • Suggestion of proposals towards the prevent and fight against corruption. The incorporated by Yaþar Holding. This method is been carrying out internal audit activities at improvement of corporate activities in terms employees of all companies incorporated by Yaþar capable of minimizing the impact of unexpected regular intervals. These audit activities bring along of performance efficiency and productivity. Holding have committed themselves to work in negative resulting incidents on costs and company a systematic and well-disciplined approach aiming Fight Against Corruption line with Yaþar Group Rules of Business Ethics assets. at the assessment and improvement of the Handbook. In our capacity as Yaþar Group, we All Yaþar Group companies fight against all follow up and support the government's Strategy Our companies' studies towards risk management efficiency level of risk management and control corruptions of any type including without limitation for Increasing Transparency and Strengthening serve following purposes: processes, and thereby lends assistance for group bribery and exaction, and supports the United the Struggle Against Corruption and any activities companies in achieving their targets. • Analysing all companies' fields of activity, Nations Declaration against Corruption and Bribery related to it. business units, and profit centres and identifying The efficiency assessment of the corporation's in International Commercial Transactions to any existing risks, existing risk management and control processes serves following purposes: • Establishing a risk management structure for a systematic and permanent process, • Assessment whether these processes are structured and operated in such way that will • Providing and maintaining a clear definition ensure the achievement of the corporation's for duties and responsibilities, goals and targets, Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 38-39 Governance at Yaþar Group Business Ethics Everywhere our operations are located; Yaþar • Obeying legal rules on competition, competing Any issue considered to be incongruent to Yaþar Group companies are respectful to social, political, with competitors in such a way that does not Group's Rules of business ethics rules can be and cultural values. Our actions are transparent and will not cause any disorder of market notified by all employees to the Ethics Committee and in compliance with a legal requirements and conditions by e-mail, letter post, or phone call. The Ethics rules of ethics. In this context, we prepared the • Attaching importance to customer satisfaction, Committee consists of five members that are Yaþar Group Rules of Business Ethics Handbook adopting a sensitive and honest attitude selected by Yaþar Holding's Board of Directors: in 2009 and declared said guidelines to all towards customers and consumers a chairman selected among the independent employees. In 2010, we printed the guidelines members of Yaþar Holding's Board of Directors, in the form of a guideline manual and handed • Paying utmost attention to the proper one person (holding the position of manager or over a copy thereof to each employee. Besides, preparation of, keeping confident, and higher) each for the Food and Beverage Group, the manual is also utilized during orientation abstaining from taking advantage of any Coatings Group, and Yaþar Holding, and a trainings for new personnel. Yaþar Group's business company information, assets, and records Secretary General. ethics rules are divided into eight groups: • Protecting the society's benefits and being According to the functioning of the Ethics • Working in a safe environment, abstaining respectful to the environment in all of our Committee as defined in the Guidelines, any issue from discrimination of any kind and paying activities carried out by us, as employees of referred to the Ethics Committee has to be solved respect to each others' personal rights Yaþar within one week at the latest. • Using company resources in an efficient • Adopting a lifestyle not only at work, but The number of issues referred to the Ethics manner also in our business lives outside of the Committee was one in 2009, seven in 2010, and workplace, that will not create any negative two in 2011. All issues that have been referred • Avoiding any conflicts of interest opinion against the company and will not to the Ethics Committee ever since 2009 have contradict the rules of the society we live in been successfully solved after necessary investigations. Yaþar Group Rules of The low number of issues referred to the Ethics Business Ethics Handbook Committee can be interpreted in two ways: either the employees are not familiar enough to the handed over a copy thereof committee and/or there are concerns about the to each employee. confidentiality of issues referred to the committee. A process review and the re-information of employees by means of trainings based on elearning are among our topical issues. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 40-41 Yaþar Group's Sustainability Approach Yaþar Group's Sustainability Approach Heading out for For a Better Life , Yaþar Group's With its economic, social, and environmental Existing efforts have to be handled in a more aim is to add value to the lives of consumers by aspects, sustainability has three dimensions. Yaþar systematic way so that balance can be established providing high-quality products and services with Group addresses the term of sustainability in all between economy, environment, and social life. reliable brands. of its three dimensions, and we set our strategies Yaþar Holding's target is to display an integrated and targets accordingly. approach by including social and environmental The finest definition of sustainability is not to factors into both its decision making processes Our studies to take this jeopardize the needs of future generations when As a Group, that played an active role in Turkey's meeting the needs of today. Of course, industrialization process, we try to focus our and operations, in addition to economic factors. sustainability journey environmental protection and improvement is not activities on sustainability. To that end, we have Yaþar Group's sustainability studies are oriented together with all our the single criterion of sustainability. While carrying been improving the sectors, in which we conduct by the Yaþar Holding Sustainable Development stakeholders and especially on their activities in line with profitability and business, accompanied by an improvement of Committee . The Committee will continue to focus productivity principles, companies should make our operations, compliance with corporate and on ways to map its role in making the sustainability our suppliers continue at efforts to contribute to the society they live in. ethical values, and implementation of a best with its 3 dimensions economic, social and high speed, enhanced by In other words, a company's activities have to management approach in line with Corporate environmental an integral part of business reinforcing our existing touch upon person. Governance principles. process. communication channels. Yaþar Group's Corporate Values are in parallel Our Group defined 5 priorities in terms of with its sustainability targets to the fullest extent. sustainability: While continuing our growth, our purpose is to • Energy and Combating with Climate Change minimize our negative impact on environment; to establish a close collaboration with local • Water and Waste Water communities everywhere we conduct business; • Used Materials and Waste and to achieve an increased level of internal • Health and Safety communication with our employees by ensuring that our Group companies are well-informed • Community Contribution about each others' activities along with a more Energy and Combating with Climate Change is efficient participation of all employees in the most important one of these 5 priorities. communication networks. Our studies to take this sustainability journey together with all our stakeholders and especially our suppliers continue at high speed, enhanced by reinforcing our existing communication channels. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 42-43 Energy and Combating with Climate Change Energy and Combating with Climate Change Climate change is defined as according to the IEA 2010 concentration in the atmosphere The General Directorate of the biggest problem confronted energy projections. The has to be fixed at 350 ppm Meteorology declared that it by man. Scientists agree that assessments of the (parts per million) in order to has completed the Turkey climate change is the result of Intergovernmental Panel on avoid the irrecoverable impacts Climate Change Scenarios increased greenhouse gas Climate Change (IPCC) put forth of climate change and to keep Project and that a temperature increase of 1,5 emissions caused by human that our planet will continue to the average temperature degrees is expected in the activities to a substantial part. experience the impacts of increase at 2 degrees (IPCC, region for a period of 50-100 According to data obtained by climate change for centuries 4th Assessment Report). The years as of 2012. the International Energy Agency even if we managed to achieve countries, which came together (IEA, C02 Highlights, 2011), greenhouse gas stabilization in in December 2011 at the United The apparent temperature of the approximately 65% of global the atmosphere right today. In Nations Climate Change Mediterranean and Aegean region will increase by 4-5 degrees. greenhouse gas emissions are the light of recent climate Conference in Dubai, were of Turkey's average temperatures caused by the energy sector, change projections, scientists one mind about that. The have been on the rise since 1994. where coal, petrol, and natural have been pointing out that the decision taken at the conference The hottest year was 2010 with gas finds intensive use. Similarly, irrecoverable impacts of climate to sign a convention in 2015, an increase of 2 degrees. The the global electric demand will change will drive the world to which will be legally binding on number of summer days, tropical experience an increase of ¾ by disaster if the current developed and developing hot nights, and hot days has 2035 compared to the present greenhouse gas concentration countries, has been a strong increased, while a decrease is day, and the use of fossil fuel continues as is. According to signal for a shift to law-carbon observed in the number of frosty will continue to be widespread, recent scenarios, the CO2 practices by the business world. days, cold nights and days, along with an increase in minimum temperatures. A relation can be observed between temperature changes and the number of meteorological disaster. According to a detailed projection, no significant temperature change is expected in near future (1,5 degrees). But the pessimistic scenario expects a temperature change of 4-6 degrees for the period 2071-2099, while a temperature change of 2-4 degrees is foreseen by an optimistic scenario for the same period. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 44-45 Energy and Combating with Climate Change Actions Taken by Yaþar Group Carbon Leaders Trainings The business world gradually comes to the impacts of climate change on all living creatures We have designated Carbon Leader in order to Around 150 staff members under-went face to forefront as an integral part of climate change on earth as well as the resulting risks, to which strengthen carbon management on holding and face training in the ISO 14064 and Energy adaptation and greenhouse gas reduction studies, our economic activities are exposed. Therefore, companies' level and to achieve an increased Management Systems. which are being carried out both on scientific and Yaþar Group has initiated actions to manage the ownership in greenhouse gas reduction studies. ISO 14064 Training; politic level. Being active in many sectors reaching greenhouse gases caused by its own activities These leaders are provided with all necessary from agriculture to food, from tourism to tissue and to identify climate change risks. trainings and it is ensured that they take active The training purpose is to get informed about paper, Yaþar Group is well-aware of the potential part in carbon footprint studies. These leaders the general structure of standards applicable to are at the same time also member to the the calculation and reporting of greenhouse gas Sustainable Development Committee , a emissions, requirements of ISO 14064-1, Carbon Footprint Study subcommittee of the Corporate Reputation methodologies and sources that can be applied Committee . Our aim is to establish full integration to calculate emissions on corporate level. between carbon management studies and Energy Management Systems Training; Heading out by the principle it is impossible to In the study, which will be reported according to sustainable energy management studies carried The training purpose is to get informed on the manage what you cannot measure , Yaþar Group ISO 14064-1 Specification with guidance at the out by the Energy Committee, to draw highest development of a corporate energy policy, has initiated carbon footprint calculation studies organization level for quantification and reporting benefits from this synergy. establishment of targets and processes to fulfil on corporate level for its brands that come to the of greenhouse gas emissions and removals , the forefront in our daily lives. These companies have companies' emissions will be calculated to include the requirements of said energy policy, been determined as Pýnar Dairy, Pýnar Meat, Pýnar Scope 1² and Scope 2³ emissions. Within the performance measurements, improvements, and Water, YBP, Viking Tissue, Dyo Coatings ve Dyo scope of the study, we have completed our site compliance with applicable standards. Printing Inks, Altýn Yunus, Çamlý Feed and Desa visits, but the data gathering process continues. Energy. The studies carried out on the basis of Data obtained from emission sources that have the aforementioned 10 companies revealed the been identified by a Control approach will be carbon footprints of these companies, along with gathered on holding level, followed by a hot carbon spots that cause carbon emissions consolidation at the headquarters. This year and at most. The carbon map, which will be formed in coming years, we will develop a greenhouse according to the results of calculations and gas inventory management quality management analyses, will show the carbon intensive areas system on holding and company levels in order that have to be addressed with priority and will to ensure the accuracy, completeness, compliance guide the studies, which can be carried out to with our targets and applicable standards, achieve reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. transparency, and coherence of data. (2) Scope 1 emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions arising out of sources controlled or owned by a corporation. (3) Scope 2 emissions: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions caused by purchased thermal energy, electrical energy or steam. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 46-47 Energy and Combating with Climate Change Improvement-oriented Studies According to data published by the International also included the disposition of renewable energies Energy Agency (C02 Highlights, 2011), electricity and other resources. We are well-aware that and heating are responsible for 41% of global studies that have been or will be carried out by greenhouse gases, followed by transportation companies within the scope of Energy and industry with a share of 23% and 20%, Management and Carbon Footprint studies will respectively. make valuable contributions to increase our On holding level, high priority is attached to the competitiveness and reputation. Therefore, it is Total Energy Consumption same fields with respect to studies aiming at a for sure that our initiatives and practices in this Gigajoule more efficient use of energy, improvement of respect will continue in coming years. costs, and reduction of greenhouse gases. Following chart shows the total energy Direct energy consumption according to primary energy source 2.524.523 Up to the present day, Yaþar Group has carried consumptions of aforementioned 10 companies Indirect energy consumption according to primary energy source 498.314 out many improvement-oriented studies. These according to the raw data gathered within the studies were not limited to energy efficiency, but scope of the carbon footprint study: Within the scope of energy utilization reduction Along with operational cost improvements, we and improvement studies, we have been have been carrying out big budget austerity organizing Operational Cost Improvement projects within the scope of Lean 6 Sigma contests and have been providing financial support Programs, accompanied by projects implemented for selected projects in order to increase and in collaboration with our supply chain if necessary. promote efficiency competitions among companies and to spread good practices to other companies. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 48-49 Energy and Combating with Climate Change Carbon Reduction Projects Company OCI Project Emission Company Lean 6 Sigma and Company Projects Emission Reduction Reduction (TON CO2) (TON CO2) Altýn Yunus Use of solar energy at beach facilities 3 Pýnar Dairy Installation of a conveyor on the Tetrapak line 36 Çamlý Feed Energy conservation by turning lightings into time-lightings or 16 Viking Tissue Shorter forklift transportation distance by displacing the goods 2 photocell lightings where appropriate receiving and storage yards of grey chipboard Dyo Printing Shorter grinding times for newspaper inks 25 Food Group Food Group transportation project* 202,5 Inks Companies Dyo Coatings Savings in the lighting of factory grounds 20 Pýnar Dairy Milk box optimization 240 Pýnar Meat Improvement of the DAF system 2 Pýnar Meat Energy savings through reduction of cooking time 12 Pýnar Water Energy savings by the insertion of frequency invertors 262 Total reduction Lean 6 Sigma and Company Projects 492,5 Pýnar Water Prevention of air leakages and lighting-related savings 135 (*) Collective project of YBP and Astron Pýnar Water Energy savings by the improvement of air compressors 568 Pýnar Dairy Economizer improvement 382 We reduced CO2 emissions by 4.720,5 Pýnar Dairy Revision of the YBP building's cooling system 40 Pýnar Dairy Natural gas savings by revision of natural gas pressure reduction 1.822 station Pýnar Dairy Energy savings by the installation of a reverse osmosis device 241 Viking Tissue Decreased Energy Costs for Cellulose Pulp Preparation Viking Tissue Energy Savings by insertion of an invertor to natural gas boiler fans 306 60 tonnes through Viking Tissue Increased Boiler Efficiency by reducing the stack gas oxygen amount and saving potential 346 our carbon reduction projects Total reductionOCI 4.228 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 50-51 Energy and Combating with Climate Change Sample Implementations Pýnar Water Transportation Project DYO Printing Inks Manisa Plant Pýnar Food Group Transportation Project Measures have been taken to ensure that goods Having conducted business under the title With regard to the long distance and urban products of the durable group. Thereby, the cover shorter distances compared to 2008 by Bornova Printing Inks until 2011, Dyo Printing transport process of Food Group companies, the distance covered by each 1 ton of products in sale of goods at regions close to factory locations. Inks moved from its long-lasting Bornova SCM (Supply Chain Management) and APO the process of long distance land transport (Advanced Planner and Optimizer) modules of accrued as 26,68 km in 2011. This saving of facilities at the end of 2010 to its new plant in the ERP system (Enterprise Resource Planning), 1,29 km for each 1 ton of the Food Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 the organized industrial zone of Manisa. The also referred to as SAP, were integrated into companies' product transports achieved in 2011 km per ton 23,52 21,98 22,1 19,75 new plant was designed by an engineer team, logistic processes in 2010. compared to 2010 lead to an overall reduction which has been employed at Bornova Printing of approximately 787.000 km in all transport Inks for many years. The applications carried Thanks to this project, we have been able to In 2011, transport distances were shortened by types of Food Group companies. out at this new plant are as follows: transport our products with minimum kilometers, 2,35 for each ton of goods compared to the yet maximum tonnages with respect to long Besides, the urban transport SAP SCM (Supply previous year. • Optimization of on-site vehicle routes distance transport processes and, in particular, Chain Management) module, which was • Exterior and pipe insulations as well as commenced in 2011, aimed at the optimization With regard to lorries and trucks used for product frigorific transports. To express it in figures, insulation of any necessary indoor units of appropriate vehicle types, minimum km, transports, trucks held a share of 40,2%. In 2011, 1 ton of products used to be distributed with maximum customer number, maximum tonnage, this percentage increased to 49,4%. Thus, a • Daylight lighting 30, 12 km in 2009. In contrast, the same amount load factor, and cost. Our target is to extend higher amount of goods were transported by • Location of offices at the southern side was distributed with 27,97 km in 2010. the urban transport project to all regions, the lower amount vehicles thanks to an increased In addition to aforementioned project, the use of truck-type vehicles: • Horizontal and vertical adjacent location distributions of which are carried out by YBP. of rooms with heating requirements Optimized Transport Point Application was Our plan is to achieve the fulfilment of this • One truck of products corresponds to implemented to identify the service regions of • Roof insulation paint target by 2012. approximately 1,7 lorries, specific transport points. As result, each factory • Use of steam generator began to serve a certain region with respect to • The increase of 9,2% corresponds to 1.936 truck transports. For the same amount, 3.291 lorries would have been necessary. Thus, the Sustainability applications number of utilized vehicles was reduced by 1.355. are carried out at our new plants and units at a highest level possible. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 52-53 Our Aim is to reduce the average carbon emissions per production unit by until 2020 Altýn Yunus: CO2/accommodation Desa Energy: CO2/MWh YBP: CO2/ton transported Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 54-55 Energy Efficiency Energy Efficiency Çamlý Feed Dyo Coatings and 5,80% in natural gas and electricity Measures taken to achieve reduction in the • Motor substitution program; substitution of • Shift from fuel oil to natural gas at our consumptions, respectively. electricity consumed at production plants: old low-performance motors with high enterprise located in Gebze-Dilovasý and • Some examples of reduce the amount of • Insertion of frequency inverter systems, performance motors: In 2001, 5% of all existing Istanbul electricity consumption that we have taken which bring along an energy consumption motors were renewed within the scope of this • Process change and use of raw material within the scope of environmental management decreased by 25%, into electric motors of action. (slurry): 16.000 kg products were obtained programs: high-pressure compressors with highest energy • Decreased use of production lines with low instead of 4.500 kg despite of an increase in • Partial renewal of compressor oil cooling consumption (256 kWh) energy efficiency by means of line planning productions of 26% compared to 2010, the systems and condensers at industrial cooling • Insertion of speed control systems into the activities; prioritization of high efficiency lines: energy consumption per unit production plants electric motors of bottle and package conveyors Energy savings of 25% in unit electricity decreased by 0.004 kWh/ton. • Savings in the electricity consumption of • More detailed electrical line measurement, consumptions. • Additional automations in the reactor heating pump and fan motors by an extended use cleaning, and maintenance in schedule systems at our enterprise in Çiðli, Izmir: The of frequency controlled devices maintenance programs Subject of energy savings Energy kWh results will reveal in 2012. • Insertion of Scada systems into a certain • Timely use of power and power pricing at saved • Improvement of water for use in steam part of energy monitoring systems and multi-time tariffs at our Madran, Gökçeaðaç, Use of a variable speed cooling 47.150 boilers: The results will reveal in 2012. response to malfunctions in the shortest and Akçaaðaç plants, resulting in a decrease system time possible of our energy consumption from 34 kWh/ton Pýnar Meat Heat generation by waste water 48.500 • Use of cold environments for the to approximately 29kWh/ton • In 2011, our overall natural consumption of Use of a variable speed 77.900 procurement of suction air for air • Improved efficiency of high-pressure air and the entire factory has been 4.513.938 Sm3, compressor accompanied by a energy consumption of compressors cooling compressors consuming high electricity Optimized production / line load 45.235 29.922.346 kWh. • Measurements by thermal cameras and by means of lean 6 sigma projects balancing • Improvements in our factory's production insulations at locations, where losses• Follow-up and reporting of both all parameters processes by implemented projects brought leakages are observed, by means of that might have an influence on product quality along decreased energy consumptions per one monitoring activities that cover energy using and all consumables such as output, line ton of products in 2011 compared to the areas to 85% efficiency, production losses, electricity previous year. This decrease accrued as 16,10% Pýnar Water generation, water consumption, packaging material on momentary, hourly, daily or monthly Consolidated line efficiencies of all factories basis at any desirable time 72.96% in 2007 • Reduction of labour and electricity 78.34% in 2008 consumption costs by 50% by reduplicated 81,1% in 2009 line efficiency as result of revisions carried out at the filling and capping machine utilized for 79,38% in 2010 glass bottle productions 78% in 2011 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 56-57 Energy Efficiency Altýn Yunus • Electricity consumption decreased by 1.588 • Commencement of a geothermal plant with • Modernization of the cold chambers' central • Economizer applications in steam boilers and hours, accompanied by an electricity saving a capacity of 850.000 kcal/h for hot water cooling system, accompanied by the improvements in burner firing systems, resulting of 8.734 kWh as result of a substitution of generation purposes, which will result in 60.000 employment of high-efficiency motor classes in electricity savings up to 15% pumps, which had been in use in the air kg LNG savings as planned and alternative cooling technologies that contain • Instant follow up and record of stack gas pressure tank system since 1997, with pumps Viking Tissue hydro-fluorocarbon (HFC) causing less damage oxygen and carbon monoxide rates, resulting of higher efficiency to the ozone layer in a higher amount of energy generation To achieve reduced energy consumption • Employment of a plated exchanger system • Use of low energy consuming armatures and keeping combustion efficiency at high levels • A voluntary project has been initiated to lamps in lighting systems to heat the thalassic pool while decreasing • Inverters have been implemented to the decrease energy density in collaboration with thermal water heat from 53 to 40 degrees, • Use of appropriate measuring devices to electric motors of the Pýnar Dairy factory in the Electrical Power Resources Survey and resulting in a saving of 10.000 USD/year LNG measure units' steam, water, and electriciy Eskiþehir. Currently, the substitution of existing Development Administration (EÝE) corresponding to 15.000 kg/year. consumptions within the scope of power electric motors with high-efficiency IE3 class • As result of this project, we plan to reduce consumption follow-up studies covering the motors continues. • Fuel oil saving of 10.000 kg/month during energy density by 11% in 2010-2012 compared entire plant summer months by means of a heat recovery • In terms of new production line investments, to 2009 and before exchanger through the use of flash steam heat • Shift to glycol-containing cooling systems at we will continue to invest in high energy of steam return water Pýnar Dairy our factory in Eskiþehir, which will result in an efficient packaging machines that employ new • Employment of a solar power system to meet Projects for reduced energy consumption: electricity saving up to 12% as planned generation technologies. the hot water requirement of electricity-heated • Use of insulation mats for the insulation of guest rooms and personnel housings, resulting hot steam boiler surfaces at our factory in in an electricity saving of 35.00 kWh/year Izmir • Elimination of the need for sea water and • Use of valve jackets for the insulation of well water treatments thanks to drinking water steam valves and equipments quality achieved by a Reverse Osmosis Electricity saving Steam saving • Insertion of a frequency convertor into steam % 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 investment boiler fan motors Ýzmir -0,46 2,75 -5,50 -10,97 -10,00 12,50 3,30 -12,69 Eskiþehir 5,38 -4,06 0,50 1,97 11,00 7,32 0,00 6,30 Positive data indicate reductions, negative data indicate increases. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 58-59 Energy Efficiency Dyo Printing Inks Astron Projects carried out to achieve lower energy In line with our target to achieve a more • Server virtualization studies have brought consumption at the new factory established in environment-friendly information technologies along an energy saving of USD 143.051 in the Organized Industrial Zone of Manisa: sector, Astron has included serious measures into 2011. This corresponds to 836.492 kg carbon its annual activity plans. emission and 4.153 planted trees. • Use of frequency-controlled speed adjustment systems in the majority of large high power The company has been taking actions to reduce • As of 2012, the company has begun to prefer engines the energy consumed by servers, clients, and LED monitors, which consume less electricity auxiliary units (printers, scanners etc.) by each up to 30%, in its new monitor purchases so • Use of natural lighting systems aiming at a year. as to continue its energy saving actions. higher benefit from sun light in the plants as well as in administrative offices; as result, the • During the purchase of any and all data • Extended use of central multi-function devices consumed electrical energy of 0,30 kWh/kg in processing equipments, high priority is attached that include functions such as photocopier, 2010 was has been decreased to 0,24 kWh/kg to Energy Star properties. scanner, and printer. Thus personal printers in 2011 and scanners have been eliminated, resulting • Thin client and LCD monitor substitutions in energy saving up to 30%. • As result of an efficient insulation of the new have brought along energy savings up to 70% factory building, heating costs by fuel oil in client services during the period 2008-2011. amounted to 249.000 TL in 2010 compared to heating costs by natural gas amounting to 152.000 TL in 2011 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 60-61 Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations and Sector Representatives Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations and Sector Representatives Mandatory Memberships Voluntary Memberships Chambers, exchanges, and unions membership Exchanges, And The Turkish Union Of Chambers to which is legally mandatory, have been identified And Commodity Exchanges nr. 5174. Association of Packaging Manufacturers Association of Cuisine Amicable on grounds of the Law On Chambers, Commodity Packaged Water Manufacturers Association Organic Product Producers and Industrialists American Turkish Council Association Mandatory Memberships Association of Infant Food Manufacturers Association of Advertisers Poultry Meat Producers And Breeders Association Healthy Turkey Platform Aliaða Chamber of Commerce Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters' Union Bornova Association of Farmer Assets Pulp and Paper Industry Foundation Ankara Commodity Exchange Istanbul Chamber of Industry Turkish African Business Councils Foreign The Turkish Paint Manufacturers Association Antalya Commodity Exchange Istanbul Commodity Exchange Çeþme Tourism Hoteliers Association Economic Relations Board Antalya Chamber of Commerce and Industry Izmir Commodity Exchange Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Turkish Industry & Bussiness Association Recovery And Recycling Trust Turkish Middle Eastern Business Councils Turkish Chamber of Shipping Izmir Chamber of Commerce Turkish Marine Environment Protectýon Association Foreign Economic Relations Board Aegean Region Chamber of Industry Kocaeli Chamber of Industry Turkish Veterinary Medical Assosiation Aegean Industrialists' and Businessmen's Aegean Exporter Unions Manisa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Association Foundation For Environmental Education Eskýþehir Chamber of Industry Central Anatolian Exporters Union Aegean Tourist Business and Accommodation Cattle Breeders' Association of Turkey Eskýþehir Chamber of Commerce Association of Turkish Chambers of Commerce, Association Turkish Food And Beverage Industry And Industry, Maritime Trade and Commodity Ethics and Reputatýon Society Employers Association Gebze Chamber of Commerce Exchanges Turkish Food Safety Association Turkish Quality Association Association of Thermal Insulation, Waterproofing, The Chemicals, Petroleum, Rubber and Plastics Sound Insulation and Fireproofing Material Industry Employers' Association of Turkey Voluntary Memberships Producers, Suppliers and Applicators Corporate Governance Association of Turkey Foundation of Economic Researches Turkish People Management Association Membership to occupational organizations such is also member to many other associations. With Izmir Association of Businessmen Union of Dairy, Beef, Food Industrialists and as business councils, products councils and these voluntary memberships, we have been Producers of Turkey Izmir Union of Aquaculture and Fishery associations are becoming more influential issue aiming at promoting sectoral developments and Turkish Feed Manufacturers' Association The Valley of Kagithane Ayazaða Urban since the participation of professional associations gaining the ability to act in parallel with global Development Association National Red Meat Council into the governmental decision making process developments. Turkish Spas Thalasso and Health Resorts National Milk Board has been deemed very vital. Having forecasted The activities of associations contribute also to Association Manisa Organized Industrial Zone Industrialists' these developments at an early time, Yaþar Group the development of a common business culture Fruit Juice Industry Association Association has been the founding member of many and our Group attaches huge importance to such International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Investor Relations Association associations for many years. Besides, the Group activities with regards to its efforts to emphasize sectors' long-term requirements over companies' Occupational Chamber Memberships short-term choices. Chamber Of Electrical Engineers Chamber Of Food Engineers Chamber Of Agrucultural Engineers Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 62-63 Employees Employees Understanding of Human Rights Human Resources Policy Labour and Labour Force Heading out for training right people for the such as knowledge, skills, and experience right job , our human resources strategy is to required by a certain position. At the stage of recruit the market's most skilled, qualified, creative, assessment, competency-based interview and innovative labour force with highest motivation techniques are applied. Applicants are provided and performance by means of fair human with equal opportunities without any resources policies and practices capable to win discrimination in gender, race, age, or marital the personnel's mind and heart, while ensuring status. the continuance of already recruited skilled Upon recruitment, our personnel are provided personnel by improving their skills and enhancing with information on Company Personnel their loyalty. Regulations. These Personnel Regulations Recruitment regulate the working conditions, rights, duties, In recruitments, Yaþar Group applied recruitment and responsibilities of recruited personnel as procedures that comply with the Turkish Labour well as applicable personnel policies and Law (4857) in conjunction with Yaþar Holding's principles. Personnel Regulations. In our recruitment In 2011, Yaþar Holding acting on behalf of Yaþar processes, we make our assessments according Group companies was awarded as Company to Yaþar Group Competencies along with criteria with the highest number of job applications by Kariyer.net. This award is granted according to various criteria as an indicator of the importance attached to human resources. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 64-65 Employees Wage Setting increased productions. Overtime work is subject Employee Opinion Poll In-house dinner organization Wage settings or changes are carried out according to legal provisions and overtime pay is determined Aiming at the principle people come first , Yaþar Holiday draw to class of position, individual experience, as stipulated by applicable laws. Group has been carrying out an annual Employee Picnic education, location, command of foreign language, Upon recruitment, our personnel are provided Opinion Poll since 1998, to take the employee's precedent positions, in consideration of criteria with information on their job definition, followed opinion and to measure their loyalty to the Cinema theatre organization such as higher and lower position assessments, by an interdepartmental orientation. Updated company. On grounds of Employee Opinion Poll's Birthday parties and gift draws positions reported by personnel, performance documents relating to job definitions are shared results, action committees consisting of employees Weekend trips scores/premiums of previous years, and market within the company by means of a common from all levels prepare action plans for any aspects wage levels. Wage levels are set without any system that has been installed in accordance with to be improved, accompanied by applications Fishing organization discrimination in gender, race, age, or marital ISO 9001. The employees have unrestricted directed towards an increased satisfaction and In 2011, the Dyo Colours Stage Theatre Company status. Covered personnel's wages and other access to these documents. Up to the present motivation of employees. founded by the employees of Dyo Coatings rights are regulated by a collective labour day, there have been no incidents referred to performed their first play. The theatre company's As every year, the Employee Opinion Poll has agreement. court on grounds of involuntary servitude and practices for their second performance continue. been revised in 2011 by means of literature Child Labour forced labour. researched in line with needs, customers' voice Dyo Printing Inks has established and According to applicable provisions of Labour Law, Employment of the Handicapped applications with implementers, interviews with commissioned a social space, from which its the recruitment of children below the age of 15 Employment of the handicapped is subject to employees of diverse staffs and levels, and employees can benefit during resting time. is prohibited. As an exception, children that have rates stipulated by applicable law. The general examination of other companies' practices. In Besides, we have organized following events: filled their 14th age and have graduated from rate of handicapped employment in Yaþar Group 2011, the survey did not reveal any field that • Picnic to welcome summer for the families primary school may be employed in light works is 2.23%. would indicate a decreased employee satisfaction of all our personnel as well we the families of for a limited amount of working hours, in a way compared to 2010. On the other hand, the personnel recruited by associated subEmployee Statutory Rights employee loyalty factor, which we began to that will not interfere with their personal employers development and education. Although Turkish The employees have the opportunity to exercise measure in 2010, has increased by 5% to reach all legal rights available to them such as recreation, 64%. • DYO Family Factory Visit for the children laws provide for a lower limit of 15 ages food, paid and annual leaves, and severance of all personnel recruited by our company (exceptionally children having fulfilled their 14th Social and Cultural Activities for Our payment. and/or associated employers, allowing them age), Yaþar Group companies have adopted and Employees to get acquainted with their parents' workplace are implementing the principle not to recruit any If an employee of Yaþar Group companies is To achieve increased employee motivation and • Tree sapling certificate from the Aegean people below 18. appointed to another job, such legal times shall an improved internal communication, we have Forrest Foundation as birthday gift Involuntary Servitude and Forced Labour apply as stipulated under the Labour Law in been organizing annual company picnics and conjunction with Personnel Regulations. The times many other activities during the year. • Breakfast with the management and female In all Yaþar Group companies, working days and stipulated under the collective labour agreement employees working hours as well as all public, general, and Out-house dinner organization shall apply to employees who are covered by weekend holidays are clearly defined and such a collective labour agreement. Soccer, backgammon, table tennis, and bowling announced to employees. tournaments Our employees may work overtime due to reasons Educational Background Percentage such as the characteristics of particular works or 2009 2010 2011 Doctorate 0,2 0,2 0,2 Postgraduate 3,7 3,8 3,5 Graduate 30,7 31,6 29,6 Associate degree 8,0 8,4 8,9 High school 38,7 37,9 39,1 Primary school 18,8 18,2 18,6 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 66-67 Employees Employees' Development Rights Performance Evaluation System The Group adopts an integrated management In 2001, the employees of Yaþar Holding have participation in projects and activities that will have set sustainability as the main topic of project system to achieve its fundamental aims and been included into the Performance Evaluation improve their potentials. Thus, we have been activities. The topics set for projects are as follows: strategic targets. The Performance Evaluation System, which is being implemented by Pýnar able to strengthen communications by bringing • Water footprint System, which is being been implemented since Meat, Pýnar Dairy, Pýnar Water, YBP, Viking Tissue, together people working for different companies, the year 2005, serves for the fulfilment of company Çamlý Feed, Dyo Coatings, Dyo Printing Inks, while giving young manager candidates the chance • Examination of sectoral fair trade practices targets in parallel with individual targets. The Yaþar Foreign Trade, Altýn Yunus, Bintur, and our to get a closer look at Yaþar Group. and the effects thereof on financial results results of performance assessments are reflected foreign companies since 2005. In 2010, the The Program is organized in a triple structure: • Preparation and management of supplier to individuals in the form of personal development, Performance Evaluation System covered 545 certificates with an eye to sustainability carrier planning, and awards/wages. Our people, and increased to 661 people in 2011. • Training activities: Seminars providing information on and ideas about management • Adaptation of sustainability-related topics to assessment system, which we developed on the Manangement Trainee Pool Project (MTPP) communication-oriented activities basis of the Balanced Scorecard technique, and leadership skills, personal development, employs Key Performance Indicators (KPI) that With the idea raise your managers yourself , specialization trainings etc. • Adaptation of sustainability criteria to Key we set at the beginning of each year. In midyear, Yaþar Group has been implementing an MTPP • Mentorship: Relations established by onePerformance Indicators the fulfilment of targets is monitored by means since 1996. From among all group companies, to-one interviews with project members and • Assessment of GRI-based successful of guidance and monitoring interviews; revisions high-potential candidates are selected for voluntary mentors selected by them. sustainability reports and determination of are carried out if necessary. At year end, fulfilled prospective investments. These candidates take success criteria and to reflect them to the part in a development program of 18 months. • Project Activities: The members are targets are assessed. Employees subject to expected to carry out a collaborated project sustainability report of Yaþar Group premium regulations are excluded from this The aim of the MTPP is to achieve a close in a field to be determined by the top • Contribution of the Carbon Disclosure Project process. acquaintance with young manager candidates, management. to sustainability improve the vision of and train members, monitor their carrier progression, and ensure their A novelty brought to the 5th group of the MTPP • Appropriate organization structure of foresees that the members also carry out individual sustainability reporting activities graduation projects to improve the work processes Said project topics are current issues of the in their respective departments. Sustainable Development Committee; and the To create awareness of sustainability and to projects will constitute the basis of future actions. ensure that sustainability gets a place in the agendas of managers as early as possible, we Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 68-69 Employees Besides, diverse supplementary activities are managers. For that purpose, we have been carried out during the program. following a program comprising basic management Training Hours per Person 2009 2010 2011 skills, personal development, and expert training. Yaþar Holding 6,5 11 22 • Company visits Coatings Group • Common communication platform (share of Employee Management System Dyo Coatings 6 22 27 publications such as articles, book summaries Only the white collar employees are subject to Dyo Printing Inks 2 34 46 etc.) Employee Management System which has been Food and Beverage Group • A Buddy application is implemented to make implemented since 2005. We are planning to Pýnar Dairy 8 6 13 ready the members of the 5th MTPP group for extend the system in coming years. Pýnar Meat 6 10 15 projects, to support them during the project Pýnar Water 5 6 30 White Collar Employees Percentage Covered By and to make them communicate with the Çamlý Feed 5 9 12 The Performance Management System members of the 4th Group. Each member of YBP 12,5 9 9 2009 2010 2011 the 5th MTPP group will have a “buddy” from Tissue Paper Group the 4th MTPP group. 55 52 55 Viking Tissue 8 16 17 This program, which was implemented for the In 2011, 10% of white collar workers either Trade and Services Group 5th period in 2010, enjoyed the participation of received a promotion or employee satisfaction Altýn Yunus 20 4 22 326 people up to the present day. Thereof, 130 was achieved by in-house/intercompany Desa Energy 0 11 10 people continue to work for the Group. 76 people transitions. of these 130 employees have been promoted. In addition, we have been organizing diverse preparatory training, communications skills, Check 30% of promoted employees have been women, Other Employee Trainings training programs according to the Group Law, and waste classification. while the remaining 70% constituted of men. The training programs of Yaþar Group cover the companies' own needs. Within this scope, Dyo As overall, Yaþar Group carried out a total of MTPP Candidates Percentage entire employees of all Yaþar Group companies. Coatings organized basic finance trainings for 82.176 training hours in 2011, corresponding to The essential target is to improve the employee's sales personnel along with culture development, Period 1 Period 2 Period 3 Period 4 Period 5 17,9 training hours per person. Thereof, 65% knowledge, skills, and competencies so that they 360 degrees, and customer-orientation trainings. Female 25 31 25 33 39 consisted of external trainings, whereas the can contribute to the fulfilment of both Similarly, Dyo Printing Inks contributed to the Male 75 69 75 67 61 remaining part of 35% consisted of internal Group/Company targets and individual goals. training of its personnel by trainings such as trainings. The participants of the trainings in 2011 Manager Development Seminar (MDS) The training programs applied by Yaþar Group OHSAS 18001-2007, Lean 6 Sigma green belt consisted of blue collar workers (21%), non-key for its entire employees can be subdivided into and yellow belt trainings, ISO 14001 environmental workers (63%), and key workers (16%). In 2011, Yaþar Group began to organize Manager management system training, CRM feedback following groups: orientation training, on-the-job Development Seminars to contribute to the training, general calibration training, MSDS training, personal development, management development of employees, who have been skills, and expertise. recruited to a manager's office or who have been promoted to a manager's office. The aim of the Besides, we have been organizing seminars and program, at which 37 managers participated in conferences that help our employees to keep up 2011, is to improve various competencies of our with novelties in diverse, actual issues, while gaining an international vision. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 70-71 Employees Occupational Health and Safety Training Programs and Health Controls We have been applying training programs for the as nutrition, post-natal actions, baby care as well occupational health and safety board has been purpose of giving support to our personnel and as disease, nutrition, and caution trainings to established according to these rules. the families thereof with regard to diseases. These those suffering from a chronic disease such as Employee health controls in 2011 have delivered health-related trainings such as hypertension and diabetes, hypertension, or epilepsy. no finding of any occupational disease, together nutrition, coping with stress, healthy and balanced There are also separate examinations, which we with a decreased frequency rate in occupational nutrition, breathing exercises, cold and flues, carry out according to the properties of a certain accidents and absent days. Occupational protection against breast cancer, ergonomics, work branch. In this context, Dyo Coatings carrying health of mother & child, wrong use of To prevent any large industrial accidents in our health and out quarterly heavy metal and solvent analyses Coatings Group Companies, notifications are made medicaments, family planning, food poisoning, and annual blood analyses. In addition, the tests safety come to the Ministry of Environment and Urban and infectious diseases. also include lung scans and respiratory function Development as provided by the Seveso II first The employees' health controls are carried out tests. regulations. by workplace physicians. Besides, we are taking Workplace physicians and workplace nurses furnish Occupational Training of Personnel lung x-rays within the scope of the fight against healthcare services 5 days a week. Employed In Heavy, Dangerous Duties tuberculosis, porter and audiometric examinations, Occupational Safety Our companies have carried out all necessary throat culture extracts, and stool culture scans. To maintain occupational safety and prevent any trainings in 2011 within the scope of the By collaboration with universities, we have been probable occupational accidents and/or diseases, Communiqué on Occupational Trainings of organizing trainings for pregnant employees our companies have been implementing internal Workers employed in Heavy and Dangerous through the help of interns covering topics such occupational health and safety regulations. An Duties prepared in accordance with the Turkish Labour Law Other Work-Related Trainings In addition to trainings that improve our employees' personal and/or administrative skills, we have been supporting their development by means of technical trainings. Trainings that took place in this scope include Occupational Health & Safety Training, Hygiene Personal Hygiene Trainings, Safe Use of Chemicals Training, Fire Extinguishing Training, Pest Control Training, Fire Extinguishing and Evacuation Training, and HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points) Trainings. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 72-73 Employees First Aid Trainings Security Services The First Aid Regulations of the Ministry of Health An essential target of first aid training is to train All security services at our companies are provided security services. Periodic training programs are stipulate that one person out of 20 people has the personnel on life-saving interventions for by certified personnel with special training in applied to all security personnel. to be trained in first aid for normal workplaces, itself, its environment and relatives, and to gain whereas one out of 10 people has to be trained necessary capabilities to take the right, conscious in first aid for heavy-duty workplaces. actions in extraordinary situations without feeling Number of Security Personnel 2009 2010 2011 helpless. Yaþar Holding 15 15 15 Coatings Group Dyo Coatings 22 12 24 Number of Certified Personnel 2009 2010 2011 Dyo Printing Inks 11 8 8 Yaþar Holding 2 2 2 Food and Beverage Group Coatings Group Pýnar Dairy 29 35 35 Dyo Coatings 61 33 69 Pýnar Meat 16 17 24 Dyo Printing Inks 19 20 20 Pýnar Water 18 17 22 Food and Beverage Group Çamlý Feed 18 24 22 Pýnar Dairy 67 87 108 YBP 43 46 43 Pýnar Meat 71 110 85 Tissue Paper Group Pýnar Water 4 5 20 Viking Tissue 11 11 15 Çamlý Feed 24 31 28 Trade and Services Group YBP 52 54 51 Altýn Yunus 11 11 10 Tissue Paper Group Desa Energy 4 4 4 Viking Tissue 19 28 37 Total 198 200 222 Trade and Services Group Altýn Yunus 12 11 16 Desa Energy 0 0 0 Total 331 381 436 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 74-75 Employees Right to Association Union and Collective Bargaining Agreement Percentage of employees covered by collective • Accepts to employ a nurse or an health 2. Within (15) days as of the signing date A labour agreement for an indefinite period is labour agreements: officer, who will make any necessary injections of this agreement, the union shall inform signed with all employees as provided for under or dressings as advised by the physician, in the employer of the board representative the Labour Law. All contracting and subPercentage of Employees case a sudden illness or injury occurs in the (incl. substitutes) as provided for under absence of a workplace physician, Article 3 (g) of aforementioned legislation. contracting companies, which we are in Covered by Collective Within same time, the employer shall inform collaboration, have to insure all their employees, • Keep available a permanent vehicle at too. Bargaining Agreements workplace to transport any ill or injured the union of its representatives (incl. 2009 2010 2011 personnel to the hospital in case of emergency. substitutes). The rights of our employees are secured by mean Dyo Coatings 55 53 57 3. According to Article 5 of this legislation, of workplace and enterprise collective bargaining The Workplace Collective Bargaining Agreement agreements that are signed by and between the Dyo Printing Inks 50 52 47 the branch officials or regional branch officials concluded by and between the employer and Tek employer and respective labour unions (PetrolPýnar Dairy 62 65 64 Gýda Ýþ Sendikasý includes following clauses: shall be entitled to audit and inspect the Ýþ in case of Coatings Group Companies; Tek Pýnar Meat 62 66 70 meetings to be held by the board at least • Transport to health facilities: The employer on monthly basis as well as any dossiers, Gýda Ýþ Sendikasý in case of Food Group companies The Workplace Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be liable to keep available at the workplace books, and documents thereof comprising including Pýnar Dairy and Pýnar Meat). concluded by and between the employer and a vehicle and a driver to transport the workers board activities such as decisions, measures, Petrol-Ýþ includes following clauses in addition to urgently to a health facility in case of an maintenance, control, and trainings etc. at the Labour Law: occupational accident, at all times at which any time considered necessary. the workers work at the workplace, regardless The employer shall, in addition to the Labour 4. All activities carried out by the board's of the number of workers and the distance Law, union representative with respect to between the workplace and health facilities. • Accepts to strictly comply with Occupational Failing which, the employer shall be held aforementioned duties shall be considered Health and Safety Regulations, responsible for any delay in the timely transport as actual works. of workers to medical intervention. • Occupational health and safety board: 1. Legislative provisions shall apply to occupational health and safety rules at workplace. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 76-77 Environmental Consciousness and Principles Environmental Consciousness and Principles Yaþar Group supports taking a cautious approach • The productive usage of energy and natural • To behave perspicuously to meet the and Urban Development and showed by local when dealing with environmental problems. In resources with the acting of environmental expectations of our customers, employees and authorities. other words, in situations such as the danger of management principles such as reduction in the society who effect from our actions, • Altýn Yunus oil wastes are utilized each year seriously and irreversibly damage of the the source, re-using, recovery and removing, • Revising the aims and goals of environmental increasingly. environment, the principle of nonscientific minimizing the wastewater and emission management system in defiance of regular certainty cannot be used as the reason of delay formation by controlling with an integrated • 1.240 kg in 2009, 1.350 kg in 2010 and and changing conditions and working for 4.655 kg waste in 2011 are collected and in taking preventer cost effective actions of the approach besides the usage of toxic and increasing the environmental performance all damage of environment is adopted. hazardous chemical, utilized. the time are undertaken. Besides the customer satisfaction selected as the • To protect the balance between the protection • All wastewater from production processes Within the frame of the actions that are done to and social sites are refined in our biologic baseline by Yaþar Group companies, with the of the environment and the prevention of minimize the environmental effects of our conscious of we borrow the environment from pollution with socio-economic needs, waste water refine facility in the factory. production activities; the future generations by acting appropriately to • To leave a livable environment to the future • REACH and SEVESO applications aimed at the foundation principles and legal legislations • Hazardous wastes are collected in an controlling the hazardous chemical and generations for sustainable development by intermediate storage site in accordance with to create a more livable environment for the using environment friendly inputs in the design industrial accidents that are applied in European society they are in, suppliers, customers and the legal principles and from there with licensed Union are appealed and fulfill the legal of the products, firms 'vehicles and to licensed firms' recovery employees; obligations. • Carrying out a policy including evaluation of and remove facilities, environmental effects in new enterprises, • Within the frame of aforesaid precautions, • Organic wastes and domestic wastes that a leak couldn't be seen in our industrial plant • To create the structure that provides the emerges from production activities are collected in 2011. activities, planning, and education needed for in the regular storage site suitable to the legal the sustainability and improvement of all these principles in the facility, and then are sent to actions, places certificated by Ministry of Environment Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 78-79 Environmental Consciousness and Principles Use of Resources Lean 6 Sigma Implementation leaders of projects with the focus on well Projects are evaluated in 3 main groups, 2008Lean 6 Sigma Implementations that starts in our The Group Companies who aim at efficient use coordinated timely works. 2011 realized and 2012 planned refraction; Food and Beverage Group are also adopted by of resources give priority to the enery Dedicated human resource and the number our other companies and in 2011, educations comsumption, logistics, streamlining the supply projects in years; Project Groups and project designing has started in our Dyo chain and deficiency-cost optimizations in selecting Printing Inks 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012(*) the projects for the Lean 6 Sigma implementations. Numbers of Human Resource Cost Operational Cost Improvements (OCI) Employees and executives work together in Works Black Belt Green Belt Enhancing 7 4 6 14 19 choosing the aforesaid projects. 2008 13 Operational OCI works has gained a new perspective in Yaþar Yaþar Holding Food and Beverage Group took a 2009 7 11 Perfection 5 13 21 16 11 Group Companies who places the subject of decision of adding a new discipline in 2007 to 2010 9 24 Process Design 1 1 6 5 6 sustainability to the center of their strategies. the longstanding works of continuous improvement 2011 6 29 (*) Planned OCI projects are evaluated as the ones with and development. This new discipline Lean 6 2012(*) 8 28 persistence and the ones avails only one time, Sigma which is accepted globally and proved its With the exception of long-termed projects, (*) Planned and not only in TL based but also the expression efficiency about ''project management''. Installation • 38 projects that were planned in 2011, recognized as 35 projects ''KAIZEN'' works that are fictionalized and due to the resigning of 2 projects leader and content and expectations of gained possessions' in the basis of amount in was completed in 2007 and first project wave of project not corresponding to Lean 6 Sigma methodology. completed in a short time and aimed to reduce every condition is looked for. In this way it was started in 2008. the casualties and simplification during the work become possible to produce the data that will be 3 Master Black Belt are educated with the aim of Number of Educated Employees processes, are also recognized in the scope of used in our sustainability works. supporting the education and coaching Lean 6 Sigma implementations. 2008-2011 2012(*) Some OCI projects that are under the headline responsibilities with a domestic fund during all Master Black Belt 3 The gender refractions of the project leaders of action on climate change, serve as model in these applications. Master Black Belts function Black Belt 18 6 according to the harmony of project subjects and these works. as bridge between the management and the duties are shown below. Green Belt 45 26 Yellow Belt 295 (*) Planned Percentage of Gender Distribution of Project Leaders 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012(*) Female 23 39 26 30 38 Male 67 61 74 70 62 (*) Planned Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 80-81 Environmental Consciousness and Principles Water Management Yaþar Group Companies give importance to use • The renewal of blow-down systems of Water is the most important natural resource less water and take aims at efficient management condensers in the cooling plants, that many governments, establishments and of water which is a unique natural resource. • The recovery of flash steam by the help of communities show sensitivity. The increase of While the year of 2011 water usage of Çamlý flash steam tank application, the urban population and the amount of per Feed, except agricultural irrigation and sea water capita income will cause to occur water shortage • The transformation of soft packing pomps is 333.730 tonnes, it reaches to 4.063.730 tonnes in many places of the world. Today nearly 2.5 to mechanical type packing, when the agricultural irrigation and sea water billion people cannot reach the resources of are included. It is taken aim to reduce the water • The transformation of packaging machine sanitation because of water shortage. According usage with the projects ahead. cooling system to closed cycle system. to the rapport of the world bank, till 2030, Dyo Coatings, stopping the well water usage global water demand will be more than existing Pýnar Meat follows one by one the water usage completely in 2011, started tomake benefit from water resource because of estimated population in production processes. In this context, water the relevant authority network service. It and economic growth. The access to water flow meter is attached to every facility entrance enhances the water leakages at the rate of 0.06% will be harder for the world population because and total water usage is controlled with 14 water with the revisions in the operation and utility of the water demand being 40% more than flow meter every day. In the year of 2010, ton water lines. the existing water resource. And this situation per product total water usage was 24,1 m3 it is will increase the importance of water reduced to 23,5 m3 in the year of 2011. The management globally. mentioned reduction is done with the help of ; Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 82-83 Environmental Consciousness and Principles Packaging Waste and Solid Waste Management Pýnar Water, one of the companies of our group, presented to the Ministry, training activities aimed Article 11 of the Regulation on Packaging Waste Electronic scrap amounting to a total of 2.300 is the founding member of ÇEVKO (Çevre Koruma to inform the consumers and municipalities on Control provides the following: Those who kg, generated by Astron in the year 2011 from ve Ambalaj Atýklarýný Deðerlendirme Vakfý the subjects of separate collection of packaging introduce products to the market are liable to old computer materials, were used via a recycling Environment Protection and Packaging Wastes wastes, their recycling and their recovery, are use the packages which will generate the fewest firm which has the necessary authorizations of Recovery and Recycling Trust, and our companies organized via the ÇEVKO Foundation, to which waste after the usage of the product, whose the Ministry of Environment and Forestry transferred the responsibility to waste recollection we are a member. recycling and recovery are the easiest and the Directorate of Environment Management, along and evaluation to the abovementioned foundation, Reusability and recyclability are aimed for the cheapest. Through taking the above mentioned with ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 which has been determined by the Ministry of packages of sold products. Starting from the provision into consideration, upon the efforts certificates, in a manner non-harmful to the Environment and Urban Development as a notified design stage of the package, packaging materials carried out for the outer packages of Viking Tissue environment. body. ÇEVKO Foundation has given the right to are used in a manner to generate the minimum cleaning papers, the outer package waste was Çamlý Feed, has made a contract with the ÇEVSAN use green dot. amount of waste possible and to harm reduced by 30% per product. In the frame of the firm, which has a license granted by the Ministry It is worked with the Ministry approved licensed environment as minimally as possible, during and same principle, the packaging waste arising from of Environment and Urban Development, in order firms for the recovery and collection of all after the production and usage. round product bobbins such as towel and toilet to put recyclable waste to good use. packaging wastes. According to our packaging paper, was also reduced by 6.3% per product. Concerning packaging materials introduced into In Viking Tissue, the amount of hazardous waste wastes management plan, which is prepared in the market, the recovered packaging waste rates As for Pýnar Meat, within this scope, it reduced occurring in the year 2011 was reduced to 14.320 line with the contracts concluded, and which is and target for the year 2012 are provided in the the weight of the foils it uses in the packaging kg; a fall from the 16.640 kg which occurred in of its products, and reduced the folio production the year 2010. The entirety of the hazardous waste amount by 12% when compared with last Recovery Percentage Amount of the Year year. Besides, the waste wastage rate, which was wastes was sent to licensed disposal or recovery firms. Type of Package 2009 2010 2011 2012(*) 4,19% in the year 2010 in the meat products Paper Cardboard 36 37 38 40 packaging department, was reduced to the level Plastic 36 37 38 40 of 3,57% in the year 2011. Glass 36 37 38 40 Metal 36 37 38 40 (*) Planned Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 84-85 Relations with Society Relations with Society Our Employment Data Total Work Force Percentage as per the Regions Employee Turnover Ratio for the Employee Turnover Ratio for Region 2009 2010 2011 Year 2011 as per Age Distribution the Year 2011 as per Gender Aegean Region 69,16 68,70 69,49 18 and less Female 6,2 Marmara Region 18,60 19,46 17,60 18-25 3,8 Male 8,4 Central Anatolia Region 8,75 8,31 9,82 26-30 10,2 Total 7,9 Mediterranean Region 2,33 2,42 2,08 31-35 6,4 Black Sea Region 0,55 0,57 0,52 36-40 6,5 South Eastern Anatolia Region 0,36 0,33 0,29 41-45 5,6 Eastern Anatolia Region 0,25 0,21 0,20 46 and more 18,3 Total 7,9 Total Work Force Percentage as per the Employment Type Type of Employment 2009 2010 2011 Employee Turnover Ratio for Key Personnel 7,6 7,6 6,9 the Year 2011 as per Region White Collar 47,7 48,3 45,4 Aegean Region 7,8 Blue Collar 42 41,6 45,3 Marmara Region 9,4 Temporary 2,7 2,5 2,4 Central Anatolia Region 5,2 Mediterranean Region 7,4 Black Sea Region 10,3 Employee Turnover Ratio South Eastern Anatolia Region 0,0 2009 2010 2011 Eastern Anatolia Region 22,7 Groupwide 6,5 7,9 7,9 Total 7,9 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 86-87 Relations with Society Gender Distribution of Employees’ Data Gender Distribution Percentage of All Employees Gender Distribution Percentage of Employees-White Collar 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Yaþar Holding 49 51 47 53 51 49 Yaþar Holding 53 47 53 47 57 43 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coatings 16 84 15 85 14 86 Dyo Coatings 29 71 27 73 27 73 Dyo Printing Inks 20 80 18 82 19 81 Dyo Printing Inks 37 63 35 65 35 65 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pýnar Dairy 15 85 15 85 18 82 Pýnar Dairy 31 69 32 68 34 66 Pýnar Meat 11 89 12 88 15 85 Pýnar Meat 24 76 25 75 26 74 Pýnar Water 13 87 13 87 14 86 Pýnar Water 17 83 18 82 19 81 Çamlý Feed 13 87 13 87 13 87 Çamlý Feed 21 79 25 75 27 73 YBP 15 85 16 84 15 85 YBP 16 84 16 84 16 84 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 10 90 10 90 10 90 Viking Tissue 20 80 20 80 21 79 Trade and Service Group Trade and Service Group Altýn Yunus 16 84 16 84 22 78 Altýn Yunus 16 84 21 79 26 74 Desa Energy 0 100 0 100 7 93 Desa Energy 0 100 0 100 7 93 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 88-89 Relations with Society Indicators of the Employees' Average of Age Gender Distribution Percentage of Employees Team Leaders and Superior Management Staff Average of Age All Employees 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Female Male Female Male Female Male Yaþar Holding 37 40 40 Yaþar Holding 52 48 49 51 57 43 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coatings 36 36 35 Dyo Coatings 28 72 25 75 24 76 Dyo Printing Inks 37 36 37 Dyo Printing Inks 30 70 28 72 32 68 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pýnar Dairy 34 35 33 Pýnar Dairy 31 69 29 71 30 70 Pýnar Meat 37 37 36 Pýnar Meat 24 76 25 75 27 73 Pýnar Water 34 34 35 Pýnar Water 25 75 19 81 24 76 Çamlý Feed 35 35 35 Çamlý Feed 22 78 25 75 26 74 YBP 34 34 35 YBP 15 85 18 82 19 81 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 34 35 35 Viking Tissue 29 71 26 74 25 75 Trade and Service Group Trade and Service Group Altýn Yunus 35 34 34 Altýn Yunus 6 94 7 93 14 86 Desa Energy 36 39 37 Desa Energy 0 100 0 100 0 100 While the woman and man employee percentages employment is necessary, the Women's display a balanced distribution in Yaþar Holding, Empowerment Principles drawn up in the year the same balance distribution cannot be observed 2011 by the UN Gender Equality and Women's in our Group Companies. Sometimes it is because Empowerment Unit and UN Global Principles of the preference of man employees due to the Agreement, were thoroughly examined. It was characteristic of the work performed. However decided to initiate efforts, along with our group's since we believe the increase of female human resources departments, on actions to put the above mentioned principles into practice. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 90-91 Relations with Society Average Age of White Collar and Management Staff Age Distribution Percentage for the Year 2011 of White Collar Management Staff the Employees Employed at the Yaþar Group Companies 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 18 and less 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46 and more Yaþar Holding 39 40 39 41 43 41 Yaþar Holding 0,0 1,0 13,7 23,5 22,5 14,7 24,5 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coatings 36 36 36 40 40 40 Dyo Coatings 0,0 8,4 18,4 22,6 26,9 15,1 8,6 Dyo Printing Inks 36 36 37 40 40 40 Dyo Printing Inks 0,0 7,4 13,9 22,2 21,3 25,0 10,2 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pýnar Dairy 33 34 33 36 36 36 Pýnar Dairy 0,0 14,5 25,5 22,8 22,7 10,4 4,1 Pýnar Meat 36 37 36 39 39 39 Pýnar Meat 0,0 8,0 16,4 21,3 26,1 20,0 8,3 Pýnar Water 34 34 35 36 37 37 Pýnar Water 0,0 5,1 20,3 37,1 22,8 10,2 4,6 Çamlý Feed 35 35 35 40 40 40 Çamlý Feed 0,0 9,2 22,9 24,8 20,5 13,5 9,2 YBP 34 34 35 38 39 39 YBP 0,0 4,4 24,7 30,3 23,1 12,8 4,7 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 35 35 35 38 38 37 Viking Tissue 0,0 5,4 22,5 27,5 25,2 15,5 3,9 Trade and Service Group Trade and Service Group Altýn Yunus 35 36 36 39 41 44 Altýn Yunus 0,0 21,9 17,9 21,2 15,2 11,3 12,6 Desa Energy 36 39 37 53 54 55 Desa Energy 0,0 6,7 33,3 6,7 33,3 6,7 13,3 Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 92-93 Management Systems Management Systems As a sign of the respect we have for the society utter importance to our management systems System Dyo *Dyo in which we display activities, for our customers, efforts in order to ensure that our activities are Management Pýnar Pýnar Pýnar Altýn Viking Çamlý Çamlý Desa CertifiCoatPrinting YBP employees and for our consumers, we attach conducted at internationally recognized standards. System Meat Dairy Water Yunus Tissue Feed Farm Energy cate ings Inks Automotive Sector And Sub-industry ISO System Dyo *Dyo Quality Pýnar Pýnar Altýn Viking Çamlý Çamlý 16949 Management Pýnar Desa Management CertifiCoatPrinting YBP System Meat Dairy Water Yunus Tissue Feed Farm Energy System cate ings Inks Organic Farming (Feed/Milk Entrepreneur Fattening Quality ISO Certificate Enterprise) Management 9001 Fsc-coc (Forest System FSC Stewardship 40-004 Food Safety CouncilChain Of ISO Custody) Management FSC System Certificate 22000 Management 40-007 System Environment ISO Us National Management (Sea 14001 Sanitation NSF (Madran System Enterprise) Foundation Facility) Occupational British Retail BRC (Fish Health And Safety OHSAS Consortium Facility) Management 18001 International Food System Certificate IFS (Fish Standard Facility) Test And Global Gap CFM/COC Calibration ISO Food Safety System FSSC Laboratory 17025 Certification 22000 Accreditation Halal Food TS OIC/ Certificate SMIC 1 Customer Satisfaction ISO Management 10002 (*) Applications of renewal for Management System certificates were System Certificate made in 2011 and recieved in 2012 due to the change in location and company name. (*) Applications of renewal for Management System certificates were made in 2011 and recieved in 2012 due to the change in location and company name. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 94-95 Support to the Development of Sectors in Yaþar Holding is Active Support to the Development of Sectors Yaþar Holding is active Support to the Promotion of the Turkey Brand TURQUALITY® 10 World Brands in 10 Years The Value We Add to the Lives of our Satisfaction Management System TS ISO 10002: commissioned in the beginning of the year 2011 We are within the scope of the program, with Consumers: Customer Satisfaction 2006 certificate in its sector. by coating for construction, survey works are our brands Pýnar (since 2007), Dyo and Dewilux Çamlý Feed targets Full Customer Satisfaction , As for the year 2011, it declared to the entire conducted through taking the feedbacks monthly (both since 2008). as it is undertaken in the Management Systems public through written media that it offers solution received from the customers, and improvements Policies . The Customer Satisfaction efforts are to 95% of the customers applying to it, within are carried out in line with these feedbacks. The Export is carried out to Gulf and EU Countries in satisfaction ratio is above 95%. the Food and Beverage business line, and conducted as it is specified in the Customer the same day, and that 90% of the customers particularly to Asia, Europe and Gulf Countries in Satisfaction Monitoring Procedure , established are satisfied according to feedback obtained via User Seminars were held in the furniture sector the Coatings business line. pursuant to Management Systems standards and the call center and surveys, in conformity with in the years 2010-2011. Within this line, meetings company principles. the target of achieving customer satisfaction and trainings were held throughout Turkey in 48 While the Food and Beverage Group displays through the efforts it carried out in line with the different provinces, to which the total participation activities in Germany through the Pýnar Foods In the Management Systems Targets , determined in the beginning of each year on the basis of criteria of TS ISO 10002:2006 Customer was 2.500, and in which separate messages were GmbH Company, HDF FZCO is established in Satisfaction Management System Standard, which given for final users (finishers), corporate Dubai, in order to make the Pýnar brand a highdepartments, and, which, in total, constitutes the company targets, appear criteria addressed it enjoys. customers (large sized furniture manufacturers) quality and trustable regional brand in the Middle and architects, who are seen as the target East, particularly in Gulf Countries. towards measuring the customer satisfaction In addition to all these, it initiated efforts to (survey, complaint, return). Criteria specified in commission the SAP CRM software, which has audience. In the light of these activities which With the support of the TURQUALITY® project, these targets are analyzed twice in a year and superior features when compared to the software were carried out during the April-July 2010 period; we uninterruptedly continue our efforts to ensure the costumer communication is strengthened currently used, in order to upgrade its customer • Product and service expectations of customers that Dyo, Dewilux and Pýnar brands appeal to a through necessary corrections and improvements. satisfaction efforts. in different channels were received. global consumer group. The surveys conducted are analyzed with the Within our Coatings Group, a satisfaction survey • Customer Satisfaction Survey , consisted of SPSS method since the year 2010, and thus their was made addressed towards our Construction various questions, was applied to 2.500 persons. better interpretation is ensured. Dealers, in the year 2011, its results were According to the results of our Dyo Printing Inks In the year 2010, Dyo Coatings has been the first evaluated and the necessary actions are being 2011 customer survey, the satisfaction ratio is coatings company to receive Customer taken. Satisfaction surveys were conducted about 86%, and our satisfaction ratio following the the Dyolog system, which was established for process of handling the customer complaints is Paints for Buildings addressed towards Masters 95,73%. and Sale Clerks, and it was observed that the satisfaction ratio was 91%. Altýn Yunus's guest satisfaction ratio for the year 2011 was 90%. The website www.birbilenesorun.com.tr It is the world's first and only state-supported branding (which means, ask to a knowledgeable person ), program. Today, the competition which gets progressively which is directly addressed to the consumer, was harder, and the changing consumption patterns push the companies which want to appear in the international arena, in creating strong brands, which mean more added value and bigger market share. TURQUALITY® is a project aiming to increase the export of Turkey by developing strong global brands. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 96-97 Social Contribution Projects Social Contribution Projects Through its products and services, Pýnar aims to Pýnar Painting Contest offer a good life to its consumers, to contribute Pýnar Painting Contest is being held since 30 to their physical and mental development, and years in order to increase the interest of to raise healthy generations. For this purpose, it elementary period children to the art of painting continues to support social responsibility projects and to fine arts, and to raise the painters of the in the fields of education, sports and culture-arts future. since the year it was established. Pýnar Painting Contest, whose first edition was held in the year Pýnar Painting Contest opens with a different 1981, and which still continues uninterruptedly, theme each year since the year 1981, and in the Pýnar Children's Theatre which still continues year 2011 it was held with the theme Let's Paint uninterruptedly since the year 1987, and the Our Future , with a record number of participants. support for the Pýnar Karþýyaka Basketball Team In the competition, to which 768.286 paintings which continues since the year 1998, are among from all corners of Turkey participated, 23 very the examples of Pýnar's most important Social young painters selected through the evaluation Contribution Projects. of a jury consisting of academics and experts, were rewarded with a 1 week Arts Camp held in Pýnar communicates the importance it attaches Istanbul under the coordinatorship of famous to social responsibility efforts, with a new painter Hüsametting Koçan. The participant advertisement film, which was broadcast in the students of Pýnar Painting Contest, whose thirtieth year 2011. The new advertisement film recently version was held in the year 2011, also received put into practice by Pýnar, which continues its their netbooks and certificates in the ceremony efforts towards increasing the quality of social held on the last day of the art camp. life in Turkey since 39 years, brings its social responsibility awareness to the screens. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 98-99 Social Contribution Projects Pýnar Children's Theatre is in its 25th year Other Social Contribution Projects • Participation to the Stars of Istanbul social Pýnar Children's Theatre, which put its signature • The renovation of housekeeping workshop of responsibility project held by UNICEF Turkey, with under tens of children's play since 1987 with its Çeþme Tourism and Hotel Management Hotel, in five stars professional staff, from its director to its lighting February 2011 director and to its stage designer, and which • Donation of 1.870 pieces of kitchen and service enabled approximately 3 million children up to equipment to be used in the occupational now to watch plays free of charge, toured 25 application course at the Alaçatý Tourism Training provinces in 30 days within the scope of the Center and Çeþme Hotel Management Vocational Hürriyet Train project, and reached approximately High School, in December 2011 25.000 children. • Aid to Somalia with the aid campaign held Pýnar Children's Theatre, which performed its between the employees and through the medium new play titled Yaþasýn Büyüyorum (Hooray I of Red Crescent Am Growing Up) during the 2011-2012 School year, allows the children to experience a visual • Blanket and winter clothing support to our theatre feast, with this play, whose stage, music, citizens who were victim of the earthquake which • Karacaaðaç Organic Village Project Buca / decors and costumes are prepared professionally. occurred in Van on October 2011 Izmir Pýnar Chilren's Theatre also was influential in the • Hosting the activity held in favor of autistic • Environmental cleaning performed by a team raising of many important figures, such as Bülent disabled children constituted of Altýn Yunus personnel, of the state Ýnal, Vahide Gördüm, Özgür Ozan, Necmi Yapýcý, • Provision of paint for the painting activity held territory located at the entrance of the hotel, and Sarp Apak, Engin Altan Düzyatan and Öner Erkan, by the Private Pendik Gündönümü Maternal School of the Kalem Burnu Island, to whom it had casted in its plays. • Provision of paint for the wall painting fest held • Covering the coatings need of Salih Dede at Istanbul Provincial Social Services Directorate Birsen Gümüþ Çay Special Training and Kemerburgaz-Aðaçlý Protection Care and Rehabilitation Center / Izmir Rehabilitation Center Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 100-101 Education and Publications Education and Publications Yaþar University • able to easily orient their intellectual potential Yaþar University, whose corporate identity and Since the 2010-2011 period, the Yaþar University Yaþar University started to provide training and to business, position is associated with the motto, Science, Altýn Yunus Student Dormitory, offers its five-star education during the 2002-2003 academic year. • with high design and project skills, Unity, Success , has made the courses Design accommodation service of 400 bed capacity to Yaþar University, which is among the 5 foundationCulture, Project Culture, Research Culture, Human Erasmus Exchange Program students, alongside • able to think in an analytic, systematic and Sciences, Ethics Culture, Aesthetic Culture and students and guest academics. supported universities of Izmir, continues to formal manner, provide education at Alsancak Campus Social Responsibility Project, under the title of Yaþar University continues the meticulous high(Preparatory School) and Selçuk Yaþar Campus • not satisfied with what he has already Institution Basic Training obligatory for all quality it displays in academic education, also in (Central Campus). achieved, always researching and questioning, departments, and ensured these concepts to be social organizations and sports and arts activities • sensitive to environment and to his own life, adopted by the students. held with the participation of the students and A total of 4.899 students receive education at the Yaþar University and 533 academic and • able to act with a social responsibility Yaþar University; makes an important contribution to the social life administrative personnel work within the body awareness, and • has prepared its strategic plan for the period of Izmir. Its Men's and Women's Volleyball Teams of the institution. 2011-2015, became champions of the 2010-2011 • who participates to civil society activities held Interuniversity Sports Federation 2nd Division, In Yaþar University; there are 7 faculties, 26 within the framework of sensitivity to ethic • within the framework of an international without a single defeat and earned promotion to departments, 1 vocational school, 9 associate and aesthetic values. urban university vision emerged in line with 1st Division. As for the 2011-2012, Tennis became programs, 1 School of Foreign Languages, 2 the change agenda, part of the abovementioned success, and our graduate schools, 19 master's programs and 5 • it adopted the basic task of being a hightennis team earned promotion to first division by postgraduate programs. quality education and research institution which courtesy of the successful results of our students The purpose of Yaþar University, is to raise its established the culture of science and which in this field. students, as individuals contributes to the development of society both locally and globally , through taking the competencies of the university as a starting point. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 102-103 Education and Publications A Campus Pushing the Boundaries of As for another important aspect of our education in our university, approximately 25 International Standards internationalization strategy, it is the reflection personnel of ours lecture abroad and 50 European The Selçuk Yaþar Campus is an academic space of international quality sensitivity in education to academics give seminars/courses here through where international standards determined in all units of our university, and therefore to our visiting our university. terms of natural environment and physical space students. An important part of our responsibility Scholarships per student criteria are applied. The ramp and towards our students and our work is the worldclass quality of the education and the diplomas Yaþar University supports the success of its lift mechanisms in conformity with the standards students also through different scholarship were used in order to avoid any circulation problem we give to our students. Yaþar University English Language Preparatory Class has the honor of opportunities; ÖSYM (Student Selection and to be experienced by the physically disabled Placement Center) Scholarship, Academic Success students. being the first Turkish program accredited in the field of English language education, through Scholarship and Skill Scholarship. 1 of 4 students Besides, consumption of cigarettes and tobacco receiving CEA accreditation. In this way, Yaþar receiving education at Yaþar University have products are strictly prohibited in both outdoor University English Language Preparatory Class scholarships; they benefit from scholarships of and indoor areas of the Campus, which is a first became of the 96 English language programs 100%, 50% or 25%. in Turkey. enjoying CEA accreditation, and the nineteenth Social Life International Urban University such program accredited outside USA. Alongside academic education, Yaþar University As an urban university at international standards, EU Center, Erasmus Programmes also supports its students socially. Along with the many foreign students prefer Yaþar University to Within the scope of our harmonization efforts classical music concerts, exhibitions, conferences continue their education by courtesy of promotion towards the Bologna process, our university and panels held within the campus, there are efforts conducted by International Relations and received the Diploma Supplement Label in the more than 35 active student groups, and by European Union Center, and of student exchange year 2011. Each year, an average of 70 student courtesy of these, the students find the opportunity programs, and it is an indicator of our recognition of ours go abroad through the Youth Programme to support their educations with social and cultural in the international platform. and projects; 80 Erasmus students receive activities. www.yasar.edu.tr Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 104-105 Education and Publications Pýnar Apprenticeship School Manisa Beydere Dairy Project Auto Refinishes Technical Service Center Through the medium of Pýnar Meat Vocational Çamlý Feed, which accelerated in the year 2011 The center, which was put into service in the year Training Unit, education and training opportunity the investment on the modern dairy facility at 2011, appears within the Çiðli campus. Through if offered to children who are unable to continue Manisa, Beydere, aims to carry out high-quality the protocol made with Izmir Governorate their education. Vocational skills in the field of and hygienic milk supply from this facility. Turkey's Provincial Directorate of National Education, it is meat and meat products processing were first Farming and Stock Breeding Campus where started to give auto refinishing theoretical and successfully taught to 30 apprentice students trainings will be held and R&D efforts will be practical training in the center, to students of who completed their training at the vocational conducted, will appear within the body of Beydere vocational high schools, and Ministry of National training unit, by instructors who are expert in profession, receiving theoretical and practical Dairy Facility, which will carry out fully organic Education approved certificates are granted at their field, and 17 students gained right to receive vocational trainings according to a program, and production. The Training Campus, which will the end of the training. Journeymanship Certificate. 10 of the graduated to include them among the qualified workforce appear in the campus, will have an indoor area One day of the week, applied training is provided students were given employment within the body required by the nation. It is also aimed for this of 275 square meters and consists of to a total of 35 students from Selçuk Yaþar of Pýnar Meat after their graduation. As of the training to ensure work discipline in business life, accommodation and training halls. The purpose Industrial Vocational High School and to a total end of the year, 63 students continue their training to ensure professional standards at a national of the campus is to provide costumer and supplier of 36 students from Automotive Vocational High at the vocational training unit. level, to develop quality standard in production trainings, to organize technical training and School automotive body paint division at our Auto and to increase efficiency. certificate programs (feed, farm management, Pýnar Meat Vocational Training Unit, was opened Repair Technical Service center, and the shuttle, to education in the year 1998, since it was difficult Yaþam Pýnarým (My Fountain of Life) animal husbandry-breeding) by cooperating with food and material expenses of these students to find trained personnel in the sector due to the Magazine universities, to support the development of the are also covered by us. lack of an institution providing training in the field employees, to implement orientation programs Yaþam Pýnarým Magazine has been establishing Training on product applications and color of meat and meat products processing. The and to carry out R&D, innovation and new product a connection between itself and Pýnar's consumers, applications are provided at the same center to purpose of this training, which is a first in Turkey, efforts. It is also planned to create a demonstration business partners and academic and bureaucratic auto repair masters from all over Turkey. is to allow young people between the ages of 15 area in the determined territory, for plant nutrition milieus since the year 2004 with its different line Furthermore, applied trainings on their own fields and 18, who completed their basic training, started products of Çamlý Feed. Organic farming and and content. Yaþam Pýnarým Magazine, which is are also provided to masters. their working life and who wants to learn a good farming practices will be carried out on this printed quarterly (10 thousand units), is distributed area, and applied farming trainings will also be free of charge. provided. Pýnar Gazetesi (Pýnar Bulletin) Pýnar Gazetesi, which is printed quarterly (20 thousand units) and which is addressed towards producers, is an important reference for farmers carrying out dairy and meat stock breeding. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 106-107 Education and Publications Coatings for Buildings-Dyo Academy Project program which increase their knowledge and information on paint and color to visitors. During to have a longer economic life. The implementation of the coating through the experience, they also increase their knowledge the activity in which astrological information on Within the scope of the training of the nonuse of accurate techniques is as important as the and become more qualified and competent in color were also given, fun games were played employees, training on career opportunities and quality of the coating. Due to this reason, Dyo their profession. On top of that, no fee is addressed to children and adults and gifts were on behaviors and skills important for guest Coatings opened the DYO ACADEMY training demanded from our masters in consideration of distributed. relations was provided to 300 and 150 students center at the Gebze Campus, primarily in order all these efforts. Trainings and Meetings Addressed Towards respectively from Çeþme Tourism and Hotel for the professional master dyers to receive Result obtained following the paint application is Other Stakeholders Management High School and Balçova Tourism training which would ensure their professional extremely important in ensuring consumer Trainings provided by the Yaþar Group do not Training Center. equivalence and qualifications in the frame of the satisfaction. The Dyo Academy Project, which only target the company employees, but all rings Internship Opportunity to High School and European Union harmonization law, to become aims to contribute to the professional development involved in the process. For this purpose, those University Students: aware of new techniques and technologies and of our masters who perform paint applications in employed in our dealers are also trained, and it to improve their personal competences. our country, for the achievement of more The Yaþar Group provides internship opportunities is aimed to develop competencies of the to high school and university students, in order Professional master dyers, who successfully professional application results, was also continued employees, which may also used by them in their complete the training program, which is carried in the year 2011. for them to get more acquainted with business private lives. life, and to develop themselves, within the quotas out in cooperation with the Ministry of National In the year 2011, 197 masters of our country Education, which is given in two stages; theoretical Of the 150 dealers whose SAP Modules and it determines. The aim of the internship program received certificates, by courtesy of the Dyo Work Flows User training was carried out in the is to offer the students the opportunity of on the and practical, and which consists of different Academy Project we carried out at various spots modules (interior-exterior wall, wood-metal, year 2011, 31 was Pýnar Water dealers, 30 Dyo job internship and also to create a database of our country. dealers and 89 YBP dealers. covering qualified candidates which may be marine paints practices and technologies and heat insulation systems practices and Renküssü Road Show Trainings given by Dyo Printing Inks to Marmara employed in relevant positions in the future. technologies), are entitled to receive certificates A roadshow activity was carried out in the year University and Istanbul University printing Vocational high school students spend three days which are approved by both the Ministry of 2011 under the name of RENKÜSSÜ (ColorBase) departments, to dealers and sub-dealers, of the week in our companies in order to Natioinal Education and Dyo Academy. in order to develop the paint and color awareness industrialists costumers and printing masters, strengthen the trainings they receive at the school at our country. Dyo Renküssü travelled 7.000 km. also target the training of rings involved in our and to get acquainted with the environment in While the masters orient themselves to new which they will work when they graduate. As for techniques and technologies through this training throughout Turkey between the dates April 16 processes. and May 29, visiting 19 provinces and transferred the university students, they are given the In the industry, furniture, building and auto refinish opportunity to do their internships at our coatings technical service organizations established companies between the months June and on June 2010, a total of 11.248 persons were September. provided training in the year 2011. The purpose of the trainings is for the paint to be better understood, to be more accurately applied and Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 108-109 Education and Publications Yaþar Education and Culture Foundation Contests and Selçuk Yaþar Museum to 44 Years with Dyo Art Competition Yaþar Education and Culture Foundation has Contemporary Painting , The Place of Foundations Durmuþ Yaþar, the founder of the first coatings provided non-refundable scholarship to 5.184 in Training and The Importance of Competitive factory in Turkey (1954), DYO, has though that students since its establishment, and it display Exhibitions in the Current State of Turkish Plastic undertaking an artistic function, as well as activities in the areas of education, culture and Arts were dealt in the panels organized. economic purposes, is a must in a country like arts. Yaþar Education and Culture Foundations, which Turkey which is in a struggle for development. Since its establishment, our foundation not only supports the participation of 40 publications to Taking this reality as a starting point, the decision has undertaken the construction of many schools, cultural life, signed a protocol with Assistant to hold a painting contest to encourage the art but has also undertaken the construction of Professor Fikret Yýlmaz for the publication of the and the artist was taken in 1967, only 13 years additional buildings, refectories, sports and cultural book on the subject of Social, Urban and after the establishment of the company. facilities in line with the needs of existing schools. Economic Transformation of Izmir from 1797 until A record participation was ensured to the 34th It also has covered the science, language, food Today . Dyo Art Competition, with 1.004 artists from all painting museum of Turkey which had opened technology and computer laboratory needs of Dyo Art Competition which is continued by our corners of Turkey and from Azerbaijan, Greece, its doors in the year 1985, opened its doors in the schools. foundation uninterruptedly for 44 years since Netherlands, France, Italy and Switzerland, with 1990. The protocol of Special Education Primary School, 1967, is another one of our important activities. 1.609 works. As for the works who received The Foundation continued its exhibitions in the which will consist of 18 classrooms, is concluded awards and were deemed worthy to be displayed year 2011 at the gallery located on the bottom between the Izmir Governorate and National in the year 2011, they were met with art floor of the museum, with exhibitions of Reyhan Education Directorate and our Foundation, and enthusiasts in Bursa, Izmir, Konya, Adana and Abacýoðlu, Mustafa Aslýer, Fahri Sümer, Lütfü the relevant construction will be made at Izmir Ankara. DYO Painting Contests are organized by Günay, Karma Sergi and Zafer Gençaydýn; and it / Güzelbahçe in the year 2012. Yaþar Education and Culture Foundation since continued its summer exhibitions at Çeþme Altýn 1969, and its 35th edition will be held in 2012. Yunus Art Gallery with Filiz Pelit, Burhan Doðançay Seminars and panels with very different themes, Selçuk Yaþar Art Gallery and Painting and Þükran Ulucan. from Flexibility in Working Life to Equality of Different Genders , from Raising the Awareness Museum of Public and Training the Society on the Subject Selçuk Yaþar Art Gallery, which is within the body of Healthy Nutrition of the Children and the Youth of Selçuk Yaþar Art Gallery, the first private to Drinking Milk and Health . As for the year 2011, subjects of The Contributions of DYO Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 110-111 Sponsorships and Recognitions Sponsorships and Recognitions Main Sponsorships Balkan and World Indoors Athletics Other Sponsorships Pýnar KSK Championship • Sponsorship to 9th May European Day Pýnar supports the basketball team which continues Pýnar supports the Balkan and World Indoors organized jointly by the Antalya Governorate to compete in the Turkish Basketball First Division Athletics Championship as the official drink. Also with the Metropolitan Municipality and ATSO under the name Pýnar Karþýyaka, on the basis of Pýnar has been the Main Sponsor of the European • Paint sponsorship to Ankara Yenimahalle advertisement, since the year 1998. Also each Teams Athletics Championship which was Municipality 5th Boya Bizden Dostluk Sizden year approximately 1.000 children benefit from organized by the Turkish Athletics Federation. (We Provide the Paint, You Provide Friendship) the opportunity to play sports and exercise at ESTÝ Water Polo Team Painting Festival Çiðli Selçuk Yaþar Facilities with the sponsorship Pýnar has undertaken the Main Sponsorship of • Main sponsorship of Boðaziçi University Dance of Pýnar ESTÝ Water Polo Team which successfully Festival Pýnar Karþýyaka successfully represented our represents Izmir in the Turkish 1st Division since • Sponsorship of Ege University 9th country in the Pýnar Cup Tournament held in the the year 2008. Electrochemistry Congress year 2011 under the Main Sponsorship of Pýnar. • Sponsorship of Trailer Industrialists Association Pýnar Karþýyaka at EuroChallenge Cup • Main sponsorship in the Sokak Sanatla Güzel As the only Turkish basketball team which reached (Art Makes Streets Beautiful), organized by the quarter finals of the 2010-2011 Basketball the Küçükçekmece Municipality with 140 League EuroChallenge Cup, Pýnar Karþýyaka thousand participants, and which is the largest successfully represented Turkey in Europe. outdoor exhibition of the world • Paint Sponsorship of Gebze DistrictGovernorate Ýþte Benim Güzel Okulum (Here's My Beautiful School) project Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 112-113 Sponsorships and Recognitions Recognitions • KALDER Turkey Customer Satisfaction Index • Golden award in the Effie Turkey • Izmir Chamber of Commerce, gold medal in • Izmir Chamber of Commerce, silver medal (TMME) research the brand from which the Advertisement Activity Contest, the Oscar of the categories of Net Trade Profit Notification in the categories of Net Trading Profit consumers are satisfied the most since the Advertisement Awards; Pýnar Çocuk Sütü (Pýnar and Foreign Currency Obtainment: Pýnar Dairy Notification and Foreign Currency Obtainment: year 2007 in the milk and fruit juice sectors: Milk for Children) Bir Tek Annem Olsun Bana • Izmir Directorate of Tax Administration, the Pýnar Meat Pýnar Bir Þey Olmaz (I will be alright, as long as first record holder chamber member for the • Izmir Directorate of Tax Administration, the there's mama) advertisement campaign province of Izmir in the category of corporate record holder chamber member for the province • TMME's category based 2011 second quarter results, the leader brand of customer • Crystal Apple Multi-Channel Campaign: Pýnar tax: Pýnar Dairy of Izmir in the category of corporate tax: Pýnar satisfaction: Pýnar Fruit Juice Milk for Children • AC Nielsen Brand Recognizance research, Meat • The Most Sincere Brands 2011 milk and • Package Moon-Crescents Contest held by packaged meat category, first brand • Izmir Chamber of Commerce, tax payment milk products category, carried out by MediaCat Package Industrialist Association and where remembered: Pýnar Meat special award: Pýnar Water Magazine in cooperation with IPSOS KMG, the unique designs and works creating difference • KALDER TMME processed meat sector • Izmir Chamber of Commerce foreign currency most sincere brand according to results: Pýnar are rewarded, the Gold reward in the Graphic research, the brand from which the consumers obtainment letter of appreciation: Pýnar Water Design Category was given to Pýnar Gurme are satisfied the most since the year 2007: • According to the research conducted in the • TMME's category based 2011 second quarter Triangle Cheese package; while the silver Pýnar Meat year 2011 by the GFK company Repman results, the leader brand of customer reward went to Pýnar Gurme Cream Cheese reputation researches center, one of the 10 • The result of the most liked packaged meat satisfaction: Pýnar Water package companies in Turkey with the highest standing: sector company research conducted in the • Result of 2011 Brandlove the most loved • Kocaeli Governorate Employment and Social Pýnar year 2011 by the GFK company Repman yoghurt brand research: Pýnar Yoðurt (Pýnar Responsibility evaluation letter of • Research conducted by AC Nielsen research reputation researches center, with the acknowledgment: Dyo Coatings Yoghurt) participation of 1592 managers: Pýnar Meat company, the brand to which the consumers • 2011, Brandlove, the list covering all sectors, • Izmir Chamber of Commerce, gold medal in in Turkey feel fourth closest to: Pýnar • Firms of Aegean Region Chamber of Industry, 8th place brand: Pýnar Yoðurt the category of Foreign Currency Obtainment: • Result of the first brand remembered the company which pays the fourth highest Viking Tissue research of AC Nielsen in the categories of • SAHA Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi tax: Pýnar Meat packaged meat and butter: Pýnar Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Þ''s corporate management report evaluation result, the company evaluated with 8,34/10: Pýnar Dairy • Firms of Aegean Chamber of Industry, the company which pays the second highest tax: Pýnar Dairy Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 114-115 GRI Index and UNGC Principles GRI Index GRI Indicators Related UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page GRI Indicators Related UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page Indicators Report Number Indicators Report Number Profil 3.7 State any specifc limitations on the scope or boundary Full Identification of the Report's 3 1. Strategy and Analysis of the report Content 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the UNGC Full Chairperson's Message 4-5 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Full Identification of the Report's 3 organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) Continued Chief Executive Officer's facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Content Support about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and Message 6-7 signifcantly afect comparability from period to period and/or Statement its strategy. between organizations. 2. Organizational Profile 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Full Reporting Approach 2-3 2.1 Name of the organization. Full Identification of the Report's Content 3 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Full Yaþar Holding At a Glance 8-9 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main Full Yaþar Holding At a Glance 8-9 other information in the report. divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 3.10 Explanation of the efect of any re-statements of Full Reporting Approach 2-3 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Full Inside Back Cover Back Cover information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, Full Yaþar Holding At a Glance 8-9 such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of and names of countries with either major operations or that base years/periods, nature of business, measurement are specifcally relevant to the sustainability issues covered methods). in the report. 3.11 Signifcant changes from previous reporting periods in Full Reporting Approach 2-3 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Full Yaþar Holding At a Glance 8-9 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in served, and types of customers/benefciaries). the report. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Number Full Yaþar Holding At a Glance 8-9 GRI Content Index of employees, Net sales (for private sector organizations) or 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Full GRI Index and UNGC Principles 116-120 net revenues (for public sector organizations), Total in the report. capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for Assurance private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking GRI G3 is applied in this report services provided. external assurance for the report. If not included in the where possible. No external 2.9 Signifcant changes during the reporting period regarding Full Identification of the Report's 3 assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, assurance size, structure, or ownership including: Content explain the scope and basis of any external assurance 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Full Recognitions 114-115 provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting 3. Report Parameters organization and the assurance provider(s). Report Profile 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fscal/calendar year) for information Full Identification of the Report's 3 Governance provided. Content 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Full Corporate Governance 34-35 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Full Inside Back Cover Back Cover body is also an executive ofcer (and, if so, their function 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Full Reporting Approach 2-3 within the organization’s management and the reasons for 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Full Inside Back Cover Back Cover this arrangement). contents. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Full Corporate Governance 34-35 Report Scope and Boundary state the number of members of the highest governance 3.5 Process for defning report content, including: Determining Partial Reporting Approach 2-3 body that are independent and/or non-executive members. materiality, Prioritizing topics within the report, and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Full Identification of the Report's 3 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Content See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 116-117 GRI Index and UNGC Principles GRI Indicators Related UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page GRI Indicators Related UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page Indicators Report Number Indicators Report Number 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Partial Corporate Governance 34-35 EN23 Total number and volume of signifcant spills. UNGC8 Full Environmental Consciousness 78-79 recommendations or direction to the highest governance and Principles body. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated UNGC8 Full Environmental Consciousness 78-79 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Full Risk Management 38-39 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel and Principles ensure conficts of interest are avoided. Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of 4.7 Process for determining the qualifcations and expertise Full Corporate Reputation Management 36-37 transported waste shipped internationally. of the members of the highest governance body for guiding EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products UNGC7, UNGC8, Full Packaging Waste and 84-85 the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and and services, and extent of impact mitigation. UNGC9 Solid Waste Management social topics. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging UNGC8, UNGC9 Full Packaging Waste and 84-85 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Full Yaþar Group's Sustainability 42-43 materials that are reclaimed by category. Solid Waste Management codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Approach Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators environmental, and social performance and the status of Management Approach their implementation. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Full Employment Data's 86-87 Stakeholder Engagement contract, and region. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Full Collaboration with 62-63 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age UNGC6 Full Employment Data's 86-87 Non-Governmental Organizations group, gender, and region. and Sector Representatives LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining UNGC1, UNGC3 Full Union and Collective Bargaining 76 Economic agreements. Agreement Disclosure on Management Approach LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, UNGC3 Full Employee Statutory Rights 66 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Please refer to following web pages including whether it is specifed in collective agreements. revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations for Economic data. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and UNGC1 Partial Occupational Safety 72-73 and other community investments, retained earnings, and www.yasar.com.tr absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. payments to capital providers and governments. www.investyh.com LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk UNGC1 Full Training Programs and 72 control programs in place to assist workforce members, their Health Controls families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Environmental LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements UNGC1 Full Union and Collective 76-77 Disclosure on Management Approach with trade unions. Bargaining Agreement EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. UNGC8 Full Improvement-oriented Studies 48-49 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Full Other Employee Trainings 70-71 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. UNGC8 Full Improvement-oriented Studies 48-49 employee category. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efciency UNGC8, UNGC9 Partial Energy Efficiency 56-61 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Full Employees' Development Rights 68-71 improvements. that support the continued employability of employees and EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efcient or renewable energy UNGC8, UNGC9 Partial Energy Efficiency 56-61 assist them in managing career endings. based products and services, and reductions in energy LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Full Performance Evaluation System 68-70 requirements as a result of these initiatives. and career development reviews. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and UNGC8, UNGC9 Partial Energy Efficiency 56-61 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of UNGC1, UNGC6 Full Employees' Gender 88-90 reductions achieved. employees per category according to gender, age group, Distribution Data's EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. UNGC8 Partial Water Management 82-83 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Employees' Age 91-93 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and UNGC7, UNGC8, Full Carbon Reduction Projets 50-51 Distribution Data's reductions achieved. UNGC9 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. UNGC8 Partial Packaging Waste and 84-85 Solid Waste Management Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 118-119 GRI Index and UNGC Principles GRI Indicators Related UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page Report Name Period Publication Date Scope Indicators Report Number Yaþar 2009* UNGC 01/01/2008 30.03.2010 The companies indicated on pages 5-8. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee UNGC1 Full Wage Setting 66 COP Report 31/12/2009 category. UNGC6 Yaþar 2010 UNGC 01/01/2010 08.04.2011 The companies indicated on pages 9-13. Human Rights COP Report 31/12/2010 Disclosure on Management Approach Yaþar 2011 01/01/2011 HR6 Operations identifed as having signifcant risk for incidents UNGC1 Full Child Labor 66 06.07.2012 The companies indicated on pages 12-33 Sustainability 31/12/2011 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the UNGC2 Report elimination of child labor. UNGC5 (*) The Yaþar Group’s first communication on progress. HR7 Operations identifed as having signifcant risk for incidents UNGC1 Full Involuntary Servitude and 66 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute UNGC2 Forced Labour to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. UNGC4 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the UNGC1 Full Security Services 75 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of UNGC2 E-mail addresses for Stakeholder Feedbacks: human rights that are relevant to operations. Society You may transmit us all your opinions, suggestions and Disclosure on Management Approach questions concerning the Sustainability Report printed by SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed UNGC10 Partial Risk Management 38-41 the Yaþar Group to the e-mail address specified below: for risks related to corruption. Business Ethics SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. UNGC10 Partial Risk Management 38-41 forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr Business Ethics Yaþar Holding A.Þ. Product Responsibility Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report is prepared exclusively Izmir Head Office Disclosure on Management Approach for informing purposes and sources and information believed Þehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 35210 Izmir Turkey PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Full The Value We Add to the 96-97 to be true and reliable pertaining to the period covered by Phone: +90 232 482 22 00 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Lives of our Consumers: the report were used. The content appearing in the present Fax: +90 232 484 17 89 483 46 59 Customer Satisfaction report may not be interpreted as a statement, guarantee E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr or commitment, and the completeness and Web: www.yasar.com.tr unchangeableness of the relevant content is not guaranteed. UNGC Principles All rights pertaining to the present report belong to Yaþar Holding A.Þ. Istanbul Representative Office Setüstü No: 23 Kabataþ 34427 Istanbul Turkey Subjects UNGC Principles We express our thanks to Sustainability Reporting Phone: +90 212 251 46 40 (Pbx) Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Team Members Fax: +90 212 244 42 00 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Due to their contributions to the preparation of Yaþar 2011 collective bargaining. Sustainability Report Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Ankara Representative Office we extend our sincere thanks to; Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarý Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. the Sustainable Development Committee, Ali Suavi Sokak No: 11 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Maltepe 06570 Ankara Turkey GC Reporting Team Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Tel: +90 312 294 92 00 (Pbx) Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Carbon Footprint Team Members Fax: +90 232 01 82 232 16 73 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. and to our Carbon Leaders E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Yaþar 2011 Sustainability Report 120
