Social Report 2010 Fare Banca per bene Social Report 2010 Letter to our stakeholders The consequences of the financial and economic crisis that occurred in recent years continued again into 2010 causing uncertainty and far from negligible difficulties on the entire Italian market. In these circumstances, the credit and banking system constitutes a very basic factor which affects the whole economy because of the key role it plays, holding the balance between savings and investment, householders and companies. It has always been our vocation to play this fundamental role as a “popular” co-operative bank with strong roots in local communities, close to them not just physically but also in terms of our values, principles and objectives. Our bank is committed to the creation of value for its customers, through the quality of its products and services, for its shareholders (both registered and unregistered) through the remuneration of their investment and sharing the business risk and also for our other stakeholders, and therefore for society as a whole. And on the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the unification of Italy we are proud that, with our work, we have always been at the service of the economic and social growth of the country. Over the years we have grown and further established our image and good reputation through constant pursuit of a style based on sound and prudent management and those criteria of social responsibility that we consider to be a distinctive feature of our history and identity. Today we are one of the largest banking groups in Italy, but we still maintain our strong local roots and consider social responsibility to be an important distinguishing feature of our everyday business in communities. It was with this in mind that last December we adopted a new code of ethics, a self regulatory instrument which extends our corporate governance rules to cover the entire sphere of our relationships with all our stakeholders. It sets out principles and rules of conduct which enhance our decision-making processes, consistent with our values contained in the Group Charter of Values and also in the universal principles of the “Global Compact”, which addresses the issues of human rights, work, the environment and anti-corruption, a pact which we have signed up to and to which we have reaffirmed our adhesion. For us compliance with our code of ethics is a value in itself and in addition to the concrete services to production and trade that we provide, it is a standard against which we intend to measure our conduct and results over the long term. The year 2010 ended with operating results which are modest in appearance as shown in our consolidated annual report, due to a fall in revenues which we were unable to fully offset by pursuit of stringent cost-cutting policies. The total economic value generated by operations fell, although to a very limited extent compared to the contraction in net profit, with consequences for all stakeholders: for personnel penalised by the reduction in variable remuneration and the slowdown in career promotions (especially for higher grades); for investors (registered and unregistered shareholders) with reduced dividends; for society with a reduction in taxes due to the lower earnings and to the reduction in funds available for grants to organisations and social initiatives; for suppliers due to action taken to reduce costs. Also the value of are our shares did not remain immune to the persistent pressures on financial markets, which hit the banking sector in particular very hard. However, we have not failed in these difficult times to fulfil our primary commitment to support the economy with, amongst other things, investments in many initiatives for households and companies performed both through the Italian Banking Association and at local level. Net of loans to large corporations, which are not comprised within our traditional mission, we increased our lending to the private sector above the average for the banking industry nationally. At the same time we have worked to achieve recovery with the introduction of organisational and internal operating measures designed to reduce costs and above all to boost revenues. This involved a stronger focus on our core business and changes to our internal organisational structure designed to simplify operations and enhance our geographical presence on markets by redefining the areas covered by the network banks and our distribution model. Careful interpretation of customer needs, which included consideration of processes currently underway in society, led to action taken to boost commercial growth partly through the acquisition of new customers consistent with our nature and mission as a “popular” bank. This included support for the third sector, nonprofit, church and religious organisations (increasingly more important economically and essential for personal services especially in the health and welfare sectors) and a stronger focus on multi-channel services (in a context of savings on costs and advantages for the environment), services for young people (an investment in our future) and migrant banking (an important factor for social inclusion and cohesion). Not least in importance, the Group has always considered capital strength as one of its distinguishing features and it is this which has enabled us to face the extraordinary difficulties of the economic situation in recent years as we have continued to support our customers, increased our market share and paid dividends, without the need for government assistance. The introduction of new prudential supervisory rules is gradually becoming a reality, focused on strengthening the quality and quantity of banking capital to prevent new financial crises from occurring through tight control over the liquidity risks of individual banks. We are therefore proposing an increase in our share capital to our shareholders designed to enable us to position ourselves, now and in the future, above the sector average, consistent with the prudence and realism characteristic of the Group. It will also enable us to remunerate capital at a rate consistent with its cost over the period of the new business plan which is about to be adopted. Strengthening capital constitutes a primary and indispensible requirement for us to be able to continue to operate as a bank in the more traditional sense, with a new global vision of operations to support potential growth in lending at the service of the real economy in communities. It enables us to continue to “be a good bank”, assisting customers at all the economically and financially important stages of their business, with conduct based on shared ethical principles and a strong sense of social responsibility. These policies will be pursued in our Business Plan and they will not fail to reward our work and your trust with high quality results. Emilio Zanetti Corrado Faissola Chairman of the Management Board Chairman of the Supervisory Board Anyone who wishes to receive a hardcopy or digital copy of the report may request throughout the tool “Document request” in the Group internet website or by contacting: UBI Banca Scpa Staff Corporate Social Responsibility Piazza V. Veneto, 8 24122 Bergamo Tel 035.392925 Fax 035.392996 bilancio.sociale@ubibanca.it The UBI Banca Group 6 Ethics and social responsibility 16 Relations with personnel 20 investors 30 customers 32 suppliers 42 Community involvement 44 Attention to the environment 54 The economic value created and distributed 58 Improvement objectives 60 Notes on the method 64 Independent auditors’ report 66 The UBI Banca Group The UBI Banca Group is the fourth largest Italian banking group by stock market capitalisation1 and the fifth largest by number A young Group with of branches2. It has always served families a 500 year history and small to medium-sized enterprises on markets and accounts for approximately one fifth of lending by “popular” banks3. 1493 Banca del Monte di Milano 1496 Banca del Monte di Pavia Our mission e Bergamo To create value for our customers and all 1855 Cassa di Risparmio di Cuneo our stakeholders, by generating sustainable and lasting profit through our ability to Banca Regionale Europea (1995) interpret, serve and encourage economic development and social well-being in the local communities in which we operate. 1861 Cassa di Risparmio We work everyday with passion, experience di Calabria e Lucania and the ability to blend tradition with 1949 Cassa di Risparmio di Puglia innovation to provide families and businesses 1956 Cassa di Risparmio Salernitana with excellence in our banking, financial and Banca Carime (1997) insurance products and services, thereby building long-lasting relationships, based on trust, with our customers and with all our 1869 Banca Popolare di Bergamo stakeholders. (originally Banca Mutua Popolare della Città e Provincia di Bergamo) Our history The UBI Banca Group was established on 1st April 2007 following the merger of the Banca Lombarda 1872 Banca di Valle Camonica e Piemontese Group into the Banche Popolari Unite Group (which was itself formed in 2003 from the merger of the Banca Popolare di Bergamo-Credito Varesino and Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria 1883 Credito Agrario Bresciano Groups). It is a federation of local banks with roots 1888 Banca San Paolo di Brescia in the Monti di Pietà banks, the Casse di Risparmio Banco di Brescia (1999) banks and in the first “popular” co-operative banks in unified Italy. The banks in the Group have a tradition of social responsibility stretching back over a hundred years. They are banks in the community and for the 1888 Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria 6 community which have developed over the years (originally Società per la contributing, sometimes in a determining manner, to Stagionatura e l’Assaggio delle The UBI Banca Group the well-being and social and economic development Sete ed Affini) Ethics and social of the local communities in which they were born. They responsibility anticipated implementation of the principles, initiatives Relationships with and objectives of social responsibility with the first 1891 Banca Popolare di Ancona personnel cause-related marketing campaigns (the promotion (originally Banca Cooperativa di investors Jesi) of products and services by supporting associations customers and projects in the field of international solidarity), the suppliers first forms of supplementary pensions for employees Community involvement and the first products which today are termed “ethical 1987 Banco di San Giorgio Attention to financial” products (current accounts and bonds where the environment the remuneration is donated to charity). The economic value created and distributed 1 Capitalisation as at 31/03/2011 2003 UBI Banca Private Investment 2 Data as at 30/09/2010 (originally Banca Lombarda Improvement objectives 3 Data as at 30/06/2010 Private Investment) A number of foundations have been created over the years to Economic Dimension respond more effectively to the social and cultural needs of (thousands of euro) some geographical areas that are of particular importance to Funding from customers 184,838,914 the Group. They are as follows: Fondazione CAB – Istituto di Cultura Giovanni Folonari (1983) and Fondazione Banca San of which indirect funding 78,078,869 Paolo di Brescia (1998) in Brescia, Fondazione Banca Popolare of which assets under management 42,629,553 di Bergamo Onlus (1991) in Bergamo and Fondazione Unione Net loans to customers 101,814,829 di Banche Italiane per Varese Onlus (founded in 2004 as Total assets 130,558,569 Fondazione BPU Banca per Varese) in Varese. Equity1 10,806,898 Volume of business2 5,300,029 The Group today Profit for the year 172,121 The Parent, the network banks and product Economic value created 3,047,802 companies are the three cornerstones on Contributions to the community which the Group’s activities rest, each with (donations and sponsorships) 16,241 their own mission. We are therefore able 1 Excluding profit for the year. to reconcile local banking with financial 2 The sum of items 10, 40, 70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 150, 220 and 240 in innovation, by adding the ability of a large the mandatory consolidated income statements prepared according to Bank of Italy rules. group to access global markets to the deep roots in local communities of our network banks. Social dimension The Parent UBI Banca Personnel 19,757 The functions of management, control and of which employees1 19,616 co-ordination are centralised at the Parent permanent 99.0% UBI Banca, which, with the assistance of the Training per capita (days) 5.2 Women in management positions Environmental Dimension (out of total senior managers) 9.4% Customers (thousands) 3,698 Total floor area of offices and branches (sq. m.) 1,077,975 of which private individuals 88.5% Businesses and organisations 11.5% TOE (Ton oil equivalents) 26,130 Shareholders 143,633 CO2 emissions (tons) 15,045 of which registered shareholders 78,340 Paper consumption (tons) 2,049 Suppliers 11,405 Waste products (tons) 2,153 of which strategic and/or Financing disbursed for environregular on the approved list 913 mental investments (millions of 768 euro) 1 Employees on the payroll; personnel in actual service numbered 19,612 Group structure UBI Banca: management, control and coordination IT activities and other support functions 7 Network Banks Product Companies Consumer Credit Internet Banking Corporate and Investment Banking Leasing and Factoring INTERNAtional Asset management The network banks Number of 20,0% Employees1 Customers Funding2 Loans3 branches (thousands €) (thousands €) (billions of euro) Banca Popolare di Bergamo 365 3,761 968.6 45.5 20.3 10,0% Banco di Brescia 362 2,632 579.5 26.6 15.1 Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria 234 1,756 375.5 19.2 8.9 Banca Regionale Europea 229 1,552 328.9 12.7 6.9 Banca Popolare di Ancona 248 1,715 20,7% 448.9 10.3 7.7 Banca Carime 294 2,221 822.1 13.3 4.8 Banca di Valle Camonica 64 346 78.0 2.5 1.9 Banco di San Giorgio 57 417 91.4 3.2 2.8 1 Actually in service 2 Total funding from ordinary customers 3 Loans to ordinary customers Geographical dimension Provinces by highest Municipalities by highest number of branches1 number of branches1 Branches 1,892 Brescia 219 Milano 117 Municipalities served1 1,208 Milano 188 Roma 69 Total population served 28 Bergamo 160 Brescia 42 (number of inhabitants)2 million Market share1 Cuneo 128 Bergamo 24 5.6% of which: North West 11.0% Varese 111 North East Napoli 21 1.2% Central Italy 3.6% Roma 83 Bari 19 South 8.3% Pavia 52 Torino 18 Provinces with market share over 10%1 19 Cosenza 52 Genova 16 Branches present in Italian regions which receive development funding from the 19.3% Bari 50 Varese 15 European Union3 Napoli 45 Monza 14 Total branches including branches abroad 1,901 1 Data as at 30/09/2010 Monza e Brianza 41 Cuneo 13 2 Source ISTAT (Italian office for statistics) for the population resident in Italian municipalities as at 31/12/2009 3 http://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/atlas2007/italia/index_en.htm Ancona 39 Pavia 13 1 Data as at 30/09/2010 consortium company UBI Sistemi e Servizi, While branches constitute the Group’s main also oversees IT activities and other support distribution channel, they are also facilities functions. that are physically closer to customers and which help integrate banks in local The network banks communities and economies. The eight local banks, termed network banks All the network banks have the same because of their role in the distribution distribution structure, specialised by network, are responsible for consolidating customer segment within three major and extending customer relationships by groupings, named markets: using the strength of their local brands linked • the Retail Market, which is the main to the UBI brand and their ability to provide market of the Group and comprises private an integrated range of banking, financial and individuals (divided into Mass Market and insurance services and products. Affluent on the basis of the financial wealth Customers by market segment Total funding and lending by market 8 80 67.6% The UBI Banca Group 70 Ethics and social 60 55.0% responsibility Relationships with 66.9% 50 43.9% personnel 1.0% 97.2% 1.8% 40 investors customers 19.9% 30 26.3% suppliers 9.6% 0.8% 20 Community involvement 10 6.1% Attention to Retail Market Mass Market 1.1% the environment Private Banking wealth < €50,000 0 Retail Private banking Corporate The economic value Market Affluent % < €500,000 created and distributed Corporate Market Small Business Improvement < €5 million Total funding objectives Organisations Lending possessed), “small economic operators” consumer credit, leasing and factoring (SEOs) and small businesses; services, corporate and investment banking, • the Private Market, which includes private insurance and financial services and online individuals with financial wealth of more trading. than 500.000 euro and for which we are the Our alliance with Prudential Financial third largest operator in the country; (a major American institution which • the Corporate Market consisting of businesses operates worldwide) continues in the asset with turnover of more than five million euro. management field with our subsidiary UBI Each Market has its own distribution Pramerica. We no longer hold any controlling network, supported by specialist units at the interests in companies In the insurance Parent, equipped with advanced IT tools to sector, but continue to operate through analyse and interpret customer requirements alliances with the companies Cattolica and to manage customer information Assicurazioni and Aviva. and relationships. We provide different commercial roles with specific career paths and specialist training. In addition to the distribution networks of Market presence nationally the eight local banks, the Group also has a We are present in almost all regions of Italy network of 786 financial advisors and the with the branches of our eight local banks 42 private bankers of UBI Banca Private and our networks of financial advisors and Investment, which operate throughout the private bankers. country. Size of municipalities served1 20.0% 23.9% The Product Companies Up to 5,000 These are a series of specialist companies inhabitants which provide the network banks with a From 5,000 to 10.0% 15,000 inhabitants full range of constantly up-to-date products and services to meet the requirements of From 15,000 to 50,000 inhabitants different customer segments by pursuing high From 50,000 to quality and value for money. 20.7% 100,000 inhabitants The main sectors in which we have 25.4% More than 100,000 developed specialist expertise, sometimes inhabitants through alliances with major international Location of network banks branches operators, are as follows: asset management, 1 (excluding UBI Banca Private Investment) in Italian municipalities for residents as at 30/11/2009 (source istat). Group branches by region 2 12 1 855 45 226 58 46 9 106 23 9 17 119 6 100 115 36 1 115 >20% 10 20% 5 10% 2 5% <2% Percentage of branches. Data as at 30/09/2010. Since 2010, with the exception of the cities and carry out banking transactions remotely, of Milan and Rome, each network bank has with lower costs, no opening hour limitations had its own exclusive geographical area and without the need to move physically. which includes the areas in which it has Additionally, IWBank, the Group’s internet its historical roots and areas for possible bank, has specialised for over ten years in the expansion as follows: provision of banking and financial services • Piedmont for Banca Regionale Europea, and products almost exclusively via internet. which transferred its headquarters from IW Bank is a leading player in the field Milan to Turin in January 2011; of professional online trading services, • the Lombard provinces of Milan and with sophisticated internally developed Pavia as well as Bologna, Parma, Piacenza, proprietary trading platforms, which Modena, Reggio Emilia and Ferrara for Banca customers use to trade on markets Popolare Commercio e Industria; throughout the world via internet, call centre • the Lombard provinces of Bergamo, Varese, and smartphone. Como, Lecco and Monza-Brianza for Banca In 2010 this bank pushed its customer base Popolare di Bergamo; beyond the 100,000 limit with business • the Lombard provinces of Brescia, Lodi, volumes reaching more than 35,000 orders Cremona, Mantua and Triveneto for Banco di per day on average for online trading. Brescia; • Valle Camonica (Province of Brescia) for Banca di Valle Camonica; • Liguria for Banco di San Giorgio; • the central regions of Italy for Banca The international presence Popolare di Ancona; We have constantly developed our • the southern regions of Italy for Banca international presence in order to support Carime. the international presence of our corporate clients, especially in emerging markets where Italian small to medium-sized enterprises have the greatest difficulty in gaining access The internet bank to financial services appropriate to their The physical network of branches is requirements. supplemented by the direct channels of We are not present in any “tax havens” and the network banks themselves – internet other financial centres listed by the OECD services, provided also by smartphones, and (countries that have not yet complied with the Qui UBI call centre – to consult accounts international tax standards). Munich UBI Banca Cracow International UBI Factor Branch Luxembourg Branch Vienna UBI Banca International Regional Manager UBI Trustee SA Moscow Representative Office Antibe Mentone Nizza Banca Regionale Shanghai Europea Branches Representative Office Lombarda China Fund Management Company Madrid UBI Banca International Branch Lausanne Banque de Dépôts et de Gestion 10 (branches at Lugano e Geneva) Mumbai Representative Hong Kong The UBI Banca Group Office Representative Ethics and social San Paolo Office responsibility Representative Office Relationships with personnel Singapore investors BDG Singapore Pte. Ltd customers suppliers Community involvement Attention to the environment The economic value created and distributed On 4th November 2009 the shareholders of Lombarda China Fund Management Company approved the Improvement change of name to Guodu UBI Fund Management Company for which authorisation by the local financial objectives authorities is in progress. The main action undertaken network to concentrate business on the more important financial centres; on the branch network of • increasing our co-operation agreements with the Group foreign banks so that we now cover more In order to redesign our geographical market than 50 countries through 37 banks; presence and reduce costs, in 2010 we • the contribution of the Luxembourg branch rationalised the distribution network of our to UBI Banca International. network banks. Consequently today we operate with a single brand name in 72 of the 78 provinces in which we are present. The ownership structure More specifically, we closed 44 branches and 37 mini-branches, in order to eliminate and governance of overlap and streamline our market presence UBI Banca in areas with limited margins for growth and UBI Banca, the Parent, is a “popular” bank with insufficient current and/or potential formed with the legal status of a joint stock profitability for the branches concerned and co-operative company. we transformed 138 branches into miniThe share capital as at 31st December 2010 branches. was composed of 639,145,902 ordinary We also defined a distinction (in operation shares with a nominal value of 2.50 euro since the beginning of 2011) between “group” each, listed by Borsa Italiana on the MTA branches and “head” branches. The latter (Mercato Telematico Azionario – electronic have greater decision-making powers and stock exchange) among the blue chip some processing activities are centralised in companies (those with the highest stock them. They also contain specialist personnel market capitalisation) and on the After Hours and constitute a local point of reference. Market (TAH). The share is also included in 41 We have rationalised our international international stock market indices. presence and extended the Group’s areas of influence by means of the following: • the reorganisation of Banque de Dépôts et de Gestion, by focusing its business on private banking and rationalising its branch 4 Source Bloomberg 31st March 2011. Organisation Chart of UBI Banca SUPERVISORY BOARD PARENT AND GROUP SUPPORT TO THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AUDIT (A. Arrigo) (A. Tassoni) MANAGEMENT BOARD SUPPORT TO THE MANAGEMENT BOARD AND REGISTERED SHAREHOLDERS ( P. Nava) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (V. Massiah) CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND INVESTOR RELATIONS ITALIAN SUBSIDIARIES AND MEDIA (G. Sciarrotta) RELATIONS (L. Ferraris) STRATEGIC RISK CONTROL DEVELOPMENT AND (M. Senati) PLANNING (C. Capelletti) 11 CORPORATE SOCIAL INTERNATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY DEVELOPMENT (D. Carrara) (G.Trombi) GENERAL MANAGER (G. Caldiani) LEGAL AFFAIRS AND JOINT GENERAL LITIGATION MANAGER (L. Bonzanini) (Not appointed) ADMINISTRATION COMMERCIAL HUMAN RESOURCES FINANCE CREDIT AND CREDIT AND MANAGEMENT AND ORGANISATION RECOVERY CONTROL (E. Stegher) (R. Leidi) (E. G. Medda) (A. Magri) (G. Lupinacci) Management and supervisory bodies Areas Staff units Senior managment Services Macro Areas Functions Supervisory Board Members Profession Independent Number of positions1 Attendance Accounts Remuneration Committee2 Committee2 at Board (%) (%) Internal Control Appointments Meetings (%) Committee2 Committee2 (%) (%) Corrado Faissola (Chairman) Former banking executive X 1 86 100 Giuseppe Calvi Lawyer X 3 100 100 100 (Senior Deputy Chairman) Alberto Folonari (Deputy Chairman) Businessman X 6 90 91 100 Mario Mazzoleni (Deputy Chairman) Businessman X 4 95 100 Battista Albertani Businessman X 11 90 Giovanni Bazoli Lawyer X 5 67 100 Luigi Bellini3 Lawyer X 7 86 89 Mario Cattaneo3 Accountant X 10 95 92 96 Silvia Fidanza Business woman X 2 93 Enio Fontana Businessman X 17 86 Carlo Garavaglia3 Accountant X 9 86 92 90 100 Alfredo Gusmini Former banking executive X 1 93 94 Pietro Gussalli Beretta Businessman X 6 62 Giuseppe Lucchini Businessman X 6 62 54 Italo Lucchini3 Accountant X 12 86 89 Federico Manzoni3 Accountant X 22 100 92 100 100 Salvatore Musumeci Toti University lecturer X 4 95 100 Lawyer Sergio Orlandi Businessman X 4 95 92 Alessandro Pedersoli Lawyer X 3 52 82 Giorgio Perolari Businessman X 4 81 Sergio Pivato3 University lecturer X 6 95 100 Accountant Roberto Sestini Businessman X 15 81 Giuseppe Zannoni Businessman X 2 100 Paolo Ferro Luzzi4 University lecturer 67 Lawyer Virginio Fidanza4 Businessman 67 Andrea Moltrasio4 Businessman 83 The board met 21 times in 2010 and the average length of Number of com12 28 11 4 meetings was four hours. mittee meetings 1 Number of appointments as management or supervisory/auditor board member held by the person pursuant to article 148-bis of the Consolidated Finance Act (inclusive of the position at UBI Banca scpa). 2 Membership of the committees is given with the percentage attendance of the meetings. 3 Enrolled in the Register of Accounting Auditors 4 In office until 23/04/2010 On 24/11/2010 the Supervisory Board formed a Related Parties Committee from among its members, composed of three independent permanent members (Federico Manzoni, Silvia Fidanza, Sergio Orlandi). The committee did not meet in 2010. Management Board Members Profession Executive Independent Number of Attendance at Board other positions1 Meetings (%) 12 Emilio Zanetti (Chairman) Banker-Businessman X 3 100 Flavio Pizzini (Deputy Chairman) Accountant X 5 100 The UBI Banca Group Victor Massiah (Chief Executive Officer) Banking executive X 4 100 Ethics and social Giampiero Auletta Armenise Banker X 7 100 responsibility Giuseppe Camadini Former Public notary X 7 93 Relationships with Mario Cera University lecturer Lawyer X 3 89 personnel Giorgio Frigeri Former banking executive X 10 100 investors Gian Luigi Gola Accountant X 2 100 customers Guido Lupini Former banking executive X 1 100 suppliers Andrea Moltrasio Businessman X 4 100 Community Franco Polotti Businessman X 4 100 involvement Piero Bertolotto2 Former banking executive 90 Attention to Mario Boselli2 Businessman 100 the environment Alfredo Gusmini2 Former banking executive 100 The economic value The board met 28 times in 2010 and the average length of meetings was five hours. created and distributed 1 Number of directorships or appointments as statutory auditor held in other companies listed on regulated markets including foreign markets, in financial, banking or insurance companies or companies of significant dimensions. Improvement 2 In office until 26/04/2010 objectives Board of arbitrators Further information on share capital and significant equity investments is given in the Members Profession Report on corporate governance and the ownership structure, attached to the 2010 Giampiero Donati Lawyer Annual Report. (Chairman) The registered shareholders of UBI Banca Mario Caffi Lawyer have formed three associations: (Full member) the Banca Lombarda e Piemontese Giuseppe Onofri Lawyer Association and the Gli amici di UBI Banca (Full member) Association which were added to in 2011 by Attilio Rota Lawyer the Tradizione in UBI Banca Association. (Alternate member) Pierluigi Tirale Lawyer (Alternate member) The UBI Banca governance model UBI Banca has adopted a two tier governance General management system with a Supervisory Board, responsible Members Position for strategic policy-setting and supervision and a Management Board, responsible for managing the bank in compliance Graziano Caldiani1 General Manager with general plans, strategies and policies Rossella Leidi Deputy General Manager approved by the Supervisory Board. Chief of the Commercial The UBI Banca governance model complies Macro Area with the law, regulations and voluntary Giovanni Lupinacci Deputy General Mancodes concerning the governance of banks, ager Chief or the Credit and Credit Recovery Macro Area listed companies and issuers of listed Ettore Giuseppe Medda Deputy General Manager securities in force in Italy. Chief of the Human Resources The Report on corporate governance and the and Organisation Macro Area ownership structure, attached to the 2010 Pierangelo Rigamonti Deputy General Manager Annual Report, gives a full description of Operational Chairman of the duties and responsibilities of the other UBI Sistemi e Servizi organisational units, with specific reference 1 In office since 01/10/2010 following the resignation of Riccardo Sora with effect from 30/09/2010. to the system of internal control. This involves all organisational units Independent Auditors in the pursuit of sound and prudent management principles through attentive The firm engaged to audit the separate and consolidated risk management, in accordance with the financial statements is KPMG Spa: their mandate expires strategic values and objectives of the Group. with the audit of the financial statements for 2011. Ownership The governance model of the network Given its co-operative form, UBI Banca has a banks diffuse ownership structure with no major or The network banks are joint stock core shareholders because: companies directly controlled by UBI Banca. • no shareholder may hold more than 0,50% Each has its own Board of Directors, which of the share capital except for collective contains members representing local investment companies (OICR); communities and economies. • shareholders who wish to participate in All the network banks share a single corporate activities by attending and voting organisational structure, in which the in shareholders’ meetings must apply for General Management oversees: admission as a registered shareholder5; • governance functions and support • each registered shareholder may cast only functions, which oversee risk control and one vote in shareholders’ meetings, no auditing activities, legal and corporate matter how many shares are owned, and affairs and human resource management; they may hold a maximum of three proxies. • business functions, consisting mainly of Shareholders that hold significant interests lending and commercial functions which within the meaning of Art. 120 of the constitute a distribution system structured Consolidated Finance Act include two around market segments; foundations of banking origin: the Cassa di • local units organised by market (Private 13 Risparmio di Cuneo Foundation, which also Banking Business Units, Retail Branches holds a stake in Banca Regionale Europea, organised in Local Areas, Corporate Business and the Banca del Monte di Lombardia Units) which report to the corresponding Foundation, which also holds a stake in central commercial functions. Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria. Individual functions are organised Information on the community activities differently internally to optimise the units in performed by the two foundations can be relation to the size of the bank in question. found on their respective websites, www. fbml.it and www.fondazionecrc.it, which may be visited. 5 Admission as a registered shareholder is decided by the Management Board, in the light, amongst other things, of general criteria established by the Supervisory Board, with regard exclusively to the objective interests of the Bank – including that of its independence and autonomy – and observance of the spirit of a co-operative bank. Senior management of the Network Banks6 Chairman Emilio Zanetti Chairman Andrea Pisani Banker Businessman Massamormile Deputy Chairman Antonio Bulgheroni Lawyer university Businessman lecturer Senior Deputy Chairman Giampiero Auletta Deputy Chairman Antonio Parimbelli Armenise Former Public notary Banker General Manager Giuseppe Masnaga Deputy Chairman Ermanna Carci Joint General Manager Osvaldo Ranica Former Teacher Deputy general Riccardo Tramezzani General Manager Raffaele Avantaggiato managers Silvano Manella Deputy General Manager Giuseppe Minervino Chairman Franco Polotti Chairman Gianfranco Maiolini Businessman Businessman Deputy Chairman Pierfrancesco Rampinelli Deputy Chairman Martino Gregorini Rota Businessman Lawyer General Manager Eraldo Stefano Menconi Deputy Chairman Costantino Vitali Deputy General Manager Pietro Tosana Former banking executive General Manager Elvio Sonnino Deputy general Stefano Vittorio Kuhn managers Paola Montresor Chairman Riccardo Garrone Businessman Deputy Chairman Eugenio Benvenuto Former banking executive Chairman Mario Cera General Manager Sergio Mori Lawyer university lecturer Deputy General Manager Luigi Minolfi Deputy Chairman Giampiero Auletta Armenise Banker Deputy Chairman Gregorio Magnetti Businessman General Manager Francesco Iorio Deputy General Manager Sergio Passoni Chairman Luigi Rossi di Montelera Businessman Senior Deputy Chairman Livio Strazzera Certified Accountant Deputy Chairman Maurilio Fratino Lawyer General Manager Roberto Tonizzo 14 Deputy General Manager Riccardo Barbarini The UBI Banca Group Ethics and social responsibility Relationships with personnel Chairman Corrado Mariotti Certified Accountant investors Senior Deputy Chairman Antonio Martinez customers Former banking executive suppliers Deputy Chairman Pietro Paolo Petrelli Community Former Certified Accountant involvement General Manager Luciano Goffi Attention to Condirettore Generale Nunzio Tartaglia the environment Deputy General Manager Genesio Rispoli The economic value created and distributed 6 Updated as at 13/04/2011 with the new Improvement appointments approved by the respective objectives shareholders’ meetings The main organisational Disposal of non core operations An agreement was concluded in May 2010 changes to sell depository banking operations to RCB We made a series of organisational changes Dexia. The objective was to further improve in 2010 to improve risk management operational risk and to focus resources and streamline commercial and lending and investments on the provision of core operational procedures and make them more products and services to customers. efficient. A brief report on the most important is given below, while the Annual Report may be consulted for more detailed information. Improvement of anti-money laundering model According to the organisational model of the Group the Anti-money Laundering Area, is located in the Risk Control Macro Area of UBI Banca. This unit is responsible for the management, co-ordination and control, including the provision of advice, of activities concerning the application of legislation and regulations relating to anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism. In order to further refine processes designed to prevent and fight money laundering and finance for terrorism, in 2010 we launched a project to improve anti-money laundering model with a plan to revise the internal control system in order to ensure effective and integrated preventative action to mitigate operational, legal, compliance and reputational risks. Operational streamlining A project was launched in the second half of 2009 to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the lending process in the network banks. It meets the dual requirement to reduce customer response times and to simplify administrative procedures without, however, relaxing credit risk controls. More specifically we increased loan approval powers at local level for lower risk counterparties, improved reporting systems for problem loans for more rapid intervention, introduced a specialist unit at UBI Sistemi e Servizi to support account managers to rapidly solve repayment problems with performing customers and we improved our credit recovery system. In order to improve service to customers on products and services classified as priority services, we launched a “Simplicity Objective” project designed to simplify procedures, reduce the number of signatures required for contracts and to reduce response times (e.g. on mortgages for private individuals and on changes in interest rates 15 and terms and conditions). The simplification project also involves action involving tools available to commercial personnel designed to improve operating procedures: • improvement of response times and standards of service and improvements to the intranet site available to the distribution network personnel; • rationalisation of corporate regulations and the introduction of more evolved consultation procedures. Ethics and social responsibility To be a good banker means creating a vision of a bank in which you can trust, a bank The Code of Ethics At the end of 2010 the Management Board recognised on the market for its management and the Supervisory Board of UBI Banca style based on a constant sense of ethics, approved a Code of Ethics, the result of transparency, integrity, dialogue and respect work performed involving personnel at in business. It means believing in strong and various levels and which included senior shared values and putting them into practice management, the Parent, the network banks in observance of principles and rules of and the main product companies. conduct which are not seen as limitations, The Code was officially adopted by the but as the way to establish our identity on banks and companies in the Group when it the market. was approved by their respective governing bodies and it was distributed to equity investees of the Bank who have agreed The Charter of Values to maintain conduct consistent with the Our Charter of Values – approved in principles contained in it. January 2008 – identifies those values on which the Group has based its identity and Integrity and proactive conduct in which, in both its strategic choices and its observance of the Code everyday business, must guide the conduct “The Code of Ethics defines the manner in of personnel in their relationships with which UBI intends to pursue its mission and customers and all other stakeholders. act in dealings with its various stakeholders, General ethical principles and rules of by basing its management and operating conduct for relations with all stakeholders activities on observance of moral and legal are drawn from those values and they are obligations towards society. We therefore declared in our Code of Ethics, of which our consider observance of the Code as a value Charter of Values forms an integral part. in itself. At the same time, we expect those with whom we have dealings to act according to similar ethical principles and which are in any case consistent with universally accepted principles concerning human rights, work, the environment and commercial practices.” Relationship with other sources of regulation “The regulations of this Code do not replace, but are in addition to those adopted in relation to specific external regulations, whether they are of a compulsory or voluntary nature. Observance of them is therefore based on the assumption of respect for the courts and a constant commitment to working in full compliance, with the provisions of the law and the regulations of public authorities in force in the different countries and environments of UBI’s activities, with externally established 16 Centrality of the Customer voluntary codes and regulations which we observe or shall observe in future and with The UBI Banca Group Integrity internal procedures. The Code of Ethics is an essential component Ethics and social responsibility Co-operation of the model of organisation, management and control adopted by the Bank in Relationships with accordance with and for the purposes of personnel Creation of value Legislative Decree No. 231/2001, because it investors adds to that model in terms of the expression customers Communication and communication of the Bank’s values, suppliers principles and rules of behaviour and it also Community Fairness contributes to the implementation of the involvement universal principles committed to by signing the Global Compact.” Attention to Identity the environment The economic value Distribution created and distributed The community The Code of Ethics is published on the Improvement Group website and may be consulted by objectives Innovation personnel by viewing internal regulations on the corporate intranet. A copy is delivered The principles of the Code of Ethics to members of corporate bodies when “The principles of the Code of Ethics they accept their appointment, to newly constitute a guide for our decisions and recruited personnel and to all those who actions from both a moral viewpoint do business with the Group under contract and for balancing the interests of or who represent the Bank without being different stakeholders, in order to subordinate to it (e.g. business partners, obtain their co-operation in the pursuit agents, consultants, sales persons and other of UBI’s business mission.” independent associates), when a relationship is established. Major suppliers are required Equality and non discrimination to sign a declaration of acceptance as part of the respective contract documents. Promotion of the common good We have planned an integrated programme Sustainable development of local of training and internal communication communities for the second quarter of 2011 in order to facilitate understanding and practical The creation of value in the long term implementation of the Code. The programme for all our stakeholders consists of seminars for management, Co-operation classroom training for the heads of operational units, remote training for Fairness and impartiality towards employees in general and educational stakeholders activity and the provision of specialist Effectiveness and efficiency in the use information on the corporate intranet and of resources through the in house organ. Violations Sober incentives and moral motivation for workers Reports of any violations of the Code are sent in written and not anonymous form to Legitimacy and non abuse of authority the Chief of Parent and Group Audit of UBI Banca or to the email address codice.etico@ Legality and institutional co-operation ubibanca.it. Reports are dealt with following procedures Accountability (disclosure) given in implementation and control In its implementation of general ethical regulations and they are maintained strictly principles the Code, not only defines confidential. Persons making reports are in conduct with different categories of any case guaranteed against any form of stakeholder, but also principles of retaliation, discrimination or penalty. conduct in dealings with stakeholders in general concerning the following: Corporate governance Prevention of criminal activity Protection of investors and the integrity of markets Confidentiality with regard to identity and personal data Formulation and performance of contracts Accounting records Protection and promotion of human rights Respect for and conservation of the environment 17 The Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org The Code of Ethics is based on the universal principles in the field of human rights, concerning labour, the environment and anti-corruption, which we have signed up to in our adhesion to the Global Compact. Social responsibility The main progress made with social responsibility since the birth of UBI Banca The adoption of a Code of Ethics is a fundamental stage in the creation of our social responsibility system. By identifying 2007 Establishment of the Corporate our stakeholders and clearly stating the Social Responsibility Staff Unit principles followed in our conduct towards Adoption of an armaments policy them, the Code constitutes a framework of Start of a three year cycle of reference we use to integrate ethical, social meetings with stakeholders on the and environmental aspects in our strategies, Social Report and social responsibility policies and corporate operations. In recent years, and especially in 2010, we have worked on organisational instruments, 2008 Adoption of a Charter of Values and the Code of Ethics in particular, on Adoption of an environmental innovation in business, pursuing objectives of policy sustainability and consistency with customer The CESVI sUBIto fundraising expectations and those of other stakeholders campaign for Bangladesh concerned and on improving dialogue The Qui UBI marketing campaign with stakeholders and accountability. The for the environment activities performed and the results achieved with the WWF are reported in those sections of the Social The Oscar di Bilancio Report which deal with relationships – financial reporting with stakeholders and attention to the Oscar – from FERPI environment. 2009 Partnership with PerMicro for micro-credit One Kiss One Euro fundraising campaign for infant nutrition projects in Uganda by CESVI CSR and sustainability assessment with Vigeo Best Place for Green Demoskopea and AzzeroCO2 2010 Adoption of the Code of Ethics Launch of a third sector commercial project Launch of a commercial project for immigrant citizens The marketing campaign Qui fai. Qui hai. Qui UBI for the Partnership environment Electricity certified as 100% from renewable sources The social responsibility model Areas of Global Intervention Objectives Mechanisms/Tools CSR areas Compact Corporate System of “organisational Code of Ethics (policies) Business ethics governance consistencies” designed to Ethical training direct the action of individuIncentive systems als and organisational units Formal commitments 18 in compliance with declared internal and external values Environment and standards. The UBI Banca Group Management of Products and services, comRisk, production, commercial Business Ethics and social business mercial approach models and distribution policies and innovation operations and distribution processes guidelines Human rights and labour responsibility consistent with the ethical, Industrial Plan objectives Relationships with social and environmental Specific projects personnel expectations of stakeholders (new combinations of Corruption investors product/segment/channel). customers Management of Recognition of the value of inPolicies and guidelines for Community suppliers social action tervention in the community social investments involvement by means of an organic line of (sponsorisations, gifts) Community management consistent with Specific projects involvement identity and business choices. Attention to Reporting and An integrated system for Dialogue with stakeholders Audit sociale the environment control monitoring operations and Management dashboards The economic value internal and external comSocial Report created and distributed munication consistent with Website the models implemented. Social and environmental Improvement certifications objectives Human resources Environment Business Corporate Community Human rights Score % conduct Governance involvement Banks in the Dow Jones STOXX 600 Social responsibility commitments Rating UBI Banca We support associations and working groups committed to the diffusion of a culture of social Last rating issued responsibility and best practices by contributing to (November 2010) debate with participation in seminars, meetings and conventions. We participate with our delegates in the CSR Manager Network Italy (www.csrmanagernetwork.it) and in EBEN Italia (www.eben.it), we play an active role in the work of the Italian Banking Association technical Human resources Environment Economic Corporate Community Social Score Score% commission on corporate social responsibility and we % dimension Total support the Sodalitas Foundation (www.sodalitas.it) Business dimension Governance Environmental and the work of Politeia (www.politeia-centrostudi. conduct involvement dimension Human rights org). score Banking sector average Ethical ratings and indicators Banks in the Dow Jones STOXX 600 UBI Banca We are regularly rated by Vigeo (www.vigeo.com), UBI Banca a leading international rating agency which analyses almost 1,500 European companies and we participate Last rating issued voluntarily each year in the SAM Group rating (www. (October 2009) sam-group.com) for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, one of the main families of ethical indices at global level. We are not included in the index, but we are now regularly above the average for the sector (except for the environmental dimension), with points 30.0 40.4 34.6 42.0 28.6 25.0 of excellence in our risk management, customer Use of Structure Economic Corporate Community Social Score %Score Inter-functional Score % % relationships and social and environmental reporting. Human resources Environment Importance resources dimension Total Business Governance work dimension The quality of the social responsibility section of the impact Environmental Value of rights Stakeholdersconduct involvement Group website is assessed each year by Lundquist Human score communication (www.lundquist.it) for the CSR Online Awards. dimension Banks in the Dow Jones STOXX 600 Our share is included in the AXIA Financial Research Banking UBI Bancasector average indices (www.axia.org) and the E.Capital Indices UBI Banca sample Benchmark (www.ecpindices.com): The rating UBIwas unchanged in 2010 Banca • AXIA Ethical Index with an A++ rating (first 40 shares in the Eurostoxx50 index in order of Last rating issued capitalisation among those with an ethical class A (2009) rating); • AXIA CSR Index with an A++1 rating1 (first 40 shares in the Eurostoxx60 index in order of capitalisation among those with an ethical rating of class A or at 40.4 42.0 least B++); 28.6 30.0 25.0 34.6 Use of Economic Inter-functional Social Score % • ECPI Ethical Index euro (150 largest European Score % companies by capitalisation which meet the social resources Total dimension Structure Importance responsibility requirements); dimension Environmental work score impact Value of Stakeholders • ECPI Ethical Index EMU (150 largest companies by dimension Banking sector average stock market capitalisation in the euro area which UBI Banca communication meet the specified ethical criteria). Benchmark sample The share is no longer included in the Ethibel UBI Banca Excellence Investment Register, which identifies those companies that are investable according to the The survey is performed every two years. Ethibel Excellence Index of Ethibel (www.ethibel.org). We were unable to discover the reasons. Score1 Future objectives 40.4 42.0 1 Banca MPS 30.0 28.6 25.0 34.6 58.4 The principal objectives for 2011 are as follows: 2 Intesa Sanpaolo 57.5 • a training and internal communication Use of Structure Stakeholders Inter-functional Importance Value of 3 Unicredit Group 55.1 Score % programme to implement the Code of Ethics; • the intensification of commitments to and 4 resources UBI Banca impact 43.2 work communication co-operation for sustainability, an objective not 19 5 Banca Popolare di Milano 37.8 achieved in 2010; 1 Classification for the banking sector only Benchmark sample • implementation of a system to monitor the Code UBI Banca of Ethics; The Rating was not repeated in 2010 • the improvement of social reporting in terms of contents and distribution channels; • further activities for dialogue with stakeholders on the Social Report and on social responsibility. Score1 1 Banca MPS 65.5 2 Unicredit 62.0 3 UBI Banca 53.0 1 The sign ++ indicates that the company is trying 15th place overall to introduce corporate social responsibility into general strategies with a model oriented towards 1st place for the reporting of socially responsible maximising satisfaction for all stakeholders investments even if there are still some small problems with 1 Classification for the banking sector only implementation. Relations with personnel We are committed to the application of the principles set out in the ILO (International Labour Organisation) conventions on which Employees by rank local and national standards are based in all 479 2.4% our Group member companies. 11,586 59.1% Our polices and processes for the selection and management of personnel comply with 7,551 38.5% these principles and those of the Global Compact protection of labour because we believe that each individual person is Senior managers a distinctive resource of values, skills and Middle managers Professional areas abilities which we must be able to recognise and value in order to translate Group objectives into personal, team and corporate results. Age (average 43 years) 10.4% 25.2% Personnel numbers 30.9% 19,616 [-294] 30 and under Employees1 31 to 40 41 to 50 33.5% 99.0% [+1.5pp] permanent over 50 years 36.7% [+1.2pp] women Length of service (average 17 years) 12,866 [-450] commercial network with 89.5% 35.8% 20.2% in the Retail Market 18.0% 87 [-286] Up to 5 years External workers on 6 to 10 years 11 to 20 years personnel leasing contracts 26.0% Over 20 years 54 [-20] Educational qualifications Job experience 9.6% 1.1% (internships) 20 26.5% High school diploma Second level The UBI Banca Group (five year) degree Other Ethics and social responsibility 62.8% First level (three year) degree Relationships with personnel investors Geographical distribution (workplace) customers suppliers 3.2% 1.3% Community 10.3% 70.2% involvement Attention to 15.0% the environment North West The economic value South and Islands created and distributed Central Italy Improvement 1 Employees on the payroll. Actual employees in North East objectives service numbered 19,612. Abroad 704 [+26] Appointments by age Appointments 6.3% 2.1% 14.2% 41.6% [+14.8pp] permanent 77.4% 45.5% [-0.7pp] women 30 and under 31 to 40 41 to 50 New appointments are usually of young Over 50 years people starting their first job. Recruitment is normally on temporary contracts (temporary employee and personnel leasing contracts) Appointments by geographical area and involves training and testing for the 3.4% 7.2% progressive acquisition of the skills required for their roles. Over the last three years 10.4% the Integration Business Plan has pursued 52.3% the goal of optimising personnel numbers and transforming the temporary contracts North West of personnel recruited in recent years into South and Islands permanent contracts, with a significant 26.7% Central Italy North East slowdown in new appointments. Abroad New appointments in 2010 included four senior managers, of which one in Piedmont and three abroad. Personnel leaving by age 8.1% 13.4% 1,056 [+159] Personnel leaving 60.4% 23.4% [-14.4pp] women 18.1% Over 50 years 30 and under 31 to 40 53.6% [+31.2pp] retirements 41 to 50 23.7% [-3.6pp] voluntarily Personnel leaving by geographical area leaving 4.0% 18.8% [-27.9pp] end of contract 6.9% 10.1% 2.2% [+1.1pp] dismissals 60.3% North West The 23 dismissals included nine for just 18.7% South and Islands cause, one for justified reasons and thirteen Central Italy for reductions in personnel numbers North East performed by Banque de Dépôts et de Abroad Gestion, as part of a reorganisation plan made necessary by changes in market conditions. The plan to reduce personnel numbers was performed in full compliance with Swiss labour laws and the bank provided outplacement services to each redundant employee designed to help them to find a new job. All the employees dismissed have already found new jobs. 21 5.3% Turnover2 2 Number of employees leaving employment during the year as a percentage of personnel employed at the beginning of the year. Selection process to fill increasingly more complex positions; • employee relationship management (ERM), Selection activities are performed centrally by the Parent. Each stage in the process a pool of all information on employees, is performed according to the criteria of which allows human resource managers to transparency, independent judgement, focus activity on a single person and to act in fairness and respect for the personal details a more proactive manner and more rapidly. of candidates without any discrimination. This new tool was rolled out at the Parent, Candidates are assessed on the basis of their the network banks and UBI Sistemi e Servizi education, work experience, motivation in 2010. and personal capabilities in relation to the position applied for. We inform candidates of the training and career paths they may follow Career progressions within the Group and of the opportunities, Total career progressions numbered 1,685 in procedures and timing of the selection 2010 (Less than 16.8% compared to 2009), process. with a large reduction in promotions to In 2010 we received almost 28,000 CVs higher levels, especial from middle to senior (more than 6,000 less than in 2009), of which management. over 50% from women and we examined almost 2,300 applications (approximately 2,000 less than in 2009). Particular attention was paid to initiatives in schools and universities (e.g. career days) where we offer young people the opportunity to acquire experience in the field appropriate to their training programmes, with 121 job experience internships during the year at the Parent and in the product companies. Management and development In order to diffuse a culture of personnel management that is compliant with and guarantees those principles of fairness, consistency, uniformity and meritocracy which guide us in our everyday business, we use management and development tools in all the main Group member companies that have been developed over the years and that are periodically updated and aligned with strategic decisions and policies set at Group level. They consist of the following: • roles, to identify professionalism in companies in terms of skills, autonomy and relations within a given organisational context; • skill assessment, to recognise and develop personal capabilities and knowledge through appropriate training programmes. Participation in this process in 2010 included an interview between workers and managers and covered 95.1% of the 18,504 employees involved; • performance assessment, to recognise 22 and guide the contribution of each person to the achievement of corporate objectives. Performance sheets were compiled in 2010 Career progressions The UBI Banca Group for 97.6% of the 18,216 employees involved; Ethics and social 0.1% responsibility • measurement of potential, to assess a 13.1% person’s ability to pursue a path to positions Relationships with of increasing complexity in a career 21.1% personnel promotion path; investors • position weighting, used to define the Within customers organisational complexity of management professional positions in all the principal companies in the areas suppliers Within middle Group, in order to assist in the definition of management Community involvement career promotion paths; From • growth tables and career paths, the former 65.7% professional Attention to the environment to select people ready in the short or medium areas to middle term to fill determined key positions and management The economic value From middle created and distributed the latter to identify a succession of roles in management to the distribution network which will allow senior Improvement objectives progressive acquisition of the skills required management Mobility pension contribution plans, which, however, We paid great attention to containing were excluded under the provisions of the geographical mobility for individuals and the relative national labour contract. On the possible negative repercussions on working basis of information provided by the General conditions due to retraining and role changes Management of the Parent, these cases in action taken relating to Group integration are gradually moving towards an agreed processes (in accordance with the principles settlement. However, the judges seem to of the Trade Union Memorandum of Intent have accepted the principle advanced by the for the 2007-2010 Integration Business Plan Bank (a principle of great importance also for of 14th August 2007) and in action designed the whole banking industry). to improve efficiency and productivity by containing personnel costs. Geographical mobility affects almost 25% of Remuneration and employees, in terms of working in a different province to that in which they are resident3. incentives Intragroup mobility is managed as an Recent changes in the economic scenario opportunity for the occupational growth and and the increasingly greater attention paid enhancement of individuals, by assigning by public opinion to matters concerning employees with new duties consistent with remuneration in the financial sector have their qualifications, experience, potential and led to an acceleration of a general review aptitudes. of existing policies and practices, which Intragroup transfers numbered 641 in 2010 was started by the Supervisory Authority. (110 more than in 2009). We employed The objective is to move towards a system agreed upon action to achieve a series of which is more in line with the interests of transfers of key human resources, which all stakeholders and in line with the medium enabled us to enhance the personnel and long-term strategies of companies. In involved and at the same time create a this context, in March 2010 the Supervisory climate of participation and a standardisation Board of UBI Banca approved a Group of procedures and practices across Remuneration and incentives policy based on companies. the following principles: • activation and measurement based on Disciplinary measures4 indicators which reflect the profitability of A total of 135 disciplinary measures were the bank over time, adjusted for current and adopted during the year (46 less than in future risks, for the cost of equity and the 2009) due mainly to operational irregularities liquidity employed; and negligence of various kinds: 99 verbal • consistency of the total amount of variable or written reprimands, 29 suspensions from remuneration with the maintenance of an work and salary (from one to ten days) adequate level of capitalisation for the risks and seven dismissals for just cause (undue assumed; appropriation of funds). • symmetry of rewards with respect to the results achieved with significant reductions Litigation4 (even to zero) if performance is below During the year 170 legal cases were forecasts or negative; initiated (+86 compared to 2009), while 60 • assessment of the overall results of the were concluded. Bank or the Group, of the business unit a At the end of 2010, 226 cases were in person belongs to and, where possible, of the progress (41 more than in 2009), including results of the individual; those for which rulings were reached in • deferred payment for an appropriate period the last two years but for which the time of time, for a substantial proportion of the limit for appeals has not yet expired. The remuneration of those roles of particular majority of them (88) concern applications importance to Group profits and risk; made jointly by groups of former employees • any remuneration for the early termination for the recognition of contributions paid to of employment contracts is linked to the supplementary company pension and health performance achieved and the risks assumed. assistance funds as valid for defined Objectives were set in the definition of Group incentive schemes which, in compliance with the requirements of 23 objectivity and immediate measurement, Litigation in progress were consistent with the rules of prudent risk management, with long term strategies 1.3% 0.9% 0.4% Pension and and interests (including sustainable growth, social security ethics, uniformity, personnel development, 2.7% 38.9% Remuneration skills acquired), with the effectiveness Termination of 13.7% contract of and permanence of the results and with employment the objective of ensuring integrity in Duties and job customer relationships and compliance with 15.5% descriptions regulations and the law. Cases initiated against employees Job appointments 26.6% and performance of work Anti trade union conduct pursuant to Art. 28 3 The figures relate to 98% of employees. Other 4 The figures relate to 91% of employees. In addition to profit objectives, adjusted for actual or expected losses (e.g. operating losses and impairment losses on loans) or volume of business objectives expressed in terms of totals without reference to individual products, non financial objectives are also set, related amongst other things to monitoring risk ex-ante (e.g. performing positions past due for longer than 60 days, MiFID advice, net customer flows) and customer satisfaction objectives (using the Training by subject areas continuous monitoring of the “Consultation (number of days) Project). 31,264 All employees are informed of the 35,000 mechanisms by which incentive schemes function. In order to assist with this we 30,000 produced a video accessible on the Group 25,000 19,716 13,463 intranet. 20,000 8,976 15,000 8,057 7,997 7,148 10,000 Variable remuneration 5,000 Since, on the basis of the conditions set 0 for qualification, the incentive scheme Insurance Regulatory Finance and MiFID Behavioural / Loans Operational/IT/ Commercial was not activated in 2010, total variable remuneration accounted for 1.54% of total managerial languages personnel expense recognised in the income statement, compared to 4.2% in 2009. Training5 In our view continuous training is a key success factor not only for the professional Details of regulatory training enhancement of personnel and for the (number of days) introduction of new operational models, processes and systems, but also to assist in the development of corporate identity and 8,000 6,702 7,000 6,039 culture through the diffusion of Group values 6,000 and strategies. 5,000 4,000 2,679 2,448 95,011 [-4.254] 3,000 Training days6 2,000 654 762 1,000 432 0 5.2 [-0.2] average days per Administrative liability of Transparency and usury PattiChiari Safety (Legislative Decree No. Privacy Anti-money laundering Other regulatory subjects employee entities (Legislative Decree No. 81/2008 formerly Legislative 18.136 [-55] employees who (banking services charter) participated in at least one 231/2001) Decree No. 626/94) training activity 99% [unchanged] network bank personnel who participated in at I.S.E.O. Summer School least one training activity 24 6.1 [-0,2] average days per network bank employee The UBI Banca Group Ethics and social 2.8% [-0,1pp] of training days responsibility Relationships with Training is performed by Group bank and personnel Twelve young members of Group company personnel, who have qualified to investors perform classroom training in the in house personnel received a UBI Banca study customers School for Instructors, and by professional scholarship to participate – together suppliers instructors from reputable specialist with students from 139 universities in Community companies with which arrangements have 60 nations – in the 2010 edition of the involvement been established. I.S.E.O. summer school. This edition, Attention to held by the Nobel prize winners the environment Robert Solow, George Akerlof and The economic value Michel Spence, was dedicated to the created and distributed 5 The figures relate to 96% of employees. new architecture of markets and to Improvement 6 Exclusive of 1,610 training days provided by emerging and developing economies in objectives internal instructors the wake of the international crisis. The overall training supply, which may be consulted in a special catalogue, accessible Internal communication With internal communication we seek on the corporate intranet, includes the to strengthen dialogue with personnel in following: order to increase cohesion and a sense of • training programmes for specific roles: belonging, to ensure constant dissemination these consist of a sequence of courses of information (including news of strategies and periods of job experience to allow the and changes in progress) and to direct abilities required for the role filled or to be behaviour towards shared objectives. filled within the organisation to be acquired, developed and strengthened both from the viewpoint of technical knowledge and Intranet relationship and behavioural skills. Different The corporate intranet constitutes the main programmes are employed for distribution tool for internal communication and it is network units, central units, new recruits and at the centre of an evolving project which personnel involved in professional retraining is designed to make communication more schemes. Compulsory qualifying courses interactive and direct. Employees have access are provided with a final examination for to most of the corporate documentation positions of particular responsibility (e.g. they use in their work through the corporate branch manager) to be completed before the intranet. appointment is made; In 2010 we produced videos to increase • specific training activity: specific training is transparency in the bank-employee also provided designed to meet the needs of relationship, to simplify information on particular segments of Group personnel and regulatory aspects, to support commercial to support the introduction of organisational activity and to facilitate the understanding of strategies and changes, changes produced incentive mechanisms. by regulatory developments and the In order to provide information on the main more significant innovations in products, issues addressed during the Shareholders’ instruments and processes. Meeting of UBI Banca held on 24th April A total of over 441,000 training days were 2010, we produced an electronic magazine delivered in the period 2007-2010, 11% more containing brief interviews given before and than that planned under the Business Plan. after the meeting and an overview of the In 2010 we continued with training activity macroeconomic scenario and the outlook for designed to improve the professional skills the Group. of roles in the distribution network, with a focus on personnel with management responsibilities for business activities and yoUBI primarily on branch managers. Roles with The two monthly periodical yoUBI provides greater responsibilities were required to personnel with information and develops participate in a Group managerial training corporate culture. It is printed on ecological programme which consisted of involvement paper with great care taken over the graphics in intercompany events designed to and is used to inform all personnel of the encourage exchange of information with main developments in the history of the others in different professional fields. A Group. We try to provide food for thought training initiative for female Group personnel through interviews with important external was provided on the subject of “diversity personalities and informal spaces in which to share leisure time experiences or to put management”. forward subjects for discussion. In addition Finally, all Group personnel may freely make to this the supplement to yoUBI, UBI News, use of remote training facilities for courses in is dedicated to network bank activities and IT literacy and the English language. the other supplement yoUBI New Time to An assessment questionnaire must be maintaining relations with retired personnel, completed for all training activities, whether while Noi Docenti UBI is a four monthly classroom or remote, and a learning periodical which provides information for questionnaire must be compiled for technical members of the School for Instructors and to and occupational courses, which assesses keep them up-to-date. acquisition of the contents and successful completion of the course. 25 Events Events are organised to encourage informal meetings and direct exchange of information between and with the senior management of companies and the Group and they are useful during delicate periods of change and the implementation of important projects. 79% [+1pp] Degree of satisfaction with training (compared to an objective level of 69%) Diversity and equal Employees by gender opportunities7 While no official policy has been set on this 6,098 5,881 7,000 issue, we have been committed for some 5,488 6,000 time to guaranteeing equal opportunities 5,000 and valuing diversity. In addition to offering 4,000 a wide choice of alternative working hours, we have supplementary company labour 3,000 1,670 agreements which allow greater use of part2,000 time work and leave than that guaranteed by 1,000 434 law. 0 45 Senior managers Middle managers Professional Areas 133,382 [-1,848] Men Days of leave Women 67.4% [+2.0pp] for maternity and childcare Career progressions 13.1% [+1.6pp] to assist 10.12% disabled family members 12 10 8.79% Female personnel returning from maternity 8 leave normally have access to part-time work 5.47% and receive refresher courses to return to 6 4.36% their position. Moreover, in some towns and 2.26% 1.48% 4 cities where the need has arisen, children’s 0.03% 0.00% 2 nurseries have been provided at the work place for some years now. 0 Within Within middle From professional From middle to % areas to middle 1,440 [+48] management professional areas Part-time contracts Men management senior management Women 7.3% [+0.3pp] of employees 95.1% [+0.4pp] of female personnel Average gross salary (thousands of euro) Male and female levels of average gross 140.3 126.7 150 annual salaries came progressively closer between 2009 and 2010: the ratio of 120 female to male salaries is 90.3% for senior managers, 88.2% for middle managers 90 and 92.7% for professional areas. The 59.7 52.6 60 remaining difference is due in part to the 36.9 34.2 higher frequency of part time workers among 30 female personnel. As concerns protected categories, we 0 comply with regulatory obligations Senior managers Middle managers Professional Areas 26 throughout the year, using the instruments made available by the legislation in force. The UBI Banca Group We seek to provide disabled persons with Men Ethics and social the best opportunities for integration at Women responsibility work. At the end of 2010 we had 860 Relationships with disabled employees (+4 compared to 2009), accounting for 4.4% of total employees, 28 personnel refugees (-4) and 305 persons belonging to investors other protected categories (-12). customers suppliers Community involvement Attention to the environment The economic value 7 The figures relate to 98% of employees, with created and distributed exception of the data on employees by gender Improvement and on career progression which relate to the objectives entire Group. Trade union relations Health and safety Complete freedom of association and The Prevention and Protection Service membership of trade unions is guaranteed of the Parent is responsible for health and for all Group employees and they are all safety at the workplace for the entire Group, covered by collective bargaining procedures. by setting standard regulations for risk There are 9 trade union organisations in the assessment, internal procedures, training Group to which 83.1% of personnel belong programmes and management of relations (this data relates to 91% of employees). with safety doctors. All trade union organisations operate freely In order to prevent risks from arising at the without restrictions and the Group makes source, we have adopted and implemented adequate operational means available to a management and organisational system them to conduct trade union activities. Our for health and safety with a set of functions trade union relations policy is based on which ensure technical responsibilities respect for the procedures set out in the and powers are in place to verify, assess, Banking National Labour Contract and on manage and control risk. Where required the search for agreement, where possible, by legislation each employee is associated with all the different unions through on the basis of risk assessment procedures transparent, concrete and continuous with a type of exposure to risk with the dialogue even beyond the minimum required subsequent scheduling of the necessary by institutional procedures. More specifically, medical appointments. for substantial changes in organisational Attention was focused in 2010 on the issue structure, we ensure full compliance with the of work related stress, which led to the procedures set out in the Banking National formulation of criteria to identify and acquire Labour Contract which sets a minimum corporate data to assess it. The assessment period of 45 days for negotiations with trade process will be completed in 2011 in close union organisations. co-operation with safety doctors and with the involvement of a significant sample of employees. Trade union activity8 The issue of mobbing – which differs Trade union activity was intense in 2010, from work-related stress because it is due mainly to the completion of Group distinguished by the will to harm and is integration according to the 2007-2010 therefore similar to violence, harassment Business Plan, to the refinement and and discrimination – is not addressed in the optimisation of the branch networks of some context of risk assessment, because it is not of the network banks and to improvements considered a standard work-related risk and in efficiency and productivity through also because human resource management rigorous containment of costs and the search policies ensure that behaviour is consistent for solutions which will ensure fair and with and observant of fundamental sustainable working conditions for personnel. individual and worker rights and the right to dignity and personal respect for all. Respect for privacy is scrupulously observed 130 [-10] in all activities performed to implement health and safety policies at the workplace. Trade union meetings 520 [-80] estimated hours of Prevention activities9 meetings We performed 678 medical visits in 2010 (-284 compared to 2009), 318 on site inspections and monitoring of environments 219,383 [+62,996] hours of (-278), 26 evacuation drills (-7) and 6,659 leave for trade union activities technical interventions to reduce risks (+1,938). We provided training to 2,518 employees and post robbery assistance to On 26th November 2010 an agreement was 31 employees (-12 compared to 2009). An signed – a “memorandum on climate” – the e-learning course will be made available to result of wide ranging consideration of issues personnel who use PCs in 2011 with useful relating to the best use of human resources information concerning correct posture and 27 and their centrality and enhancement as a the best way of using the instrumentation. key factor for the development and success of the Group. The agreement was centred on respect for human dignity through an Illnesses and accidents10 adequate system of guarantees regarding Again in 2010 Group data on occupational working conditions and how work is accidents and illnesses reflected that for the organised. insurance and banking sectors, in the lowest No strikes relating to company disputes class for the absolute danger, frequency and occurred during the year, while there were seriousness of accidents. 11,705 hours of strikes relating to national Absences from work for illness, amounting disputes. to 128,176 days (-7,379 compared to 2009), accounted for 13.3% of total absences. 8 The data relates to 91% of employees. 9 The data relates to 95% of employees. 10 The data relates to 98% of employees. Robbery risk Since one of the risk factors for the safety Social security Depending on the companies to which of personnel is the risk of robbery, we they belong, Group employees can benefit have adopted automatic systems for from supplementary forms of pension and cash management, which have helped to health care, insurance policies covering substantially reduce the number of robberies death or permanent disablement, gifts on performed (-31.3% compared to 2009). important occasions such as marriages, births In 2010 we found an increase compared to and adoptions, high school and university recent years in the phenomenon of robberies graduation, scholarship grants for children, performed with personnel taken hostage paid leave to care for disabled family (while waiting for safes controlled by timers members, the emergency hospitalisation to open) with a consequent increase in stress of family members, the birth or adoption levels. of children and when they start nursery Therefore in addition to increasing postschooling. We also make extra payments to robbery psychological assistance (in terms single income families or those with disabled of the number of psychologists available members. to personnel) and to the classroom training programme furnished by specialist psychologists, online training facilities will be Services introduced in 2011, which simulate the real Services include not only company crèches, dynamics of the different types of robbery but also eight company cultural and and as a result of their very interactive recreational clubs, holiday accommodation nature, they provide personnel with a useful facilities at tourist locations (available to means of learning the correct behaviour to personnel and their families under special employ on those occasions. terms) and shuttle bus services provided for travel to and from work. Favourable terms and conditions are granted on charges and commissions for banking services along with loans at special rates for the purchase of homes and automatic credit on easy terms in line with the best market conditions. Solidarity We have supported the Clematis Onlus since 2002. It is an association formed by employees and former employees of the former Banca Popolare di Bergamo-Credito Varesino. The association was formed to give support to the families of employees, whether in service or retired, who have non self sufficient, disabled children. Accidents At work Travelling to and from work Events 46 182 Days lost 1,286 5,195 Frequency 1.83 7.24 index1 28 Severity 0.05 0.21 index2 1 Number of accidents per million hours worked The UBI Banca Group 2 Number of days lost for every 1.000 hours worked Ethics and social responsibility Clematis Onlus www.clematisonlus.org Relationships with Robberies and thefts 1 personnel Number of Frequency Employees investors events index2 involved3 The various initiatives of the customers association also include an Thefts 19 1,0 insurance convention to provide the suppliers (on ATMs) disabled children with an annual Community involvement Robberies 88 4.67 264 supplementary, revaluable, income 1 Data acquired from 1,886 branches of 12,000 euro payable on the death Attention to the environment 2 Number of events every 100 branches of both parents, which has been used 3 Estimated figure by 65 families – of which 30 former The economic value created and distributed employees in retirement – for 68 disabled children. Improvement objectives Social security Number of Average number Costs incurred places of users in euro Children’s nurseries 95 73 349,664 of which at Bergamo 46 38 Brescia 25 14 Milan 12 9 Jesi 12 12 Mobility (12 coaches) 380 889,094 Company cultural and recreational clubs 24,177 598,491 Supplementary pensions and insurance policies 48,576,646 Study grants and contributions to families 2,977,886 TOTAL 53,391,781 29 Relations with investors UBI Banca is a joint stock co-operative In 2010, 1,206 applications for admission to company with a broad shareholder base, registered shareholder status were received consisting of registered and unregistered (792 more than in 2009), which were all shareholders. accepted. 143,633 [-2,977] 78,340 [-2.771] Shareholders (registered Registered shareholders and unregistered) 99.3% [unchanged] private 98.4% [+0.1pp] private individuals individuals 84.2% [-0.1pp] in Lombardy 71.2% [-0,1pp] in Lombardy 6.4% [-0.3pp] Group employees 21.9% [-0.4pp] share capital held by foreign investors The value of the investment We work to provide all our shareholders with an adequate return and medium to long-term growth in the value of their investment, compatible with general conditions on markets and principles of sound and prudent management and capital strength. Legal status While the Bank continued as a sound (Number of shares) concern at the end of 2010, capital ratios were affected by growth in lending at 36.7% the service of the economy and by more 40 severe regulations issued by the Bank of Italy. Therefore, in consideration of the 30 expected new levels of the Basel 3 capital 18.3% 18.6% requirements, trends for the market and 13.6% 20 the economic situation, together with the 6.4% launch of a new business plan, we decided to 3.0% 10 1.9% 1.5% propose an increase in share capital of up to one billion euro to shareholders. 0 Prices recorded during the year in trading Private Institutional Non financial Social fluctuated between a minimum of 6.275 % individuals euro and a maximum of 10.530 euro, with investors companies organisations an average of 8.224 euro. In the first quarter Registered shareholders of 2011 no appreciable changes were Unregistered shareholders recorded in prices, which remained between a minimum of 5.980 euro and a maximum of 7.970 euro, with an average of 7.158 euro. 30 Shareholdings (number of shareholders) The UBI Banca Group 4,213 million [-34.5%] 18.9% Stock market capitalisation 18.6% 17.9% 18.1% Ethics and social responsibility 20 (official price 31.12.2010) Relationships with 14.4% personnel 15 The dividend proposed for the distribution of 8.5% investors 10 customers 2010 profit is 0.15 euro (compared to 0.30 suppliers euro last year), to give a yield of 1.82% on 2.1% 5 the average price for the year and of 2.3% on Community 0.7% 0.5% 0.3% involvement the official price at the end of year. 0 Attention to up to 249 from 250 to from 1,001 from 10,001 more than % the environment to 10,000 to 50,000 shares 1,000 shares shares 50.000 shares The economic value shares created and distributed Improvement Registered shareholders objectives Unregistered shareholders Share performance over the last three years (baseline of 100 as at 02/04/2007, the date of the formation of UBI Banca) 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 FTSE Italia 30 All Share 20 FTSE W Italy 10 Banks 0 UBI Banca March 2007 June 2007 September 2007 December 2007 March 2008 June 2008 September 2008 December 2008 March 2009 June 2009 September 2009 December 2009 March 2010 June 2010 September 2010 December 2010 March 2011 Relations with registered investors, we are particularly interested in promoting the presence of our share in the shareholders portfolios of investors who operate with Registered shareholders represent the close medium to long-term objectives and of relationship which has been established investors who employ ethical and/or social historically with local populations and responsibility selection criteria (e.g. ethical the economic and social fabric of local funds). communities, which constitutes one of the As at 31st March 2011, the UBI Banca cornerstones of our identity as a “popular” share was covered by 8 national and 18 co-operative bank. international analysts. Their indications Relations with registered shareholders are expressed after 28th March were affected by managed by a dedicated organisational unit the expectations of the Business Plan and the which proposes and co-ordinates initiatives share capital increase. for them, processes admission applications and updates the shareholders’ register. Internet communication The registered shareholders section on the The internet, together with newspaper Group website contains specific information publications, is the main source of information of interest to shareholders, which for the public and is considered the main tool supplements information already available in for transparency and the disclosure of corporate the investor relations section. information by both the supervisory authority and market regulatory authorities. Attendance at general meetings Yet again in 2010 the English version of our Each registered shareholder contributes to corporate website was assessed by the company the life of the bank by expressing opinions Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, by using a broad range of and voting in shareholders’ meetings. We qualitative and functional criteria, which reflect the are committed to promoting informed information requirements of financial journalists, participation of registered shareholders analysts and institutional investors. in proceedings at shareholders’ meetings and we send each of them a written communication – a “Letter to Shareholders” Relations with the financial community – to notify them of time limits for convening Number Number of ordinary general meetings and to inform of events contacts1 them of the operating and financial position of the Group and of projects in progress. Conference calls 4 371 In 2010, 2,669 registered shareholders International conferences 6 120 took part (1,399 less than in 2009) either Road shows (all abroad) 8 142 physically (64.1%) or by proxy (35.9%), of which 24.5% Group employees. Individual and group 47 113 meetings UBI Club 1 Number of interactions, even with the same parties, at different In pursuit of our mutual objects, we offer events on different dates. all our registered shareholders membership of UBI Club a package of concessions on Italy Top 100 Webranking by banking, insurance and other services. UBI Hallvarsson and Halvarsson Banca spent 255,000 euro on the relative 31 insurance policies in 2010. 100 87.8 80.3 80 65.0 Relations with the financial community 60 We ensure proper conduct, transparency and 40 completeness of disclosure to all institutional players – investors, analysts, rating agencies 20 and the press – and to the general public through press releases and presentations and 0 Eni the Group website. This activity is managed Hera Telecom Italia by the Investor Relations Staff which Pirelli & C. Piaggio Unicredit Group operates in full compliance with Consob Snam Rete Gas Assicurazioni Generali Luxottica (Italian securities market authority) and Borsa CIR Autogrill Edison Italiana recommendations for the disclosure Terna UBI Banca Enel of information that can influence markets. Safilo Group UBI Banca has been in second place in the classification While we give equal consideration to all for banks since 2007. Relations with customers We work to build long-term relationships with all our customers based on mutual Customers by geographical area trust and satisfaction. Consistent with our mission as a “popular” bank we seek to 2.7% interpret social and economic trends on 11.2% the local markets in which we operate in 59.2% order to respond effectively and efficiently to the needs of families, businesses and other organisations in local societies and economies. North West South and Islands 26.9% Central Italy South 3.7 million Customers Private individual customers by age 88.5% [+0.4pp] private 0.2% 5.8% individuals 25.4% 19.9% 48.6% [unchanged] women Up to 25 years 4.6% [-0,2pp] immigrant 25 to 39 40 to 64 citizens 48.7% 65 and over Not classified 11.5% [-0.4pp] businesses and organisations Private individual customers 90.1% [+0.8pp] professionals, by length of relationship (average 16 years) trades persons and small 4.4% 12.0% businesses. 32.6% 13.5% The consolidated Management Report in the Annual Report may be consulted for Up to 1 year detailed information on the commercial and 1 to 5 years distribution policies with which we pursue 6 to 10 years our operating objectives, while here we 37.5% 11 to 20 years underline aspects linked more directly to Over 20 years our desire to distinguish ourselves on the market with our management style based on Corporate customers by economic sector professional ethics, consultation, dialogue and concrete application of the Bank’s social 4.1% responsibility values in local communities. 15.4% 31.4% Public and private Professional ethics sector services 32 We are committed to relationships with all Industry our customers based on integrity, reliability Unclassified 18.6% businesses The UBI Banca Group and a sense of responsibility, with full respect Commerce Ethics and social for laws, voluntary codes and the principles Agriculture, responsibility of conduct defined in our Code of Ethics. 30.5% hunting, forestry We apply the Code of Conduct for the and fishing Relationships with Banking and Financial Sector and the Code personnel of Conduct for Mortgage Lending of the Corporate customers by length of investors Italian Banking Association and we adhere to relationship (average 9,5 years) customers the ABI-Confindustria Memorandum (www. 7.7% suppliers bankimprese.it) and the PattiChiari (service 13.1% Community standards charter) Consortium (www. involvement PattiChiari.it). 23.1% 33.9% Attention to We adopt production, commercial and risk the environment management policies which, in compliance Up to 1 year The economic value with regulations in force, pursue the aims of 1 to 5 years created and distributed transparency and high standards 6 to 10 years Improvement customers. In this respect we give particular in the products and services provided to 11 to 20 years objectives 22.2% Over 20 years importance to policies for: the distribution of Business in the armaments sector1 mortgages through brokers; the portability, renegotiation and early repayment of Authorisations to perform banking mortgages for direct customers and those transactions by country of destination distributed through brokers; the sale of of exports structured financial instruments and the sale (thousands of euro) of derivative instruments. 80,000 All our products are subject to rigorous quality control in terms of compliance 65,000 with regulations, appropriateness to the requirements of the customer segment to 60,000 53,514 Total 170.9 which they are destined and consistency million euro with regard to terms and conditions on the [-86.3%] market. 30,000 40,000 Protection of investors We furnish financial reports to commercial 20,000 management and staff in our network banks, 9,084 6,036 4,088 which enable us to provide customers with 2,444 550 information that is consistent with their 0 58 57 50 investment objectives and to favour more France Australia Netherlands Spain Norway U.S.A. Turkey Germany Belgium Great Britain informed investment and disinvestment Japan decisions by customers while they remain independent and hold responsibility. The reports are acquired externally and distributed through the Financial Market The authorisations were requested by Banco di Brescia Focus Service of the Group. (98.4%) and Banco di San Giorgio (1.6%) Access to credit We have been working for some time now Banking transactions performed by to facilitate access to credit by households country of destination of exports with flexible and transparent products. At the (thousands of euro) (average 9.5 years) same time we pay great attention to prevent 70,943 risks of over indebtedness by carefully 80,000 assessing repayment schedules against income and this helps, amongst other things, to protect the long-term living standards of families. 60,000 Total 182,6 million euro Controversial sectors 40,000 [+35.1%] 26,777 We carefully assess involvement in economic 22,984 sectors which may present high social and 16,902 environmental risks or which are in any case 20,000 15,938 considered critical by rating agencies and 13,171 4,153 investors who employ ethical criteria. 3,824 3,577 1,995 1,047 642 In this respect we set a policy for the 369 175 108 0 14 armaments sector in 2007, designed to Australia France ensure financial support for companies on Netherlands Austria Spain our local markets who supply military forces Germany Estonia for the defense of public order, peace and New Zealand United Arab Emirates U.S.A democracy, in line with those principles of Turkey Great Britain Greece respect for the individual and protection Brazil Belgium Japan of the human rights that are part of our The transactions were performed by Banco di Brescia corporate culture. (85.9%), Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria (11.6% The policy bans business of any type with relating to authorisations given in previous years) and 33 Banco di San Giorgio (2.5%) companies involved in the production and/ or trade in arms of mass destruction and Almost all authorisations and transactions regarded other controversial weapons and it places armed and unarmed aircraft and the relative components, parts, equipment, maintenance and repairs restrictions on international trade in arms to for transactions destined to government counterparties. certain destination countries. The restrictions consider not only international sanctions All transactions were performed in full compliance with and embargoes but also the involvement of Group policy. Banco di Brescia rejected a transaction for four million euro for the export of assault rifles to individual countries in armed conflict, respect Turkmenistan. for human rights, the level of economic and social development for countries with a low development index and the relationship between military and social spending. For other controversial sectors, we found exposure of not more than one per cent of 1 Banking transactions relating to exports total lending to customers for these. of goods and services within the meaning of the provisions of Law No. 185/1990 on international trade in armaments materials. Consultation and dialogue The Customer Care Area has conducted systematic customer satisfaction surveys since Policies for consultation and dialogue with customers are pursued through customer 2008 termed the “Consultation Project”. satisfaction activity and form part of our A major independent market research approach to the development of new institute performs approximately 150,000 products and services. interviews on our behalf each year, from which it generates indicators of the quality of The Consultation project customer-bank relationships and the products The Customer Care Area is located in the Risks and services provided. It also generates Control Macro Area and is responsible for all separate customer satisfaction indices at customer consultation and dialogue activities. different levels: Group, market, network bank, It supervises qualitative aspects of customers local area and single unit (branch, corporate services and relationships and the related business unit, private banking unit). reputational risks. Retail Market (approximately 140,000 interviews) Index of satisfaction Overall satisfaction 0,68 points above the benchmark, a slight increase compared to 2009. All market segments above the benchmark: slightly above for the mass segment, further above for the affluent segment and an even greater improvement above the benchmark for the small business segment. Results decidedly above the Group average for small size banks (Banca di Valle Camonica and Banco di San Giorgio) Strengths Courtesy and competence of personnel Welcoming and friendly atmosphere in branches Areas for improvement Support for the long term growth of small businesses (small business segment) Ability to make proposals Corporate Market (more than 4,000 interviews) Index of satisfaction Con s u lta tion P roj ec t – 2 010 Results Overall satisfaction 1.09 points below the benchmark, a slight decrease compared to 2009 The best results for small banks (Banca di Valle Camonica and Banco di San Giorgio) and for Banca Carime (similar to the previous to in terms of the size of its corporate market) Strengths Stability of customer relationships and ability to communicate trust and credibility by account managers. Satisfaction of large corporates (large corporate segment) above the benchmark Areas for improvement Proposals of innovative and customisable solutions Private Banking Market (approximately 3,000 interviews) Index of satisfaction Significant improvement in overall satisfaction compared to 2009 although still well below the benchmark with a score of 0.37. Excellent results for smaller banks (Banca di Valle Camonica and Banco di San Giorgio) and for Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria Strengths Quality of customer relationships Account manager capabilities and expertise Areas for improvement 34 Proposal making initiatives in the provision of products and services The UBI Banca Group Focus on social responsibility Ethics and social responsibility The large majority of customers feel it is important for the Bank to consider the social and environmental risks of its activities and that it should be committed in the social and environmental fields. Relationships with Over one third of customers are not informed about the social corporate responsibility initiatives of UBI personnel (more than half of businesses). investors Over one half of customers that are informed about social responsibility matters are interested in knowing more about the Bank’s activities in the social and environmental fields. customers Strengths suppliers Good judgement on UBI’s level of social and environmental responsibility Community involvement UBI’s reputational and social responsibility level has improved compared to few years ago for over one third of customers informed about social responsibility. Attention to the environment Corporate customer satisfaction for UBI’s offer to support investments that are important from a social and environmental viewpoint (e.g. compliance with safety and environmental regulations at the workplace, the use of alternative energy). The economic value created and distributed Areas for improvement Improvement Capacity to inform customers of Group initiatives and results in the social and environmental field (preobjectives ferred channel, branches). Network bank customer satisfaction Banking freedom indices “Banking freedom” was an initiative for 59 young people aged 18 to 29, preliminary to 58.40% 57.99% 58.22% 58.11% the launch of the Enjoy card for them. 58 57.73% We invited young people to register with 57.69% 57.74% the website for the initiative and to use a 57 56.52% 56.58% message board to say how they imagined 56.16% 56.09% their ideal bank would be. 56 Over 200 messages arrived with interesting 56.17% ideas and recommendations for values 55 expressed very clearly and in an “adult” tone. % 2009 Index Oct.2010 Nov. 2010 Dec. 2010 We took account of this when developing the product and advertising. Retail market Private banking market Management of complaints2 Corporate market Claims, like simple complaints, constitute a valuable source of information for improving the quality of our services to customers In 2010 the customer satisfaction index rose and in this context we are committed to until October on all three markets (retail, improving our acquisition and management private banking and corporate) and was then processes for them. In order to make it followed by a fall in the last two months of easier for customers to send in complaints the year, which contributed to the generation we created special areas for this on the of different annual results for single websites of the network banks, on the Group markets also with regard to the respective commercial website and on the Qui UBI benchmarks. internet banking website. The results are compared with surveys of the banking sector nationally (the benchmark) and they are integrated with a special focus 4,256 [-884] on specific areas (e.g. in 2010 on assets under management, insurance and Qui UBI). Complaints received By analysing the results – performed jointly with UBI Banca and network bank 242 [+11] for compounding of managements – we identify corrective action interest and priorities for intervention and we assess the effectiveness of action and initiatives 211 [-202] for securities in default undertaken. The customer satisfaction indicator has been 176 [+3] on privacy included among the objectives of Group incentive schemes since 2009. 4,188 [-1,289] Complaints concluded3 We have asked young people to tell 1,636 accepted us about their ideal bank. 1.04 million euro paid to customers 22 [-10] average days for response4 We have inserted a link on all Group websites to sections providing information on the Financial Banking Arbitrator (from which it is possible to consult and download the relative guide) and on the Banking Ombudsman (from which it is possible to 35 download the regulations and forms and Young people described their ideal access the relative website). Ten complaints bank with these values: were forwarded to the Banking Ombudsman trust (is the word that is heard most in 2010 of which 8 were examined (two often together with requests for in favour of the customer), while 64 were support during the planning stages forwarded to the Banking Arbitrator, of life); which 32 were examined (13 in favour of the Transparency and truth (no tiny customer). clauses or big words) In order to improve our ability to prevent simplicity (services to make life less customer dissatisfaction or in any case to complicated) conservation of the environment 2 Data relating to the Parent and the network (primarily as a company, but also by banks, including UBI Banca Private Investment supporting ecological choices of its 3 Complaints concluded in 2010 irrespective of the customers) year in which filed. helpfulness (to guide and assist 4 Overall average, inclusive of both ordinary young people in their investment and complaints and investment service complaints. financial decisions) Complaints by product or service used for the design of specialist products and 2,000 services for businesses in the small business segment, with meetings with firms from single sectors within the specific focus group, 1,442 interviews with network bank account 1,500 managers and specific meetings with the relative trade associations. 1,000 808 592 Attention to individuals 532 To ensure the security and accessibility 500 331 of services and respond to the needs of 267 all groups in society, also with a view to 159 125 developing new market segments, is all part 0 of our way of being “good” bankers. Current and Loans and Securities and Collection and Credit and debit Insurance products General aspects Other mortgages Security and accessibility del services deposit accounts cards investment services payment services We pay special attention to maintaining high levels of security for our IT systems and processes to protect personal data and customers’ property. We use fraud and Complaints by reason unauthorised access protection systems for services delivered through direct channels 1,800 1,641 which are constantly monitored and 1,600 maintained up-to-date. 1,400 We believe it is our duty to ensure that all customers have the chance to access our 1,200 services with regard to both architectural 1,000 barriers in offices and branches and to the use of direct channels. We act in this respect 800 on the basis of needs that we encounter in 600 519 local communities and our ability to respond 466 to them. 400 295 279 We take action to eliminate architectural 242 210 185 167 200 128 barriers in new branches and in all work 74 50 performed to renovate branches and offices, 0 as in fact required by regulations in force. Execution of transactions Communication and Application of conditions Conditions Compounding of interest Creditworthiness or Frauds and losses Organisational aspects Personnel Equipment malfunctions Other Currently we have installed 24 ATM cash card machines that are usable by partially similar information sighted persons and we plan to increase the number significantly during the course of Reports to the Centrale Rischi 2011. (central credit register) The websites of the network banks and the internet banking services for private individuals and small business users have been designed with consideration given to resolve it before it results in a claim or the main navigation requirements of disabled complaint, we continued activity in 2010 to persons with particular reference to the educate and train commercial personnel in partially sighted. The techniques adopted network banks in customer consultation. include strong colour contrast, alternative Training activity focused on the texts to accompany images and functions to interpretation of manifest or latent signs enlarge character sizes. We have commenced of customer dissatisfaction and on ways of collaboration with the ASPHI Foundation intervening. It involved 3,200 persons in (www.asphi.it) in order to identify further the classroom – on courses relevant to the measures for improvement. This foundation question – and this was supplemented by works to integrate disabled persons in 36 material accessible on PC workstations. schools, at work and in society through the use of computers. The UBI Banca Group Ethics and social Consultation initiatives to develop the responsibility range of products and services Support for families in difficulty Relationships with In 2010 we organised a series of meetings Over the last two years the economic crisis with representatives of nonprofit has had a considerable impact on a growing personnel organisations and church institutions, in number of Italian families, reducing their investors order to develop a specific service model ability to gain access to credit and to meet customers and range of products and services for the commitments they have already made. suppliers the third sector. A very broad range of As a consequence we adhered to public Community different organisations in terms of nature, sector and industry initiatives in 2010 to involvement activities, size and organisational structure support families in difficulty. Attention to participated. We acquired important The most important initiative was that of the environment indications for understanding developments the Italian Banking Association to defer The economic value in progress and the emerging demands of this mortgage repayments by twelve months in created and distributed segment of the market. the two year period 2009-2010 for families Improvement We employed the same approach as that in particularly serious conditions such as objectives the loss of a job and death or the non selfand health and 105 to start up micro sufficiency of the mortgagee. businesses) for a total of 2.9 million euro At the end of 2010 the “solidarity fund” disbursed (2.1 million euro to families and 0.8 operation commenced, the result of an million euro to micro businesses). initiative by the Ministry of the Economy and Micro-credit, together with the Enjoy card Finance to allow borrowers in difficulty with and our money transfer service, is a key mortgage repayments on main dwellings to component of our new products and services apply for deferment not more than twice and provided for immigrant citizens as part of a for a total maximum period of 18 months. broader project to acquire new customers within the retail market. This renewed commitment by the Group follows on from 1,114 the previous initiatives Welcome and InItaly, with which we were one of the first banks to Mortgages deferred serve this segment of the population, now large numerically and growing constantly. It is a segment with a high rate of employment 93 million euro of and a fair average income. Remaining debt Credit fund for the newborn In application of the agreement signed Other initiatives promoted by the authorities between the Italian Banking Association and and organisations at various levels include the Department for Family Policies of the advances on state benefit payments until Presidency of the Council of Ministers for the they are paid by the INPS (national insurance creation of a “Credit fund for the newborn” institute) and the “Loan of Hope” promoted (www.fondonuovinati.it), we have developed by the Italian Episcopal Conference in two new products: the Newborns’ Loan, conjunction with the Italian Banking for families with a child born or adopted Association, for families in difficulty or for in the period 2009-2011 and the Loan for the micro businesses that they have started. Newborns with rare diseases for families The selection criteria for these give priority with a child born or adopted in the period to families with children (of school age, 2009-2011 suffering from a rare disease. including university students) or serious The loans are for a maximum amount of illnesses or recognised disabilities, who 5,000 euro repayable over five years. There have lost their income or seen it reduced are no bank charges on them and interest significantly. To date the “loan of hope” has rate is fixed rate and subsidised and is further not achieved appreciable results because reduced for the Loan for Newborns with rare the criteria set in the memorandum of intent diseases. are too restrictive. Overall our banks granted 16 loans for a total amount of 96 thousand euro. In consideration of these results, the agreement has been modified recently in 598 order to meet the needs of a greater number Newborn Loans of families. We also took action in 2010 to help 2 Loans for Newborns with rare populations in Abruzzo and Veneto hit by diseases natural disasters. For Abruzzo we adhered to initiatives to defer mortgage and loan repayments promoted by the Italian Banking Association and to an agreement between 3 million euro disbursed the Italian Banking Association and the Cassa depositi e prestiti S.p.A. (government 10 thousand euro for Loans for controlled bank) to disburse loans (UBI Banca Newborns with rare diseases Lombarda Private Investment disbursed 34 loans for 1.3 million euro). In Veneto we deferred mortgage repayments in compliance Clubino and the competition “Draw your with an ordinance of the President of the town” 37 Council of Ministers. Clubino (www.clubino.ubibanca.com) is the first banking experience for children aged 0 to 12. The new savings book, for Micro-credit5 and the immigrant project which there are no banking charges and on In order to contribute to the growth of which interest of 1% is paid, is linked with micro-credit as an instrument for social a programme to educate children about integration and support for employment, savings in a fun and involving manner, with in 2008 we entered into a partnership with prizes, a dedicated website, local events and PerMicro S.p.a. (www.permicro.it), the first special initiatives. Italian company to specialise in micro-credit, One of the Clubino initiatives which met operating nationally. In 2010 with great success was the competition PerMicro granted 635 micro-loans (530 to “Draw your town” which received over families for basic needs such as education 12,000 drawings from which a jury of experts selected the 13 best works in terms of imagination and originality which, in addition 5 A micro-loan is a loan of limited amount granted to receiving a prize, were published in the to people who have difficulty in gaining access to credit through normal banking and financial channels 2010 UBI Banca calendar. The result was an because they lack guarantees and a credit history. explosion of light and colours which express how children see their towns. Unsecured loans for students In 2010 we opened 53,000 Clubino savings We were the first in Italy to offer young book accounts. people unsecured loans at subsidised rates to meet the costs of study and education The Enjoy card for young people until they acquire autonomous earning Enjoy is a prepaid, reloadable card for young capacities. Currently, in addition to our people aged between 18 and 29, on which participation in the Diamogli Credito (we salaries can be credited, credit transfers sent give them credit) initiative organised by the and/or received, cell phones reloaded and Ministry for Youth Policies and by the Italian direct debits performed and bills charged. Banking Association, we also have standing For a minimum fixed charge and with use arrangements with various universities for fully online, including bank statements, it which we have created special credit lines. constitutes an initial response to the values The most important is the Dottor Creso of low cost, simplicity, transparency and (www.dottorcreso.it) initiative by Banco di respect for the environment expressed by Brescia and Banca Popolare Commercio e young people. Shortly we intend to enrich Industria in co-operation with the universities the contents of Enjoy so that it can be used of Brescia and Pavia, for loans of up to 5,000 as a “student card”, with a full range of euro for each year of study up to a maximum services and products bundled with it which of 20,000 euro and repayable in 96 fixed will include agreements with universities. amount monthly instalments commencing Enjoy, like Clubino, is also a successful one year after the completion of studies. initiative as demonstrated by the Innovation Award prize it received and above all by its popularity with young people: over 47,000 54 cards issued in 2010. Unsecured loans granted 250 thousand euro the amount granted Clubino Commitment to social and religious organisations In pursuit of our mission as a “popular” cooperative bank, we have developed strong relations over the years with nonprofit organisations (belonging to the “third sector” or “private welfare sector”) and with church institutions which play a fundamental role in the supply of welfare and cultural services in communities. Historically our Group holds a quota of deposits from and loans to the third sector that is higher than for the sector nationally, due in part to a substantial presence in the regions where these organisations are more numerous. Clubino: second place in the category “Children/Young People Accounts” of the “Innovation Award – Products and services” prize6. 1.5 billion euro Funding from NPOs7 Enjoy 38 8.23% market share The UBI Banca Group 58.1% in Lombardy Ethics and social responsibility Relationships with personnel 665 million euro investors Enjoy: winning product for the Loans to NPOs7 customers “Innovation Award – Products and services”22 prize in the “Services/ suppliers Prepaid Cards” category. 7.44% market share Community involvement 58.3% in Lombardy Attention to the environment 6 Classification drawn up annually by the The economic value “Milano Finanza” newspaper in co-operation with 7 In house Studies Area processing of Bastra1 created and distributed Accenture. It assesses the level of innovation and data as at 30/09/2010, relating to the Bank Improvement value for money of the products and services of of Italy economic activity sector “Nonprofit objectives banks which adhere to the PattiChiari Consortium. institutions at the service of families”. Today the third sector is undergoing profound change and growth from both a Support for local economies To provide credit to businesses – and to SMEs legislative and regulatory viewpoint and in particular – in order to support economic that of the market, connected with its growth in the community is one of our main increasingly more central role in the provision priorities and even more so in times of crisis of personal care services in the public sector like today. health and welfare system. The contraction at the same time in public sector resources, associated with the Business involving public sector funds contraction in private sector resources as a In addition to our own funds, we are also consequence of the economic crisis, means able to bring substantial national and EU that third sector organisations must be public sector funds onto our local markets. able to employ increasingly more efficient We signed an agreement in 2010 with the managerial skills and know how to gain European Investment Bank (EIB) for an initial access to the banking system to fund both budget of 250 million euro (the first part current activities and investments. of a programme for a total of 500 million In order to continue to serve this sector euro) available to Group banks and to UBI more effectively, by consolidating and Leasing for loans at subsidised rates to the building on the long standing activities and agriculture, industry, services and tourism experiences of the network banks, we have sectors. assigned specific responsibilities for the Businesses operating in ethically, morally and management and development of a service socially controversial and dubious sectors are model and a dedicated range of products and explicitly excluded from the receipt of funds services to the Authorities, Associations and as are those with an environmental impact Third Sector Function created within the which is not substantially reduced and/or Commercial Macro Area of the Parent. compensated. We intend to gradually introduce the new Similar criteria of exclusion and interest commercial service model and range of rates also apply to loans to SMEs by Banca products in 2011, with an initial pilot phase Popolare di Ancona which was awarded the in a series of branches in the provinces of concession in a tender procedure for the Bergamo and Brescia and with a specific disbursement of 100 million euro of funds training programme for commercial received from the EIB. personnel in the distribution network. Anti-crisis measures for SMEs We participate through our network banks in agreements and conventions with local public institutions (chambers of commerce, regions and provinces) designed to support Nonprofit organisation deposits as a local businesses at a time of particular percentage of total deposits economic crisis. We have adhered since 2009 to the 4 agreement for the deferment of the debts of 3.39% 3.18% small to medium-sized enterprises to banks8 3.11% 3 2.93% , designed to support SMEs experiencing temporary financial difficulties, but which 2 have adequate business prospects and are 2.05% 2.06% 2.01% 2.01% “going concerns”. We were able to accept 1 almost all the applications that met the conditions for admissibility. The agreement 0 also includes action to strengthen the % Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Sep-10 capital of small to medium-sized enterprises, for which we continued with our special UBI Group credit line entitled “200% immediate Sector recapitalisation”, which provides loans equal to twice the capital contributions made by shareholders/proprietors. 39 Since signs of recovery in the economic Nonprofit organisation loans as a situation are weak, which would suggest percentage of total loans that the liquidity problems of businesses are likely to continue, we have adhered to an “Agreement for loans to small to 1.00 medium-sized enterprises”9, following the 0.68% expiry of the moratorium reported above 0.75 0.65% and in order to support businesses which 0.50% 0.51% survived the most acute phase of the crisis. 0.50 0.47% 0.48% 0.51% 0.52% The agreement extends the time limit until 31/07/2011 for the presentation of 0.25 0.00 8 Signed by the Ministry of the Economy and % Dec-07 Dec-08 Dec-09 Sep-10 Finance, the Italian Banking Association and associations belonging to the Banks-Businesses Observatory. UBI Group 9 Signed in February 2011 by the same signatories Sector of the moratorium applications to defer loans to banks by SMEs Co-operation with the principal guarantee which have not already taken advantage of a bodies is particularly important. It is similar benefit. designed to meet the requirements of small to medium-sized enterprises for liquidity, financial turnaround, technological innovation, plant upgrades and investments 14,800 in alternative and renewable energy. Our banks offer two credit line products in Applications for deferment this respect: of SME debts • 400% Support and Development, to support growth projects by making fixed 13,000 deferments agreed investments for amounts up to four times the capital contributions made by shareholders; 4.3 billion euro the value of the • “200% Capital Reinforcement” to support the capitalisation of businesses and debts restructuring of the sources of funding with loans of up to twice the amount of capital contributions made by the shareholders. 520 million euro The quota of the principal deferred 16,700 [+4%] Medium to long-term convention agreement New memorandums of understanding were also signed in 2010 between banks in the loans Group and some provincial administrations 1.5 billion euro [+25%] of funds (e.g. Brescia and Bergamo) to facilitate the advance payment of amounts due disbursed under convention to businesses from local authorities and agreements to thereby prevent possible financial difficulties resulting from late payments. The agreements involved advances made 3.5 billion euro [+21%] by the banks on the receivables and the certification by the local authorities that the of loans outstanding at year end receivables are undisputed claims payable in cash accompanied by details of the manner and period of the payment to be made to the bank. Finally the disbursement of loans to small 600 million euro [+20%] to medium-sized enterprises at subsidised Drawings on short term rates continued, designed to support planned and/or existing investments or to increase credit lines working capital by drawing on funds from the Cassa Deposito e Prestiti (CDP – state controlled bank, funded by post office In order to support this activity we savings – www.cassaddpp.it). created the website “UBI-Confidi Web” which allows guarantee bodies with convention agreements and Group banks to communicate with each other online more efficiently and rapidly in order to exchange 3,111 information. Loans with CDP funds26 In the light of the growing business with guarantee bodies and the big changes in progress, a service model will be introduced in 2011 to regulate and standardise the 40 224 million euro process for the stipulation of convention The UBI Banca Group The amount disbursed agreements, the assessment of guarantee Ethics and social bodies and the monitoring of this business in responsibility all Group banks. The website will be enriched Relationships with with additional innovative functions both for Convention loans credit management and commercial growth. personnel Agreements with guarantee bodies and trade investors associations to facilitate access to credit for customers small to medium-sized enterprises through Specialisation by sector suppliers more favourable rates and charges represent We have developed a product range an important factor for us in our relationship differentiated by economic sector, based Community involvement with local economies, and in these difficult on the prevalent financial needs and the times for the economy they have also taken specifics of “value chains”. Attention to the environment on a substantial anti-crisis value. In 2010 we introduced a product range reserved to farms entitled SubitoImpresa The economic value created and distributed Agriculture, which followed the Spazio 25 Signed in February 2011 by the same signatories to the moratorium. Impresa – Wholesalers range targeted at the Improvement objectives 26 Data in February 2011 wholesale industry. Contribution to the diffusion Loans to businesses by sector of social responsibility 35.1% 40 The bank is able to contribute in concrete terms to the diffusion of socially responsible 35 behaviour through its range of products and services. 30 For some years now we have offered a range of products and services in the environmental 25 field designed to support investment by 16.7% 14.6% individuals and businesses for energy savings 20 13.6% and use of renewable energy reported on in 9.8% 15 the section on the environment. 5.9% 10 4.3% Sustainability indicators for SMEs As part of our lending processes, we have 0 Services Construction Commerce Other industries Consumer goods Agriculture and food Mineral extraction and started to insert information on social and % environmental performance in the qualitative questionnaires used to assess companies, in stuffs energy addition to the information on governance already used. This information not only increases the Bank’s knowledge base, in consideration, amongst other things, of potential reputational and non compliance risks, but it also brings to light and evaluates the best practices of SMEs on which there is normally The UBI Pramerica Azionario Etico Fund little information. (data as at 28/02/2011) The Memorandum of Intent on corporate social responsibility and the use of Net assets under management (millions of euro) 16.58 environmental, social and governance As a percentage of total assets managed in funds 0.08% indicators signed at the beginning of 2011 by the Italian Banking Association, Confindustria (confederation of industry) and the Ministry Largest ten shareholdings of Economic Development moves in this direction. The signing of this memorandum Name Sector forms part of the project for co-operation Total sa energy in this area launched by the Italian Banking (FR) Association and Confindustria, with the Unilever cert. Of shs consumer goods creation of a working group by the Italian (NL) Banking Association in which we participate. Telefonica sa telecommunications (ES) Koninklijke Ahold nv consumer services Socially responsible investments (NL) For customers who wish to invest in ethical Sampo plc a finance funds which fall within the broader category (FI) of socially responsible investments, we offer Intesa San Paolo spa finance UBI Pramerica Azionario Etico. (IT) This fund, managed by our asset Allianz se/nam.vinkuliert finance (DE) management company UBI Pramerica (www. ubipramerica.it), invests in the shares of Eni spa Roma energy (IT) issuers selected by E. Capital Partners (a leading European independent consulting Nokia oy telecommunications (FI) firm in the ethical finance sector) on the Inditex/reg. consumer goods basis of ethical and social responsibility (ES) requirements, without ignoring the principles 47.6% of the total assets of the fund of proper financial management. 41 Each year UBI Pramerica grants 5% of the management fees for the fund to charitable bodies and organisations. These amounted to 31,600 euro in 2010, granted in equal parts to the CESVI Onlus for international cooperation and development of Bergamo and to the Save the Children Onlus. Relations with suppliers The development and innovation of a weighting), competitiveness (25% weighting) company depends, amongst other things, and financial and capital soundness (25%) also on it purchasing processes that are able and we periodically assess them using a to ensure a continuous supply of the goods transparent and objective assessment system. and services needed to perform operations. Suppliers of utility services (local water As a consequence suppliers, and strategic companies, gas companies), landlords of and recurring suppliers in particular, are rented properties and institutional suppliers selected with care on the basis of cost, (e.g. Italian Banking Association and service quality and technical, commercial CONSOB Italian securities market authority) and financial reliability. are excluded from management on the list of approved suppliers 11,405 [-1,562] Suppliers Purchases by type of supply € 712 million [-0.5%] Purchases 5.9% 2.9% 7.0% 34.0% Relations with suppliers are designed to 10.2% ensure mutual satisfaction and are based on the observance of the principles of transparency, fairness, loyalty, integrity and IT systems competition. 15.4% Property All the Group member companies comply 24.6% management with Group Spending Regulations, which in Other expenses general identify the roles and responsibilities Professional services of the parties involved in the process of Security managing budgets and incurring expenses Miscellaneous with the separation of roles between services those requesting supplies and authorising Advertising payments, those that sign contracts and handle negotiations with suppliers and those keeping the accounts and paying the invoices. Suppliers and purchases by amounts invoiced We consider it essential for the quality of a service to guarantee the independence of suppliers and we have therefore set a rule 100 89.6% that the amount of the supplies invoiced to the Group by each individual supplier must 78.2% not exceed a limit of 25% of their total 80 turnover. 60 42 Approved suppliers The UBI Banca Group Suppliers who provide goods and services to 40 the Group on a regular basis or occasional Ethics and social suppliers who supply goods and services 12.5% responsibility 20 for amounts greater than 30,000 euro are 9.3% Relationships with 7.4% registered on a list of approved suppliers 3.0% personnel managed by the Purchasing Department of 0 investors UBI Sistemi e Servizi. Up to 50,000 From 50,000 to Over 250,000 % customers euro euro 250,000 euro suppliers Community involvement 913 [+126] Attention to Suppliers registered on the Number of suppliers the environment Approved List of Suppliers Amount invoiced The economic value created and distributed The approved list contains preferred The data relates to the Parent, the network banks, UBI Improvement Systems and Services and, for Information Technology objectives suppliers listed on the basis of quality (50% only, to the main product companies. Geographical distribution 100 80 74.1% 57.0% 60 40 16.6% 17.6% 20 13.8% 7.9% 5.9% 4.6% 1.0% 1.6% 0 North West Central Italy North East South and Islands Abroad % Number of suppliers Amount invoiced The data relates to the Parent, the network banks, UBI Systems and Services and, for Information Technology only, to the main product companies. Contractual Conditions Contractual conditions are constantly updated to comply with the legislation in force and with market conditions on the basis of periodical monitoring. We require full observance by all our suppliers of legislation and regulations to protect the rights of workers used to provide goods and services, which in particular means observation of national trade union agreements for the sector to which they belong and of pension, accident prevention and insurance legislation along with specific legislation on health and safety. Additionally the main suppliers are required to comply with the principles of our Code of Ethics. Supplies which are not regular or for small amounts, and considered not strategic and which do not carry a high operational risk are regulated by the general conditions of a standard contract, while specific contracts are drawn up for recurring, strategic supplies, 43 which carry high operational risk or which are for large amounts. The terms and conditions of payment generally provide for the settlement of balances on invoices by bank credit transfer (wire) 60 days from the end of month of the invoice date. Community involvement Attention to the social and cultural social organisations. There are no particular development of the community, in addition areas of intervention defined a priori, except to its economic growth are characteristic for the foundations which are governed by traits of our identity as a “popular” Bank. We precise obligations in their constitutions. support very many charitable and socially Intervention is performed basically with useful initiatives with direct donations resources resulting from allocations of profits and sponsorships, we organise cultural in accordance with Corporate By-Laws both and educational events in the field of for the Parent and for almost all the network economics and finance and we work with banks (maximum percentage of allocations various scholastic, university and research ranging from 1.5% to 4% of profit available institutions. We also pay particular attention for distribution). to relations with local media for the Sponsorships are performed almost broadest diffusion of information concerning exclusively by the network banks, which the Group and its banks and companies. associate their brands with organisations and initiatives which form part of the history of their respective local communities and Direct contributions to the represent positive points of reference. community1 Sponsorships, even when they are of professional sports clubs, are of organisations Consistent with our mutual objects as a co-operative, we contribute actively to the that are active in the promotion and growth of the training and moral education of young life of the local communities in which we people through sport. operate, allocating a part of the economic value created to support organisations and socially useful initiatives. This activity contributes to strengthen identity of the Reserves of profits available in accordance with by-laws to governing bodies for social purposes Allocations from 2009 2010 Balance as at financial statements Donations 31.12.2010 UBI Banca 1,354 1,999 9,253 Banca Popolare di Bergamo1 3,401 4,262 3,470 Banco di Brescia2 2,450 3,065 5,860 Banca Popolare Commercio e Industria 19 299 136 Banca Popolare di Ancona 430 1,033 411 Banca Carime 700 868 351 Banca di Valle Camonica 250 468 145 TOTALE 8,604 11,994 19,626 Figures in thousands of euro 1 The 2010 Donations include three million euro granted to the Banca Popolare di Bergamo Onlus Foundation and 250 thousand euro to the UBI per Varese Onlus Foundation. 2 The 2010 donations include 2.2 million euro to the CAB Foundation and the Banca San Paolo di Brescia Foundation. Group and the individual network banks and has no direct correlation with the Total contributions for social initiatives achievement of commercial objectives, made by the Group except for cause-related marketing (thousands of euro) initiatives, performed primarily in partnership 12,000 44 with the CESVI Foundation of Bergamo. 10,113.0 In 2010 the Group as a whole donated a total of 16.2 million euro (-18.6% compared 10,000 The UBI Banca Group to 2009). Ethics and social The criteria employed to select intervention 8,000 responsibility are not officially set out in corporate 6,128.2 Relationships with guidelines or policies and it is performed by 6,000 personnel following assessment practices based on the principles of consistency with the Group investors 4,000 values of the efficiency, effectiveness and customers sustainability of the initiatives. suppliers The network banks and foundations operate 2,000 Community autonomously in their own local areas involvement responding as the occasion arises to needs in 0 Attention to the community through direct contact with Donations Sponsorships the environment The economic value Universities and Artistic and created and distributed 1 Data relating to UBI Banca, network banks, UBI research environmental Education and heritage Improvement Sistemi e Servizi, UBI Pramerica, UBI Factor, UBI training Culture objectives Leasing and the foundations. Welfare and Social, recreational solidarity and sports activities Initiatives of the Parent, UBI Banca UBI Banca contributions to social The Parent not only provides the capital initiatives (thousands of euro) endowments of the foundations but it also (migliaia di euro) develops and supports partnerships with the 1,999.0 2,000 larger organisations and participates in more far reaching initiatives not strictly linked to particular local areas. In 2010 UBI Banca disbursed a total of 1,500 almost 2.4 million euro, almost all in the form of donations, mainly in the areas of universities and research and welfare and 1,000 solidarity. The most important initiatives were for (i) Telefono Azzurro Association for the creation of a centre for the emergency 500 team in the city of Rome which provides 363.6 direct intervention by experts and specialist in cases of traumatic events suffered 0 by children; (ii) the La Nostra Famiglia Donations Sponsorships Association for the transfer from Ostuni to Universities and Artistic and Brindisi of the ward of the Teaching Hospital research environmental which provides health and welfare assistance Education heritage to disabled and disadvantaged persons, and training Culture mainly infants and adolescents; (iii) to Caritas Welfare Social, recreational for the project “Hostel for Separated Men”, and solidarity and sports activities to provide a hostel in Milan for separated men in need in terms of housing and the reconstruction of a network of social relationships; (iv) to the La Scala di Milano Foundation for concert activities; (v) to the San Patrignano Consortium for the annual show jumping competition. At Christmas we organised eight dinners for families in difficulty on Sunday 19th December 2010 together with the Exodus Foundation at the eight headquarters of our network banks. Various managers in the Group helped actively as volunteers. In order to allow those interested in the Group’s social and welfare activities to verify where funds actually go and to come into real contact with the human and social value of the main projects supported, we are improving our reporting activities and these include the production of videos of the most important projects. With Telefono Azzurro (children’s telephone line) to help children The donation of IT tools Each year UBI Sistemi e Servizi, the consortium company responsible for managing the Group’s IT systems and equipment, donates retired equipment, which nevertheless still functions well, to organisations and associations which request it, after careful assessment by the Board of Directors. In 2010, UBI Sistemi e Servizi donated 322 45 pieces of equipment (including 307 personal computers and four portable computers) to 11 schools, eight voluntary and recreational associations, six administrative authorities Culture and art, a heritage to and legal entities, four parishes and church protect and display bodies and four police units. With the Daily Bread Association to help the needy The initiatives of the network banks Contributions of the network banks for The Group’s network banks participate social initiatives actively in the life of their local communities, (thousands of euro) supporting the activities of numerous 6,000 institutions and social organisations. 5,480.4 In 2010 they disbursed a total of 10.1 million euro, consisting mainly of contributions to 5,000 4,635.1 cultural activities and sponsorships of social, recreational and sports activities. 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 Above all it supports cultural, artistics, sports 0 and welfare initiatives, with a particular Donations Sponsorships focus on the young and very young. It supports traditional events and seeks new Universities and Artistic and opportunities, with attention given also to its research environmental Education and heritage new local areas. training Culture Its principal donations include the following Welfare and Social, recreational contributions: to the Exodus Foundation solidarity and sports activities for the purchase of 30,000 diaries entitled “Tremendous … desire to live” for the high schools of Bergamo and Varese; to the Diakonia Association for the population of Haiti; and to the AVIS of the Province of Bergamo to restore the Casa del Donatore. The main donations in the cultural field were to the Donizetti Foundation for the management of the renovated Teatro Sociale of Bergamo; to “FAI – Villa e Collezione Panza di Varese” to organise exhibitions in co-operation with MART and the Museo dell’Aeronautica Caproni of Trento; and to “ALTIS – Alta Impresa Scuola e Società” of the Catholic University of Milan for a masters course for small to medium-sized enterprises located in Bergamo. In addition to the 2010-2011 season of the U.C. Albinoleffe football club, sponsorships include various initiatives mainly for young people such as the La Città dei Bambini (children’s town) of Varese and the Bergamo Scienza, an Minimarcia (mini-hike) of Selvino. increasingly more important event in Bergamo to attract young people to scientific research In addition to funding the Banca San Paolo di Brescia Foundation and the Credito Agrario Bresciano Foundation Giovanni Folonari 46 Cultural Institute, established to pursue the original ideals of the banks of the same name, it also carefully selects events and The UBI Banca Group organisations to give support directly to local Ethics and social solidarity, cultural and sports initiatives. responsibility The numerous activities supported in Relationships with 2010 included the following donations: personnel to the Brescia Caritas to help those hit investors by the earthquake in Haiti; to Opera per customers l’Educazione Cristiana for the Paolo VI suppliers Institute of Concesio; to the Spedali Civili Hospital of Brescia to create a study Community scholarship for research into diabetes; to the involvement Teatro Grande of Brescia Foundation for the Attention to 2010-2011 theatre season. the environment Sponsorships include the famous Mille Miglia With Brescia Rugby, to make The economic value the ethical values of sport win created and distributed and support for an emerging sport rich in ethical values, with Brescia Rugby. Improvement objectives of all types and ages who have distinguished Each year it supports and promotes social, charitable and cultural initiatives (above all in the literary, artistic and theatrical fields) to contribute to the social, ethical and cultural The Banca Popolare development of the community in which it Commercio e Industria Eleonora Duse Prize: the operates, as well as to its economic growth. only Italian award granted Co-operation with the Poldi Pezzoli Museum annually since 1986 to in the organisation of the exhibition a theatre actress for distinction in the theatre “Botticelli in the Lombard Collections” and season in one or more plays the organisation of the 25th edition of the in Italy or abroad. Eleonora Duse Prize, under the patronage of the City of Milan, awarded to the actress of Bulgarian origin Elena Giaurov, were of particular importance in 2010. In past years that prize has been awarded to very famous actresses such as Mariangela Melato (1987 and 1999), Alida Valli (1989), Rossella Falck (1996) and Franca Valeri (2003). This bank has a longstanding tradition of sponsorships of cultural and sports events and initiatives, while donations in the local community are made by the Cassa di Risparmio di Cuneo Foundation. “Botticelli in the Lombard It reduced its activities in the cultural field Collections” at the Poldi in 2010 due to the transfer of its branch Pezzoli Museum organised with support from Banca network in Lombardy to other Group Popolare Commercio e banks, while its support for sports and local Industria. initiatives was significant, a sign of the closeness of this bank to local communities in Piedmont where it has it roots and is now the only Group bank. Principal sponsorships include Piedmont Volley Ball for the BRE Banca Lannutti Cuneo team, the ASD Country Club Cuneo for the international women’s tennis tournament and AC Cuneo for football in the youth league. BRE Banca Lannutti Maintaining its strong spirit of solidarity Cuneo, winner of the and social and cultural commitment to the 2010 Italian A1 volley ball championship, the CEV Cup communities in which it operates, this bank and the Super cup. supported many varied initiatives in 2010, 47 particularly in the fields of culture and recreation and sports. In the cultural field these included the following: ANKON Consortium to support new generations of athletes; the Tipicità del Comune di Fermo to support typical traditional products of the Marches; the musical and literary events of the Musicultura Association of Macerata; the Pergolesi Spontini di Jesi Foundation for its theatre season and for the Ragazzi Theatre; the Teatro delle Muse di Ancona Foundation for its opera season; and other initiatives. The Pergolesi Theatre of Jesi, supported by Banca Popolare di Ancona, a A great supporter of the value of sports, the theatre that is very close to Bank is the main sponsor of the “L’Amico young people. Atletico” Price, dedicated to sports persons themselves as true champions of ethics and integrity and who represent the values set out in the “Sports Code of Ethics”, promoted by the Gabriele Cardinaletti Foundation. Among the first signatories of the Code is Valentina Vezzali, champion of the Club Scherma Jesi, one of the most important sport clubs with which the Bank has a Jesi Fencing Club – Italian historical relationship. Absolute Champions Commitment to the community was again profuse in 2010, with a series of activities for the environment, art, culture and social welfare in general, mainly through donations. The main areas of intervention were culture, universities and research and it included the following donations: the Magna Grecia Orchestra for the purchase of subscriptions for disadvantaged groups; to the Coro di voci bianche del Teatro Verdi di Salerno; to promote choral singing by children and adolescents; to the Zetema Foundation for the activities of the Musma di Matera; to the University of Bari for the creation of a neuroscience unit; and to the Lecce Building Banca Carime supports the School for the restoration of the mosaic project “Voce Bianche” of the Verdi Theatre of paving of the Cathedral of Otranto. Salerno, which promotes Further information is given in Banca choral singing for children Carime’s annual social report, which may be and adolescents. consulted. The bank is an important point of reference in the Camonica Valley not just for banking but also for its support given to organisations that operate in the fields of recreation and culture (e.g. the Voce Camuna Association of Breno, established to conserve and enhance Camonica traditions), in the welfare field (e.g. the Valle Camonica – Sebino – Esine Area Health Board, with which the bank has worked to encourage the growth of new professionals), in the religious field (including the Opera per l’Educazione Cristiana of The cloister of the Eremo Brescia and the Parish of Breno) and for the dei Ss. Pietro e Paolo a Bienno, restructured thanks conservation of our historical heritage (a to a donation from the donation for the restoration of the Eremo dei Banca di Valle Camonica Ss. Pietro e Paolo of Bienno). 48 In line with its traditional policy of action, again in 2010, this bank supported numerous The UBI Banca Group sports and cultural activities, with preference given to those for young people and children. Ethics and social responsibility Worthy of mention are donations to Make-AWish Italia and Il porto dei piccoli, to assist Relationships with children in hospital and seriously ill children personnel and to A.R.E.O. Ricerche Oncologiche, for investors research into hemato-oncology. customers Sports sponsorships constitute the major part suppliers of the contributions to the local community Community and cover a range of sports again with a involvement preference for the young. Examples include Children from the youth Attention to football with U.C. Sampdoria, rugby with CUS sector of the “Emanuele Genoa, and water polo with ADS Società Scarpiello” rugby school, the environment supported by Banco di San The economic value Sportiva Nervi. Giorgio created and distributed Improvement objectives Activities of the Foundations Contributions of the foundations for Four foundations have been formed within social initiatives (thousands of euro) the Group, which support and work with numerous associations to assist them in the 4,000 social and cultural fields. Each foundation is 3,343.5 3,500 fully autonomous in its own local area and in the activities defined by its constitution. 3,000 Banca Popolare di Bergamo Onlus 2,500 Foundation 2,000 According to the intentions of the former Banca Popolare di Bergamo–Credito 1,500 Varesino which formed it in 2001, it promotes historical and artistic heritage, the 1,000 conservation of the environment and nature, 500 the development of health and welfare and charitable activities in the Lombard area. The 0 principal beneficiaries of donations made Donations in 2010 included the following: Committee for the Pope John XXIII Hospital to build a Universities and Artistic and research environmental new church in this Bergamo hospital; Opera Education and heritage Bonomelli of Bergamo for the development training Culture of hostel projects to assist the socially Welfare and Social, recreational marginalised; the Circolo di Varese Hospital solidarity and sports activities for its palliative care ward; the Adriano Bernareggi Foundation for activities for cultural and social development in the Bergamo area; the “Bergamaschi in the World” organisation to keep Bergamo people living abroad in touch with their home. The CAB Foundation Giovanni Folonari Cultural Institute Formed in 1983, its mission according to its constitution is to safeguard and enhance the human, historical, artistic and environmental heritage of the community of Brescia, promoting research into art and archaeology, history and literature, sociology and economics. Torre dei Caduti (Tower of the Fallen –Bergamo) In recent years it has focused on the restoration restored with a donation and enhancement of artistic and cultural from the Banca Popolare di heritage and in 2010 it made donations for Bergamo Onlus Foundation. the restoration of the Chiesa del Buon Pastore (Santa Maria della Carità) church and of the Parish of the Cathedral of Brescia, for the museum activities of “D’Annunzio Segreto” of the Vittoriale degli Italiani Foundation and for the activities of the Friends of the Museums of Brescia Association. Banca San Paolo di Brescia Foundation Founded in 1998, its objective is to perpetuate the original ideals and catholic inspiration of the Banca San Paolo di Brescia which established it. It supports social, civic and church initiatives with attention given primarily to education, Santa Maria della Carità welfare and art, preferably in Lombardy in Brescia, restored with 49 a donation from the CAB and the Province of Brescia, and also in coFoundation. operation with other local organisations. In 2010 it made donations to the activities of the following; the Opera per l’Educazione Cristiana of Brescia for the Paolo VI Institute; the Caritas Diocesana di Brescia for the people’s canteen “Madre Eugenia Menni”; the Prison and Community Association for the project “Prison and school: is it worth the bother?”, the Cesare Arici Institute of Brescia for the award of scholarships; the Art and Spirituality Association of Brescia for The headquarters of the Paolo teaching and cultural initiatives; the Catholic VI Institute of Concesio. The University of Brescia; and the Ente Bresciano Banca San Paolo di Brescia Foundation supports the Istruzione Superiore. activities of its Opera per l’Educazione Cristiana. Unione di Banche Italiane per Varese Onlus Foundation Founded in 2001 it pursues exclusive aims of social solidarity in the Region of Lombardy and in the Province of Varese in particular. It supports charitable initiatives and initiatives to conserve, promote and enhance, artistic and historical heritage, nature and the environment and also social welfare and health assistance. “Family Home” Therapeutic In 2010 it made donations for the following: Community of Fogliaro the creation of a facility to accommodate Renato Piatti Onlus Foundation. the relatives of patients in hospitals of the Cilla Foundation of Varese; the purchase of furnishings for the Family Home of the Renato Piatti Onlus Foundation; the Memory Outpatients of the Varese Alzheimer Association; the construction of accommodation for persons with mental disorders of the ATAP Incontro Onlus Association; the purchase of equipment for the Surgical Research Centre and the Transplant Research Centre of the University of Insubria; the purchase of medical equipment for eye operations for the Circolo di Luino Hospital. International solidarity initiatives In giving our support to nonprofit organisations we consider, amongst other things, the value of those organisations in our communities which work to help people With CESVI to help people in other countries who are experiencing in Pakistan hit by floods. poverty or emergencies. CESVI sUBIto In August 2010, the monsoon rains devastated Pakistan leaving over 20 million people on their knees. CESVI (www.cesvi.org), a member of the humanitarian network Agire, intervened immediately being able to count on the generosity of Italian people. (photo Marco Bottelli) Once again, after the initiatives for Bangladesh and Myanmar, we commenced fundraising in our branches with the current account CESVI sUBIto for international emergencies. To the 30,000 euro which this raised, we added the same amount and at the end of the year The promotion of financial we donated it to CESVI for its emergency education intervention to help over 26,000 people. This The Parent and all the network banks are included the distribution of primary necessities members of the PattiChiari Consortium of food, water, kits for hygienic facilities, (banking services charter consortium) blankets and water containers according to which in the context of its main functions 50 the various needs in communities. The funds promotes financial training and education were also used to start reconstruction and for in the community, with a special focus on The UBI Banca Group social and economic recovery, assisting with consumer needs. hygienic facilities, the construction of housing, The commitment of Group banks is Ethics and social responsibility the repair of industry infrastructures and the concentrated on three programmes of resumption of agricultural production. financial education for schools for the Relationships with personnel academic year 2010-2011, designed to investors 60,000 euro provide pupils with accurate information on investment and the economy. customers To CESVI for the suppliers emergency in Pakistan Community PattiChiari with the economy involvement This initiative is designed to introduce grade Attention to We participate through the Banco di Brescia two secondary school pupils to economic the environment in MicroVentures (www.micro-ventures. culture, to provide them with appropriate The economic value com), an international network of businesses tools to enable them make knowledgeable created and distributed which invest in micro-finance institutions choices within the economic and financial Improvement operating in emerging countries in Asia and system. At the end of this classroom course objectives Latin America. provided by teachers with support from experts provided by the banks involved, the project sets a competition “develop your business idea” for a business plan which simulates the start-up of a socially useful enterprise in the local community. The economy and I The programme has the dual objective of teaching grade one secondary school children how to manage money responsibly and to guide them in their occupational and school decisions. The banks involved provide a company expert to assist the teacher in the classroom during lessons. PattiChiari with the economy Our community Banca Popolare di Bergamo, Banco di Brescia, This initiative, which uses games and real Banca Carime experiences guided by a company expert, 22 Schools in Bergamo, Brescia and Cosenza takes junior school children on a journey 27 Classes to discover a typical local community 675 pupils with its personalities. It shows them the commercial activities and services provided by government for the safety and education The economy and I of citizens. The school children learn to Banca Popolare di Bergamo, Banco di Brescia, distinguish private sector from public sector Banca Regionale Europea, Banca Carime jobs and to discover the role of banks in local economies. 28 Schools at Potenza, Matera, Como, Varese, Brescia, Turin 68 Classes Universities and research 1,700 pupils The availability of proficient economic and financial expertise on the labour market is a key competitive factor in local economic and Our community business communities and also for our Group. Banca Popolare di Bergamo, Banca Carime We are aware of this and in playing our role as a bank in local communities we have built 14 Schools at Cosenza, Bari, Monza, Lecco relationships over the years with educational institutes. With regard to universities, in 25 Classes addition to the unsecured loans for students 234 pupils (see page 36) that we provide, we also fund the activities and projects of institutes with scholarships, we accept students on internships, we participate in career guidance days and we make use of specialist expertise in our R&D activities. Convention agreements to assist students The section on relations with personnel reports on the number of job experience internships we provided during the year and still running at year end. These internships are the result of a series of convention agreements that we have with the universities of Bergamo, Brescia, Turin, Genoa and Bari, with the Bocconi University and the Catholic University of Milan, with the 51 University of Insubria of Varese and the LIUC University of Castellanza and the University Research and Development Activities of Calabria. In order to inform students of We participate with finance and directly in this opportunity, each year we participate in research programmes projects and centres career days organised by these universities. to contribute to the study of local economic In 2010 we further broadened our network and financial systems and their problems. of contacts by participating in meetings These include: with the students of the IULM and Bicocca • the “Club of Businesses” promoted by the Universities of Milan and the Federico II School of Management of the University University of Naples. of Bergamo, which organises seminars and refresher meetings for its members on topical economic, financial and socio-cultural issues. • the “Partner for Development” programme of the Bocconi University of Milan, with active involvement in the university’s projects; • the CeTIF (research centre for financial Milan, with regard to the instrument as such technologies, innovation and services) of and also to the ethics’ codes. the Catholic University of Milan for research The representatives of the following activities, courses and seminars; organisations participated in the meetings • The Unicam Committee of the University with nonprofit organisations: the Gianmarco of Camerino, for projects for co-operation De Maria Association, the Granteatrino Onlus between university research and businesses; Association, the HBARI2003 Association, • the “World Campus” project of the the La Tenda Association, the San Pancrazio Marches Polytechnic, launched in 2005 Association, CELIM, the SIS Consortium, the to support and disseminate technological Cooperho Consortium, the Italian Red Cross innovation and training for university of Cosenza, CSV Milan, Elpendu, the Social students through job experience abroad. Co-operative Consortium, Federsolidarietà In order to develop new products for receipt of Bari, Intervita, the Proxima Social Coand payment services based on innovative operative, UVI – Union of Volunteers for technologies (NFC/contactless), we Infants and Adolescents. Compared to commenced co-operation with a young and the trade associations they demonstrated dynamic research team from the LIUCCarlo less knowledge of the Group’s social Cattaneo di Castellanza University and the responsibility policies and activities and a University of Pavia. certain difficulty with relations with the We launched a pilot project with the LIUC Bank, due to the pace of turnover in branch University to apply and fine tune products personnel. The judgement of the Social developed in research laboratories in Report was again positive, but they only university identification and payment knew of it because they had been invited services. to the focus group. The short version of the The Half yearly observatory on the Social Report was considered very useful and performance of small and micro sized interesting. enterprises (Marches Trend) created by Banca Popolare di Ancona with the national and local Marches Artisan Trade Relations with the media Association is of particular importance in Relations with the press and other media are that region. The Economics Faculty of the based on the maximum transparency and Marches Polytechnic and the Carlo Bò di ensure a high level of co-operation with all Urbino University also co-operate on the newspapers and all journalists. Marches Trend project. We also worked In 2010 the Parent issued 40 press releases, with the Carlo Bò di Urbino University on a the majority (27) financial and the rest either three year research project, which ended in providing general information or on products, 2010, on the problems of small to mediumservices and social responsibility initiatives. sized enterprises in a comparison with the development experiences of the same type of firm in the United States and other European 9,501 [+2,148] countries. Articles on the Group2 42.9% [-4.1pp] in local dailies Communication, consultation and dialogue 19.9% [+1.9pp] in national activities financial dailies Focus groups Following on from activity performed and 2.322 [+159] specialist articles reported in the previous two years, again in of which3 2010 we organised six meetings (using focus group techniques) in Bari, Cosenza and Milan 29.2% [-1.8pp] positive with local trade associations and nonprofit organisations. 14.2% [+6.2pp] negative Local representatives of the following local associations participated: CNA In order to reach the whole of their public 52 (artisans’ and small businesses association), more fully, the network banks are directly Coldiretti (the direct small farmers’ involved in the management of relations with The UBI Banca Group association), Confesercenti (the retailers’ the local media and in the issue of Group Ethics and social association), Confagricoltura (the farmers press releases in their respective areas. responsibility association), Confapi (the SMEs’ association), Relationships with Confartigianato (the artisans’ association), Confcommercio (the shopkeepers’ The organisation of events personnel Each year the Parent and the network banks association), the Confindustria (confederation investors of industry) and the Co-op league. organise events designed to encourage the customers Compared to years previous years, we found circulation and development of culture, suppliers greater knowledge of the Group’s social mainly in the field of economics, which Community responsibility policies and activities and a involvement more positive judgement on relations with 2 Analysis of press coverage by the agency D’Antona & Partners. Attention to the Bank, while again there was a certain 3 Articles with information (on corporate structure the environment difficulty in perceiving the Bank’s links with and operating results, statements by senior The economic value the local community. The judgement on UBI management and on products and services) created and distributed Banca’s Social Report was also positive even which enable the public to form an opinion of the Improvement if a certain mistrust persisted, especially in activities of the Bank. objectives are important opportunities for visibility, The organisation of events: involvement and service to customers. important occasions for visibility, The principal events on topical economic involvement and service to customers. themes organised in 2010 included the following: • meetings organised by UBI Banca and Centro Einaudi on the economic crisis with the presentation of the essay “La Ripresa, il Coraggio e la Paura” (The recovery, the courage and the fear), in seven Italian towns and cities with over 500 participants; • the conventions Reti di imprese e territorio. The inauguration of Tra vincoli e nuove opportunità dopo la “Contemporary Energy. crisi (Business networks and communities. Italian Attitudes”: Italian art on display in Shanghai Constraints and new opportunities after the crisis (a joint initiative between Banca Popolare di Ancona and the Marches Polytechnic), with 80 participants and Fare Reti di Impresa (Create business networks) (by Banca Carime and AIP Industrial Policies Association) in which 100 business persons participated; • “Strumenti finanziari a sostegno delle PMI Marchigiane: plafond Bei” (Financial L’Agricoltura di fronte al instruments to support SMEs in the Marches: mercato, a convention for the revival of the agriculture the EIB budget), a convention of SMEs by and foodstuffs sector. Banca Popolare di Ancona and the Marches regional administration, attended by 130 trade associations, business persons and accountants; • “L’agricoltura di fronte al mercato” (Agriculture and the market) a convention on the revival of the Italian agricultural and foodstuffs industries (organised by Banco di Brescia with the Lombardy Confagricoltura – farmers association – and A.I.S.A. srl), with 200 participants; The inauguration of “U • the conventions “U will Be International” will Be International”, at at the Kilometro Rosso in Bergamo (organised the Kilometro Rosso in by UBI Banca), with over 400 Investors and Bergamo. Affrontare i mercati esteri (The challenge of foreign markets), a joint initiative between Banca Popolare di Ancona, the National Institute for Foreign Trade and Studio Progetti Finanziari, with 200 businesses participating to disseminate knowledge of international opportunities; • the seminar “Aspetti etici dell’attività bancaria e ruolo sociale delle banche: esperienza della Russia e dell’Italia” (Ethical aspects of banking and the social role of banks: the experience of Russia and Italy), organised for representatives of the world of international finance under the patronage of and with the co-operation of the Patriarch of Moscow and important Russian social organisations. Two main events were organised during internationalisation of Italian small to mediumthe year to encourage financial training and sized enterprises as follows: education: • The “China Trader Award” prize for relations 53 • Valorizzazione delle Eccellenze (the value of with Hong Kong and China; excellence), a Banca Carime initiative attended • the event “Festa Italiana – Impresa Award” by 350 high school pupils; for relations with India; • La gestione dei patrimoni familiari nei periodi • The “Il Ponte d’Oro” prize for economic and di crisi economica – Università cultural ties with Russia; e Banca a fianco dell’investitore (The • the “GEI Premio Amerigo Vespucci” prize management of family estates in periods for relations between Italy and Brazil. of economic crisis – Universities and banks Finally cultural events were also organised: assist investors), a seminar for private banking • the exhibition “Contemporary Energy. Italian customers of the group, organised jointly by Attitudes”, with 28 Italian and Shanghai artists Banco di Brescia and the Catholic University, (organised by UBI Banca in co-operation with with 100 participants. IGAV) to promote “made in Italy” products, We promoted and organised prizes and visited by over 45,000 people; awards for business persons who have • the event “Artisan Village” to promote local contributed to the development of artisan products in Liguria, a joint initiative international economic relations in cobetween Banco di San Giorgio and the operation with important institutions of the Liguria CNA (artisans’ and small businesses host countries, with a view to supporting the association). Attention to the environment We observe the principles of the Global ENERGY CONSUMPTION1 Compact on the environment and adopt a preventative and proactive approach Electricity (kWh) 110,426,442 -34.9% to environmental issues, by following the guidelines set in our 2008 policy as part of per employee (kWh/Emp.) 6,345.3 our social responsibility with regard to the per surface area (kWh/sq. m.) 104.3 local communities in which we operate. from renewable sources (%) 100% +16pp We seek to progressively reduce the impacts of our activities on the natural environment TOE2 20,650 -51.3% through the following: rational use of District heating (kWh) 10,099,665 +73.8% resources and the elimination of waste; the per employee (kWh/Emp.) 580.3 use of energy produced from renewable sources and/or low or zero level emissions; per surface area (kWh/sq. m.) 9.5 the reduction of the quantities of waste TOE 2 869 +73.8% produced and verification that it is properly Methane (cu. m.) 4,609,386 -6.6% treated; the use of products and services with a low environmental impact. per employee (cu. m./Emp.) 264.9 We further improved our measurement of per surface area (cu. m./sq. m.) 4.4 environmental performance indicators in TOE 2 3,780 -6.6% 2010 with a view to the future introduction of an environmental management system Gasoil (litres) 905,582 -27.3% and the possible acquisition of environmental per employee (litres/employee) 52.0 certifications. per surface area (litres/sq. m.) 0.9 We also consider the results we can achieve TOE 2 831 -27.3% by raising the environmental awareness of our personnel and all those with whom we Total (TEP2) 26,130 -45.7% do business, especially through our dedicated Of which net of financial products and services and through electricity from 5,480 -56.1% consideration of the environmental risks renewable sources involved in financing transactions and project 1 Data relates to 98% of the indoor floor space of the Group and is estimated on the basis of actual spending. finance transactions in particular. 2 Ton oil equivalents. The reduction for electricity is partly due (5,467 TOE a reduction of 13.2%) to the new conversion coefficient introduced in 2010 in accordance with the EEN3/08 standard. The ton oil equivalents for district heating in 2009 have been Energy recalculated with the conversion coefficients received from the supplier. It is our priority to optimise energy procurement and consumption. The Energy Management Office at UBI Sistemi e Servizi as been functioning for Energy savings action some years now. The Energy Manager not only manages energy supply contracts for the whole Group (electricity, methane, gasoil, etc.), but also suggests action to the relative sectors for rational and optimum use of energy sources consistent with the objectives of making savings and procuring supplies from 54 renewable and/or low or zero emissions sources. The UBI Banca Group We are members of the Italian Banking Ethics and social Association Energy Consortium, which acts responsibility as a research and training centre for banks • Space optimisation Relationships with belonging to the consortium on energy savings issues. It provides co-ordination • Centralised control of work stations personnel for cost analysis and data acquisition in Group branches to switch them off investors during hours when not in use customers and performs group energy purchases at attractive conditions. • Replacement of 830 halogen bulbs suppliers with LED bulbs at the UBI Banca Community di Brescia headquarters and 17 involvement Remote management of systems We employ the remote management of fluorescent lights with LED lights for Attention to the ATMs at the Banca Popolare di the environment systems via intranet to monitor heating and air conditioning systems in the numerous Bergamo headquarters The economic value created and distributed premises of the Group and to check that the • The installation of 27 high efficiency temperature settings and the on-off timer air conditioning units and seven Improvement objectives settings for both winter and summer are refrigerators fitted with inverters properly set. 239 [+27] Remotely managed systems A 198 kWp photovoltaic plant on the roof of the Emission reduction car park at the Banca In recent years we have progressively Popolare di Ancona Esagono reduced CO2 emissions through increasing Management Centre at Jesi. use of electricity certified as from renewable sources. Consumable materials The main consumer materials are paper and 100% toner. We have taken some initiatives to Electricity certified from reduce consumption by limiting the physical print out of documents as follows: renewable sources1 • digitalisation of paper documents in all operational processes; • configuration of printer settings to print both sides of sheets, CO2 emissions (tons) • promotion of internet banking services with bank statements and other banking Electricity -100,0% documents sent in electronic format; District heating 3.656 +73,8% • delivery of income certification documents Methane 9.034 -6,6% and pay slips to employees in electronic format via the Group intranet. Gasoil 2.355 -27,3% Total 15.045 -46,6% Per employee 0,86 -44,9% Data relates to 98% of the indoor floor space of the Group and is estimated on the basis of actual spending, with the application of the following coefficients: Paper consumption (kg) District heating = 0,36 kg/kWh; Methane = 1,96 kg/cu. m,; Gasoil = 2,6 kg/litre TOTAL 2,048,705 +25.7% Per employee 117.72 +30.9% The data is estimated on the basis of actual spending. NOx emissions (Kg) Toner data for 2010 is not available because printer maintenance contracts have included the supply and disposal of toner since June. Electricity -100.0% District heating 4,343 +73.8% 100% Methane 11,145 -6.6% certified ecological paper Gasoil 2,236 -27.3% TOTAL 17,724 -41.9% Per employee 1.02 -39.3% Data relates to 98% of the indoor floor space of the Group and is 85% estimated on the basis of actual spending, with the application of the following coefficients: District heating = 0.43 g/kWh; certified ecological paper Methane = 2.42 g/cu. m.; Gasoil = 2.47 g/litre SOx emissions (kg) 55 Waste separation (kg) Electricity -100.0% Paper and cardboard/paper 1,991,401 +0.3% packaging District heating 3,333 +73.8% Toner 18,439 -18.2% Methane 80 -6.6% Glass, cans and iron 1,160 -1.0% Gasoil 4,471 -27.3% Plastic 2,096 -39.6% TOTAL 7,884 -65.0% Other waste 139,905 +58.8% Per employee 0.45 -63.7% Data relates to 98% of the indoor floor space of the Group and is TOTAL 2,153,001 +2.5% estimated on the basis of actual spending, with the application of the following coefficients: Per sq. m. of surface area 2.03 -9.5% District heating = 0.33 g/kWh; Methane = 0.02 g/cu. m.; Per employee 123.72 +8.7% Gasoil = 4.94 g/litre Estimated data which does not include solid urban waste collected and handled by the public refuse service 1 RECS (renewable energy certification system 99.97% – www.recs.org) certificates purchased by energy source. Waste sent for recycling Water consumption (cu. m.) We inform personnel through internal communication channels of a series of TOTAL 673,464 -13.6% national and regional initiatives (ecoPer employee 38.70 -10.0% incentives) organised by public authorities for sustainable mobility. The data is estimated on the basis of actual spending. We organised safe and eco-compatible driving courses for top management drivers in co-operation with national associations in 2010. Sustainable mobility The Group has a number of large business centres consisting of the headquarters “Green” loans of the Parent the network banks and We support the investments of individuals the product companies. Problems and and businesses with special loans for initiatives concerning sustainable mobility the diversification of energy sources, the are concentrated on these centres. These production of energy from renewable matters are supervised by the Group Mobility sources (e.g. wind power, hydro, biomass) Manager in the Human Resources Area. or low environmental impact sources, the improvement of energy efficiency and the Mobility at work rationalisation of consumption. We have set a travel policy which gives priority and incentivises the use of transport for business travel which has a lower environmental impact and we have increased the use of video conferencing to limit for businesses physical transfers as much as possible. The 700 Group has 319 video conferencing work stations in use, of which 169 installed in Loans granted 2010. 300 million euro The amount disbursed 3,067 [+22,7%] video conference meetings for households 265 ton CO2 avoided2 500 Mobility to-and-from work Loans granted The Mobility Manager records to-and-from work travel of personnel in order to identify possible improvement action to take which 12 million euro might fall both strictly within the company The amount disbursed sphere and within the sphere of local authorities and that of municipalities in particular. Credit lines for photovoltaic systems can be integrated with insurance cover specially designed for this type of plant. 9,0773 A simulator is available on the Group commercial website at www.ubibanca.com, Employees involved in the which allows businesses to independently acquisition of to-and-from assess the attractiveness of an investment in terms of economic and environmental costs work data acquisition and benefits. The simulator was created in co-operation with the Department of 56 33% questionnaires compiled Mechanical and Industrial Engineering in the and returned Faculty of Engineering at the University of The UBI Banca Group Brescia. Ethics and social responsibility In order to encourage more sustainable toFramework Loan Relationships with and-from work mobility, for some years now On the basis of an agreement signed in 2009 with we have provided protected parking areas for the European Investment Bank (EIB), Centrobanca personnel bicycles in some of the main headquarters can grant loans drawn from EIB funds (for a total investors of 200 million euro) for of the Group and a coach shuttle service customers between Bergamo, Varese, Brescia and suppliers Milan, to respond to to-and-from work travel 2 Amount estimated for the use of cars for short Community requirements. journeys and airplanes for long distances, involvement considering one person only connected at each point. Attention to 3 2009 data for employees working in the capital the environment The economic value over 1,000 tons of CO2 towns and cities of provinces in which the Group possesses headquarters. created and distributed avoided with company 4 Amount estimated for the use of own vehicles for Improvement objectives coach shuttles4 to-and-from work journeys for users of the coach shuttle service. energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Centrobanca disbursed the first loan for 17 million Informing and educating The promotion of Group products and euro in 2009. No loans were disbursed in 2010 services provides an opportunity to inform but three loan contracts were signed for the and educate customers about opportunities construction and operation of photovoltaic plants to help safeguard the environment and the for which funding was requested from the EIB advantages. amounting to 32.3 million euro. M’illumino di meno (I use less light) We participated for the Project Finance5 fifth consecutive year in Centobanca participates in loans to the the International Energy private sector and in mixed public-private Savings Day: at 6.00 p.m. investments in the following areas: on 18th February 2011 we • energy, for the generation of electricity symbolically switched off from conventional or alternative sources the neon signs of the main (thermal, wind power, hydro) and related headquarters of UBI Banca, projects (transport and storage) for the UBI Sistemi e Servizi and of transmission and distribution of energy, oil the network banks. and gas; • environment for waste treatment and The initiative was accompanied by action disposal plants and integrated sewage, to educate all personnel, with the renewal desalination and water treatment plants; of the proposal on the Group intranet of ten • infrastructures, for the construction of simple rules for energy savings. hospitals, roads (highways and orbital freeways), transport in large urban centres Qui UBI With the competition entitled Qui fai. Qui hai. (metropolitan railways, tramways, etc.) and Qui UBI, we provided incentives to subscribe to a in the relative hinterlands, and maritime and service for the electronic receipt of mail relating airport infrastructures. to current accounts and custody accounts. The service is named “My accounts”, and is bundled with the internet banking service Qui UBI. 47 A total of 200 thousand customers (over Project finance half of the active Qui UBI customers) have already chosen to receive current account transactions stipulated and custody account documents in electronic instead of hardcopy form. The choice involves approximately 300,000 current accounts and 456 million euro custody accounts. The amount disbursed The size of the loans varies from a minimum of 10 million euro to a maximum of 100 Project Finance Transactions million euro, with a term which normally does not exceed 15 years for the energy and Energy 45 environment sectors. Wind farms 17 With its Green Project, Centrobanca provides Photovoltaic plants 21 project finance facilities for investments in renewable energy also for medium and smallOther renewable energy plants 7 sized enterprises. Environment 5 While we do not base our assessment Waste treatment plants 3 of operations on equator principles, all Other activities 2 projects financed have followed all the Infrastructures 12 Italian authorisation procedures in force (e.g. environmental impact, declaration of Hospitals 3 the start of activity, single authorisations, Highways 2 building permit, etc.) and have passed the Metropolitan railways 1 57 technical, administrative and insurance Water, sewer and gas pipeline networks 5 assessments performed on behalf of the Airports 1 Bank by major independent advisors of international standing. TOTAL TRANSACTIONS 62 TOTAL AUTHORISED (millions of euro) 1,203.3 TOTAL DISBURSED (millions of euro) 661.0 Green Project1 Transactions Energy 35 Wind farms 2 Photovoltaic plants 29 5 Structured finance which involves the creation of a special company, a “special purpose entity”, created Other renewable energy plants 4 by firms termed “sponsors” by the contribution of TOTAL AUTHORISED (millions of euro) 207.4 share capital or the grant of subordinated loans, for the TOTAL DISBURSED (millions of euro) 90.7 purpose of creating and managing a cash flow which 1 Financing and project finance for small to medium-sized enterprises will repay the loan or investment. Economic value generated and distributed The statement of the economic value created and distributed to stakeholders constitutes 2010 results Again in 2010 the operating results, the link between the Social Report and the discussed in depth in the consolidated Consolidated Financial Statements. Careful management report in the 2010 Annual reclassification of the income statement Report, were affected by the economic brings out the magnitude of the total situation, depressed by a context of crisis not economic value created by the Group and its completely recovered from, by uncertainty distribution. inherited from the turmoil and imbalances Part of the economic value created is of the last four years, and by sudden retained by the Group for self-finance and and unexpected pressures on financial part is distributed to the various internal and markets, all factors which perpetuate the external stakeholders. disorientation of market participants. The statement has been prepared in The year was characterised for the Group by compliance with the model recommended by a fall in ordinary revenues, which could not the Italian Banking Association in December be offset by a more severe policy to contain 2010. This broadens the notion of value costs, as they continued to be affected by added to also include the costs incurred for the economic situation, the high loan losses, the purchase of goods and services from although now falling, and impairment losses suppliers within economic value created in on financial assets. accordance with international practice and The year 2010 therefore ended with a fall of consistent with GRI recommendations. 5.0% in the total economic value created from 3,209 million euro to 3,048 million euro. The reduction affected the proportions distributed to the various stakeholders in differing amounts. 58 The UBI Banca Group Ethics and social Distribution of economic value responsibility generated Relationships with 3.2% 0.4% 0.4% personnel investors 6.4% 47.6% Employees customers Suppliers suppliers Public 18.8% administrations Community Retained involvement Registered and Attention to unregistered the environment shareholders 23.2% Non controlling The economic value interests created and distributed The community Improvement and the objectives environment Determination and distribution of economic value 2010 2009 Change created (thousands of euro) Interest income and similar 3,525,312 4,213,948 -688,636 -16.3% Interest expenses and similar charges (1,378,714) (1,718,320) -339,606 -19.8% Commission income 1,378,117 1,329,184 +48,933 +3.7% Commission expenses (196,892) (199,009) -2,117 -1.1% Dividends and similar income 24,099 10,609 +13,490 +127.2% Net trading income (loss) (56,891) 13,864 -70,755 -510.4% Net hedging income (loss) 67,209 15,960 +51,249 +321.1% Income (loss) from disposal or repurchase of: 17,057 122,115 -105,058 -86.0% a) loans (3,850) (81) -3,769 -4653.1% b) available-for-sale financial assets 31,245 30,516 +729 +2.4% c) held-to-maturity investments 37,441 -37,441 -100.0% d) financial liabilities (10,338) 54,239 -64,577 -119.1% Net income/expenses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value 6,669 (25,151) +31,820 -126.5% Net impairment losses on: (756,653) (914,371) +157,718 +17.2% a) loans (706,932) (865,211) +158,279 +18.3% b) available-for-sale financial assets (42,364) (43,883) +1,519 +3.5% c) held-to-maturity investments d) other financial transactions (7,357) (5,277) -2,080 -39.4% Net insurance premiums 169,176 -169,176 -100.0% Other income/expense on insurance operations (149,127) -149,127 +100.0% Other net operating income/(expense) 239,430 235,042 +4,388 +1.9% Profits (losses) of equity investments (for the part from disposals) 81,233 203 +81,030 +39916.3% Profits (losses) on disposal of investments 14,458 100,099 -85,641 -85.6% Post-tax profit (loss) from discontinued operations 83,368 5,155 +78,213 +1517.2% TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 3,047,802 3,209,377 -161,575 -5.0% b) other administrative expenses (exclusive of indirect taxes grants and 706,522 714,970 -8,448 -1.2% donations) ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO SUPPLIERS 706,522 714,970 -8,448 -1.2% a) personnel expense1 1,451,584 1,477,200 -25,616 -1.7% ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO EMPLOYEES 1,451,584 1,477,200 -25,616 -1.7% Profit (loss) for the year attributable to non controlling shareholders 13,602 17,048 -3,446 -20.2% ECONOMIC VALUE ATTRIBUTABLE TO NON CONTROLLING INTERESTS 13,602 17,048 -3,446 -20.2% Share of profit destined to dividend payments2 95,872 191,744 -95,872 -50.0% ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO SHAREHOLDERS (REGISTERED 95,872 191,744 -95,872 -50.0% SHAREHOLDERS AND UNREGISTERED SHAREHOLDERS) b) other administrative expenses: indirect and capital taxes 210,714 216,195 -5,481 -2.5% Current taxes on income for the year3 360,790 472,485 -111,695 -23.6% ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO CENTRAL AND LOCAL PUBLIC 571,504 688,680 -117,176 -17.0% ADMINISTRATIONS b) other administrative expenses – grants and donations4 6,354 7,245 -891 -12.3% Share of profits allocated to the fund for social purposes5 6,526 8,605 -2,079 -24.2% ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO THE COMMUNITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 12,880 15,850 -2,970 -18.7% TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 2,851,964 3,105,492 -253,528 -8.2% 59 Net provisions for risks and charges 27,209 36,932 -9,723 -26.3% Net impairment losses on property, equipment and investment property 109,838 117,408 -7,570 -6.4% Net impairment losses on intangible assets 130,500 150,770 -20,270 -13.4% Profits (losses) of equity investments (the fair value part: write-downs/ (17,794) (35,375) +17,581 +49.7% write-backs, impairment losses/reversals, other expenses/income Change in fair value of property, equipment and investment property and intangible assets Net impairment losses on goodwill 5,172 Change in deferred tax assets and liabilities (128,810) (235,600) +106,790 -45.3% Profit allocated to reserves2 69,723 69,750 -27 -0.0% TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 195,838 103,885 +91,953 +88.5% 1 Inclusive of board members’ remuneration and expenses for external distribution networks (e.g. agents and financial advisors) 2 The figures for 2010 are based on the allocation of profits proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting 3 Includes the changes in current taxes of prior years and the reduction in current taxes for the year 4 Includes sponsorships with social and environmental value (e.g. cause-related marketing) 5 Includes the shares of profits allocated by the network banks to their respective funds for social purposes. Improvement objectives In 2010, a difficult year, we continued to work to achieve our declared social responsibility objectives. We have used the following symbols to report this: Objective fully achieved Objective partially achieved Objective not achieved We briefly report the reasons for the objectives not achieved or partially achieved. For objectives totally or partially achieved, we give in brackets the page numbers in this Social Report in which the activities performed are reported. The objectives not achieved or partially achieved remain among the priorities for the near future, within the context of the strategic decisions taken in the new Group business plan currently being prepared. Corporate governance Reporting and control Adoption of a Code of Ethics by the end Further development of focus groups on of the first half of 2010 and the Social Report. commencement by the end of the year of [p. 52] a structured plan of action to implement it Implementation of stakeholder (e.g. changes to the organisational engagement according to recognised structure, internal and external standards (e.g. AA1000) and extension communication, personnel training and of engagement to other categories of auditing for compliance with the code). stakeholders. [pp. 16-17] [pp. 34-36] Preparation of a plan for action on policies and corporate procedures for Periodic monitoring of social responsibility the implementation of the Code of Ethics, and sustainability indicators as part of with input from the CSR and sustainability departmental reporting in connection with assessment activities currently being verification of the application of the code completed. of conduct. Integration of social responsibility and sustainability objectives in the update of A search for greater quality and the Group medium-term business plan. effectiveness in reporting to stakeholders, Intensification of commitments to through, amongst other things, sustainability by membership of bodies (e.g. diversification of the tools and 60 communication channels. Forum for Sustainable Finance) and adherence to codes of conduct (e.g. equator [pp. 25,52,65] The UBI Banca Group principles). Intensification of direct communication in Ethics and social the community. responsibility Increase in the level of participation in Relationships with existing commitments (e.g. multiMonitoring of the application of the Code stakeholder initiatives within the Global of Ethics and the intensification of direct personnel Compact). communication are already programmed for investors [p. 18] 2011. customers The process for the adoption of the Code of suppliers Ethics required more time than envisaged Community and was concluded in December, while the involvement formulation of the new business plan was Attention to postponed mainly because of continuing the environment macroeconomic uncertainties and it will be The economic value designed to support the increase in share created and distributed capital proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting. Improvement The activities connected with the declared objectives objectives were affected as a consequence. Relations with personnel Relations with investors Update and enhancement of branch Pursuit of remuneration of the investment manager roles as key figures in the and sustainable growth in value of commercial supply chain, to be achieved the share in the medium to long-term, partly through a training and change compatible with general market management programme which will conditions. [p. 30-31] reinforce professional skills and motivation for more effective management of Development of concessions offered customer demands in a context of growing to registered shareholders, with a view to organisational and market complexity. [p. 25] achieving the mutual objects. [p. 31] Extension of potential measurement to Increase the presence of the UBI Banca include product companies as a further share in the portfolios of institutional judgement factor to support proper investors who invest in the medium to implementation of personnel management long-term, with particular reference to the policies. [p. 22] socially responsible investment sector. Personnel management interviews to enhance and develop key human resources, Improvement of ethical ratings and partly as a function of the priority given positioning in ethical indices. to internally selected personnel to fill vacant [p. 19] positions of responsibility. [p. 22] The continuing economic crisis and the uncertainty and volatility on financial Standardisation of the incentive schemes markets affected the achievement of employed in the different company economic objectives, in terms of both yield remuneration and incentive policies set and the positioning of the share. by the Group, incorporating the additional new regulatory provisions of national and international supervisory authorities. [pp. 23-24] Refinement of training programmes designed for specific job families (management, middle-management, talents and key resources, professionals, specialists, technical and administrative roles, etc.) to further develop professional skills and the behaviour and managerial abilities of personnel. [p. 23] The introduction of compulsory training programmes for the qualification of new branch managers and to strengthen the specialist abilities of corporate account managers and private bankers, in order to supervise their professional growth as they fill more complex roles with greater responsibility. [p. 25] Improvement and strengthening of internal communication through initiatives and tools, including multimedia tools, designed to encourage the more rapid and systematic circulation of information and greater involvement of personnel. [p. 25] 61 Stronger prevention activities for health and safety at the work place including the start of a programme of psychological assistance with work-related stress. The launch of a programme of psychological assistance for work-related stress is dependent on the results of the risk assessment, which has not yet been performed, due to repeated extensions of the deadlines set by the regulations and to the priority given to psychological support provided for personnel involved in robberies. The occupational doctor nevertheless performed an important role in the management of the work-related stress difficulties of individuals, by acting as a “counselling centre”. Relations with customers Relations with suppliers Implementation of commercial and credit Greater openness to markets, extending policies attentive to important social and requests for quotes to potential new environmental issues (e.g. social inclusion suppliers who meet the requirements of and over-indebtedness, climate changes). Group standards. [pp. 42-43] [pp. 32-33, 36-40, 56] Revision of assessment criteria for the Stronger ties with the community through: inclusion of suppliers on the approved list. •increased support for small to mediumGreater attention to ethical, social sized enterprises, by improving sector and environmental aspects of supplier specific products and relations with trade relationships. associations and guarantee bodies; [pp. 42-43] •service models designed to support growth Constant improvement of administrative in the third sector and the integration of processes to ensure full compliance with immigrants; contractually agreed conditions. [pp. 42-43] •the development of micro-credit for households and businesses to encourage social inclusion and increased The pursuit of the declared objectives in the employment. [pp. 37-40] difficult economic situation in 2010 was affected by the policy to contain costs in The development of consultation and purchasing processes. dialogue initiatives to improve the ability to meet the actual demands of each customer segment and to develop relations with consumer associations, including through nationally reached agreements in the sector. [pp. 34-35] Promotion of financial culture and access to banking services for young people, through the use, amongst other things, of dedicated commercial initiatives. [pp. 37-38, 50-51] Constant improvement of the accessibility and security of branches and direct channels for all customers, including with regard to the problems of disabled persons. [p. 36] 62 The UBI Banca Group Ethics and social responsibility Relationships with personnel investors customers suppliers Community involvement Attention to the environment The economic value created and distributed Improvement objectives Community involvement Attention to the environment The definition of guidelines for the The progressive reduction of the direct transparency and adequacy of systems to environmental impacts of activities in monitor the results of donations to social compliance with Group policy with organisations. particular reference to: Improvement of transparency and the • the reduction of emissions through the use quality of reporting on action taken and of renewable energy, increased use the impacts on the community and the of remote management systems and beneficiaries. the adoption of higher energy efficiency [pp. 44-50, 65] standards for buildings; • the start of compensation programmes for the remaining emissions; • the implementation of a plan for travel to and from work and the introduction of sustainable mobility initiatives; • the progressive implementation of an environmental management system with a view, amongst other things, to obtaining environmental certifications; • training and information initiatives for personnel. [pp. 54-56] The introduction of measures to mitigate the indirect impacts of activities through the consideration of environmental risks in the assessment of commercial counterparties and participation in initiatives for the generation of greater awareness of environmental issues. [p. 41] With a view to the progressive implementation of Group environmental policies, we gave priority to areas of intervention with greater margins of improvement in environment performance in the short term. We therefore focused on reducing the consumption of environmental resources and emissions of harmful substances into the environment. 63 Notes on the method The UBI Banca Social Report is now in its tenth edition, since the first edition published External assurance The Social Report is audited by an by the former Banca Popolare di Bergamoindependent entity. The independent Credito Varesino, added to in 2003 by the auditors KPMG Spa were appointed for the former Banca Lombarda Social Report in 2003. three year period for the social reports from This report, the fourth since the creation of 2009-2011. The auditor also verifies the level UBI Banca, was directly supervised by UBI of application of the GRI/G3 model declared Banca’s Management Board and approved by the bank. by the Supervisory Board and it is distributed Last year we declared that we would request together with the consolidated financial verification of the level of application also statements at the ordinary Annual General by the GRI and that we would publish Meeting. the result on the Group website. As a result of the time required to publish the English language version of the report, this Methodological references verification was not performed. It will be This report has been prepared in compliance performed this year. with the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the Supplement for the Financial Sector” issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI/G3 2008) and Stakeholder verification Each year, after it is published, we submit with the guidelines published by the Italian our Social Report to our stakeholders for Banking Association in 2006 – “Reporting to their assessment in focus groups managed by Stakeholders. A Guide for Banks”. Reference independent external consultants. was also made to the Global Compact rules We continued our programme of meetings for periodic “Communication on Progress” with trade associations and non profit required of all organisations which have organisations. After meetings held in signed the compact. Bergamo, Brescia Ancona, Varese and As concerns the depth of the reporting, the Cuneo over the previous two years, in 2010 GRI/G3 model contains three different levels we completed the cycle in the main cities of application marked by a “+” sign where in which the main Group network banks it is audited by an independent entity. UBI operate with meetings in Cosenza, Bari and Banca has declared an intermediate B+ level. Milan. The scope of the report, where not We received no reply from the assessment otherwise specified, is that of the scope of questionnaire available on the internet and consolidation identified in the accounting we will therefore consider more effective policies section of the Consolidated Financial possible alternatives. Statements, and it is consistent with the guidelines contained in the GRI Boundary Protocol of 2005. Matrix of the importance of the main issues addressed in the Social Report HIGH Financial education 64 Importance of the operating context Involvement in “controversial” economic sectors Presence in concessionary tax regimes MEDIUM Management of subsidiaries Supplier Personnel involvement selection Attention to human rights LOW Importance to UBI Group activities MEDIUM Contents Distribution We took account of suggestions received The Social Report is printed in 2,500 copies from stakeholders and we sought to render for distribution to shareholders attending the document slimmer and more readable. the Annual General Meeting. At the same Consequently changes were made to both time the report is published in digital format the contents and the graphics, but without (PDF) for personnel on the corporate intranet prejudice to the information provided and in and for the public on the Group’s corporate fact increasing it where possible. website (where it is also in English). The most important changes compared to the The digital version of the Social Report previous edition were as follows: contains an index based on GRI indicators • simplification of the structure by reducing with the degree of coverage for the the number of sections and eliminating the indicators and a reconciliation with Global groupings of sub-sections; Compact principles and also a summary table • more careful selection of information that of the indicators used with the values for the is actually relevant to the context of the last three years. Group and its activities, performed on the In recent years we have reduced the number basis of dialogue with stakeholders and on of paper format copies of the full version an analysis of press coverage and of GRI that are distributed with savings on costs indicators; and advantages for the environment. Only • a greater coverage of the indicators a few copies are sent to the network banks proposed by the reference model adopted and product companies of Group and to a (GRI/G3 – 2008); select list of organisations, institutions and • a further increase in time comparisons, with opinion leaders. A few copies then remain for changes compared to 2009 given in brackets distribution at events. (absolute amounts for physical quantities, In order to respond more efficiently to in percentage terms for monetary quantities reporting demands encountered during and in percentage point differences for stakeholder engagement activities, we have percentages). The data available for the last published two summary versions of the three years is given in a summary table of GRI Social Report since 2008: indicators, which is appended to the digital • one in tabloid format for customers and version of the document together with the the community, distributed in 50,000 copies GRI index. as a supplement to the weekly “Vita non For quantitative indicators, we have given profit” magazine, with another 50,000 copies preference to the inclusion of directly distributed to Group branches and published measurable quantities taken from internal on the Group websites; corporate databases and we have made use • one is distributed exclusively in digital of estimates based on the best information format on the Group intranet, especially for available or on data samples only where personnel. unavoidable. The full and the tabloid versions are sent by email to a mailing list of contacts who may be interested. Regulatory compliance Customers satisfaction Financial inclusion Transparency towards Geographical location and Impact of organisational changes customers accessibility of the bank Equal opportunities 65 and trade union relations Security in Personnel management, Responsible products and direct channels development and training services – Ethical finance Sustainable growth Interactions with customers on social and strategies environmental risks and opportunities Performance of the share Relations with Donations registered shareholders and sponsorships Health and safety at the workplace Security in branches Ethics and social responsibility Direct environmental Relations with personnel impacts Relations with investors Relations with customers Negotiating conditions Relations with suppliers with suppliers Community involvement Attention to the environment HIGH Independent auditors’ report 66 67 We are interested in receiving the opinions of readers on this report and we will consider any suggestion, indication, criticism or appreciation made as valuable. Our contact details are: UBI Banca Scpa Funzione Corporate Social Responsibility Piazza V. Veneto, 8 24122 Bergamo Tel. 035-392925 Fax 035-392996 e-mail: bilancio.sociale@ubibanca.it Graphics layout PG&W Srl Bergamo www.pg-w.it Printers Graphicscalve S.p.A. – Vilminore di Scalve (BG)
