Sustainable Development Report 2011 Contents 2 Highlights 5 Letter from our CEO 7 Corporate Governance 10 Engagement with Stakeholders 12 Sustainable Development – a Summary 19 Long Term Commitments 25 Environment 43 Social Development 58 Innovation Awards 61 Sustainability in our Business 72 Data Tables 81 Scope of the Report 82 GRI Guidelines 86 Business in the Community Ireland 87 United Nations Global Compact 88 Independent Assurance Report 89 Glossary The first section of the report summarises our overall approach to sustainability, our achievements and long term commitments. The report is then divided into four major parts covering Environment, Social Development, Sustainability in our Business and concluding with an Information section, including a glossary with definitions of technical terms and abbreviations. In preparing this report we have followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. Schoolchildren learning about the benefits and uses of paper while visiting a Smurfit Kappa paper mill. 1 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 creating long term benefits for everyone Smurfit Kappa at a glance Totally focused on packaging With sales in 2011 of almost €7.4 billion, Smurfit Kappa (or the Group) is one of the largest integrated manufacturers of paper-based packaging products. Smurfit Kappa has 331 facilities in 31 countries in Europe, Latin America, where the Group also owns and manages forests, and Canada. It manufactures, distributes and sells containerboard, corrugated containers and other paper-based packaging products and materials such as solid board, sack paper and bag-in-box. Smurfit Kappa is fully dedicated to the sustainable supply of paper-based packaging solutions and has no ownership of significant businesses outside this field of expertise. 2011 Highlights n Chain of Custody Certification Europe. Since the first quarter of 2011, 100% of our paper mill system in Europe is FSC and/or PEFC certified. Latin America. In the last quarter of 2011, our three Mexican paper mills successfully passed their audit for certification according to the FSC scheme and received their certificates in early 2012. Certified Packaging. In 2011 considerable progress 2 was made in the certification process of our packaging SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 manufacturing operations both in Europe and Latin America. In total, 44% of these operations are certified. n CO2 Reduction. Smurfit Kappa reduced its year-on-year direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions by 2.9%. Globally, our mill system reduced its fossil CO2 emissions by 0.4% per tonne of product produced. n Investments in the Environment CO2 Reduction. In our paper mills in Hoya in Germany, Nervión and Navarra in Spain, and Barranquilla in Colombia, investment projects that will lead to significant CO2 emission reductions were completed either in 2011 or early 2012. COD Water Discharges. Construction of a new water treatment plant in our paper mill in Bernal in Argentina was completed in 2011 and commissioned in early 2012. n Labour Relations. The agreement with our European Works Council was renewed and is valid for another four years. n Sustainability Awards. In Europe we introduced a Sustainability Awards competition for sustainable product designs, process and supply chain improvements, and local community involvement initiatives. The first Awards event took place in March 2012. n Sustainable Packaging. The scope of Paper To BoxTM, a unique Smurfit Kappa tool to predict packaging performance, was extended in 2011 to include environmental parameters. As a result, the environmental impact of each packaging solution can now be assessed instantly. Recovered paper is one of Smurfit Kappa’s base raw materials. INNOVATIVE AND Expertise SUSTAINABLE based on PACKAGING people Smurfit Kappa prides itself on its ability to work closely with Smurfit Kappa employees have the experience its customers, both large and small, to develop innovative and expertise necessary to deliver customer packaging solutions that enable our customers to be satisfaction in a sustainable manner. On a full successful in their respective markets. time equivalent basis, some 38,000 people work throughout the Smurfit Kappa operations Smurfit Kappa is involved in all aspects of the development, and they understand the need to harness their production and after-use recycling of paper-based packaging. expertise in pursuit of ensuring a sustainable as The product life cycle starts with virgin and recovered fibres well as a profitable business. They also clearly 3 being processed through the mills to become paper and appreciate that this means supplying paper and SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 board, which are delivered to packaging converting plants packaging products which contribute to the where corrugated and solid board packaging is produced. success and sustainability of our customers’ Flat packaging is delivered to customers’ packing and filling businesses, as well as meeting customers’ operations, where it is erected, filled and used to transport, commercial and technical expectations. Our protect, display and promote goods through the supply chain. employees are passionate about the very real The recycling process begins when the flattened used contribution their efforts can make to customer packaging is collected, sorted and then returned to the mills success and to a sustainable product life cycle. for reprocessing. For a complete overview of our Input/Output process flow pages see pages 72 and 73. Paper Life Supply Chain In the Smurfit Kappa forest holdings in Latin America, we conduct ongoing research into improving the biodiversity of the protected natural forest. Alejandro Agudelo working with saplings in our forest nursery at Restrepo in Colombia. sustainability: 4 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 A measure of our success Letter from our CEO Introduction by Gary McGann 5 I am pleased to introduce Smurfit Kappa’s fifth As we strive to be responsible corporate citizens, SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 annual Sustainable Development Report, showing particularly in the local communities where our our vision and activities in the important area of operations have the privilege to operate, we give sustainability. As is shown in this report, we consider special attention to social responsibility initiatives in sustainability to be perfectly compatible with these communities. At corporate level, we have developing our business in a profitable way and we established the Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation see sustainability as a key differentiating factor in the which will focus on social projects in countries or market. Even though economic conditions continue regions in which we operate. to be challenging, we are committed to continue our drive in sustainability to create a win-win situation In the financial community, the long term for all stakeholders involved and to further embed sustainability and economics of business models sustainability in our Company. I would like to are likely to become connected. We find ourselves highlight the following points. well-positioned with the vast majority of our raw material either coming from a recycled source or Sustainability – A business driver responsibly-sourced renewable timber. In 2011, sustainability has grown in importance in At governmental level, even though international many ways. We are well aware that sustainability agreements so far have not been concluded, the is of varying importance to different stakeholder publication by the EU of the ‘Roadmap for moving to groups. For every group, however, its relevance is a low carbon economy in 2050’ and the initiative on growing. As consumers are well aware of the becoming a ‘bio-economy’ clearly show the driving environmental impact that human behaviour can force of sustainability at policy setting levels. We have on our world, they are demanding products support these initiatives as they provide a necessary and services that take these impacts into long term perspective for an industry like ours. consideration in an affordable way. For our customers, therefore, sustainability has become a key responsibility and a driver for serving consumers. It is Sustainability – A source for inspiration our business to support our customers in their drive As we see sustainability requirements progressively to provide consumers with adequately packaged becoming a ‘licence to operate’, embedding products delivered in a most efficient way. We do so sustainability in our operations on a day-to-day basis by taking sustainability as a starting point for product is becoming key. As continuous development and and process development and technological innovation of our products and processes is a critical innovation. factor in our business model, sustainability should become a further source of inspiration for Sustainability is also a driver in developing and development and innovation in our daily activities. retaining our entire workforce and the communities To that extent, in addition to the existing Smurfit they live in. To attract and retain a talented and Kappa Innovation Awards competition, we motivated workforce, it is of paramount importance introduced separate Sustainability Awards for our to focus constantly on their safety and well-being, to operations in Europe in 2011. provide them with challenging and satisfying jobs, and to offer training and proper career opportunities. In Latin America, these competitions also exist. Apart Sustainable growth is needed from the fact that entries in these competitions are longer term shown during customer events, they give our We believe sustainable growth is a fundamental employees recognition for outstanding development requirement in our world. Both the developed and and innovative work and should stimulate further the developing world face challenges that can only breakthrough thinking in the various areas including be tackled by continued sustainable growth that is 6 sustainability. Details of the most recent Awards driven by innovation and entrepreneurship. Smurfit events are given on pages 58 and 59. Kappa is ready for that challenge but can only SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 contribute its part when fair and predictable trading In order to focus our organisation’s efforts, in last conditions are created and maintained. National year’s report we gave a number of long term Group governments and the EU are key to this. The EU is sustainability commitments. In the last 12 months, taking many initiatives that should guide we have further underpinned how we can realise our its Member States towards becoming low carbon, long term objectives which include reaching Chain of resource efficient, bio-based and globally competitive Custody status for our complete range of products, economies. In those initiatives, the EU needs to decreasing CO2 emissions per tonne of product maintain the principle of a global level playing produced, improving the quality of our water field thus ensuring that our industry has access, discharges and emphasising the importance of our at affordable and competitive prices, to wood, Code of Business Conduct. On pages 19 to 23 we recovered paper, and the capacity to secure give an update on progress made so far and activities adequate energy and water supply without distortive to date. taxes and/or subsidies. Under such a scenario, we will deliver our share to sustainable growth bringing Dialogue with our stakeholder base prosperity to our stakeholder communities. We engage in an open and transparent communication process and we increasingly seek to I hope you will find the content of our 2011 engage in dialogue with our different stakeholder Sustainable Development Report both interesting groups. In this year’s report, we feature short and informative, and look forward to any feedback interviews with representatives from our stakeholder that you may have. base highlighting issues and trends in sustainability that are important to them. Starting with our 2009 report, we have committed to have our progress in sustainability independently appraised and evaluated by others. This year’s entire Sustainable Development Report is now externally Gary McGann assured. GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER We also continued our participation in the Carbon 26 June 2012 Disclosure Project (CDP), our membership of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) initiative, our support for the UN Global Compact initiative and the Water Footprint Network. Like last year, reporting is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative at level A+. Corporate Governance The Directors are committed to maintaining the Code of Conduct highest standards of corporate governance and Smurfit Kappa has a comprehensive Code of this statement describes in summary the Group’s Business Conduct, which is supported by a series governance at Board level as it relates to of associated policies covering a number of areas sustainability and corporate social responsibility. related to its management and operations. These are The full Corporate Governance Report is set out based upon the following international conventions in the 2011 Annual Report. 7 and codes: SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Sustainability Governance 1. International Labour Organisation (ILO) Sustainable development is a core principle in all Declaration on Fundamental Principles and facets of Smurfit Kappa’s operations and activities. Rights at Work (core conventions). The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that 2. UN Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights. the Group plays an appropriate role in promoting a realistic sustainable development agenda in the 3. OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. paper-based packaging sector. The development 4. UN Global Compact. and implementation of Smurfit Kappa’s policies in this area are sponsored by the Group CEO. The Group provides the foundation for key components of internal control by ensuring At executive management level, a Group Steering appropriate discipline and structure through Committee sets out the strategy and objectives a number of policies and programmes which for sustainable development in Smurfit Kappa serve to define acceptable business practices, and reviews the progress made in meeting our the resolution of conflicts of interest and the commitments. This committee comprises the most expected standards of ethical behaviour. We have senior executives in the Company including the also created specific policy statements in key areas three executive directors (Group CEO, Group COO of sustainability and they are integral in the drive to and Group CFO) and management from each improve Smurfit Kappa’s performance. These policy division and from the Group headquarters. statements cover Environment, Sustainable Forestry, Sustainable Sourcing, Social Citizenship and Health The Group Steering Committee is supported by and Safety issues. a Sustainability Working Group comprising key representatives from each of the main operating All of these Codes and policies are available on our divisions in Europe and Latin America as well as website www.smurfitkappa.com. Group headquarters. This Group’s task is to monitor the achievement of targets across a wide range of Ethical Standards sustainability indicators and to promote the theme of sustainable development in Smurfit Kappa’s The Smurfit Kappa Group’s Code of Business interface with customers, suppliers and the general Conduct, which provides the underlying modus environment. The Working Group is also responsible operandi for each and every employee in every for the preparation and production of the Annual jurisdiction, sets out the Group’s position in relation Sustainable Development Report. to compliance with the law, adherence to the highest ethical standards and its commitments to those with whom it comes in contact. Each Group company and its employees, regardless Public Policy of geographic location, are required to apply the As a multinational organisation, Smurfit Kappa Code and abide by the particular laws and practices Group’s businesses are subject to legislation and applicable to their industry and/or required by the rules determined by the jurisdictions in which jurisdiction in which they operate. they operate. 8 The Group’s Code of Business Conduct makes it In that context, Smurfit Kappa adopts positions on clear that personal and professional integrity is the a variety of matters that are relevant to its business, SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 responsibility of each employee. making its views known to the parties concerned, either directly or through industry bodies such as the Complementing the Code of Business Conduct Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI), is the Good Faith Reporting Policy Statement the European Federation of Corrugated Board (‘Whistleblower Code’) which enables employees Manufacturers (FEFCO) and the European Round to report concerns about potential wrongdoing. Table of Industrialists (ERT). It also works closely with the Irish Business and Employers Confederation Each significant business unit is the subject of an (IBEC) and equivalent bodies in other countries. external and independent audit conducted by the Group’s External Auditors on an annual basis. At all times those representing the views of the Smurfit Kappa Group do so having due regard to Most other business units are the subject of local its Code of Business Conduct and the local laws statutory audits. and regulations applying to the Group’s operations. Our Internal Audit Department has its own extensive There were no significant criticisms of the Group in work programme in the context of the Group’s this respect in 2011. In line with the Group’s Code financial Risk Management System. During the of Business Conduct no financial contributions course of 2011, 79 detailed internal audits were were made to political parties in 2011. No national completed. government is a direct shareholder in Smurfit Kappa. In addition to these internal audits, all operating Compliance countries must adhere to the Group’s Financial It is Group policy to comply with the applicable Monitoring Policy. This includes completing risk laws and regulations in each of the countries in assessment analyses covering a significant number which it operates and to ensure that its employees of the Group’s larger facilities (over 50% by number are aware of this and conduct themselves but with far more extensive coverage by virtue of appropriately. No significant fines were imposed their relative size) carried out by relevant personnel on the Group in 2011 in respect of any breaches from within each country. These analyses include of such laws and regulations. risks related to corruption. The development of an appropriate training programme to review and refresh the understanding of the Code by established employees and cater for the needs of recent employees was started in 2011. During 2011, there were no significant incidents which the Group considered to be non-compliant with the Code. RESPONSIBLE SOLUTIONS 9 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Sustainability for Smurfit Kappa implies a clear commitment to the three important sustainability principles: Planet, People and Profit. Engagement with Stakeholders Smurfit Kappa considers a continuous, open and constructive dialogue with its various stakeholder groups in all countries and areas where we operate of key importance. We believe that frequent interaction with our stakeholder communities offers us a great opportunity to improve and develop ourselves in all sustainability aspects and by doing that meet and exceed our stakeholders’ expectations. Our stakeholders are crucial to the realisation of our sustainability objectives whether these are environmental, social or financial. We consider any person or entity we engage with to be part of our stakeholder community. This could range from any small local customer to large European or Latin American institutions. Many stakeholder interactions, therefore, take place at local level where our local teams interact on a daily basis with customers, suppliers, employees and local authorities. 10 The different stakeholder groups we recognise are listed below and a summary of how we engage with SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 them is provided. Short interviews with representatives of different stakeholder groups are included throughout the report. Customers As well as the normal business interaction that one would expect, we are continuously intensifying our engagement with our customers and in turn their customers (e.g. retailers) on key sustainability issues. Important areas of interaction are sustainable fibre sourcing, carbon footprint and social compliance. These interactions with customers could be in the form of working together on specific projects in sustainability, attending customer conferences or supporting customers with their specific sustainability initiatives. Employees Our employees are the key to our success. We place significant emphasis on their safety, health and welfare. There are numerous training activities for our employees ranging from training on the job to advanced management courses, both internal as well as external. There is extensive interaction between our management and representatives of our employees through the various employee representative bodies. We are reviewing our Code of Business Conduct reflecting how we will conduct our business and the important role our employees can play in that. Investors There is an extensive programme involving road shows and investor days where analysts and investors have the opportunity to dialogue with senior operating management. One-on-one meetings, telephone conferences, and participation in industry-related investor conferences also form part of our investor relations initiative. Suppliers As well as the usual levels of communication, there are specific initiatives such as audits and questionnaires. There is specific focus on Chain of Custody certification of our paper suppliers. Supplier programmes are in place that require our suppliers to deliver in conformity with our Sustainability Sourcing Policy. Smurfit Kappa’s operations are required to source products and services from local suppliers where possible, consistent with the need to ensure appropriate quality at the right price and support for sustainability. NGOs Memberships or participations in organisations like the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), Carbon Disclosure Project and Water Footprint Network. Dialogue, both direct and indirect, (through membership organisations) and cooperation on specific topics like water and CO2 sequestration. In Colombia, we participate in a project of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). The level of engagement with organisations active in the area of sustainability has increased appreciably in recent years. Local We engage in social projects and health, employment and environmental initiatives in the communities countries in which we operate. In Latin America, in particular, there are some extensive programmes involving significant expenditure and the commitment of our employees’ time and expertise. The aim is to assist communities in self-help. The Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation targeting social responsibility initiatives was established in February 2011. Government Memberships of industry associations at national and international level, participation in forums and society related to broader business issues and society in general. Jo Cox from Smurfit Kappa (on the right) and Hans Brassé, direct neighbour of the paper mill exceeding in Roermond in the Netherlands, discussing the benefits of the new sound barrier that was built by Smurfit Kappa between the paper mill and its direct neighbours. 11 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 expectations Sustainable Development a Summary Our Commitment and Approach In our drive to safeguard the environment we are committed to: For us, sustainability implies a clear commitment to the three important sustainability principles: Planet, n Complying with national and international People and Profit, when building a sound future for environmental legislation. our Group and meeting our objectives of creating economic value. For the benefit of our stakeholders, n Applying appropriate environmental 12 our approach in applying these three principles is management systems throughout the Group. as follows: SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 n Using natural resources as efficiently as possible. n Environment – we operate in an environmentally n Achieving best practice in environmental sound manner. management through the focus on continuous improvement programmes. n Society – we are socially conscious and pro-active. n Meeting the reasonable expectations of stakeholders concerning environmental n Business – we remain economically viable, performance. doing business on an ethical basis. n Driving the entire paper supply chain to reduce In doing so we will ensure that the social and natural environmental impact. environments within which Smurfit Kappa operates are respected and protected both today and into the n Support our customers to reduce the future. The Group provides direct income to environmental impact of their supply chains. approximately 38,000 people and probably indirectly (via its suppliers) to at least the same number, and it 2. Society continues to carefully use and recycle a wide range For the second sustainability principle – People – of natural resources. our primary focus is on the safety, well-being and development of all our employees. We do so by 1. Environment permanently investing in their safety at work through For the first important principle – Planet – we take training and safety equipment, by providing them special interest in safeguarding the environment as with challenging and satisfying jobs and by offering our products are composed of materials that are training and career opportunities. Our other key natural resource based. We commit to do so not only focus is on the local communities where we have in operating our facilities but, at least as important, the privilege to operate. Our operating facilities are in designing and developing packaging solutions for frequently located in communities where we are our customers that improve their environmental seen as an important partner in the local economy, performance. According to an Industry Council for providing jobs to our employees and business for Packaging and the Environment (INCPEN) survey, local suppliers. Our managers are encouraged packaging products typically are responsible for only therefore, to actively participate in initiatives at the a small part of the carbon footprint of the supply local community level. chain of our customers. However, research suggests that our products, if properly designed and applied, As a Group we are committed to: can decrease the carbon impact of other aspects of our customers’ supply chains by considerably more n Ensuring that for health and safety standards, all than the carbon impact our products have. our operations comply with local legislation and with best international practice as the goal. n Applying the principle of equal employment opportunities. n Managing our business in an ethical and equitable manner and meeting all of our social responsibilities. n Ensuring that employees and suppliers are aware of the Group’s policy on social responsibility. n Protecting and advancing human rights, 13 particularly those of the indigenous communities SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 where we have operations. n Promoting and enhancing strong relationships with the communities within which our businesses have the privilege to operate. 3. Business For the third sustainability principle – Profit – we have a very simple philosophy. We need profitable growth to reward our stakeholders and to continue our drive for sustainability. Due to the nature of our business proposition, providing paper-based packaging solutions to our customers, we see many opportunities to combine both the need for profitable growth with the opportunity to advance the various sustainability principles. We consider sustainability to be perfectly compatible with profitable growth. We even see it as a differentiating factor in the market and have made sustainability an integral part of our business commitment and product offering. As a Group we are committed to: n Meeting shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ expectations with regard to profitable, sustainable long term business development in the changing local and global economies. n Demonstrating leadership to customers and other stakeholders when it comes to developing sustainable packaging solutions. n Working closely with customers and other stakeholders to provide packaging with strong sustainability credentials, taking account of factors such as packaging optimisation, recyclability and Chain of Custody. The Green Honeyeater is found in the protected natural forest of Smurfit Kappa in Colombia. n Supporting customers, suppliers and others in 1. Fibre availability the supply chain on their own sustainability Fibre is the most basic raw material necessary for development projects. our business. n Providing packaging solutions that improve our customers’ environmental footprint, e.g. by Wood and recovered paper are the fundamental raw minimising product wastage and reducing materials which provide fibre for paper making. 14 distribution and transportation requirements. Sustainable forestry and paper recovery systems are of paramount importance for a company such as SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 n Involving our employees into developing more Smurfit Kappa. sustainable and innovative packaging solutions by rewarding and honouring them in a GroupTherefore, Smurfit Kappa is very concerned with the wide competition of Innovation and effect on the availability of its primary raw materials Sustainability Awards. of the EU Renewable Energy policy targets. The EU has stipulated that by 2020, 20% of all energy When dealing with the environmental, social and consumed should be from renewable sources such as business aspects of the Group’s sustainability wind, solar energy and bio-energy. The last category programmes, Smurfit Kappa is committed to: can include the incineration of wood and/or recovered paper for energy production. Financial n At a minimum, complying with all statutory, support for wood as a renewable fuel feedstock is regulatory and legal requirements. of particular concern, as this drives up prices for our n Maintaining codes of conduct that support raw materials and puts the paper and the paper our core values of integrity, responsibility and packaging industry at a clear competitive respect, when managing our business activities disadvantage both globally and in comparison with in all locations. alternative packaging materials. Smurfit Kappa recognises that factors such as ethical Given the Group’s limited ownership of forests, behaviour, transparency in governance standards, particularly in Europe, we see this challenge as identification of risks and stakeholder engagement significant for our industry and a totally are fundamental for the sustainable success of the inappropriate primary use of wood. The National Group. Our objective is to continuously progress Renewable Energy Plans from the individual EU Smurfit Kappa’s recognition as a truly responsible member states predict a large increase in the use of company by all stakeholders and other parties. wood for renewable energy purposes. According to the EU Wood study, in 2030, 57% of all available Key Risks and Challenges wood will be used for energy purposes, compared Natural resources play a fundamental role in the to 45% in 2010, implying that the vast majority of global economy and with the continuing depletion additional wood coming available will be used for of such resources, it is mandatory that we shift energy purposes. towards a resource efficient and low carbon Other developments like the decision by Germany to economy. For Smurfit Kappa, it is a key objective close down its nuclear power plants in the next 10 using natural resources efficiently thereby mitigating years and the phasing out of subsidies for renewable climate change and minimising the environmental energy sources like solar and wind will place impact whilst delivering on economic performance. additional pressure on wood availability as a raw In this dynamic environment there are a number of material source for our industry as more will be used key challenges and risks we and the paper packaging for energy generation. industry face. Smurfit Kappa therefore strongly advocates the into the recycling system. This is another reason why concept of a resource hierarchy, giving priority to the abovementioned hierarchy of biomass use is higher value added applications such as producing important. paper over lower value added applications such as thermal use. This is particularly the case when a Recovered paper costs are at a (historically) high level reordering of the sequence of use of this scarce and rising energy costs are also creating pressure for resource will still fully achieve the renewability further recovered paper price increases. To ensure 15 objectives. the future availability of suitable recovered paper, SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 governments and industry collectively need to Another reason for adhering to this hierarchy is the continue their drive to increase collection rates. As fact that the European paper industry is already the for wood fibres, it is also of the utmost importance single largest user and producer of bio-energy, with that recovered paper is first used for producing further untapped potential as is shown in the Forest paper and board and only at the end of their life Fibre Industry 2050 Roadmap to a low carbon cycle should fibres be used as fuel for energy economy ‘Unfold the Future’. generation. In Europe, separate collection for different types of paper at source is fundamental. In Smurfit Kappa’s risk concerning wood fibre some countries, co-mingled collection systems still availability is mitigated by our ownership of forestry exist which drives down quality and detracts from in Latin America and the relationships we have further improvements in recycling rates. developed and will continue to develop with key suppliers of wood in both Europe and Latin America. Smurfit Kappa’s risk concerning recovered paper availability is mitigated by our position in the supply The life cycle of wood fibres is extended by using chain, through our own recovered paper operations recovered (paper) fibres to produce new paper and and long term supply agreements with key suppliers. board. We expect that global collection rates will continue to increase. In Europe, collection rates have 2. Energy and CO2 reached on average over 70%, with the highest Our industry is amongst the most energy intensive in additional potential for recovered paper collection in the world. Although energy intensive, the carbon eastern European countries. According to studies by intensity is mitigated by the extensive use of Resource Information Systems Inc. (RISI), the leading bio-energy in the sector. The long term upward trend information provider for the global forest products in energy prices presents a key challenge for Smurfit industry, and the UN Food and Agricultural Kappa and the entire industry. Despite the Organisation, there is still large untapped potential in considerable cost increase associated with this long other parts of the world, notably in Asia and Latin term trend, Smurfit Kappa supports the need for America. (fossil) CO2 emission reductions to be realised through the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and These increasing collection rates are positive but also similar systems around the world, if and when a necessary as in the last few years global demand for global level playing field is established. recovered paper and board has grown dramatically as a result of increased demand from Asian So far, the EU has the most stringent system globally countries, notably China. Some of these countries and, in the absence of a solid international depend largely upon recovered paper imports due to agreement, it is essential that the Phase III of the EU continuing low domestic collection rates of ETS (ETS III) will function properly when it starts in recovered fibres. Also production capacities of paper 2013. Since its adoption in 2009, many of the mills in Europe based partly or entirely on recovered assumptions underlying the reviewed ETS Directive paper have been significantly increased. have changed due to fundamentally different As the quality of recovered fibres deteriorates over economic conditions as well as considerable time, there is a clear need for a fresh fibre inflow investments that have been made in non-fossil In 2011, the percentage use of non-fossil fuels in our energy fuelled equipment. European mill system was over 52%, an increase of almost 1.5% compared to 2010. The use of Although CO2 emission rights currently trade at non-fossil fuel in our mill system in Latin America significantly lower price levels than anticipated at the accounted for slightly under 23% of primary energy time of the adoption of the ETS directive, it is consumption. In Venezuela, our paper mills had to 16 nevertheless extremely important that the EU does generate more electricity on-site using fossil fuels not deviate retrospectively from targets that were due to electricity supply restrictions from the national SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 agreed by law. Investors need legal certainty to be grid. This caused the overall bio-fuel usage rate for able to plan major multi-annual projects and our Latin American operations to decrease slightly programmes. However, the EU gives the impression compared to 2010. that it is ready to change rules and agreements after the event. Likewise, there should be no holding back As our industry is energy intensive, optimising the of some of the agreed CO2 emissions permits from use of energy is important to us. We are focusing the EU ETS as of 2013 (so-called “set aside”). our efforts on reducing specific types of energy usage and we are also aiming to reduce greenhouse We recommend that the EU provides guidance as gas emissions by investing in more energy efficient quickly as possible for the period beyond 2020 on systems such as CHP plants, alternative energy how it intends to realise the low carbon economy as options such as the use of biomass, and by driving envisaged in its ‘Roadmap for moving to a low production efficiencies. carbon economy in 2050’. In that policy discussion, it is also of paramount importance that in relation to 3. Water the issue of the carbon neutrality of biomass, the Our business is significantly dependent on this vital biomass used by the forest products industry remains natural resource. Water availability and the impact of untouched as billions of euro have been invested our water usage on the environment are key issues over time in biomass boilers that operate mostly on for us. Sufficient availability of good quality water at residuals such as sawmill dust, bark, black liquor and an affordable cost is key for an industry like ours. stumps. Fresh water availability is clearly a growing concern in certain areas in the world. Although the vast In relation to the allocation of emission credits under majority of our facilities are located in areas where the EU ETS III, we have been arguing that account sufficient availability of fresh water is currently not a should be taken of the production of electricity major concern, as a Group we are committed to through the most efficient way of producing both reduce our water usage where feasible and to electricity and heat (steam), the so-called Combined support initiatives that develop ‘water footprints’ Heat and Power (CHP) system. In our view, this and water stewardship standards. shortcoming in the system will cause energy costs for Smurfit Kappa’s European mill system to increase In early 2011, Smurfit Kappa joined the Water considerably under EU ETS III, despite a continued Footprint Network, which is a frontrunner in decrease in the use of direct fossil fuel and CO2 developing such standards. We are also closely emissions per tonne of paper and board. This monitoring the upcoming ISO standard on water unfavourable approach seems counter-intuitive, footprinting and the work of the Alliance of Water where Smurfit Kappa is committed to invest in Stewardship and European Water Partners via our economically viable energy efficiency projects and industry association Confederation of European fuel mix changes, shifting from the use of fossil fuels Paper Industries (CEPI). to biogenic fuels. Although as an industry we process large volumes of Smurfit Kappa is actively continuing its efforts to water, the industry does not consume significant ensure the safety of recycled packaging. Specifically volumes of water. After treatment in modern water for food packaging Smurfit Kappa follows both treatment plants, over 90% of the water intake is, in Good Manufacturing Practice and hygiene standards principle, returned to the water systems from which such as: it was extracted, in many cases in better than its original condition. Smurfit Kappa is strongly n European Federation of Corrugated Board 17 committed to find ways to further improve water Manufacturers (FEFCO) International Good SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 usage efficiency and to reduce discharges. Through Manufacturing Practice Standard. various programmes and investments to upgrade n International Featured Standards IFS Food existing water treatment plants and building new version 5 as it relates to packaging together ones, since 2005, we have achieved a reduction of with the IFS Packaging Guidance document 21% in the organic load (COD) discharged with from June 2010. effluents from our mills. Smurfit Kappa is committed to an additional ambitious programme for reducing n British Retail Consortium/Institute of Packaging water impact of our activities. Global Standard for Packaging and Packaging Materials. 4. Food contact and food safety n EN 15593, European Standard in respect of the In our opinion paper-based packaging is the management of hygiene in the production of preferred form of transport and display packaging packaging for foodstuffs. for food products. It is a clean and hygienic product n ISO 22000, International standard for food used for only one delivery. The challenge our industry safety management systems. faces to meet the standard of securing safe and hygienic products is made more difficult by the fact Smurfit Kappa also contributes actively within the that we repeatedly recycle our paper materials in the European paper and packaging associations, CEPI interest of environmental sustainability and cost and FEFCO, to develop industry initiatives and to efficiencies. As our raw material is mostly postdefine best practices to be applied both in Europe consumer recovered paper, there are traces of and Latin America. Smurfit Kappa has a highly additives such as ink, starch and other chemicals in qualified and experienced internal team that is the recycled product. Our industry, therefore, goes to dedicated to food contact and food safety issues. great lengths to extract these substances, or to ensure that they will not be detrimental to packaged goods. More specifically, we ensure that they comply with the European Regulation on materials that come into contact with food. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 18 CREDIBILITY in our commitment Our forest holdings in Colombia are FSC certified since 2003. Our Long Term Sustainable Development Commitments In this section of the Report, we set out our key Achievements to date commitments under four headings: Sustainable use n Our Colombian forests have been certified FSC of fibres, CO2 emissions; Water; and Code of since 2003. Business Conduct. n The complete Smurfit Kappa paper and board 1. Sustainable Use of Fibres mill system in Europe is Chain of Custody certified under either one or both schemes we Sustainable virgin and recycled fibres are used 19 support (FSC and PEFC). This includes mills responsibly by Smurfit Kappa to provide our producing virgin and recycled containerboard, SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 customers with sustainable packaging solutions. carton and solid board, sack paper and machine Smurfit Kappa is the largest producer of virgin glazed papers. This is summarised on page 80 containerboard in Europe; we committed to ensure and full details can be found on our website. that 100% of the wood, wood fibres and pulp used to manufacture this paper originates from nonn In Latin America, our mills located in Colombia controversial sources. and Mexico are Chain of Custody certified under FSC. COMMITMENT n All corrugated converting operations in UK, Benelux and Germany are Chain of Custody By 2015: certified under FSC and PEFC since 2010. 1. All our fibres produced or purchased will be Activities and results in 2011 from sustainable origin. n In 2011, we completed the Chain of Custody 2. Over 90% of the paper and board produced certification of our European mill system with will be certified Chain of Custody. the certification of two paper mills that were not 3. Over 90% of our converting operations will yet certified. For 12 operations, dual PEFC and operate under a Chain of Custody FSC certification was achieved. certification. n In Latin America, our three Mexican paper mills implemented the FSC Chain of Custody system Over 85% of the wood we use is delivered by third and were successfully audited at the end of 2011 parties. Our approach has been to implement Chain and are now certified. of Custody certification within all our operations to n Significant progress was made in the ensure a sustainable supply of paper, in respect of certification of our packaging operations. An both what we produce and source externally, to additional 25 plants achieved the Chain of support well-managed forest practice and to provide Custody certification. our customers with third party verified sustainable n At the end of 2011, 78% of paper and board packaging. produced in our Group was certified for further Smurfit Kappa recognises and utilises the Forestry labelling Chain of Custody according to either Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Programme for PEFC or FSC, up from 72% at the end of 2010. the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), the n 44% of our global packaging operations were two major international forest certification bodies, to certified Chain of Custody according to either qualify the wood and the virgin fibre based products PEFC or FSC at the end of 2011, up from 32% we purchase as well as the paper, board and at the end of 2010. packaging we produce in our operations. n We continued reviewing our suppliers to ensure that no wood fibre originated from controversial sources. FOSSIL CO2 EMISSION IMPROVEMENT (basis 2005) 20% 18% per tonne produced product 16% 14% TA R G E T 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Current and future activities n For over two decades Smurfit Kappa has been n At the end of 2012, we expect to have 85% of focused on reducing CO2 emissions from fossil the paper and board produced in our Group fuels relative to production. For example, our certified Chain of Custody. Nettingsdorfer mill in Austria and our Roermond mill in the Netherlands have realised over 30% n At the end of 2013, we aim to have at least reductions in CO2 emissions per tonne of paper. 85% of our converting operations, both in 20 n Since 2005, fossil CO2 emissions per tonne of Europe and in Latin America, Chain of Custody certified according to PEFC and/or FSC. paper and board produced have decreased by SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 more than 12%. n As soon as the EU Commission adopts further measures over the course of 2012 for the Activities and results in 2011 implementation of the new EU Timber n In 2011, total CO2 fossil emissions of all Smurfit Regulation, we will take the necessary steps to Kappa paper and board operations were largely ascertain that our systems are aligned with this flat compared to 2010. As 2010 showed a new regulation. This new EU Regulation, which significant improvement compared to 2009, in will take effect in March 2013, is designed to 2011 we have consolidated the strong prevent illegally logged wood and products performance from 2009. This emission made from such wood from entering the EU. comparison is volume adjusted. The graph above illustrates progress made on the reduction 2. CO2 Emissions of the CO2 fossil emission of our global Smurfit Climate change represents one of the most Kappa mill system, expressed per tonne of paper important sustainability issues for Smurfit Kappa or board produced since 2005. today. We have taken initiatives both in Europe and n In our paper mill in Hoya in Germany, the paper Latin America to address this subject. machine was upgraded also to reduce energy usage. With a newly installed press, starch with COMMITMENT a lower moisture content can be added to the paper leading to less energy being needed to 20% reduction in relative CO2 emissions from evaporate the moisture. fossil fuels in our global paper and board mill n In our paper mill in Bernal in Argentina, a new system in 2020 compared to 2005 (CO2 boiler was installed (see page 31). emissions defined as direct and indirect CO2 emissions from fossil fuel relative to production). n In a number of paper mills certain investments were operational for a full year for the first time Achievements to date in 2011. n Smurfit Kappa has been switching from fossil Current and future activities fuel to renewable energy where possible and n In our paper mill in Hoya in Germany we are economically feasible (Piteå biomass boiler in significantly extending the capacity of the paper Sweden installed in 2007, new black liquor machine which will reduce steam usage per boiler installed at Cali in Colombia in August tonne of paper. In addition, with the installation 2008, biomass boiler commissioned at Cellulose of an additional CHP unit, the co-generation du Pin in France in August 2010 and use of ratio of this mill will increase, resulting in a biogas from the new and/or extended water reduction of fossil CO2 emissions. treatment plants in various paper mills). COD DISCHARGE IMPROVEMENT (basis 2005) 33% 30% per tonne produced product 27% 24% 21% TA R G E T 18% 15% 12% 9% 6% 3% 0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 n In our sack kraft paper mill in Nervión in Spain, we have constructed a larger steam turbine to COMMITMENT increase the production of biomass-based energy. This new turbine, which became Reduce the organic content discharged in our operational in the first quarter of 2012, will process water (COD) by one third by 2020 further reduce fossil based CO2 emissions from compared to 2005. The reduction is relative to the mill. the organic discharge measured by COD, 21 expressed per tonne of paper produced. n In our kraft paper mill in Navarra in Spain, SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 we are transforming the current boiler into Achievements to date a bubbling fluidised bed boiler, which will generate double the amount of biomass-based n Between 2005 and 2011 we invested over €29 steam. million to upgrade existing water treatment plants and to build new water treatment plants n In our recycled paper mill in Barranquilla in in both Europe and Latin America. Colombia, we are currently replacing two gas turbines for electricity generation by one larger n Investments in water treatment plants took unit producing both steam and electricity. This place in a number of paper mills: Alfa unit started operating in May 2012. d’Avignon, Cellulose du Pin and Rethel in France, Mengibar and Navarra in Spain, Hoya in n In our kraft paper mill in Cali in Colombia a new Germany, Roermond in the Netherlands, SSK in lime kiln will be installed running on natural gas, the UK and Bernal in Argentina. replacing a lime kiln currently running on heavy fuel oil. The use of much ‘cleaner’ natural gas n Although our COD discharges increased in 2011 will reduce fossil CO2 emissions. compared to 2010, overall we have achieved a decrease of 21% by the end of 2011 compared 3. Water to 2005. This is illustrated in the graph above After fibre, water is the second natural resource that which shows the improvement per year is vital to our business. We have made significant compared to the base year 2005. investments since 2005 to reduce the environmental impact of the water we discharge after usage. In our Activities and results in 2011 previous Sustainable Development Report 2010 we n Construction of the water treatment plant in our committed to reduce the relative COD discharges in paper mill Bernal in Argentina was completed our mill system in 2020 by 10% compared to 2010. during Q4 of 2011. The water treatment plant has been operating at full capacity since April To reflect the significant investments and also the 2012 (see page 41). progress we have made since 2005, we have restated our target for COD discharge. The new n We became a member of the Water Footprint reference year is 2005 and our target is to reduce Network (WFN) in March 2011. our relative COD discharge by one third (33%) in n Discharges in 2011 increased by 6% compared 2020 compared to 2005. This new target will take to 2010. This was mainly due to temporary into account the progress to date since 2005 and the operational issues at a few water treatment future progress we committed to last year. facilities during the year. Current and future activities n Established a Code of Business Conduct, which n There are several investments in water treatment is applicable to all employees across the Group. facilities in both Europe and Latin America that n Appointed a Group Compliance Officer with an are ready for decision and implementation in the active reporting role to the Group Board (Audit next few years. Committee). n We are implementing a programme of best n Introduced a Good Faith Reporting Policy 22 practice in the treatment of our process water Statement (‘Whistleblower Code’), which both in Europe and Latin America. Best practice SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 provides channels for all employees to raise for water treatment includes biological confidentially concerns in relation to perceived treatment before discharging. improper actions. n Signed up to the UN Global Compact initiative. 4. Code of Business Conduct As a multinational Group, the employee base has n Commenced the auditing of our strategic grown considerably not only in size but also in suppliers on their code of conduct programmes cultural and social diversity. This diversity demands through our Sustainability Sourcing Policy. the development and adherence to shared core values and business principles in the area of business Activities and results in 2011 practice, health and safety, employee relations, n A Safety Opinion Survey was carried out in all human rights, environment and community our European plants to measure safety involvement. The Group’s commitment to these conditions and to identify areas for principles is confirmed by our Code of Business improvement. Conduct, to which all of our companies and n The Code of Business Conduct was employees alike must adhere. benchmarked against an international peer group for best practices and appropriately The Code of Business Conduct is supported, and revised, including guidelines and examples on further expanded upon, by a number of policies and how best to comply with the policy. The Code of statements detailing the Group’s commitment to Business Conduct provides the umbrella policy excellence in our relationships with our employees, over a wide range of related policy statements. shareholders, customers and suppliers, and governmental authorities in the countries in which n Where concerns with regard to our Code of we operate. Business Conduct were raised, investigations took place and, where appropriate, disciplinary actions were taken. COMMITMENT n Every level of management throughout the To continuously emphasise the importance Group has a responsibility to monitor and of the Code of Business Conduct to our enforce the Group’s guidelines on Competition employees and to integrate these principles Policy. Approximately 900 managing and sales into our day-to-day business dealings. directors, sales managers and other senior management across the Group confirmed their understanding of the Group’s zero tolerance Achievements to date policy with regard to anti-competitive behaviour. n Established and implemented a number of The process required written certification from Group-wide policies in areas like ethical business each manager that he had not been engaged in, behaviour, finance, health and safety, nor was aware of, any such actions. environment and sourcing. We want to ensure that our employees integrate our Code of Business Conduct principles into their day-to-day business dealings. Left to right: David Dawson, Gillian CarsonCallan and Glenn Sherry (Smurfit Kappa HQ). n An internal control questionnaire was completed across our operations. The Group’s Code of Business Conduct and Good Faith Reporting Statement have been distributed to the plant management and support staff in every Group facility, which accounts 23 for about 30% of the entire SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 workforce. All plant general managers and financial controllers confirmed their understanding and adherence to the Code of Business Conduct. This process required written certification that all employees had been made aware of the Code of Business Conduct and Whistleblower Code and that any known or suspected violations had been reported appropriately. Current and future activities n An awareness campaign will be undertaken in 2012, including translation of the Code of Business Conduct into 16 languages. n A Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme is in place at operating company level which aims to support certain community involvement programmes and to increase the transparency of all community involvement of the Group’s operating companies. n New Board-approved Group Foundation for CSR co-investment activity which was set up in 2011 will start its activities in 2012. Dedicated to Conservation 24 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 The critically-endangered Colombian subspecies of the White-tailed Deer is found in the protected natural forest of Smurfit Kappa in Colombia. 18% 57% Environment 6% 1% Fibre origin 2011 Packaging Recycling Rate in EU (%) All operations 18% 100 2008 18% 2009 57% 80 83 81 68 69 68 66 60 6% Recycled pulp produced internally Wood pulp produced internally 1% Market virgin pulp 40 Virgin papers purchased 32 30 Recycled paper purchased 20 18% 0 Paper & Metallic Glass Plastic Cardboard 25 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Operating Recycled pulpinproduced an environmentally internally sound manner is during every recycling turn and after a number of oneWoodof our main principles pulp produced internally in sustainability. While we recycling cycles, the original fibre is worn out. aimMarket to minimise virgin pulp the impact our activities have on the Therefore, virgin fibre is constantly added to the environment as much as we can, our principle focus Virgin papers purchased system to compensate for the loss of degraded fibre, Recycled paper purchased is on those areas where our activities potentially have archival storage of paper, and the loss through the largest impact. These areas are the use of fibres normal use and disposal of certain paper products and the use of wood, the use of energy and CO2 (e.g. tissues). emissions and the usage and discharge of water. Paper-based packaging is almost totally renewable 1. Sustainable Use of Fibres and recyclable. The recycling rate for paper and Smurfit Kappa has committed itself to use fibres in a board packaging within the EU’s 27 member states responsible and sustainable way. In this section it is for 2009, which is the latest year for which official explained how our products contribute towards Eurostat statistics are available, was 83% (see graph sustainability, how we use both virgin and recycled above). This represents an additional increase of 2% fibres and what our sustainable fibre approach is. compared to the previous period, thus showing that paper-based packaging has a higher recycling rate Efficient packaging solutions contribute significantly than any other material. to the sustainability of the total supply chain of goods. Packaging not only protects products during Use of virgin fibres transit, it often helps to preserve the product, carries Less than 15% of the wood we use for the important product information for consumers and production of virgin fibres originates from Smurfit provides marketing opportunities for both Kappa owned forests. We are very active in ensuring, manufacturers and retailers. together with our suppliers, that the supply of wood is from sustainable origins and that our suppliers Paper packaging is a very environmentally friendly implement strict policies for monitoring the origin of form of packaging as the industry’s raw material wood fibres thus ensuring the protection of natural comes from renewable sources and the end product resources in the countries from which we source is fully recyclable. them. Almost all of packaging produced by Smurfit Kappa Both our own forest operations and our wood is made from paper. The major priority of Smurfit purchasing practices are based on the principles of Kappa is to provide customers with sustainable and environmentally compliant forest management efficient paper packaging. Virgin or recycled papers schemes. In 2007, we committed to a programme of are the most sustainable choice depending on user Chain of Custody certification, giving initial priority requirements and the supply chain specifics. to our operations which handle wood. We have extended this management system to our entire mill As wood fibres degrade every time they are recycled, system (both virgin and recycled paper and board) a fresh virgin fibre inflow into the recycling system is and are currently extending this system to our required. The length of a wood fibre is shortened packaging operations. Engagement with Stakeholders One Daily Drop Living Calendar The famous panda logo that represents the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is one of the most recognised global symbols of conservation and environmental protection. This year WWF celebrates its 50th birthday and Smurfit Kappa in Colombia had a special contribution for its Colombian branch. An advertising agency created a product named One Daily Drop Living Calendar which seeks to promote reforestation in Colombia. The concept consists of a ceramic white plant container, a special measuring glass that dispenses water, a trendy sliding glass calendar, and bags of soil and tree seeds. The fragile product is packed in a stylish and protecting box designed by Smurfit Kappa. Sales representative, Alvaro Ramirez, and his design team created the truly FSC-certified sustainable packaging solution. The special calendar, and the associated advertising campaign (which 26 has circulated mainly on social media), attracted global attention and put WWF and its allies in the design spotlight. The product has been SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 nominated for worldwide prizes in the New York Design Festival and the International Festival of Creativity in Cannes. Our Sustainable Forestry statement and our Sustainable fibres Our approach Sustainable Sourcing policy are available at our Smurfit Kappa recognises and utilises the two major website and describe our codes of conduct with international forest certification schemes, FSC and regard to all supplies of wood products, whether PEFC, as well as the schemes that have gained coming from our own forests or purchased from international recognition by the PEFC Council. third party suppliers. The certification process ensures that assessments Typical products involved are wood, virgin pulp and are performed regularly by independent accredited paper and board containing virgin fibres. organisations, providing assurance that the wood and fibres we source externally originate from Use of recycled fibres sustainable forests and are legitimately sourced. For Smurfit Kappa’s manufacturing operations in This certification process is important for our own Europe, 76% of our fibrous raw materials came from operations, our customers and our suppliers. recycled fibres in 2011. In Latin America, the proportion of recycled fibres in all our fibrous raw Our ultimate aim is to reach Chain of Custody materials was 68% for 2011 and, while official certification for all of our relevant operations and for industry figures are not currently available, we all the products we deliver to our customers. This believe our recycling rate to be significantly better shows our commitment to a sustainable managed than the industry average for that region. supply chain ranging from sustainable forest management practices to delivering Chain of In Smurfit Kappa, we consume over 5 million tonnes Custody certified products to our customers. of used paper each year. Of this figure, 4.3 million tonnes are in Europe and most of this is supplied Forestry through our own recovery and recovered paper Smurfit Kappa owns and manages forests in supply system which makes us the clear industry Colombia and Venezuela, where we have over leader in this regard. Over 50% of our Latin 105,000 hectares. These plantations provide our American needs are also collected within our own mills in both countries with almost all of their virgin system or secured through contracts with third party fibre requirements. suppliers. The pie-chart on page 25 indicates the source of fibres used in our operations. Smurfit Kappa’s largest forest plantations are in Certification of our mills in the Latin America region Colombia. Here, we have approximately 70,000 is progressing with Chain of Custody certification in hectares, including 6,700 hectares under place in all Colombian operations since 2009 and a management. This area comprises 45,000 hectares commitment to achieve certification for our other of commercial plantations, 22,000 hectares of paper and board mills in Argentina and Mexico by protected natural forest and 3,000 hectares for the end of 2013. Venezuela is currently not included infrastructure. Of the commercial plantations, 62% in this commitment. is pines with the remaining 38% Eucalyptus. The company manages its forest estate based on The three Mexican paper mills, Cerro Gordo, sustainable development principles, promoting Monterrey and Los Reyes successfully passed their economic growth, a responsible use of natural audit to get the Chain of Custody certification resources and fostering social equity in the regions according to the FSC scheme in November 2011 and where the forest plantations are located. Smurfit received their certificates in early 2012. Kappa is operating its Colombian forest under a management system that has been certified in Packaging operations accordance with the FSC since 2003. Chain of Custody certified packaging guarantees our 27 customers that only sustainable fibres are used in SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 In Venezuela, the Forestry Division owns their packaging. For virgin papers, this means that approximately 35,000 hectares in three western fibres originate solely from sustainably managed states of the country. Of this total, 21,000 hectares forests and for recycled paper, it means that a are commercial plantations, 13,000 hectares are significant amount of post-consumer waste is used. natural reserves and the balance is given over to The entire supply chain is traceable to prove this to infrastructure. Commercial plantations include our customers. 12,600 hectares of short fibre (Eucalyptus and Gmelina) while 6,400 hectares are long fibre (Pinus In 2009, we initiated a programme in our packaging caribaea). The balance is used for research and operations to supply customers with Chain of development such as silviculture, plantation Custody certified products. Our target is to be able management, forest protection and forestry to offer certified packaging to all our customers from research. all Smurfit Kappa packaging production locations. The forest plantations in Venezuela have not yet Considerable progress has been made since 2009 been certified but are well advanced in terms of best with 44% of our packaging operations in Europe practice and will seek certifications when local and Latin America being certified Chain of Custody circumstances permit. FSC and/or PEFC at the end of 2011. This includes packaging operations in six European countries and The main species harvested in both countries are one country in Latin America. varieties of Eucalyptus and pine. We are moving towards our final goal of having all During the plantation life cycle, Smurfit Kappa packaging production locations Chain of Custody conforms to the numerous governmental legal, certified. During the first half of 2012 we have technical and environmental regulations, for which, added a further four countries in Europe and another in most cases, annual renewals are required. one in Latin America. Paper and Board production Overview of certification in place at end of 2011 With the exception of our San Felipe mill in The table on page 29 gives a detailed overview of Venezuela, all our wood handling operations are our paper capacity operating under Chain of Chain of Custody certified by FSC or PEFC. These Custody certification per grade of paper together include all our mills producing virgin fibres and the with the number of converting operations also under wood supply companies of Smurfit Kappa in France Chain of Custody certification. and Spain. The first two sections of the table give the In early 2011, we completed the Chain of Custody percentage of our paper or board production certification of our complete paper and board mill capacity operating with Chain of Custody system in Europe consisting of mills producing virgin certification while the last column reports the exact and recycled containerboard, carton board, solid percentage of the paper or board that can be sold board, sack paper and machine glazed papers. Our certified for a further labelling of the packaging. This European mills are certified both for FSC and PEFC. information is disclosed by type of paper and board produced by Smurfit Kappa in both Europe and Latin The guiding principles of the Group’s forestry policy America. in Latin America are to: These percentages reflect the situation at the end of n Develop continuously and systematically 2011. To simplify the calculation, where a mill research programmes to preserve and enhance obtained the certificate during the year, the annual soil productivity. production of the mill is taken into account for n Identify appropriate species and forestry calculating the percentage. practices that will enable an increase in plantation yields while protecting the The third section of the table relates to the environment. packaging operations. Here the number of sites operating with Chain of Custody certification is n Conserve natural forests located on company reported and the second column gives the lands to ensure the sustainability of forest percentage of sites with Chain of Custody diversity and thereby contribute to the certification. protection of water sources and habitat of flora and fauna. 28 Suppliers To make further progress in the certification of our In Colombia, Smurfit Kappa is continuously investing SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 products, in 2011 we continued our verification in research projects, frequently in cooperation with programme with external paper suppliers to ensure other research institutes as the following examples that, as a minimum, all virgin fibres contained in the show. supplied papers or board are of non-controversial origin and are preferably certified by PEFC or FSC A research programme on water consumption of schemes. This verification process includes all our Eucalyptus grandis and Pinus tecunumanii external paper suppliers and is based both on plantations, conducted with the National Centre for questionnaires and physical audits. In 2011, 77% of Coffee Research (CENICAFÉ) and the Forestry all our external virgin supplies in Europe were FSC or Engineering School of Universidad Nacional de PEFC certified. We expect this percentage to increase Colombia in Medellin, yielded a validated model significantly in 2012/2013. This is based on CREFT for estimating potential tree growth and commitments received from some of our current water usage, under a given environment (soil, rain, third party virgin paper suppliers to achieve FSC temperature, radiation). Forest hydrology can be Chain of Custody certification in that period. calculated and compared to the available rainfall, to determine if the plantation is appropriate or not to During 2011, nine of our third party virgin paper the watershed and its potential growth. suppliers achieved Chain of Custody certification under PEFC and/or FSC schemes. This significant The second phase of this water consumption progress shows the importance of continuing our research was designed and funded with the same efforts to encourage suppliers to align their university. This phase of the research aims to objectives and policies on sustainability with those of compare watershed efficiencies with three different Smurfit Kappa. land uses: natural forest, cattle raising pastures and Eucalyptus grandis plantations. The research has Biodiversity been accepted by the Programa de Monitoramento e Since all our forest ownership is located in Latin Modelagem de Bacias Hidrográficas do Brasil America, the following section focuses on that (PROMAB) as part of a comprehensive effort to region. understand how commercial forestry plantations compare and interact with other similar soil uses and In Colombia, 31% of the total forest area of nearby communities in tropical and sub-tropical approximately 70,000 hectares is protected natural regions. forest; while in Venezuela 37% of the approximately 35,000 hectares owned by the Group is protected Part of this research programme is to inform local natural forest. These protected parts of our forests authorities on the importance of using scientific are kept as natural forest and not replaced by knowledge in the design of environmental plantations, thus maintaining biodiversity, preserving regulations concerning water usage. watersheds and helping to conserve natural habitats. Smurfit Kappa Mills and Converting plants certified Chain of Custody under PEFC or FSC Overview of certification in place at end of 2011 VIRGIN PAPER Production Production % certified kTonnes capacity with paper CoC certification EUROPE Kraftliner products 1,475 100% 73% Other virgin papers (sack paper, MG paper) 245 100% 40% LATIN AMERICA Kraftliner, printing & writing paper, SC fluting 291 86% 86% RECYCLED PAPERS & BOARD 29 Production Production % certified SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 kTonnes capacity with paper CoC certification EUROPE Containerboard recycled papers 2,851 100% 100% Solid board & carton board 896 100% 82% LATIN AMERICA Containerboard recycled papers 635 21% 21% Carton board 161 0% 0% PACKAGING Number of Percentage of sites sites with CoC certified Certification EUROPE Corrugated packaging 82 43% Solid & carton packaging 8 100% LATIN AMERICA Corrugated packaging 7 26% Folding packaging 0 0% Sacks 4 80% In addition to the water usage research project, wood harvested in the same period contained Smurfit Kappa and CENICAFÉ worked on the approximately 280 kTonnes of carbon, giving a potential carbon sequestration capabilities of the positive carbon balance of over 21 kTonnes of pine and eucalyptus species planted by Smurfit carbon or its equivalent of 78 kTonnes of CO2. Kappa. The “3CFix” (Cartón de Colombia Carbon Fix) model was validated and carbon sequestration Since 1969, when we began our forestry activity in figures are now available. Colombia, we have committed to protect all natural forests located in our expanding land holdings. We In 2011, the combined growth of pines and respect the existing biodiversity in both types of eucalyptus in our Colombian plantations absorbed forests and the way they contribute to the reduction some 1.1 million tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere of global warming and the protection of a wide thereby fixing 300 kTonnes of carbon within it. The spectrum of species. In order to effectively protect and promote Besides these research projects, Smurfit Kappa fully conservation, in 2009 we initiated a study of the recognises the responsibility that comes with its flora and fauna populations (focusing on mammals participation in the rural communities surrounding its and birds) in the protected natural forests of the forestry land base. Throughout different programmes company, that are within or surround the planted in education, income generation, health and citizen forests. To conduct this study, we worked with two participation, in conjunction with the Smurfit Kappa local universities (Cauca and Quindío), that have Cartón de Colombia Foundation, Smurfit Kappa specialist biology and forestry faculties. The studies helps to improve the living condition of the were done by students as theses working towards communities within the area of influence of the their graduation under the supervision of their forestry operation. In addition, continuing education 30 department professors. and training programmes are held for forestry workers, with forestry skills and health & safety at SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Apart from the objective of identifying the existence work being the most important. of the species, we focused on determining which species were categorised as endangered by Smurfit Kappa in Colombia also fosters the international organisations such as the International development of a forestry culture through open Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). information exchange with interested individuals and organisations. There is also a continuous dialogue At the end of 2011, we have studied 25% of our with customers, communities, government, forest holdings and have plans to continue doing so employees and investors aimed at improving goods until 2020. In these past three years we have and services obtained from sustainable forest identified 829 species: 390 are flora, 388 birds and management. Forestry studies are actively promoted 51 mammals. Of these, 22 are endangered to some with the publication of almost 200 forestry research degree according to IUCN categorisation: 8 species reports in topics related to silviculture, tree breeding of flora, 9 birds and 5 mammals. and forest health for eucalyptus as well as tropical and subtropical pines. From this research it is clear that the forest plantations and the neighbouring protected natural Protected areas (Europe) forest form important wildlife corridors which We have identified the Smurfit Kappa operations contribute to species conservation in the Andean which are either within or in close proximity to ecosystem. legally protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. The next phase after establishing the populations of species and their relative endangerment, is the Natura 2000 is an ecology network of protected promotion of their protection as an environmental areas in the territory of the European Union which responsibility. has been created in 1992 after governments adopted legislation protecting the most seriously The results of this study were presented in our 2012 threatened habitats and species across Europe. Ten Calendar, which had a 40,000 unit print run and was of our European sites are located within or adjacent sent to all our stakeholders. We have edited one of to such protected areas. four booklets that explicitly show each species and how to contribute to their protection and Ten other sites are adjacent to or within areas conservation; these have been given to surrounding protected by national or local legislation. communities and managers of our forestry farms. Additionally, four of our operations draw from or Additionally, in 2012 we began a series of meetings discharge water to watersheds that are protected or with employees and customers, to share information classified as sensitive. about the wide range and significant impact of our sustainability actions. Smurfit Kappa is keenly aware of these situations and continues to take all necessary steps to ensure both the environmental protection and the sustainability of these sensitive areas. The Netherlands/Spain – The power of High Performance Fluting Fluting, the middle layer in corrugated board, is traditionally produced with virgin or recycled fibres or a mix of both. Smurfit Kappa continuously develops new packaging papers to serve the different needs of customers. The challenge is to add strength and to reduce fibre usage and costs at the same time. Smurfit Kappa developed a new high performance fluting portfolio, ranging from HP1 to HP3, that covers an optimum spectrum in terms of strength levels. HP3 is 20% stronger than traditional recycled fluting, while HP1 possesses the highest recycled strength in the market. High performance fluting replaces traditional recycled fluting, but with lower grammage. Smurfit Kappa’s High Performance Fluting decreases The new product range is manufactured with a special recipe that can be tailored to the usage of match local production variables like the availability of different types of recovered fibres recovered fibres or specific characteristics of paper machines. Producing the grades in several mills, close by approximately to the local market, minimises the distribution costs and benefits the environment. 10%. High Performance Fluting decreases the usage of recovered fibres by approximately 10%. 31 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 2. Efficient Use of Energy and Combatting climate change Carbon Management Investing in boiler houses Towards a low carbon economy Combined Heat and Power generation (CHP) is the In 2011, the EU published roadmaps towards a most efficient method of producing electricity and competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 and its heat (steam). Our industry is the perfect place to energy roadmap. Together with other policy install these co-generation units given our need for documents, over time this will lead to a new both electricity and steam. In 2011, Smurfit Kappa European climate change and energy package. The increased the energy coming from co-generation outcome will be crucial for Smurfit Kappa and our units by 9.7%. This increase mainly came from industry as our operations are affected by all these investment projects finished in 2010, and therefore (future) policies. It is clear that the EU can meet its fully operational in 2011, and was realised despite objectives in this area only if there is sufficient the fact that the steam turbine in our largest mill at biomass availability. Our industry is not only the Piteå in Sweden was out of operation for a relatively largest user of biomass through its raw material long period for maintenance purposes in 2011. Some needs, but also the largest and most efficient of these projects are highlighted further below. generator of energy based on biomass, through Our mill in Nieuweschans in the Netherlands was extensive use of biomass boilers mainly fuelled by equipped with a CHP installation in 2010 with the residuals like bark, sawdust, thinnings and stumps. co-generation process providing 100% of its Although most of these boilers are connected to the electricity in 2011. production of pulp and virgin fibre based paper, in several countries like Spain and France, governments In Cellulose du Pin, our largest mill in France, the are supporting energy and fossil carbon saving (outsourced) CHP installation was operational for the projects connected to recycled paper mills. Smurfit full year 2011. As all of the electricity and steam in Kappa supports and actively participates in such this CHP installation is generated with biomass, fossil projects – biomass boilers in Navarra in Spain and CO2 emissions for this mill decreased significantly Cellulose du Pin in France, and the steam turbine in compared to 2010. Nervión in Spain. Almost 100% electricity used by Zülpich, our largest 90% of Smurfit Kappa’s fuel consumption consists of mill in Germany, comes from its on-site CHP either renewable fuel (biomass) or the relatively low installation fuelled by its multi fuel boiler installed in CO2-emitting fossil fuel natural gas. The overall ratio 2010. between the use of biomass and total fuels has increased in 2011 compared to 2010. In 2011, 42% In our Bernal mill in Argentina, a new natural gas of all energy used was biomass based, up from 41% boiler was installed, replacing three low efficiency in 2010. This increase results mainly from the new steam-producing boilers. As a result of this biomass boiler in Cellulose du Pin in France. investment, which has been operational since early 2011, the use of fossil fuel and CO2 emissions decreased. Direct fuel consumption 2011 All operations 42% 48% Natural Gas Coal Other fossil fuels Biofuel 4% 6% 32 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 In our mill in Saillat in France, we improved the In our mill in Hoya in Germany, the paper machine efficiency of the largest boiler on site by installing was upgraded to a higher capacity level and with an economiser. a view to reducing energy usage. One of the modifications was the installation of a film press In our Alfa d’Avignon mill in France, we will replace to replace the existing size press. With the newly an old boiler with one equipped with an economiser installed press, starch containing less moisture than which will also help to lower NOX emissions. in the previous system can be added to the paper. This leads to less energy being needed to evaporate Investing in energy reduction initiatives the moisture contained in the starch. The internal study we started in 2010 to produce an overview of all (theoretical) possible savings on Our packaging facilities use much less energy than energy needs and fossil CO2 emissions per mill has our paper and board mills; nevertheless, saving now covered all our European and Latin American energy is also important for these operations. In our paper mills and will be concluded this year with an Guanajuato plant in Mexico, two eco-efficiency analysis of our board mills. The total list of energy projects were developed in cooperation with external and CO2 saving opportunities resulting from this partners. One project improved the fuel consumption study will form the basis for energy and CO2 in the boiler by installing an electronic ignition reduction related investments in the coming years. system while the second project reduced energy Most identified projects to reduce energy use and consumption by installing an automatic purge fossil CO2 emissions are part of larger investments installation in the boiler. which will be executed depending on their economic feasibility. Energy, CO2 emissions and other air emissions related data are reported for all our operations In 2011, several initiatives to reduce the use of (including details for individual mills in Europe and energy were approved and/or executed. The Latin America) in the tables on pages 74 to 79. following examples highlight some of these Those tables report energy consumption for the initiatives. production of the paper or board manufactured while the two input/output tables on page 72 Based on our successful experiences in rebuilding (European operations) and on page 73 (Latin pulping equipment in our paper mills in Roermond American operations) report the total energy in the Netherlands, and SSK in the United Kingdom, consumption of the site, taking into account the similar projects were undertaken in our paper and fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal board mills in Wrexen and Herzberg, both in energy sold externally. The methods applied for Germany, and Oude Pekela in the Netherlands. In all calculations as well as details on specific definitions three mills the electricity consumption per tonne of are given in the glossary on pages 89 to 92. product in the recycled stock preparation has been decreased, resulting in a reduction of fossil CO2 emissions per tonne. Biofuels, fossil fuels, electricity from grid Biofuels, fossil fuels, electricity from grid European mills Latin American mills PJ GJ/tonne PJ GJ/tonne 32 16 32 16 28 14 28 14 24 12 24 12 10 20 10 20 8 16 8 16 6 12 6 12 4 8 4 8 2 4 2 4 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Biofuels Fossil fuels Electricity from grid Biofuels Fossil fuels Electricity from grid Specific (GJ/tonne) Specific (GJ/tonne) Absolute (PJ) Absolute (PJ) 33 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Investing in fossil CO2 emission reductions Our total fossil CO2 emissions (direct and indirect) in 2011 decreased by 101,000 tonnes compared Direct (Scope 1) CO2 emissions to 2010. Emission levels in Latin America remained European mills almost at the same level in 2011 as in 2010 with the overall decrease being mainly achieved in ktonnes kg/tonne 1,000 our European operations. The most important 2,000 1,800 900 contributors to this reduction in CO2 emissions are 800 1,600 the new biomass boiler in Cellulose du Pin in France, 1,400 700 and the new CHP installation in Nieuweschans in 1,200 600 1,000 500 the Netherlands, with both installations operating 800 400 for the full year in 2011. 600 300 400 200 CO2 emissions in Latin America were flat despite 200 100 0 0 an improvement in carbon management in several 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 mills. However, our mill in San Felipe in Venezuela, Specific (kg/tonne) returned to 100% virgin paper production in 2011 Absolute emissions (ktonnes) having produced a mix of recycled paper and virgin paper in 2010. This change of product mix, coupled with a restored co-generation capacity on site, caused direct CO2 emissions of this mill to go up thereby neutralising the improvement in emissions of the other Latin American mills. Direct (Scope 1) CO2 emissions Latin American mills Historic trends in the fossil CO2 emissions for both kg/tonne Europe and Latin America are shown in the graphs 1,000 2,000 on this page. 1,800 900 1,600 800 700 To reach the target of 20% reduction of fossil CO2 1,400 1,200 600 emissions relative to production by 2020 there are 500 1,000 potential projects identified in two main areas. 800 400 Firstly, projects that will reduce the need and usage 600 300 400 200 of steam in the paper machines, and secondly those 200 100 that will bring more efficient use of fossil fuels, 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 mainly by additional investments in CHP capacity. These potential additional investments in CHP Specific (kg/tonne) installations will decrease CO2 emissions in Smurfit Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Kappa and will also contribute to a further shift to biomass usage as fuel. A new biofuel and steam boiler has been in operation in our largest kraftliner mill in Piteå in Sweden since 2007. CO2 emission reduction initiatives since 2005 n Biomass boiler: Piteå in Sweden. In 2007, n Gas turbine: Nieuweschans in the 34 a new large biofuel and steam boiler was Netherlands. In 2010 a new gas turbine SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 commissioned in this kraftliner mill. This resulted was installed in this solid board mill. With this in a significantly decreased consumption of oil installation all electricity which is used at the as a fuel, and also in the generation of more mill is generated on-site. This resulted in a biofuel-based electricity on site. Fossil CO2 fossil CO2 emissions reduction of 13%. emissions decreased by 55% as a result. n Water usage reduction: San Felipe in n Biomass boiler: Cellulose du Pin in France. Venezuela and Barranquilla in Colombia. Towards the end of 2010, a new outsourced These paper mills focussed on the reduction biomass boiler came into operation, substantially of their water usage. By recovering more increasing the co-generation ratio in the mill process water, less steam is needed to heat and also decreasing the use of natural gas. up fresh water. This in turn also results in a This resulted in a decrease of fossil CO2 emission decrease of fossil CO2 emissions. in 2011 by 60%. n 100% recovered paper: Barbosa in n Recovery boiler: Cali in Colombia. A new black Colombia. Since 2007, this paper mill has liquor recovery boiler with increased capacity was been producing paper that is 100% based on installed in 2008 replacing two older boilers. This the use of recovered paper. This resulted in the installation resulted in a 13% increased usage of closure of its virgin pulp installation which biofuels and a decrease of fossil CO2 emissions of decreased the mill’s fossil CO2 emissions by 20%. 7% in the first year of operation. n Cool corrugating: Argentina. In 2009, both the n Economisers: Cerro Gordo in Mexico. In Coronel Suarez and Sunchales corrugated plants 2006, economisers were installed in two boilers introduced the “cool corrugated” method in in this paper mill. Part of the heat in the flue gas their production process. With this method the of these boilers is used to heat up the boiler feed heat transfer for drying the board is reduced, water temperature resulting in an efficiency which makes it possible to reduce the pressure increase of 5% and a similar saving on natural needed in the drying table. This leads to reduced gas. Also the CO2 emissions of these boilers flute waste in the corrugating process and a show a decrease of 5%. significant CO2 emission reduction. n New pulper cleaning concept: Roermond in n Steam boiler: Swisswell in Switzerland. the Netherlands. In 2007, three pulpers were This corrugated plant refurbished its steam replaced by one large pulper while at the same boiler in 2010, which resulted in a reduction time the pulper cleaning concept was changed. of fossil CO2 emissions of 30%. This resulted in less electricity needed to produce one tonne of pulp, which in turn resulted in lower indirect fossil CO2 emissions of 13%. In the following years similar cleaning concepts were implemented in SSK in the United Kingdom, Wrexen and Herzberg, both in Germany, and Oude Pekela in the Netherlands. Transport Distribution of transport of raw In Europe, we calculated the CO2 emissions materials by mode of transport 2011 European operations related to the transport of the main raw materials to our mills and converting plants. Transportation 8% of our raw materials and products is mostly outsourced to external parties. 39% 35 250,000 This includes transport of wood, recovered papers Rail SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 and market pulp used in our mills to produce 200,000 Ship paper and board. The transport of raw materials CO2-eq (tonnes) Road to the second stage of the supply chain (reels of 150,000 paper, corrugated board sheets, solid board sheets, plastic films and other items to the 100,000 53% converting plants) is also taken into account. 50,000 While the calculation of CO2 emissions for the 0 transport of paper reels between our own mills Rail and the converting plants (representing 70% of Road total volume) is accurate, we believe we have made a good estimate of emissions for the Ship transport of the remaining reels of paper supplied CO2 emissions for transport to our corrugated plants by external parties. of raw materials 2011 European operations For 2011, CO2 equivalents for transport of raw materials amounted to 236 kTonnes. The 250,000 Rail breakdown by mode of transport is shown in the 200,000 Ship graphs on the right. The CO2 emission factors by 250,000 Rail CO2-eq (tonnes) transport mode are extracted from the European Road 150,000 Reference Life Cycle Database version II (ELCD). 200,000 Ship Transportation for the above activities represents CO2-eq (tonnes) 100,000 Road 6.4 billion tonne-kilometres and the pie-chart 150,000 displays the split by type of transport. 53% of our 50,000 100,000 transport needs are carried out by road, 39% by 0 sea with the balance carried out by train. 50,000 We have not been able to do a similar exercise for 0 Latin America due to the structure of our supplier base. We have yet to establish the parameters of the journeys to and from our paper mills. Spain – Increasing biomass capacity boiler house Early in 2011, the investment to rebuild the current biomass boiler of our paper mill in Navarra in Spain, from a grate fired boiler to a bubbled fluidised bed boiler was approved. With this modification, it is possible to produce 100% of steam capacity through the use of biomass. This is an increase from today’s situation where only half of the steam capacity can be produced using biomass. The rebuild will take place towards the end of 2012 and should result in an increase in the use of biomass and consequently a decrease of approximately 35% in fossil CO2 emissions by the mill. 36 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Aerial view of the Smurfit Kappa Navarra plant in Spain. Colombia – Investing in a gas fired CHP To guarantee 100% availability of power at our paper mill in Barranquilla in Colombia, sufficient electricity needs to be produced on site. To meet this requirement, two relatively small gas turbines for electricity production were installed several years ago. Necessary steam was produced through a separate gas fired steam boiler. To optimise the energy situation on site, we have replaced the existing gas turbines and separate steam boiler by a new CHP installation consisting of one large turbine which is connected to a waste heat recovery boiler to produce the needed steam. This investment became operational in May 2012 and will result, through the more efficient production of both electricity and steam, in a lower consumption of natural gas and consequently an annual reduction of some 20% of the mill’s direct fossil CO2 emissions. To optimise the energy situation at the Smurfit Kappa Barranquilla mill in Colombia, a new CHP installation has been installed. The pulper at the SSK mill in the United Kingdom. The Netherlands – Green results with Blue Print Process Our European Research and Development Centre in the Netherlands developed the concept of Blue Print Process for recycled paper stock preparation. The technology is based on optimisation and simplification to reach the lowest consumption of energy and the highest fibre yield to improve environmental performance. Testliner, fluting and board are produced with recovered paper. Recovered paper enters the paper mill and is processed in the stock preparation plant to produce a clean stock that is fed to the paper machine to produce paper. In the stock preparation plant, equipment is installed to handle, slush, screen and clean the stock. 37 Blue Print has successfully been implemented in four SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 of the Smurfit Kappa recycled paper mills in 2011. SSK, in the UK, realised energy savings of 1,400 MWh/ year. Townsend Hook, in the UK, cut pulping electricity consumption by 40% and improved pulp cleanliness. Herzberger, in Germany, simplified their system to reduce energy use by 4,000 MWh/year and Oude Pekela, in the Netherlands, shortened the production line to save 2,700 MWh/year. France – The bio-masterminds of SKCDP Smurfit Kappa Comptoir du Pin (SKCDP) in France proves that sustainability and creativity go hand in hand. The company procures wood pulp and wood biomass, but the market for this renewable energy source is becoming increasingly competitive. In response, SKCDP has developed a new procurement strategy focussing on tree stumps as a new untapped resource. The benefits are numerous. It generates additional income for forest owners, creates new jobs, decreases reforestation and forest care costs by 15%, improves productivity on the cleaned soil and procures wood at competitive costs. Furthermore it benefits forest growing conditions. To harvest the stumps, SKCDP developed special harvesting and crushing techniques that comply with forest management schemes and the requirements of the biomass boiler at our Cellulose du Pin kraftliner mill. The biomass boiler at the mill is fed with wood chips from the stumps. It is an efficient use of a new energy source and this innovation meets the objective of Smurfit Kappa to switch from fossil fuel to renewable energy where possible. Extraction of stumps with a vibratory device. 3. Water Management Water is a vital element in our manufacturing process. As fresh water availability is a growing global concern, we strive to limit water intake where we can, even though the vast majority of our production locations are located in areas 38 with no foreseen water scarcity. We are also Floresmiro Lugo and Rosa Amalia Medina committed to return the water used in our SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 (Claridad Water Board in Colombia) processes as clean as possible to the public water body. Over 90% of the water used is actually returned to the water body in good Engagement with Stakeholders condition and of the water not returned, most Preserve natural forests of it evaporates and returns at a later stage as precipitation into the global (fresh) water and improve water quality systems. Underpinning our commitment, we invest in Floresmiro Lugo and Rosa Amalia Medina, President the best available techniques to treat the water and Secretary Claridad Water Board in the Cauca before returning it to the water source. Since region of Colombia 2005, Smurfit Kappa has made considerable For the past ten years, Smurfit Kappa in Colombia has efforts and sizeable investments in upgrading made a difference for many people living in the southern its water treatment facilities. One of our largest mountainous region of Colombia. Smurfit Kappa paper mills, Zülpich in Germany, is operating a introduced eucalyptus plantations that are of crucial 100% closed loop process water system. importance for the regulation and good quality of community water. Water performance in 2011 In 2011, our global paper and board mill system Smurfit Kappa is the largest paper and packaging decreased its water intake relative to production producer in Colombia. Rosa Amalia Medina, Secretary of by 2% compared to 2010. This improvement the Board that manages the water project in Claridad, is follows on from a substantial drop in water pleased with the support from Smurfit Kappa. “Since intake by more than 10% in 2010 compared to 2003, 58 families use water from the La Mina creek. 2009. Both our operations in Europe and Latin Smurfit Kappa has invested in eucalyptus plantations that America contributed equally to these have helped us preserve natural forests, protect the soil performance improvements. from erosion and put an end to water contamination from cow droppings by changing the soil use from cattle Following investments of over €29 million in growing to forests.” water treatment facilities since 2005, the quality of water discharge of our global paper Floresmiro Lugo, President of the same Board, states: & board mill system has improved on a relative “The forestry plantations are very helpful to our basis by 21%. In 2011 however, our community. The environmental pressure on the natural performance deteriorated by 6% compared to forests has diminished, since we no longer take wood for in 2010. This deterioration arose primarily our families from the forest. We now obtain what we because of increased virgin pulp production at need from what is left after the plantations have been the San Felipe mill in Venezuela, and temporary harvested. With regard to water preservation, we have operational issues with the water treatment observed that the creek’s flow has stabilised, even during plants at two of our French mills. harsh summers, providing our families with plenty of good quality water”. Water sources 2011 European and Latin American operations 3% 12% Surface Ground Grid 85% Water intake Water intake European paper mills Latin American paper mills Mm3 m3/tonne Mm3 m3/tonne 39 110 55 110 55 100 50 100 50 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 90 45 90 45 40 40 11080 55 80 35 35 10070 50 70 30 30 9060 45 60 25 25 8050 40 50 20 20 7040 35 40 15 15 6030 30 30 10 10 5020 25 20 5 5 4010 20 10 0 0 30 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 15 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 20 10 10 5 2010 0 Water intake absolute (Mm3) Water intake specific (m3/tonne) Water intake absolute (Mm3) Water intake specific (m3/tonne) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water released Water released European paper mills Latin American paper mills Mm3 m3/tonne Mm3 m3/tonne 110 55 110 55 100 50 100 50 45 COOLING 90 45 90 COOLING COOLING 80 40 80 40 COOLING COOLING 70 35 70 35 60 30 60 30 50 25 50 25 PROCESS 20 20 PROCESS PROCESS 40 40 PROCESS PROCESS 30 15 30 15 20 10 20 10 10 5 10 5 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water released absolute (Mm3) Water released specific (m3/tonne) Water released absolute (Mm3) Water released specific (m3/tonne) Process water discharges Process water discharges European paper mills: COD, BOD, TSS Latin American paper mills: COD, BOD, TSS ktonnes kg/tonne ktonnes kg/tonne 30 18 30 18 16 16 25 25 14 14 20 12 20 12 10 10 15 15 8 8 10 6 10 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 COD BOD TSS COD BOD TSS Specific (kg/tonne) Specific (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Absolute (ktonnes) Although the so-called eutrophication indicators In both cases, the mills reported the incidents (nitrogen and phosphorus) remained stable in 2011 promptly to the relevant local authorities. compared to 2010, the organic load discharged, together with the process water, increased by 6% Investing in higher quality water discharge relative to production from 2010 to 2011. The paper Last year an investment of over $3 million was made mill in San Felipe in Venezuela was able to almost in a new water treatment facility in our Bernal paper 40 double its production of virgin pulp in 2011 mill in Argentina. The project was completed as compared to 2010. As the process of producing planned and became fully operational in early 2012 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 virgin pulp relative to the production of recovered (see page 41). fibre pulp requires more water and also impacts the water more, the organic load discharged, measured In the course of 2012, we intend to invest in an by COD and BOD, was significantly higher in 2011 extension of the water treatment facilities in our than in 2010. The higher discharge caused by this paper mill in Ania in Italy. The current installation change explains almost 3% of the total year-on-year will be extended with an anaerobic reactor. increase of 6%. In 2012, we will also invest in a new anaerobic The remainder of the year-on-year increase is largely reactor in our paper mill in Zülpich in Germany. explained by the less than satisfactory functioning of Although this investment will have no impact on our the water treatment plants in our Cellulose du Pin overall water discharge performance (as the mill is and Saillat paper mills in France. In Saillat increased operating a closed loop system for process water), production and a policy of reduced water intake led it will allow the mill to decrease the usage of to an unforeseen mineralisation of the anaerobic chemicals. bacteria’s mass. As a consequence, this mass had to be fully replaced which then caused a lower Water data efficiency of the water treatment facility for a period The treatment of the process water used in the mills of 3 – 6 months. In Cellulose du Pin, a variety of is either carried out on-site, as is the case of the reasons caused the water treatment plant to operate majority of our mills, or is sub-contracted to an with lower efficiency than needed. All issues causing external third party. For the latter, in all disclosures this lower efficiency have since been rectified. relating to the process water content (COD, BOD, TSS), we report levels in the water discharged by the The water discharge performance in Navarra in mills prior to this external treatment. Spain, where the newly built water treatment plant was operational for the full year, showed To provide a correct overview of the Group an improvement of over 70% compared to 2010. performance for all water indicators, BOD discharged had to be estimated for two mills (Nervión and There were no significant spills during 2011. Nettingsdorfer) by using their COD discharges in However, there were two minor incidents which combination with the ratio COD/BOD we measure resulted in minimal leakage to water courses. One in equivalent mills. In these mills the process water incident occurred in Hoogkerk (a solid board mill in treatment is performed by third party companies the Netherlands) where the process water tank that do not measure BOD separately. overflowed and part of the process water was accidentally discharged to a small ditch. The other Water related data is reported for all our operations incident was in our paper mill in Ania in Italy, where (including details for individual mills in Europe and there was a small leakage of sludge (mainly fibres) Latin America) in the tables on pages 72 and 73 and from the water treatment plant to a local river for pages 74 to 79. approximately three hours. A view of the Smurfit Kappa Bernal mill A view of the Smurfit Kappa Cerro Gordo mill in Argentina. water treatment plant in Mexico. 41 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Argentina – New water treatment Mexico – Teamwork improves plant at the Bernal paper mill Cerro Gordo mill water treatment plant During 2011 the installation of a new water The Cerro Gordo mill water treatment plant (WTP) treatment plant has taken place in our paper mill has significantly improved its performance and treated in Bernal, Argentina. Commissioning of the new water quality in 2011. equipment took place in April 2012 and the site can now perform water treatment in various stages Since its start-up in 1994, the WTP attained good treatment levels to comply with federal regulations. Primary treatment is done through a dissolved air However, the plant experienced periodic instabilities flotation unit (DAF) removing fibres from water due to filamentous bacteria and recurring attacks of coming from the paper machine. Biological Nocardia, a very aggressive organism, which caused treatment takes place in an anaerobic reactor, high levels of total suspended solids and forced followed then by an aerobic biological reactor. complete evacuation of the microbiological sludge. The microbiological processes within the anaerobic reactor break down much of the organic loading Initially, a programme using nutrients and enzymes was and produce biogas, which we intend to use as an implemented to mitigate the instabilities. Then, the energy source at the mill. To finalise the biological causes of the predominance of filamentous bacteria treatment of the water it is led into activated were identified. These causes were addressed through sludge basins. The final physical treatment of the modifications of the primary treatment, adjustment of effluent, aiming to decrease suspended solids prior operational parameters and a new nutrient for better to water reuse or discharge, takes place in a metabolism. Since January 2011, the nutrient is used clarification tank where suspended solids are on a regular basis. It rapidly promoted the growth of removed from the aerobically treated water. higher-order micro-organisms and increased treatment efficiency. COD reduction efficiency increased to 90% With the new equipment, the Bernal plant will be and the annual cost of nutrients has been reduced by able to significantly reduce its discharge loadings 69% since 2008. to the water system. Employees at the Smurfit Kappa Roermond paper mill in the Netherlands Left to right: Henk Oitmann, Harry Noldus, Frans Jetten, Antoine Krutzen, Peter Verhagen, Jan van Halbeek. 42 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 performance driven by PEOPLE Social Development When it comes to people we aim to be socially n Circulating reports of all significant accidents conscious and pro-active on social issues with a to every manufacturing plant General primary focus on the safety, well-being and Manager and onward to our employees. In development of our employees. Safeguarding human this way, experiences are shared in order to and other elementary rights that govern labour help the prevention of similar accidents relations with our employees also form a key elsewhere in Smurfit Kappa. element of our social responsibility. 43 n Conducting cross audits in Health and Safety using our own in-house Health and SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Involvement in local communities where our Safety coordinators. operations have the privilege to operate is another key priority for us, as we are often seen as an n Providing Health and Safety briefings and important partner in the local society and economy. training sessions to all new employees. n Constantly reinforcing to all employees the 1. Health and Safety Company’s expectation, that in the course Smurfit Kappa’s Health and Safety Policy, designed in of their work, each and every employee will accordance with the OHSAS (ISO) 18001 Health and follow all safety policies, use all relevant Safety Management System, contains a Declaration safety systems and continually seek out of Intent which commits the organisation to conduct ways to improve processes to ensure the its business in a responsible manner, taking care of Health and Safety of all. the health, safety and welfare of everyone affected by its activities. The well-being of our people is one For more information, see the Health and Safety of our key concerns. Policy Statement. Key elements in ensuring that this commitment has Recent Group-wide initiatives include: become and remains a day-to-day focus include: n Increased emphasis on risk analysis and hazard n Having Health and Safety as an important identification across our plant structure resulting agenda item on all relevant, management and in: employee meetings. n The installation of safety devices such as n Having Health and Safety as a key element by mobile hand rails, walkways and the which all managers are measured. protection of windows to reduce risk and n Benchmarking of internal Health and Safety increase security for those undertaking performance through monthly measurements. maintenance activities on roofs. Begun in 2010, this work continued during 2011 and n Seeking improvements in our current working it is our intention to have these fitted on all practices in order to reduce risk and help to of our plant roofs in due course. protect employees, visitors, contractors and the public from injury and ill-health by continuously n The requirement that in all our European assessing our processes. recycling facilities, all employees now carry (attached to a belt or worn on the wrist) a n Taking all practical steps to develop and Radio Frequency Identification Device (RFID). maintain an appropriate safety culture The device is linked to the conveyor control throughout Smurfit Kappa. This includes: units so that, in the event of unexpected access or someone falling unconscious onto a conveyor, the conveyor itself – and all other equipment being used in conjunction with it at the time – is automatically stopped. n Restricting the access to stores/warehouses n Smurfit Kappa Corrugated France has when forklift trucks are in use, together introduced a “Safety Pass” for employees with ensuring that all new forklift trucks and sub-contractors. carry speed governors/speed limiters and n The development by Smurfit Kappa Corrugated other devices to reduce the risk to both the Italy of a set of posters (linked to sporting drivers themselves and to pedestrians. activities) highlighting some basic safety rules 44 n Increased emphasis on the separation of and attitudes. pedestrian pathways and fork-lift truck SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 In addition, employees are being encouraged to aisles. become more conscious of the importance of their n The introduction of Group-wide standards personal Health and Safety in a wider context and to in respect of safety-related painting and develop awareness of risks not only during working signage design & display. hours and in commuting to and from the workplace but also in their homes and non-work related social/ n The introduction of a simulator to facilitate sporting activities. the training of maintenance personnel in the application of their skills when dealing In this regard, Smurfit Kappa has supported a with high-pressure pumps. number of initiatives across Europe and Latin America focussing on increasing awareness and stimulating n The introduction of the first Biennial Safety appropriate behaviour with regard to safety. Opinion Survey in 2010, both in Europe and Latin America, aimed at collecting our own Several campaigns have been launched both in employees’ opinions on their perception of Europe and in our Latin American facilities to safety inside their department and/or plant. This promote a healthy life style and the benefit of health enabled us to identify opportunities to further checks. improve the efficiency of our safety management. We are conducting another safety Although the safety of people on our premises is our Opinion Survey in the first half of 2012 to both top priority, it is with great regret and sorrow that assess progress made in the intervening period we have to report a total of three fatalities in Smurfit and to identify areas for further improvement. Kappa during 2011, two involving employees in n Increased focus by the European Corrugated Latin America and one in Europe. Any loss of life in Division on a standardised or common approach the operations is very regrettable, especially given to risk analysis in its plants. the time and effort that we devote to promoting Health and Safety. n The introduction of a “STOP / THINK / GO” approach to last minute risk analysis by the During 2011, 44% of our European facilities European Paper Division. remained free of any lost-time accidents and some n An increasing emphasis on the reporting of 20% of these facilities succeeded in keeping a zero “near misses” in order to ensure that each and lost-time accident record over the last three years. every plant and its employees remain vigilant and conscious of any indications of what could As the operations of the former European Specialities become serious accidents. Division have been integrated into the Paper and Corrugated Divisions, Health and Safety data will be In addition to these Group-wide and Regional consolidated and reported under the headings of initiatives, individual plants have introduced their those two divisions. own Health and Safety initiatives during 2011. Examples of these initiatives are the following: Overall, safety performance improved slightly in 2011 compared with 2010. 45 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 From left to right: Rafael Arrieche (Smurfit Kappa Venezuela) Fermín Marín (Mayor of Simon Planas County Lara State) Alberto Ramirez (Smurfit Kappa Venezuela), Yendi Molero and Edgardo Hernandez (Mayor’s Office of Simon Planas County Lara State). Engagement with Stakeholders Hand in hand with the Venezuelan community Fermín Marín, Mayor of Simon Planas County in Lara State, Venezuela Three years ago, Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela initiated an extensive social responsibility programme called “Hand in hand with the Community”. So far, this flagship programme has provided healthcare to almost 170,000 residents of the most depressed rural areas in the vicinity of the production plants by the end of 2011. Women, children and the elderly are looked after in a very special way by dozens of doctors and nurses and hundreds of Smurfit Kappa volunteers. Together they make up 63 Health Brigades that have handed out at the end of 2011 almost 770,000 units of medication, of which almost 440,000 were dispensed in 2011. The programme has a great social impact and strengthens the ties Smurfit Kappa has with its workers and neighbouring communities. Fermín Marín, Mayor of Simon Planas County in Lara State, Venezuela can testify to that. “It is gratifying to observe how Smurfit Kappa, its management, employees and resources, integrate in order to provide free medical care to humble and remote rural communities in our state, thereby improving the health and quality of life in our municipality. We consider Smurfit Kappa our great ally in favour of social and community development. We work together so that their programmes achieve continuity and benefit more people.” Severity Rate: Full Year 2010 vs 2011 Number of Accidents: Full Year 2010 vs 2011 25 2010 2011 600 14,000 22.9 20 21.5 13,165 20.3 500 546 12,000 19.5 19.4 17.5 17.1 17.0 502 10,000 15 400 8,000 10 300 6,000 200 5 4,000 100 2,000 0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Group 0 0 2010 2011 2010 Severity rate: Number of days lost x 100,000/Number of hours worked Number of Accidents Days Lost Frequency Rate: Full Year 2010 vs 2011 Number of Days Lost: Full Year 2010 vs 2011 1.0 46 600 2010 2011 14,000 0.88 0.8 12,000 13,165 0.79 500 0.81 546 12,948 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 0.78 0.75 0.72 0.71 0.71 502 10,000 0.6 400 8,000 0.4 300 6,000 200 0.2 4,000 100 2,000 0.0 Corrugated Paper Latin America0 Group 0 2010 2011 2010 2011 Frequency rate: Number of accidents x 100,000/Number of hours worked Number of Accidents Days Lost Number of Accidents: Full Year 2010 vs 2011 350 2010 2011 300 308 250 271 200 150 165 166 100 50 73 65 73 0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Days Lost Due to Accidents: Full Year 2010 vs 2011 8,000 2010 2011 7,000 7,406 7,077 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,955 3,956 3,000 2,000 2,133 1,847 1,586 1,000 0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Venezuela – One second before In Venezuela, a training concept named “one second before” has been implemented and a new version is being developed in order to make people aware of all the risks at work as well as in day to day life at home and in the street (including robberies and kidnapping, earthquake and fire). Europe – Safety Day Smurfit Kappa organised a safety day in April 2012 to encourage the promotion 47 of health & safety throughout all its European facilities. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 A video address from our Group President & COO, Tony Smurfit, was prepared in the 16 languages spoken throughout the Company. This was then shown to employees as a means of launching this major initiative, the theme of which was personal involvement and responsibility with an emphasis on the concept of “stop/think/go” before acting. Gary McGann, Group CEO, visited Smurfit Kappa Dublin during the week of Safety and Health at Work. Countries and plants organised a series of local activities and workshops to Smurfit Kappa Roermond promote health and safety at work. Papier produced a DVD for In many locations, these activities all employees including Tony focused not only on the workplace, Smurfit’s message and some but also on the home by involving other videos about good safety practices. employees’ families and children. The activities ranged from technical workshops and training for employees to drawing competitions for children as well as health tests for family members. France – Safety Pass Corrugated France has developed an internetbased induction training programme about the safety rules that employees of sub-contracted companies must know before entering the plants. When the training has been successfully completed the person prints a “safety pass” that has to be shown on arrival at the site. This safety pass is valid for one year. Sylvain Delafaite (left) handing over the Safety Pass to Nicolas Marmignon (both Smurfit Kappa France). 2. Social Citizenship n We treat employees humanely. We do not Guiding principles approve of or tolerate forced labour or physical abuse. We do not tolerate any other form of We are committed to managing relationships with abusive behaviour, whether it originates from fellow employees, business partners and host within our business (and is directed internally or communities in a socially responsible manner. externally) or its source is an individual (or 48 organisation) with whom (or with which) we We comply with the principles expressed in the have a business relationship. No issues under United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 either heading were identified in 2011. the fundamental Principles and Rights at Work developed by the International Labour Organisation n We compensate fairly and review wage and in all of the countries in which we have a presence. salary levels at regular intervals. We ensure that pay rates in each country in which we operate In keeping with this Declaration and these Principles: match or exceed the minimum standard set by its government or legislature. n We prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, colour, sex, sexual orientation, age, In the context of the above, we select, and promote religion, national origin, disability or other legally people, solely on the basis of suitability for the protected status in the countries in which position in question. Smurfit Kappa conducts business. No issues of discrimination in any of these categories were Employee demographics and turnover identified in 2011. At the end of 2011, Smurfit Kappa had some 38,000 n We support freedom of association. Our employees. This figure includes both our own employees have the right to become (and employees as well as contracted labour. As can be remain) a member of a Trade Union, have their seen in the graph on page 49, some 44% are under representatives negotiate and bargain on their 40 years of age, with almost a third of the total behalf and assist them in grievance and between the age of 41 and 50 years. disciplinary matters. Some 70% of our workforce is directly involved in The Collective Agreements currently applying in production and manufacturing activities with the some 90% of the Group’s sites are the result of balance involved in indirect (26%) or management either local and/or national negotiations in the activities (4%). Only 5% of our employees are countries concerned in both Europe and Latin engaged under a temporary contract. America. As shown in the graph, more than 50% of this total We are not aware of either the association or number has been with the Group for over 10 years. bargaining rights of any individual or group(s) of employees being denied to them during the Of the total number employed, almost 85% were in course of 2011. Germany, France, Mexico, Venezuela, United n We prohibit child labour. We will not employ, in Kingdom, Netherlands, Colombia, Spain, Italy and any capacity, anyone who has not either reached Sweden – with the remaining 15% distributed the mandated school leaving age or the between the other 20 countries in which Smurfit minimum age set for employment in any Kappa has a production and /or a sales & marketing country in which we operate. No issues under presence. This distribution generally is in line with this heading were identified in 2011. Smurfit Kappa’s distribution of activities. Length of Service Management Gender 2011 Total Employees by Age 2011 Total Employees 2011 30+ yrs30+ yrs FemaleFemale 14% 14% % <5 yrs <5 yrs 60+ yrs 3% <20 yrs 1% 10% 10% 26% 26% 21-30 yrs yrs 16% 16% 21-30 yrs 16% 51-60 yrs 21% 21-30 yrs 21-30 yrs 21-30 yrs 19% 19% 19% 31-40 40 yrs yrs 27% 27% 41-50 yrs 32% 31-40 yrs 27% 11-20 yrs 11-20 yrs 11-20 y 24% 24% 5-10 yrs 5-10 yrs 24 21% 21% Male 86% Male 86% Management Gender 2011 Number 200 Male Female 150 49 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 100 50 0 France United Germany Spain Mexico Netherlands Italy Venezuela Sweden Colombia Kingdom Top 10 Countries Headcount 2011 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Germany France Mexico Venezuela United Netherlands Colombia Spain Italy Sweden Kingdom During 2011, some 17 nationalities were represented Overall employee turnover in Smurfit Kappa is at the most senior levels in the organisation. considered relatively low at 4.4%. More than half of Although we have a policy of selecting the best those who left during 2011 did so as a result of person available for any position, in practice, by far retirement and the pursuit of other careers/interests. the greater proportion of senior operational positions Otherwise, employees left the organisation mainly as are held by local managers (same nationality as the a result of operational changes in response to market country where the operation is located). 14% of our and competitive circumstances. In a number of cases management is female and 86% is male, reflecting we were able to transfer employees to other nearby the overall female/male employee distribution Smurfit Kappa locations. throughout Smurfit Kappa. Employee training and development Smurfit Kappa’s policy is to increase the level of Our talented team of professionals is the driving participation of women in management roles in the force of our business and Smurfit Kappa is company. In that context we are reviewing the areas committed to the training and development of each and roles where the retention level and further and every employee where necessary in order to advancement of women has the greatest potential further raise the standards of business performance. for success. This is reflected in terms of good practice, skill transfer, Health and Safety compliance, and ensuring In general, the composition of the Smurfit Kappa’s that the Group’s business ethics and standards are workforce typically reflects local ethnic diversity, fully understood by one and all and reflected in their thereby enhancing the bond with local communities. day-to-day conduct. The aim is to have: integrated with local language activities, be it e-learning or classroom-based learning. This n better performance customised programme brings together individuals n higher commitment from various functions to boost their confidence in using business English in their day to day work. n improved levels of teamwork During 2011, a further 74 participants benefitted 50 n a learning organisation and from this programme. n a meritocratic organisation. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 A company-wide e-learning tool, in several languages and linked to our operating standards, In 2011, the average number of training hours was introduced during 2011. Designed to further (including the entire range of learning and educate and develop our employees. It supports development initiatives) was 20 hours per employee. activities on the shop floor by ensuring that they better understand our processes. The total direct expenditure on training and development during the year amounted to During 2011, use was made in our European approximately €2 million, with further significant countries of a “360 Degree Feedback” framework indirect costs. and professional external coaching support to provide the senior executives concerned with a During 2011, there were numerous training and greater knowledge of their strengths and highlight development activities, both centrally and locally. areas of possible improvement. The Advanced Management Development (AMD) In Germany, the well-established Sales Training Programme is an example of a development activity Modules continue to build upon the success which has evolved over more than a decade. Aimed achieved in delivering enhanced skills in respect of primarily at individuals with clearly identified price negotiations and account management. A total potential to grow within the business, the of over 500 employees have benefited from these Programme provides participants with an modules that have now been running for over 10 opportunity to acquire a better understanding of years, including the entire sales force in Germany. “who we are” across business units, geographical boundaries and cultures while simultaneously The Junior Management Team Programme at the engaging with senior executives. During 2011, the Nettingsdorfer paper mill in Austria provides an Programme catered for 24 participants, bringing to environment for junior managers to explore new over 240 the total number of participants involved approaches. During the course of 2011, participants since its inception. focused on change management. In addition to this programme, the working Graduates relationship with two leading European Business The Graduate Management Development Schools (London Business School and INSEAD) has Programme continues to provide opportunities to been further strengthened, providing increased trainees joining Smurfit Kappa on completing their opportunities for our senior executives to continue university programmes to kick-start their careers. their learning and development. Many who have joined the company as graduate trainees have successfully progressed their career Another centrally organised programme and one within the company. which has gained considerable momentum since it was restructured in 2007 is the English Immersion Programme. Now an established event in our training and development calendar, it is fully We have seen the great contribution that graduates/ European Works Council students can make to our business, adding value and Smurfit Kappa recognises the right of employees to maximising their potential, while helping us to build freely associate and all Smurfit Kappa employees are for the future. free to join trades unions. In many countries, Smurfit Kappa conducts formal em­ployee consultation Retired employees processes with the local Works Councils. Our retirees have a special relationship with Smurfit 51 Kappa which is grateful for their contribution to its By far the largest representative group in Smurfit SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 growth and success over many years. Today there are Kappa Europe is the European Works Council (EWC), over 12,000 pensioners from Smurfit Kappa and which represents about 80% of our employees from there are a variety of different associations in the 21 countries in Europe where we have operations. different countries that manage a host of social activities which greatly help to maintain the bonds During 2011, the Agreement governing the the pensioners enjoyed as working colleagues. operation of the EWC was renegotiated and will remain in place for four more years until 2015. Whilst most of the activities are managed by the pensioner associations themselves, there is also The EWC consists of 30 members, representing all ongoing Group support. employees. The procedure for the nomination and selection/election of its members is in accordance Internal communication with national regulations and practice in each of the We value regular, timely and efficient communication countries involved. Although it is not a negotiating with our employees and their representatives, forum, it does complement existing local and conducted in an open and constructive manner, to national structures where information dissemination exchange views on all matters affecting our business. and consultation occurs. Topics include Health and Safety, working conditions, terms and conditions of employment, the Typically, the topics covered at such meetings include: performance of the business, the business outlook, investment decisions and acquisitions and disposals. n The Group’s financial status. n Prospective developments. We are committed to providing our employees with regular updates on the overall performance of n Relocation, production curtailments or business Smurfit Kappa and the individual business units, and closures in any country where there are on any issues that may potentially have an impact on transnational implications. them. In doing so, we make use of appropriate n Environmental protection. media which include departmental and function n Employment opportunities. meetings, site general briefings and management/ employee representative meetings at local, national n Health and Safety. and regional levels. The internet and Smurfit Kappa’s internal intranet are also used extensively. The Council meets twice a year. Experts, who may be full-time trade union officials, are allowed to attend In addition, there is an extensive network of local a pre-EWC meeting at the request of the EWC employee newsletters and we also publish a highmembers. profile customer magazine “People and Packaging” which is translated into several languages. When queries arise from our employees and/or their representatives or meetings are requested, our policy is to respond in a timely manner. Members of Smurfit Kappa’s European Works Council gather with union representatives and members of Smurfit Kappa’s management at the signing of the renewed EWC agreement. The agreement was signed by EWC member Eddy de Jongh (seated left) and German Esguerra, Group VP Human Resources (seated right). 52 Engagement with Stakeholders SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 New agreement takes EWC to the next level Smurfit Kappa has a long tradition when it comes to employee participation. A key part of this is the European Works Council (EWC), which was created to assist in the development of an open, two-way communication process with all employees. Recently Smurfit Kappa renewed the EWC agreement, confirming the important role it attaches to a true dialogue between management and the European Works Council. Long-time EWC member Eddy de Jongh from Belgium is pleased with the new agreement. “Besides elements required by the European directive, Smurfit Kappa has chosen to expand our consultation rights. Smurfit Kappa commits itself to provide us with more information regarding restructuring. Furthermore, the EWC will strive to have a fair gender representation in the council and it will try to include representatives from all the countries where Smurfit Kappa is active.” “In addition we can consult external experts and are closely involved in Health & Safety issues. As a result, the role of our EWC members will become more proactive. Our members are very aware that they represent Smurfit Kappa as a whole and not just their own location or country. It is a great challenge to combine the insights of people from so many different cultures for the benefit of the company and all the people that make Smurfit Kappa such a great multinational.” When a decision is taken to introduce change, Investment and procurement practices employee consultation takes place promptly. During Mindful of our commitment to the UN’s Declaration the course of such discussions, the impact of the on Human Rights, a key aspect of due diligence in proposed changes, together with the any acquisition process involving Smurfit Kappa is an implementation plans, are discussed with examination of the target organisation’s human employees and their representatives. resource policies and practices, both in terms of their compliance with local, national and international The outcome, reflecting local and/or national custom laws and in their day-to-day interpretation and and practice or legislation, will result in one or more application in the organisation. of the following: severance pay, career counselling, job search workshops, financial advice (including In the event of any potentially serious issues arising pension) and early retirement where appropriate. as a result, the acquisition process will be reviewed, as to the appropriateness of continuing with it. There were two acquisitions during the course of In early 2011, a decision was taken to add a 2011 and no such issues arose. sustainability award to the existing award schemes. This reflects the importance to Smurfit Kappa of Smurfit Kappa is committed to the principles excellence in the different areas of sustainability. reflected in both its Code of Business Conduct and With this competition, Smurfit Kappa wants to show its Sustainable Sourcing Policy Statement in all of its its commitment to environmental improvement, dealings with its suppliers and contractors. social and Health and Safety activities and 53 community involvement both internally and SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 In keeping with the Sustainable Sourcing Policy externally. The competition also provides an excellent Statement, Smurfit Kappa aims to work with way to communicate and share activities and suppliers who share its declared values of good social successes in sustainability within Smurfit Kappa. citizenship in particular in such areas as compliance with the relevant regulations, the provision of healthy Group, regional and divisional awards serve several and safe work environments and demonstrable purposes. The core objective is to recognise, reward adherence to human rights in all its aspects. and encourage entrepreneurship, innovation and superior performance whether it is in the area of Of equal significance to Smurfit Kappa is the operations, innovation, safety or sustainability. The commitment of these same suppliers and contractors awards are visible to the organisation’s entire to similar socially responsible behaviour in the workforce and this helps in sharing the objectives of conduct of their own businesses. the organisation, creating an aspirational climate and enforcing its priorities. Strategic suppliers are being encouraged to join the UN Global Compact initiative. They are also being 3. Our Involvement in the Community encouraged to disclose relevant data in this regard, We seek to serve and contribute to the communities either directly to Smurfit Kappa or through a of our host countries by providing products and recognised organisation. services efficiently and profitably and by offering good employment opportunities and conditions. During 2010, we developed a robust questionnaire to facilitate the auditing of key suppliers in respect of In the course of our business transactions, we also a number of indicators such as human rights. take into account the concerns of the wider community, including international, national and In Europe, approximately 30% of our significant local interests. Each plant manager is expected to suppliers have so far been audited, including represent the company as part of the local screening for human rights. community and play a positive part in its Smurfit Kappa’s Sustainable Sourcing Policy and development. Social Citizenship Policy Statements, together with It falls to each plant manager to maintain an active the Code of Business Conduct, can be downloaded dialogue with the communities living in close from the Smurfit Kappa website. proximity to his/her facility, respond in the first Group awards instance to any complaints or issues of concern and In 2011, as in previous years, there were recognition initiate appropriate remedial action where necessary awards at divisional level for the Best Plant of the and possible. Year and the Innovation of the Year. At both regional and divisional levels, there were also awards in the area of Safety, recognising not only the Best Overall Performance but also the Most Improved Performance. Smurfit Kappa Latin America participants in the BET programme. Latin America – Business Economics Training In 2011, Smurfit Kappa rolled out a programme named BET in Latin America. BET is an acronym for Business Economics Training. This is one of the initiatives driven across continents and business units, fostering best practices within the organisation. 54 It mirrors a suite of various training modules Smurfit Kappa successfully employs SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 throughout Europe. In 2011 the training programme was rolled out in Mexico, followed by Colombia and Venezuela in early 2012. The Netherlands – Multimedia modules for learning best practices The project Life Long Learning secures existing knowledge and experience of employees and makes sure it is passed on to new generations. Our paper mill in Roermond in the Netherlands started this project in 2005 and has recently added tailor made multimedia modules to the programme. The multimedia modules were developed in close cooperation with VAPA, the training institute for the Dutch paper industry, and adapted to the specific requirements of Smurfit Kappa Roermond Papier. Their training programme is interactive, standardised, has a strong visual look and feel, and can be adjusted to the pace and knowledge of the employee. An in-house training officer gives professional personal support. The results are a transfer of knowledge and experience, a strong learning curve, better understanding of colleagues from other departments and the challenge even to experienced operators to ‘rethink’ their part of the production process along the Left to right: Hein Cüppers, Ron Sniekers and way. Danny Geraedts (all Smurfit Kappa Roermond) working with the multimedia modules. With the creation of the Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation we can help children from disadvantaged neighbourhoods to get a better education. 55 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Engagement with Stakeholders Smurfit Kappa creates international foundation As a large multinational group, Smurfit Kappa touches the lives of many people: not only shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers, but also local communities in which Smurfit Kappa has the privilege to operate. That brings with it responsibility to society. Smurfit Kappa acknowledges that responsibility and has set up an independent foundation with charitable status to invest in Corporate Social Responsibility activities. This initiative is in addition to other activities at country and local level where we have many long-standing programmes in place. The Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation was brought to life in February 2011 when the Board decided to donate a total of €3 million over the following three years. It was stipulated that €500,000 could be invested in Corporate Social Responsibility activities each year. The other half would be invested to finance future CSR activities. At the end of the third year Smurfit Kappa will review the activities of the Foundation and decide whether to invest further. Smurfit Kappa is committed to act as a good corporate social citizen. These values underline that good social citizenship, reflected in the manner in which it interacts with its employees, business partners and local communities, is an essential ingredient in creating and maintaining a sustainable future. Many Smurfit Kappa companies are already involved in community-based activities. The Foundation fills a gap in terms of what might reasonably be expected of a company of Smurfit Kappa’s size and its ability to contribute to sustainable community development on an international basis. The Foundation was set up to invest in and support appropriate sustainable projects with implementation by the local operating units. The funding should address, in particular, the millennium goals of the United Nations. Activities will focus initially on projects involving young disadvantaged children, in the area of health/nutrition, basic care and early education. The Foundation aims to support projects which are capable of becoming self-sufficient in the long term, thus educating people in practical ways to assume responsibility for their own issues over time. Brendan Tuohy, external Board member of the Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation, and a former SecretaryGeneral of the Irish Government’s Department of Communications, Energy and Natural Resources, states: “The creation of the Foundation is strong evidence of Smurfit Kappa’s clear commitment to the local communities in the countries where it operates and, as a leading Irish multinational group, a recognition of the important role that it must play in the field of corporate social responsibility.” Argentina – Santa visits disadvantaged kids in Quilmes Smurfit Kappa Argentina – Bernal invited a special person to the province of Buenos Aires in December 2011. There was much joy when Santa and his reindeer landed in the city of Quilmes to visit disadvantaged children from a poor community. Santa wasted no time in cheering everyone up. He gave away presents and played games with the children. Smurfit Kappa Argentina was invited by the Quilmes Municipal Authorities to sponsor their annual closing of activities in ‘The Eucalyptus’. This is a community canteen for young children built by local people. 56 Santa was not the only VIP for the children in Quilmes. Musician Changui also made an SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 appearance to teach the youngsters to play music. The Municipal Authorities combined the festivities with a series of practical activities focussed on health care. Doctors were present and information was given Children enjoying the Christmas party at the community about vaccination plants. Veterinarians canteen called ‘Eucalyptus’ in Quilmes, Argentina. provided services for pets. Green spaces were cleaned and together people planted trees to improve the neighbourhood. Ireland – Community involvement Smurfit Kappa Ireland has contributed to the daily lives of Rehab personnel and also to the ongoing viability of the Kilkenny branch in rural Ireland. As Rehab Kilkenny is operating in the packaging and recycling sector there was a natural fit between both organisations. The Rehab Group is an independent, not-for-profit organisation which provides training, employment, health & social care for some 43,000 people each year in Ireland, England, Wales, Scotland, the Netherlands and Poland. The people who currently use Rehab’s services include young people and adults with physical, sensory and intellectual disabilities, mental health difficulties or acquired brain injuries. Left to right: Pat Fitzpatrick and Angela Kerins Throughout 2011, Smurfit Kappa Dublin provided Rehab (Rehab), Joe Rooney (Smurfit Kappa Dublin), Enterprises with financial assistance to improve its plant, John O’Loughlin (Smurfit Kappa Ireland), personal protective equipment and work uniforms, and with Anthony Benney (Rehab); Conor Timmons advice and assistance in maintenance, design and Health and (Smurfit Kappa Dublin). Safety. Smurfit Kappa Dublin employees value the opportunity to be directly involved in helping to ensure that the services provided by Rehab Kilkenny continue into the future. For that reason Smurfit Kappa Ireland will continue to develop this long term relationship with the Rehab Group. View of El Caracolí, the early childhood developmental centre Left to right: Cormac Maguire, Seamus Murphy, 57 supported by the Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia Foundation Ian Curley, Kevin Keane, Christian Eder, SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 where children are taken care of situated in Yumbo, Colombia. Ken Bowles, Henk Hoevers. Colombia – Early childhood Ireland – Paris to Dublin care in Yumbo cycling challenge In Colombia, public and private sector entities work In 2011, Smurfit Kappa’s head office in together to provide early childhood care to families in Dublin organised a charity cycling event in neighbourhoods which lack these services. One of aid of Spina Bifida Hydrocephalus Ireland. Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia’s focuses is on The challenge was to start at the Paris office children under 6 years of age who are in need of basic and to finish in Dublin. The cycling team care and early education. The programme involves covered over 260km on the first day, families and helps to improve the professional skills 210km on the second and a ‘relaxing’ 50km of carers. on the last day. El Caracolí is an early childhood developmental centre The ‘Magnificent 7’ who undertook this and is supported, amongst others, by the Smurfit task were: Ian Curley, Ken Bowles, Cormac Cartón de Colombia Foundation. It is a fundamental Maguire, Seamus Murphy, Kevin Keane, initiative in the area because local authorities lack the Christian Eder and Henk Hoevers. They know-how, need funding, and require support were assisted during the journey by Glenn involving professionals and parents in matters that and Andrew Sherry who looked after the concern children at this critical stage of their logistics, punctures, keeping the team development. energised and giving them the much The project was implemented in February 2011 in needed moral support to stay cycling for Yumbo, an industrial city near Cali, where our main the journey. production plant is located. The main components of El Caracolí include health care coverage for children Once back on Irish soil, the team was from birth to 5 years of age; help to prepare them in greeted by a large contingent from the the transition to formal education in order to prevent Dublin office who completed the final leg failure and dropout; support from qualified carers to of the journey with them in stages of 50km provide a warm and receptive environment; and a and 10km. The sun shone for everyone as better educational atmosphere in safe school facilities they crossed the finish line at HQ where all with adequate teaching material. the cyclists were welcomed by family, friends and colleagues to celebrate an This initiative is aligned with a Presidential programme amazing journey and the impressive total that has focused on the importance of early childhood of €30,000 raised by the event. development as a crucial aspect in the country’s future. This is one of the ways in which Smurfit Kappa seeks to improve the social and economic structure of local communities. Innovation Awards Dynamic interaction with customers at the 2012 Innovation Event The Smurfit Kappa Innovation Event 2012 again proved to be an exciting journey into the dynamic world of paper-based packaging. It is the showcase event for innovative packaging solutions and an inspiring environment to exchange ideas with customers and colleagues. The highlight of the event, which took place in 58 the Netherlands, was the announcement of the winners of the internal Innovation and SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Sustainability Awards Competition. The designers of the most innovative packaging solutions from From left to right: Jérôme Villanueva and Thierry Drapeau all our European packaging operations were (Smurfit Kappa France) winners of the Sustainability Award judged by an external jury comprised solely of All Categories, Grégory Dubar (Quick) and Tony Smurfit customers and received their awards during a (Smurfit Kappa). celebration dinner hosted by Smurfit Kappa Chairman, Liam O’Mahony, and attended by over 150 customers from all over Europe. Innovation is what makes Smurfit Kappa tick. It is in its DNA and it is much needed to meet the demands of a rapidly changing global market. Smurfit Kappa continually strives to improve and to develop innovative products in partnership with its customers. In seven different stands new inventive designs were featured. A critical success factor for the exhibition was the informal and interactive set-up which allowed for many intensive, challenging and creative debates. View of the Sustainability Stand. Jacqueline Cramer (Utrecht Sustainability Arnoud Dekker (Smurfit Kappa Development Centre), Institute) addressing the 2012 Innovation demonstrating Innobook, which is a unique Smurfit Event in the Netherlands. Kappa web-based design library, to a visitor at the Innovation Event. Innovation also applies to sustainability and the sustainability stand showcased more than 60 innovations. The Innovation Event also featured the first ever Sustainability Awards Competition. In this competition, the best ideas to improve our sustainability performance, both environmentally and socially, were judged by a jury of customers and external sustainability experts. The Sustainability Award winners were also announced during the celebration dinner. The conference at the event was attended by approximately 300 people: customers, representatives from the financial community and Smurfit Kappa employees. Keynote addresses were made by Jacqueline Cramer, Director of the Utrecht Sustainability Institute, Goos Eilander, CEO of Trendbox and Stuart Lendrum, From left to right: Liam O’Mahony (Smurfit Kappa), Gabriele Vignapiano (Smurfit Kappa Italy) winner of the 59 Head of Packaging and Design for Sainsbury’s Innovation Award All Categories, Antonio Moscariello SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Supermarkets Limited. They inspired the audience to (Unilever), Todd Williams (Unilever). learn from the past and explore new challenges in innovation and sustainability. And the Latin American awards go to... Innovation and Sustainability The Smurfit Kappa Latin America Innovation Awards took place in the Colombian capital Bogotá in September 2011. The jury consisted of a prominent group of customers. The award contest, consisting of nine categories was held with 90 of our main customers and numerous Smurfit Kappa professionals attending. The event, which was held for the third consecutive time, is a great day to exchange thoughts with customers, to enjoy the creativity within Martin Hernandorena (Smurfit our company and to be inspired by clients like Ivan López Kappa Argentina) with his of Alpina (dairy products) and Fabrice Soler of Éxito (retail award-wining box in the consumer sales) who made keynote addresses. product category in the Smurfit Kappa Latin America Innovation Awards competition. From left to right in the picture: Fabio Saglietti and Javier Scaglia (Smurfit Kappa Argentina and Chile), Jorge Luis Blanco and Daniel Montiel (Smurfit Kappa Colombia), Andrés Baudino (Smurfit Kappa Argentina and Chile), Germán Pulido (Smurfit Kappa Colombia) and Martín Hernandorena and Ernesto González (Smurfit Kappa Argentina and Chile). INNOVATION creates opportunities 60 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Designing innovative packaging solutions for our customers is what drives Smurfit Kappa – Eco tray for packaging and display purposes. Sustainability in our Business Our principle objective is to create economic value 2011 Financial Performance Overview for our customers and all our stakeholders while acting responsibly in all aspects of our business. 2011 2010 We consider profitable growth as a pre-requisite to €m €m advance our drive for sustainability. We believe that Revenue 7,357 6,677 all our stakeholders will benefit when we develop EBITDA before exceptional items 1,015 904 our business progressively in a sustainable way. Our and share-based payment customers benefit through ever better packaging expense (‘EBITDA’) solutions and cost efficient products, investors through progressive dividends and share price EBITDA margin 13.8% 13.5% growth, employees through salaries and personal Operating profit 590 409 61 development, and suppliers through their deliveries Profit before income tax 299 103 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 of goods and services needed for our products. The communities where we operate benefit economically Free cash flow 394 82 as we are typically a significant employer in those Net debt 2,752 3,110 regions. Our tax payments locally and to country Net debt to EBITDA 2.7x 3.4x governments further contribute to economic, social and environmental development in the countries in Basic earnings per share (cent) 93.0 22.9 which we operate. Pre-exceptional earnings per 100.1 59.4 share (cent) 1. Our Business Smurfit Kappa is one of the world’s largest its trip through the supply chain. By taking both integrated manufacturers of paper-based packaging primary and secondary packaging requirements into products, with operations primarily in Europe and account our transit packaging often allows the Latin America. We manufacture, distribute and sell primary packaging to be optimised. Our creative containerboard, a wide variety of corrugated design teams explore what is possible in the most packaging and other paper-based packaging open minded way. products and materials such as solid board, bag-in box, sack paper and machine glazed paper. Working innovatively together with customers on sustainability has two main aspects to it. Firstly, In 2011, the Group’s total revenue was €7,357 Smurfit Kappa credibly guarantees its customers that million, generating an operating profit of €590 the packaging it supplies is produced in the most million and earnings per share of €1.00 (presustainable way, using materials from sustainable exceptional). Total employee wages and other sources and utilising every possible design skill. benefits amounted to €1,823 million and a final dividend of 15 cents per share was declared for the However, looking at the packaging alone is not year 2011. enough, as – according to a study done by INCPEN – the energy component and hence the CO2 impact Smurfit Kappa’s end customers primarily use our of packaging products is less than 5% in a typical packaging products to transport their goods and customer’s supply chain. However the packaging as a marketing, display and merchandising aid. related indirect impact (damage/destruction of the Approximately 60% of our corrugated products packed product, logistics, waste, disposal, etc.) is customers are in the fast moving consumer goods much more significant for the sustainability of a sector comprising food, beverage and household customer’s supply chain. Therefore the second aspect consumables, the remainder being split across a wide on which we focus is the design and development of range of different industries. packaging which minimises a customer’s total sustainability impact per unit of product delivered 2. Working together with Customers to the consumer. Increasingly, customers require packaging to be sustainable, innovative, fit for purpose, as well as In Smurfit Kappa, that means that for many cost effective. Smurfit Kappa works closely with customers we carry out evaluations with the help of customers to achieve more sustainable solutions. the Smurfit Kappa web-based suite of design For example, we deliver “right-weighted” packaging software, Innotools (Pack Expert, Paper-to-Box, to completely protect the packaged product during Innobook), seeking to optimise the direct and Engagement with Stakeholders Quick wins in environmental responsibility Quick, founded in 1970, adapted the American fast food restaurant model to European habits and tastes. Today Quick is the No. 1 in fast food in Belgium and Luxembourg and No. 2 in France. According to Audrey Limozin, responsible for environmental management at Quick, the desire to innovate does not stop with burgers like the Suprême Cheese Burger or the Bio Burger. “We serve more than 160 million burgers to over 200 million consumers annually in almost 500 restaurants in four countries and three territories. Quick is the third largest fast food hamburger restaurant in Europe and the first European fast food chain. As a sizeable player we find it very important to focus on sustainability.” “We have a very open relationship with Smurfit Kappa. They support us with know-how and development of sustainable packaging. The salad pack 62 project is just one example. This made it possible to replace our plastic salad bowl with a smart, fully biodegradable and food-safe packaging solution. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Smurfit Kappa helped us with the development of this beautiful product which is completely EN13432 (compostable) certified. The close cooperation and supply chain approach between Quick and Smurfit Kappa leads to Quick salad packed in sustainable products that make a difference, now and in the future.” Smurfit Kappa sustainable packaging. indirect impact of our packaging on sustainability as children or portraying gender roles in a through the entire supply chain. For example, by disrespectful way. As part of our Code of Business changing the pallet pattern or case count it is Conduct, we voluntarily adhere to the OECD possible to increase the quantity of products loaded Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises which on a pallet, reduce the number of road trips and explicitly mentions consumer interests. Smurfit thereby reduce the CO2 emissions from Kappa has no recorded incidents of non-compliance transportation. with regulations or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. Customer satisfaction As Smurfit Kappa strives to be a customer-oriented Innovation in sustainable packaging solutions and market-led company, the satisfaction of our As a market-focused company, Smurfit Kappa knows customers is of utmost importance to us. Besides innovation is of strategic importance in securing and aiming to provide our customers with optimal retaining our customers’ business, especially in packaging solutions, we also want to ensure that current challenging times. Innovative design is a they are satisfied with our proactive approach and unique selling point for Smurfit Kappa and serves to services. In a number of our mills, we have a ‘first differentiate us in the marketplace. To foster time right’ monitoring system in place measuring the innovation, we share best practice among the plants percentage of production delivered to the customer’s and divisions in Smurfit Kappa using our web-based satisfaction. In our converting operations, we tools such as Innobook. We hold Innovation Award welcome the regular audits that are done by major competitions to assess the effectiveness and customers on our performance. To ensure customer originality of our joint developments with customers. satisfaction, each customer is served by dedicated The competitions are held in both Europe and Latin teams of designers, sales and service people and this America, with judging panels drawn from our key important consideration is frequently discussed with customer base. These measures promote the pursuit every customer. of excellence in design and, most crucially, a close alignment with the needs of our customers. We Our marketing communications are essentially introduced a Sustainability Award competition in business-to-business by nature. In this regard we 2011 to show our ability to combine innovation and ensure on a continuous basis that these are in line sustainability in the design and development of high with all generally accepted ethical and cultural quality customer products. standards such as avoiding privacy intrusion or dual standards, not influencing vulnerable audiences such Engagement with Stakeholders Perspective on sustainability What is the importance of sustainability to investors? Lars Kjellberg, Director of Credit Suisse Equity Research, and a prominent Paper & Packaging industry sell-side analyst, concludes that the investment community has thus far mostly focused on financial sustainability and less on ecological aspects. “However, the investment community is starting to turn its attention to the business model of sustainability”, explains Kjellberg. “A much broader concept built on the merits of a product life-cycle Lars Kjellberg analysis. The long term sustainability and economics of the business model are likely to become (Credit Suisse) increasingly connected and Smurfit Kappa is well positioned with the vast majority of its raw material coming from a recycled source or renewable timber.” “Near to medium term earnings and cash flow are still the most important criteria for investors according to Kjellberg. He continues: “The investment community looks at these variables in combination with the long term ability of a company to develop and grow its business and cash flow. Sustainability is of less importance to investors, than it is to customers who need to decide on packaging materials and solutions.” 63 Kjellberg believes this will change over time. “The environmental footprint for any product will SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 become increasingly important. Partly because of the direct economic consequences like CO2 tax but also indirect consequences to businesses as, if there is a choice, consumers will progressively switch to using sustainable products. Corrugated products are well positioned to perform well in this respect due to their origin from renewable and recycled raw materials and because of the efficient and light weight impact on logistics.” As part of the process of using design innovation as production locations located in the same a means of developing sustainable packaging, we geographical area as Smurfit Kappa operations. Due continue to work with customers to: to their nature, the remaining goods and services are sourced locally by local Smurfit Kappa operations. In n Design packaging solutions that are both total approximately 70% of our suppliers’ deliveries efficient and user friendly. can be classified as local. These interactions between Smurfit Kappa operations and local operations of n Optimise the supply chain, including suppliers provide support for local economies. palletisation, warehousing and distribution. n Develop fit for purpose “right-weighted” 4. Product Responsibility and packaging based on experience and empirical Product Safety modelling instead of historical data. As a business-to-business company, Smurfit Kappa n Reduce complexity in the packaging portfolio as produces both the raw material for packaging and this leads to higher productivity, less material packaging itself. Most packaging produced by usage and less waste. Smurfit Kappa is used for distribution, transportation and retail display purposes. 3. Contribution to Local Economies Smurfit Kappa favours sourcing its products and Smurfit Kappa has always demonstrated a strong services from local suppliers where possible. Sourcing commitment to product safety. Not only will we represents the largest single category of expenditure comply with any legislation on health and safety for Smurfit Kappa. In 2011, the Group purchased aspects of our products, we also have agreed to almost €3 billion worth of raw materials, voluntary codes of conduct which, among others, consumables and transportation services. The are based on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational sourcing of a number of major items of expenditure Enterprises. like recovered paper, paper, energy, chemicals, starch and inks is coordinated centrally to achieve In 2011, Smurfit Kappa had no recorded incidents of economies of scale. Still, a significant part of the non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes actual supplier deliveries for these categories could in the area of product safety and product be considered as local deliveries as many of the responsibility. goods and services are provided to us from suppliers’ Engagement with Stakeholders Share & improve with a Sedex move Sedex is the largest collaborative platform in the world for the exchange of ethical supply chain information offering innovative supply chain management tools and reports that help companies to reduce risk, protect their reputation and improve supply chain practices. Sedex aims to ease auditing and information requests on suppliers and drive improvements in the ethical performance of global supply chains. Carmel Giblin, General Manager of Sedex: “Sedex is pleased to support the supplier engagement Carmel Giblin (Sedex) activities of Smurfit Kappa by being part of its Responsible Sourcing Programme”. Sedex currently has over 25,000 members worldwide, providing a valuable basis for benchmarking. As part of its goal to drive collaboration and reduce duplication Sedex has created a common audit methodology, Sedex Members’ Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), to increase transparency. As supply chains become more complex and fragmented, supply chain transparency will become increasingly important. The fact that Smurfit Kappa is using Sedex demonstrates its commitment to managing its supply chain responsibly. According to Sedex, Smurfit Kappa has provided useful contributions to how Sedex can develop in the future. Carmel Giblin: “Smurfit Kappa has started to engage its suppliers and request 64 they register on Sedex. This is an important first step in providing transparency and building SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 understanding with suppliers. We look forward to continuing to work with Smurfit Kappa as they continue to build their programme.” At all stages in our production process, from the intended for food contact, the implementation of design of our product to its delivery to the customer, Good Manufacturing Practises (GMP) in paper mills we assess product safety. As many of our products and converting operations producing packaging for are used as transport packaging, product safety food applications is mandatory. GMP that fulfils the mainly ensures that our products are safe and easy requirements of EU regulation has been to use for those handling and using them. A implemented since 2007 at all our European paper significant part of our packaging is intended for the mills. Between 2005 and 2008, some of our agri-food industry. For this sector, the product safety European mills went to third party certification with aspects mainly involve ensuring that food can be the FEFCO/ESBO reference. With the publication in safely packed in our products whether there is direct 2008 of the CEN 15593 standard concerning the or indirect contact with food. All our products are management of hygiene in the production of therefore assessed for health and safety packaging for foodstuffs, our current objective is to considerations. have all remaining European mills certified by independent third parties. At the end of 2011, 67% Our Product Safety Department was set up to of our European mills have achieved this third party manage such issues, in particular with regard to food certification of their hygiene management system. contact end use. The department is equipped with a laboratory that tests the purity of Smurfit Kappa In response to customer needs, some 49% of our products (papers, boards, corrugated and solid board converting plants now have processes in place and packaging). It conducts research and implements are certified by one of the following recognised development projects in the area of food contact. hygiene codes or standards: ISO 22000, CEN 15 593, Smurfit Kappa regularly submits its products to the British Retail Consortium (BRC), American Institute of set of analyses recommended by various European Baking (AIB) or International Good Manufacturing and national legislation applying to our products. Practice for Corrugated and Solid Board Packaging. This department is third party accredited according to the ISO 17025 standard. It is our aim to certify all our converting plants for which this is relevant. The knowledge developed here has been transferred throughout all production operations of Smurfit As a result of our central set-up, we are able to Kappa in both Europe and Latin America. We follow monitor our progress in performance with regard to the evolution of regulations in all countries and are both safety and hygiene for food and this in turn very active at European and national association level allows us to respond to any market concerns. Our within the paper industry with regard to product Product Safety department is keeping a close watch safety issues. for any food safety alert issued by the European Commission or national authorities. Our analyses European regulations that apply to packaging and knowledge permit us to modify our papers in intended for food contact have been revised and response to these alerts in the shortest possible time. reinforced over recent years. As required by the European regulation that applies to packaging Engagement with Stakeholders Paper ships set sail towards green future Royal Wagenborg specialises in international transport by water and road. The Dutch company operates a modern maritime fleet with more than 175 vessels. Two of its ice-strengthened roll-on/ roll-off carriers (Ro-Ro), the Balticborg and the Bothniaborg, transport paper for Smurfit Kappa from Sweden to the UK, Germany and The Netherlands. “Sustainability is important in the philosophy of both companies”, states Koos Zumkehr, Director Chartering Wagenborg. “That is why we approach it pro-actively. Six years ago our new ships already complied with the highest regulations of the new Energy Efficiency Design Index that goes Koos Zumkehr into effect in 2013. In the harbour our Ro-Ro paper carriers are fed with electricity from shore, no (Wagenborg) diesel generator is needed. Each ship features a tank to comply with our zero dumping policy. And together with Smurfit Kappa we place much emphasis on fuel efficiency.” “More than 12 years ago, ships carrying Smurfit Kappa paper were already sailing on fuel with less than 1% sulphur. This became legally mandatory only in 2010.” “Nowadays we are evaluating how to adapt to new fuel regulations imposed by the International 65 Maritime Organisation as of 2015. The directive meets much opposition due to technical issues and the limited area it applies to, promoting unfair competition. We favour global implementation SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 of regulations from which our environment truly benefits in the long term.” In the course of 2010 some research indicated that organisation provides us with an efficient way to traces of undesirable mineral oil could enter packaged accomplish this task. food possibly resulting from mineral oil present in the recycled raw material for paper making and/or the inks Our kraftliner mills are themselves producers of used for printing the packaging. Several public chemicals. In 2010, all chemical substances produced authorities have reviewed the published research. by Smurfit Kappa (crude tall oil, tall oil soap, turpentine, According to the Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung liquors, burned lime), were registered in consortia with (BfR, or German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment), the other European pulp manufacturers. The European the research is still incomplete. Also the UK Food Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is now scrutinising the Standards Agency’s position is that there is no concern registration dossiers but we expect no major changes or for consumer’s health. The European Food Safety further need for testing, in which case our tasks relative Authority recently identified food packaging as one of to registration will be finished in principle. the many sources of mineral oil In food and suggested setting up a monitoring programme to identify sources Some tasks will remain for the lead registrants as long of mineral oil at various stages of food production. as the REACH project is ongoing. Smurfit Kappa is the EFSA also suggested that in cases were exposure to lead registrant for tall oil soap. These consortia are these mineral oils can be attributed to packaging to expected to remain until 2022, when the legal demands develop methods that would effectively prevent should be fully implemented. mineral oils to migrate from the packaging into the packaged food. The overarching objective of REACH is to minimise or ban the use of Substances of Very High Concern Although none of the research and opinions so far (SVHC), most of which are already identified for the published indicates that there should be any concern tonnage band of 1000. for consumer’s health, Smurfit Kappa together with the European industry association CEPI is cooperating These substances will be thoroughly re-examined and with the various parties involved to develop adequate will then be added to the SVHC candidate list for solutions for this issue. further measures. The SVHC candidate list is updated approximately twice a year. Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals: (REACH) When the updated SVHC-list is published on ECHA’s web site, our customers immediately request We are mainly affected by REACH as downstream users information whether our products contain SVHCs of chemicals and we therefore liaise closely with the or not. suppliers of chemicals to ensure that they fulfil their obligations with regard to assurances that the chemicals We have introduced procedures within our we introduce in our products do not contain any organisation, in order to be able to give a statement substances of very high concern in concentrations on this matter continuously. above the level of 0.1%. Our centralised sourcing Austria – Innovative environmentally friendly design provides Smurfit Kappa Interwell’s customer with competitive advantage Smurfit Kappa Interwell is the proud winner of the product category in the first Corrugated Central Europe Sustainability Awards. The plant won the 2011 award with its innovative corrugated filter developed in close cooperation with one of its customers. The corrugated filter, which is used in the varnishing process, is a substitute for a PVC filter that requires solvent. The innovation reduces production stoppages both in number and in Florian Wollner (Smurfit Kappa Central Europe) holding up the duration, and the new corrugated product improves the working conditions of production innovative corrugated filter. employees since it makes the use of cleaning solvents obsolete. The team from Smurfit Kappa Interwell faced quite a challenge to make the design strong enough for its task and stable enough without applying glue. The filter can be used twice by switching sides and is easily replaced. In addition, it offers the customer a competitive advantage and saves the company labour costs as cleaning is no longer required. 66 Erik Hoonhorst (Smurfit Kappa Development UK – Right on track with Marks & SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Centre) presenting Spencer Food Waste Pack at the conference of Sustainable Packaging The consultants of Helistrat bring clarity to environmental organised by Smurfit legislation and value to businesses in all areas of developing Kappa Polska. and implementing waste management and cleaning strategies. In conjunction with Helistrat, Smurfit Kappa undertook a “Walk the Flow” review of the operations at Marks & Spencer and, together, they identified opportunities to re-engineer an existing design of the Food Waste Pack. Bernard Amos, CEO Helistrat Management Services, Poland – Sustainable Packaging Year explains: “Smurfit Kappa provided a sustainable alternative to a waste food box solution for the recovery of out-of-date 2011 marked the Year of Sustainable Packaging in Poland. food products. Our objectives were to offer a solution to Smurfit Kappa Poland made extensive efforts to promote ‘combat climate change, reduce waste, use sustainable raw awareness, education and appropriate actions with regard materials and to support the business’s ethical trading’. to economic, environmental and social aspects of our Smurfit Kappa delivered a solution that exceeded Marks & business. Spencer Plan A requirements and resulted in an overall material reduction of 129 tonnes.” Committed employees made sure that the sustainable packaging theme not only acted as a guide for colleagues, “The materials used were 100% recyclable and a 15% but also for clients and the surrounding communities. reduction to the size of the food box increased lorry fill by 100%, reducing the transport carbon footprint by 50%. Together, all employees of Smurfit Kappa Poland took Helistrat is delighted to have an ethically ‘green’ packaging pride in preparing the production facility for and also partner who is truly innovative, and who can help us deliver successfully completing the FSC and PEFC audits. As a Marks & Spencer Plan A objectives with precision, and result, everyone is now very aware of the origin of the raw originality.” In 2011, Helistrat was awarded a prestigious materials used at the plant. CSR Award by Marks & Spencer. Customers were happy to find that detailed analysis of the supply chain resulted in more efficient production processes and less costs in logistics. Many customers and other stakeholders showed great interest in the Sustainable Packaging Conference, which was organised to highlight the theme of the Year. Furthermore, the surrounding local communities benefitted from the focus on sustainability incorporating various educational programmes. Smurfit Kappa Poland organised special sustainability meetings for children and students to conclude the year. Presentation of PPI Mill Manager Award Left to right: Bill Dannelly (ABB), Karl Heinz Gerlach (Smurfit Kappa Germany), Anne De Baetzelier (presenter). Presentation of PPI Company Award – Managing Risk and Safety Left to right: Frank Paulus (FM Global), Remon Callejo (Smurfit Kappa Spain), Anne De Baetzelier (presenter). 5. Recognitions and Awards Mexican butterflies for a clean environment 67 Smurfit Kappa wins PPI Awards In 2011, the Smurfit Kappa mills and converters in Mexico were inspected, audited and were certified in SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Smurfit Kappa won two awards at the Pulp & Paper International (PPI) Awards organised by RISI. The PPI February 2012, in accordance with regulation Awards are the only global awards dedicated to NMX-N-107-SCFI-2010, issued by the Secretaría de recognising the achievements of companies, mills Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT) and individuals in the paper industry. The initiative (Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources honours leadership, vision, innovation and strategic in Mexico) which establishes a minimum recycled accomplishments within the pulp and paper industry. content in newspaper, bag paper, sack paper, folding board, and corrugated boxes. In 2011, Smurfit Kappa was short listed in six categories: The Smurfit Kappa operations in Mexico acquired the right to use the Ecolabel associated with this n Environmental Strategy – Company: regulation, which shows a Monarch butterfly. This Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia, Colombia Ecolabel promotes environmental awareness with customers and final consumers. n Environmental Strategy – Mill: Nettingsdorfer Mill, Austria This certification and the associated Ecolabel n Innovative Product of the Year: complement the “Clean Industry” certification which Euroboard Spezial Kraft, Germany certifies that the operations comply with applicable legal requirements concerning environmental n Water Efficiency: Los Reyes Mill, Mexico matters. Eight packaging plants as well as the Cerro n Mill Manager: Karl Heinz Gerlach, Gordo and Los Reyes paper mills completed the Herzberger Papierfabrik, Germany inspections and audit required for the certification. These two mills together with the Monterrey paper n Managing Risk and Safety: mill complied with Chain of Custody requirements Mengibar paper mill, Spain under FSC standards. The combined achievements and recognition will continue to stimulate the people Smurfit Kappa Herzberger Papierfabrik and Smurfit of Smurfit Kappa Mexico to fully commit themselves Kappa Mengibar won in their respective categories, to environmental performance. making Smurfit Kappa one of only two companies to win two awards. Left to right: Arturo Pérez Courtade (Cellulose & Paper Industry), Eric Gamarra (Smurfit Kappa Mexico), Sandra Denisse Herrera and Dr. Lorenza Martínez (SEMARNAT), at the presentation of the Ecolabel certificates. The Danone Spain Trophy for the ‘Best Supplier Award 2011’. Norwegian environmentally friendly Smurfit Kappa Spain and Portugal receives 68 transportation solution receives highest recognition from Danone prestigious Star Awards Danone, one of the largest food producing SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Lyngen Reker is a large producer of prawns based in companies in the world with many top quality northern Norway where it started up in 1950. brands, held the second edition of their National Smurfit Kappa Norpapp, together with Lyngen Reker, Annual Supplier Awards in Spain. In 2012, Smurfit has developed a new packaging solution to reduce Kappa Spain & Portugal received ‘the Best Supplier transportation costs and decrease the environmental Award 2011’ in the category Raw Materials and impact of its operations. The new corrugated Packaging. packaging locks the product into a stable position during transport and display. It has more than halved For more than 11 years, Danone has placed its trust the need for transportation of packaging by in Smurfit Kappa to develop the packing solutions replacing much larger expanded polystyrene (EPS) for its products. In Spain and Portugal, Smurfit bottoms with corrugated board. As distances within Kappa operates 19 production plants and was Norway are large, transport and hence selected from more than 45 suppliers. environmental savings are significant. The solution is simple but effective, user-friendly and reduces the The recognition from Danone was the result of environmental impact across the entire value chain Smurfit Kappa’s overall achievement of a very strong and has been awarded a ScanStar and WorldStar result in all the areas that were appraised: 2011. n Quality of product and/or service, The ScanStar jury’s statement: “The packaging n Best value, stands out as an example of how well-functioning solutions can be improved. The EPS bottom is n Most innovative idea and replaced with fibre which helps the box to be smaller n The best sustainable development idea. in the collapsed state. The number of pallets from the packaging manufacturer to the customer are Joanna Devon, Director of Sales and Marketing for more than halved“. Smurfit Kappa Spain and Portugal, welcomed the award saying that “this award is an incentive for us According to the organising World Packaging to continue working to drive ongoing improvements Organisation (WPO), the WorldStar Award is the in all areas of our packaging expertise and most important packaging competition in the world. demonstrate our strong commitment to being considered a strategic supplier to Danone for the “The opportunity to display a WorldStar trophy is a long term”. public statement of excellence and achievement” according to WPO President, Keith Pearson. Mario Garza (Smurfit Kappa Mexico) receives the Cemefi award for Smurfit Kappa Guanajuato Corrugated. Presentation of customer awards by Bavaria to Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia. Left to right: Patricia Gutierrez and Adrian De Wilde (Bavaria), Sebastian Gomez (Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia), Richard Rushton (Bavaria), Oscar Guerrero (Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia), Luz Mary Rodriguez Jimenez and Gustavo 69 Arbelaez (Bavaria). SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Corporate social responsibility Customer awards for sustainability award in Mexico emphasis in Colombia Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía (Cemefi) is a civil Our Colombian organisation has been praised for association in Mexico that was founded in 1988. To many years for its structured and solid sustainability promote corporate philanthropic behaviour and programme. In 2011, various customers made responsible actions, Cemefi created an award and awards to a number of our operations in Colombia this prestigious prize was awarded to Smurfit Kappa recognising our efforts in the area of sustainability. Guanajuato Corrugated in 2011. There were awards from the confectionery producer Matching the corporate sustainability strategy of Colombina, leading pharmaceutical company Baxter, Smurfit Kappa, the corrugated plant in Guanajuato and beer company Bavaria. strives to be a reliable partner to all its stakeholders. Its social responsibility programme is concerned with Our Cali Corrugated plant received a sustainability the quality of life of employees, care for the award from Colombina for their continued environment, business ethics, communication and commitment to three sustainability principles: social, community involvement. Employees receive support environmental and economic. to balance their lives, to develop their knowledge and skills, and to promote Health & Safety. The same plant also received an award from Baxter for its commitment to sustainability. Top executives Smurfit Kappa Guanajuato is known locally for its from Cali were invited to Baxter’s headquarters in care for the environment. Much effort is dedicated Chicago (USA) to present their sustainability to environmental operations, investments in programme to senior management. eco-technologies, sustainable transport and communication about these issues. Among other The Bogota Corrugated plant received an award initiatives, Smurfit Kappa Guanajuato organised and from Bavaria for its responsible sourcing throughout sponsored tree planting in a local park, sponsored a the paper lifecycle which is FSC-certified. football tournament, participated in the first Congress of Green Business and Sustainability and organised a Christmas party for the children from the “Las Talegas” community, which is a disadvantaged neighbourhood. Smurfit Kappa Guanajuato is very honoured by the recognition from Cemefi and continues its activities that benefit the local communities in the surrounding area. Roquette’s Beinheim plant in France which supplies starch to Smurfit Kappa. Jean-Marc Baulier (fourth from the left) and Jon Watts (sixth from the left) (both Smurfit Kappa) with representatives of BASF. 70 6. Supplier Initiatives SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Roquette combats climate change Innovations for a sustainable future at BASF In 2011, Smurfit Kappa conducted a sustainability BASF, the world’s leading chemical company, is the audit at the Roquette Group. Roquette supplies first strategic supplier to have its sustainability starch products for Smurfit Kappa’s corrugated audited by Smurfit Kappa. Sustainability is a central production operations. Smurfit Kappa’s programme element of the evolved strategy for the entire of auditing its key suppliers has a strong focus on company. On-site audits of suppliers help to further current and future sustainability aspects. minimise supply chain risks and identify the opportunities provided by sustainable business. Roquette is actively combating climate change. At its Beinheim (France) site, it has installed a biomass With its innovations and expertise, BASF also helps furnace that burns wood waste to deliver energy its customers to develop sustainable products and and replace fossil fuels. The furnace cuts CO2 processes. Sustainability, weight reduction, emissions by 75,000 tonnes annually. Starting in improvements in recycling capabilities, functionality 2015, the factory will run its machines with and greater efficiencies are the required features of underground heat energy. Water at 170°C will be today’s packaging industry. “We are convinced that transformed into steam thereby cutting CO2 we can only be commercially successful in the long emissions by another 39,000 tonnes each year. The term if we balance economic growth with steam will be used for the production of bio ethanol environmental and social responsibility”, says and starch driers. Dr. Uwe Liebelt, President of the Paper Chemicals operating division. The Beinheim site is moving towards becoming a “zero emissions” plant. CO2 from the production of BASF has set itself challenging goals for the future bio ethanol is not emitted into the atmosphere, but with regard to the use of energy and water and the purified and used in the agri-food industry as an reduction of emissions in the manufacturing of its additive for carbonised beverages. It concerns own products and has developed advanced 100,000 tonnes of bio-CO2. The solutions are better sustainability tools to accomplish them. Examples are for the environment and financially beneficial its eco-efficiency analysis tool and the socio-ecobecause they reduce energy costs. Smurfit Kappa is efficiency analysis SEEBALANCE® to additionally striving to encourage all of its key suppliers to measure social impacts. “The sustainability audit was investigate and implement similar environmental a positive experience for us and a vote of confidence initiatives to those undertaken by Roquette. in our work”, stated Andreas Türk, Senior Vice President Paper Chemicals Europe. “We see a huge potential in our continued collaboration to improve sustainability for the benefit of both sides.” Smurfit Kappa promotes understanding and awareness about globalisation among high school students in Europe As a member of the European Round Table of Industrialists, Smurfit Kappa is co-sponsor of an initiative that promotes greater understanding Catherine Paul from Smurfit Kappa in discussion with students and awareness among young people in Europe at the finale of the Global Enterprise Project competition a about globalisation, entrepreneurship and the project co-sponsored by Smurfit Kappa on educating European students on effects on global competition. skills they need to succeed in the global economy. During the 3-year initiative, 40,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 18 will have the 71 opportunity to try their hand at enterprise, learn valuable entrepreneurial skills and apply their SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 knowledge in new ways. With support from their teachers, they will be exposed to a variety of learning-by-doing approaches and work with people from a diverse range of industries and backgrounds. The various activities of this initiative include classroom visits where volunteering managers interact with students directly, the opportunity for students to create and manage their own real enterprise and a competition called ‘The Global Enterprise Challenge’ which is a one-day innovation workshop focused on fostering young people’s problem-solving, idea creation and presentation skills. Students are given a challenge to solve together in a team. Besides a financial contribution, Smurfit Kappa managers in various countries participate in this initiative as volunteers. 7. Memberships in Organisations World Business Council for Sustainable Development (via its local chapter in Colombia). Membership of Smurfit Kappa is an active member of a number of such organisations is not passive and customarily industry and business organisations. These include involves providing them with a significant amount of CEPI, both at Group level and through various information on our operations, usually in the form of national paper organisations, FEFCO through a a detailed questionnaire. number of national corrugated organisations, the International Corrugated Cases Association (ICCA), Smurfit Kappa’s participation in the UN Global the European Solid board Organisation (ESBO) and Compact is explained more fully on page 87. the European sack kraft manufacturers’ association (Eurokraft). Several senior Smurfit Kappa executives The Group CEO is a member of the European Round are board members of CEPI, CEPI Containerboard, Table, a forum of almost 50 chief executives and/or FEFCO and ESBO. In addition, a number of chairmen of major multinational companies of executives play an active role on the committees of European parentage covering a wide range of CEPI, FEFCO and other relevant industry industrial and technological sectors. organisations. Smurfit Kappa’s subsidiary companies are also Smurfit Kappa is also actively involved as a member members of a large number of national industry and of, or participant in, a number of organisations business associations in both Europe and Latin active in the area of environmental reporting and America. sustainability. These include the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), the Water Footprint Network (WFN) and the Input/Output for 2011 All European Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood(1) 4,598 kTonnes ar Papers (All grades) 4,571 kTonnes Market virgin pulp 84 kTonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 4,563 kTonnes Other pulp 20 kTonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 896 kTonnes Recovered Paper 4,255 kTonnes ar Converted Board * 322 kTonnes Paper or Board purchased 1,763 kTonnes ar Other packaging 16 kTonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 17 kTonnes 72 Starch (all types) 255 kTonnes ar Emissions to air Inorganic raw materials 220 kTonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,844 kTonnes SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Other organic raw materials 193 kTonnes ar CO2 biogenic 3,168 kTonnes Dust from fuels 0.53 kTonnes SOX from processes 0.6 kTonnes NOX from processes 4.1 kTonnes Energy Energy output Energy from purchased fossil fuels 30,934 TJ Electricity to third party 264 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 2,146 TJ Thermal energy to third party 232 TJ Electricity from grid 1,690 GWh Biomass sold 1,828 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 7.6 kTonnes Non-hazardous wastes sent to landfill 220 kTonnes Non-hazardous wastes recovered 298 kTonnes Non-hazardous wastes sent to other 43 kTonnes destinations Water Discharges to water Fresh water 87 Mm 3 Water released 79 Mm3 COD 20 kTonnes BOD 4.8 kTonnes Total Suspended Solids 3.6 kTonnes N 0.41 kTonnes P 0.07 kTonnes kTonnes ar: kiloTonnes as received (1) wood & sawmill chips as delivered to the mill * partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board The table reports total energy consumption of the sites, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 74 to 76. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. Input/Output for 2011 All Latin American Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood(1) 995 kTonnes ar Papers (All grades) 902 kTonnes Market virgin pulp 2.8 kTonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 764 kTonnes Recovered Paper 868 kTonnes ar Board 185 kTonnes Paper or Board purchased 245 kTonnes ar Converted Board * 57 kTonnes Starch (all types) 27 kTonnes ar Sacks * 52 kTonnes Inorganic raw materials 86 kTonnes ar Other organic raw materials 39 kTonnes ar Emissions to air 73 CO2 fossil 1,044 kTonnes SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 CO2 biogenic 463 kTonnes Dust from fuels 0.17 kTonnes SOX from processes 3.3 kTonnes NOX from processes 0.7 kTonnes Energy Energy from purchased fossil fuels 15,769 TJ Energy output Energy from purchased biofuels 0 TJ Electricity to third party 0 GWh Electricity from grid 538 GWh Thermal energy to third party 0 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 3.1 kTonnes Non-hazardous wastes sent to landfill 309 kTonnes Non-hazardous wastes recovered 31 kTonnes Non-hazardous wastes sent to other 5 kTonnes destinations Water Discharges to water Fresh water 34 Mm3 Water released 32 Mm3 COD 16 kTonnes BOD 4.3 kTonnes Total Suspended Solids 4.9 kTonnes N 0.23 kTonnes P 0.03 kTonnes kTonnes ar: kiloTonnes as received (1) wood as delivered to the mill * partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board The table reports total energy consumption of the sites, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 77 and 78. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. European Mills 2011 Environmental Data Zülpich, Germany Cellulose du Pin, Hoya, Germany Mengibar, Spain Nettingsdorfer, Morava, Czech Navarra, Spain Piteå, Sweden CD Haupt, Viersen, Austria France Republic Germany Germany bkl, tl tl, mg bkl, wtkl, bkl tl, fl fl, tl, fl, tl, fl, tl fl, tl fl, tl, paper wtkl, sb, wttl cart wttl wttl 74 PRODUCTION PRODUCTION kTonnes 412 103 473 589 60 318 322 72 462 202 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 155 59 367 (1) 261 68 83 186 108 Hydro power GWh 0.0 2.6 0.2 Net Grid supply GWh 133 74 2,5 (2) 279 21 29 64 23 6.8 (2) Total electricity GWh 288 133 370 540 24 97 148 23 193 108 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 3,548 1,952 9,435 9,751 13 47 58 249 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 1,141 454 507 263 324 1,547 2,069 323 3,400 1,541 Total fuels TJ fuel 4,690 (3) 2,407 9,943 10,013 (3) 337 (3) 1,594 2,127 323 3,648 1,541 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 12 5.0 9.5 30.6 0.3 0.3 2.1 1.6 Ground Mm3 1.0 0.0 0.8 2.1 0.3 0.4 0.0 Grid Mm3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total Mm3 12 5.0 11 31 0.4 1.1 2.3 0.3 2.5 1.7 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 69 30 30 22 18 87 116 18 265 87 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 24 24 0.2 11 12 13 28 10 3.0 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 383 208 1,001 1,126 1.0 3.6 4.8 22 4.8 Dust Tonnes 45 22 75 340 0.2 0.3 2.3 NOX as NO2 Tonnes 272 150 669 700 10 52 77 7 242 459 SOX as NO2 Tonnes 27 44 22 138 5.7 0.9 0.3 73 23 To water Process water Mm3 5.1 2.8 9.4 12 0.3 0.4 1.8 0.3 1.4 Cooling water Mm3 7.2 2.1 19 0.3 0.0 1.4 COD Tonnes 6,763 293 4,468 1,403 30 107 264 N/A 301 BOD Tonnes 1,503 41 1,210 94 1.8 5.0 13 N/A 23 Total Suspended Solids Tonnes 355 75 729 157 3.7 N/A N/A N/A 119 Total N Tonnes 37 10 95 48 4.6 0.5 8.1 N/A 16 Total P Tonnes 2.7 1.3 15 13 0.2 0.3 0.7 N/A 2.7 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes Tonnes 23,023 12,455 29,827 40,059 8,885 24,327 21,285 7,459 22,057 30,016 Landfill Tonnes 4,007 2,549 10,921 8,652 5,695 10,622 29,852 Recovery Tonnes 18,922 9,906 18,906 23,990 3,188 24,141 20,846 7,459 1,321 164 Other Tonnes 94 7,417 2.1 185 439 10,114 0.0 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 171 76 68 110 3.0 58 72 3.3 62 21 bkl : brown kraftliner mg : machine glazed wtkl : white top kraftliner cart : carton board sb : solid board wttl : white top testliner fl : recycled flute tl : testliner water emissions in grey italics: external waste water treatment Alfa D’Avignon, Townsend Hook, Nieuweschans, Rethel, France Saillat, France Nervión, Spain Roermond, Badenkarton, Oude Pekela, Hoogkerk, Coevorden, Herzberger, France Ania, Italy Netherlands SSK, UK UK Germany Germany Netherlands Netherlands Netherlands Netherlands Total mills tl tl fl, tl fl, tl tl, fl tl, fl fl, tl cart sb sb sb sb sb sack paper 75 72 64 237 204 565 197 232 146 252 55 82 91 113 142 5,468 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 13 (1) 59 (1) 35 119 62 96 (1) 63 79 17 14 32 87 1,964 0.7 0.9 1.0 5.4 17 (2) 22 59 (2) 41 35 4.1 (2) (2) 9.5 (2) 16 9.3 (2) 97 943 30 22 118 75 154 66 96 64 90 17 16 24 32 183 2,912 24 29 157 55 2,981 28,298 429 308 1,541 1,189 2,790 1,289 2,252 1,144 1,570 369 360 362 674 70 25,916 429 332 1,570 1,189 2,947 1,344 2,252 1,144 (3) 1,570 (3) 369 360 362 674 3,051 54,215 0.7 1.8 1.6 2.2 1.1 1.8 3.3 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.4 2.4 78 0.5 0.9 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.2 6.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 1.1 0.7 0.5 1.8 1.6 2.3 1.0 1.5 1.8 3.3 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.4 2.5 86 24 18 88 67 158 73 126 64 89 21 21 21 38 4.6 1,553 1.4 1.8 4.9 16 14 2.0 0.6 4.2 6.2 3.6 0.2 31 212 1.1 1.8 3.8 11 4.7 3.9 0.5 342 3,124 0.3 1.5 0.8 39 525 17 28 96 43 125 124 434 59 75 22 7.1 17 38 219 3,943 0.2 9.1 0.6 19 0.8 0.5 13 112 490 0.6 0.4 1.4 1.3 1.7 0.7 1.2 1.5 1.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 1.8 46 0.1 1.8 0.3 32 45 64 1,520 150 335 973 114 158 185 18 38 982 54 766 19,030 4.1 8.0 581 15 14 338 5.5 8.7 14 0.4 1.5 484 2.6 170 4,536 8.9 11 479 103 27 1,170 37 13 20 3.3 2.9 28 6.2 88 3,435 3.5 2.9 80 11 29 41 3.7 0.9 1.6 0.9 1.4 2.8 2.2 N/A 400 4.2 0.3 12 0.9 2.9 9.9 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 N/A 67 4,967 5,578 18,692 21,193 38,400 23,810 33,034 16,890 22,268 13,267 2,676 5,788 9,012 82,669 517,637 2,086 14,740 12,283 3,029 20,892 28,694 108 377 3 106 11 48,518 203,145 1,961 3,492 3,952 7,884 35,257 2,918 4,332 319 22,087 12,890 2,673 5,682 9,000 33,537 274,827 3,006 1,026 115 0.0 8.4 16,571 73 614 39,665 9.3 7.0 7.4 11 21 30 110 18 24 15 8.2 17 17 14 952 (1): CHP is outsourced N/A: not available (2): net electricity exported by CHP (3): part of heat exported Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. European Operations 2011 PAPER & INTEGRATED OTHER OTHER TOTAL BOARD CORRUGATED PACKAGING OPERATIONS OPERATIONS MILLS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION kTonnes 5,468 4,298 603 1,890 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 1,964 14 1,978 76 Hydro power GWh 5.4 0.1 5.5 Grid supply GWh 943 481 82 3.0 1,509 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Total electricity GWh 2,912 495 82 3.0 3,492 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 28,298 139 0.0 28,437 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 25,916 4,101 188 79 30,284 Total fuels TJ fuel 54,215 4,240 188 79 58,721 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 78 0.1 78 Ground Mm 3 6.7 0.4 0.0 7.1 Grid Mm3 1.1 1.3 0.1 0.0 2.5 Total Mm 3 86 1.7 0.1 0.0 87 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 1,553 238 11 5.8 1,808 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 212 155 25 1.3 393 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 3,124 15 0.0 3,139 Dust Tonnes 525 6.7 0.3 0.0 532 NOX as NO2 Tonnes 3,943 99 3.7 3.9 4,050 SOX as SO2 Tonnes 490 78 4.0 3.6 575 To water Process water Mm3 46 0.6 0.1 47 Cooling water Mm3 32 0.1 0.0 32 COD (1) Tonnes 19,030 1,041 N/A N/A 20,072 BOD (1) Tonnes 4,536 229 N/A N/A 4,765 Total Suspended Solids (1) Tonnes 3,435 146 N/A N/A 3,581 Total N (1) Tonnes 400 11 N/A N/A 411 Total P (1) Tonnes 67 0.5 N/A N/A 67 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes Tonnes 517,637 28,481 7,890 7,011 561,018 Landfill Tonnes 203,145 12,731 2,053 2,130 220,058 Recovery Tonnes 274,827 13,086 5,494 4,881 298,288 Other Tonnes 39,665 2,664 342 42,671 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 952 5,997 682 3.5 7,634 N/A: not available (1): sum of available data (for mills details are reported in the individual tables) Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. Latin America Mills 2011 Environmental Data Coronel Suarez, Cali, Colombia Barranquilla, Cerro Gordo, Total mills Bernal, Barbosa, Los Reyes, Monterrey, Caracas, Valencia, San Felipe, Argentina Argentina Colombia Colombia Mexico Mexico Mexico Venezuela Venezuela Venezuela fl, tl fl, tl P&W, sack tl, fl fl, wttl fl, tl, cart, fl, tl tl, cart tl, sc fl, paper, cart, fl cart, fl cart, tl, wttl wttl virgin pulp, tl, bkl, sc fl, wttl, wtkl 77 PRODUCTION SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 kTonnes 75 46 250 64 71 77 286 36 17 50 114 1,087 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 227 37 3.9 37 118 423 Hydro power GWh Grid supply GWh 37 19 83 0.1 37 52 160 20 6.1 13 1.1 428 Total electricity GWh 37 19 310 37 37 52 160 20 10 50 119 851 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 3,653 689 4,342 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 530 238 5,603 1,105 422 591 1,367 225 248 1,066 3,380 14,776 Total fuels TJ fuel 530 238 9,256 1,105 422 591 1,367 225 248 1,066 4,069 19,118 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 0.8 22 1.0 0.7 0.6 25 Ground Mm3 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.4 0.1 1.1 4.6 7.8 Grid Mm3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.3 Total Mm3 0.8 0.3 22.6 1.0 0.7 0.3 1.4 0.2 0.8 1.1 4.6 34 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 31 14 450 62 35 33 77 13 15 61 192 982 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 13 6.8 8.9 0.0 4.0 23 70 8.8 1.2 2.6 0.2 139 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 389 73 463 Dust Tonnes 141 12 1.4 1.1 2.9 5.9 164 NOX as NO2 Tonnes 8.5 10 298 65 43 33 26 1.1 20 18 161 684 SOX as SO2 Tonnes 3.2 3,142 1.6 103 0.4 24 3,275 To water Process water Mm3 0.8 0.3 23 1.0 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.8 0.8 3.8 31 Cooling water Mm3 COD Tonnes 836 81 6,849 1,961 1,907 19 158 150 1,967 239 1,963 16,131 BOD Tonnes 250 13 1,329 1,084 677 0.7 13 56 640 50 165 4,278 Total Suspended Solids Tonnes 93 5.8 2,288 607 89 1.6 24 35 1,388 79 305 4,917 Total N Tonnes 7.1 0.8 146 11 5.1 0.5 6.3 14 13 3.6 23 230 Total P Tonnes 0.6 0.1 20 0.1 0.3 0.2 2.5 1.0 1.0 0.4 3.5 29 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes Tonnes 7,336 4,692 217,131 2,745 6,338 2,040 41,741 6,821 816 11,207 37,175 338,041 Landfill Tonnes 6,960 3,373 213,115 2,699 4,557 1,872 19,169 6,731 792 10,804 34,724 304,797 Recovery Tonnes 376 1,319 4,016 46 510 168 22,571 90 24 403 317 29,839 Other Tonnes 0 0 1,270 2,134 3,404 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 10 3.6 206 10 8.3 7.6 34 8.0 1.8 14 2,523 2,826 bkl : brown kraftliner P&W : printing and writing grade virgin pulp : virgin pulp sold externally cart : carton board sc fl : semi-chemical flute wtkl : white top kraftliner fl : recycled flute tl : testliner wttl : white top testliner Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. Latin America Operations 2011 PAPER & OTHER TOTAL BOARD MILLS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION kTonnes 1,087 2,417 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 423 423 78 Hydro power GWh Grid supply GWh 428 110 538 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Total electricity GWh 851 110 961 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 4,342 4,342 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 14,776 993 15,769 Total fuels TJ fuel 19,118 993 20,111 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 25 0.1 26 Ground Mm 3 7.8 0.3 8.1 Grid Mm 3 0.3 0.3 0.6 Total Mm3 34 0.6 34 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 982 62 1,044 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 139 35 174 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 463 463 Dust Tonnes 164 3.0 167 NOX as NO2 Tonnes 684 27 711 SOX as SO2 Tonnes 3,275 39 3,313 To water Process water Mm3 31 0.1 32 Cooling water Mm 3 0.0 0.0 COD Tonnes 16,131 76 16,207 BOD Tonnes 4,278 14 4,291 Total Suspended Solids Tonnes 4,917 5.5 4,923 Total N Tonnes 230 1.7 232 Total P Tonnes 29 0.1 30 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes Tonnes 338,041 7,335 345,376 Landfill Tonnes 304,797 4,327 309,124 Recovery Tonnes 29,839 1,022 30,861 Other Tonnes 3,404 1,987 5,391 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 2,826 258 3,084 Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. Total Group Operations All All All 2011 2010 2009 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 2,401 2,250 2,169 Hydro power GWh 5.5 8.3 11 Grid supply GWh 2,047 2,321 2,446 Total electricity GWh 4,453 4,579 4,626 79 Fuel usage SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Biofuels TJ fuel 32,779 32,526 29,351 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 46,053 46,632 47,012 Total fuels TJ fuel 78,832 79,158 76,363 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 103 109 121 Ground Mm3 15 15 16 Grid Mm 3 3.0 3.2 3.8 Total Mm 3 122 127 141 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 2,852 2,862 2,909 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 568 659 658 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 3,602 3,520 3,096 Dust* Tonnes 699 772 1,004 NOX as NO2* Tonnes 4,761 5,592 6,566 SO2 as SO2* Tonnes 3,889 3,688 3,831 To water Process water Mm3 78 82 96 Cooling water Mm 3 32 33 32 COD (1) Tonnes 36,278 35,024 38,961 BOD (1)* Tonnes 9,056 8,568 10,446 Total Suspended Solids (1) Tonnes 8,504 8,033 8,384 Total N * (1) Tonnes 643 653 420 Total P (1)* Tonnes 97 109 86 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes* Tonnes 906,394 888,805 918,692 Landfill* Tonnes 529,183 453,207 441,504 Recovery* Tonnes 329,149 375,594 335,710 Other* Tonnes 48,062 60,005 141,478 Hazardous wastes* Tonnes 10,718 12,448 10,289 (1): sum of available data (for mills details are reported in the individual tables) *Only the data for 2011 have been subject to assurance by KPMG. Management Systems Certification Forestry Forest Wood Sourcing Chain of Latin America Management Europe Custody CO Colombia Forest FSC ES Central Forestal PEFC & FSC VE Venezuela Forest FR Comptoir Du Pin Aquitaine PEFC & FSC European Mills Quality Environmental Health and Chain of Management Management Safety Custody System System System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS Virgin mills 18001 80 AT Nettingsdorfer • • PEFC & FSC ES Navarra • • PEFC & FSC SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Nervión • • PEFC & FSC FR Cellulose du Pin • • • PEFC & FSC SE Piteå • • PEFC & FSC Recycled mills CZ Morava • • • PEFC & FSC DE Baden Karton • • • PEFC & FSC CD Haupt • • • PEFC & FSC Herzberger • • • FSC Hoya • • • PEFC & FSC Viersen • • • PEFC & FSC Zülpich • • • PEFC & FSC ES Mengibar • • PEFC & FSC FR Alfa d’Avignon • • PEFC & FSC Rethel • • PEFC & FSC Saillat • • • PEFC & FSC IT Ania • • PEFC & FSC NL Sbm Coevorden • • • PEFC & FSC Sbm Hoogkerk • • • PEFC & FSC Sbm Nieuweschans • • • PEFC & FSC Sbm Oude Pekela • • • PEFC & FSC Roermond • • • PEFC & FSC UK Ssk • • • PEFC & FSC Townsend Hook • • • PEFC & FSC Latin American Mills Virgin mills CO Cali • FSC VE San Felipe Recycled mills AR Bernal Coronel Suarez CO Barbosa • FSC Barranquilla • FSC MX Cerro Gordo • • FSC Los Reyes • • FSC Monterrey • • FSC VE Caracas Valencia certification acquired in 2012 are shown in italics Scope of the Report The information in this report covers all the This tool is integrated into the Group’s intranet, international activities of the Smurfit Kappa Group enabling sites to report their environmental data for the calendar year 2011 and also includes some online according to the GRI guidelines. As the information for early 2012. information is stored centrally, this allows for easier and faster processing. Information is included from all of our operations: 331 facilities in 31 countries in Europe, Latin America We make continuous effort to introduce new 81 and Canada. This includes a small number of joint functionality to allow the individual operations to SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 ventures and minority holdings, none of which is compare their performance with the previous material. reporting periods, to extract data for further and individual processing of their own data, and to alert During 2011, the operations of the former them where significant deviation occurs. The Specialties Division were merged into the Paper reporting protocol was revised once again in the Division and the Corrugated Division (both in Europe) course of 2011 to introduce additional information and the data and performance of its activities are to clarify rules applying with the objective to improve reported accordingly. the quality of the reporting. Our goal is to ensure the continuous consistency of data for both our Smurfit Kappa fully recognises that sustainable European and Latin American operations. development embraces social and business subjects as well as environmental topics. These subjects and For the most part, data is based on measured or topics have been selected on the basis of input from metered quantities, or on best estimates based on the various stakeholder groups. Smurfit Kappa industry knowledge and established calculation collected data from all its manufacturing operations factors. CO2 emission calculations have been based that were operational at the end of 2011. on established fuel consumption and specific CO2 emission factors. Definitions and calculations for the When quantified performance or targets are performance indicators can be found in the glossary mentioned in this report, they are related to on pages 89 to 92. production levels. Other information is reported in absolute figures, unless otherwise stated. We are making ongoing efforts to further standardise the data gathering system in Smurfit Among the various references used for the Kappa to improve data quality and consistency in the development and identification of baseline data use of Group definitions and scope requirements of included in this report are the G3 Sustainability our key indicators. Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an independent institution whose We requested an external assurance provider, KPMG, mission is to provide a trusted and credible to provide limited assurance on the data and the text framework for sustainability reporting. of the report. The assurance report of KPMG can be found on page 88. As was the case in 2010, for 2011 Smurfit Kappa applied the GRI at an A+ level. Every effort has been made to provide data that is as accurate as possible. Data relating to environmental matters are gathered through a Group-wide IT based reporting system implemented in all operations of Smurfit Kappa. Relationship To GRI Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a large The index below has been prepared using the current worldwide network of experts whose mission is GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version G3) to provide the global standards for sustainability and it provides a list of the GRI indicators reported by reporting. Smurfit Kappa for 2011. All core Indicators have been addressed and are included in the table. The The GRI network has developed a Sustainability index refers to information in our 2011 Sustainable Reporting Framework, the core of which is the Development Report (SDR), our 2011 Annual Report Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The Guidelines (AR), our website: www.smurfitkappa.com and the consist of principles for defining report content and Carbon Disclosure Project website. 82 ensuring the quality of reported information as well as standard disclosures comprising performance We declare that our 2011 reporting applies to a GRI SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 indicators and other disclosure items. These “A+” application level. An “A” application level guidelines provide an internationally recognised requires reporting on a specified range of criteria, on framework for voluntary reporting on an the management approach to disclosures for each organisation’s economic, environmental and indicator category and a response on each core G3 social performance. indicator. We have sought assurance from an external party which expands the application level to “A+”. GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) Profile 1.1 CEO Statement on relevance of sustainability to the organisation and SDR 5-6 its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SDR 14-17 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation SDR Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services AR 3-5 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Website 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters SDR Inside back cover 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates AR 3-5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 157,160 2.7 Markets served Website 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation AR 2-5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, structure and AR 155-156 ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Website Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided SDR 81 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) SDR 5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) SDR 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents SDR Inside back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content SDR 81 3.6 Boundary of the report SDR 81 AR 3-5 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SDR 81 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. SDR 81 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SDR 32, 81 3.10 Explanation of effect of re-statements of information provided SDR 32, 81 previously 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary, or measurement methods SDR 32, 81 GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report SDR 82-85 3.13 Policy and current practice on seeking external assurance for the SDR 82, 88 report Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation AR 38-48 4.2 Indicate if Chair of the Board is also an executive officer AR 41 4.3 The Board members that are independent and/or non-executive AR 39 members 4.4 Ways for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or SDR 51-52 direction to the Board AR 45-46 4.5 Link between compensation of Board and management with SDR AR 52 performance 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are Website avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Board AR 38-40 83 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of SDR 7-8 conduct, and principles AR 13, 38-44 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Website 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing identification and AR 42 management of performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own SDR performance SDR 7 AR 42 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or AR 46-47 principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters & SDR 7 principles 4.13 Memberships in associations SDR 71 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SDR 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to SDR 10, 51-53, engage 61-62 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SDR 10, 51-53, 61-62 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement SDR 26, 38, 45, 52, 55, 62-65 Economic Disclosure on management approach SDR 5, 12 AR 13, 33-35, 75-88 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 89-95 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the CDP 2012 Investor Section 5 organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AR 84-85, 122-128 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government AR 67, 84, 94 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers SDR 63 at significant locations of operation EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the SDR 49 local community at significant locations of operation EC8 Development and infrastructure provided primarily for public benefit SDR 53, 57 Other than local community involvement, no engagement by Smurfit Kappa Environmental Disclosure on management approach SDR 5, 19-23, 81 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SDR 72, 73 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials SDR 25 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source SDR 32-33, 74-79 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source SDR 33, 74-79 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SDR 31-37 GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy products and services SDR 31-37 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SDR 39, 74-79 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused SDR 38-40, 74-79 EN11 Location and size of land by protected areas and areas of high SDR 27, 30 biodiversity value Website EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services SDR 26-30 on biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SDR 32-35, 74-79 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SDR 32-33 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions SDR 34 achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight website EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight SDR 74-79 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDR 74-79 84 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SDR 74-79 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills SDR 40 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, SDR 19-23, 25-41 and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are SDR 25 reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance SDR 8 with environmental law EN29 Significant environmental impact from transport SDR 35 Labour Practices Disclosure on management approach SDR 12, 43-53 LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region SDR 48-49 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, SDR 48-49 and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees SDR 48-49 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SDR 48 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes SDR 51 LA6 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SDR 48 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and SDR 44, 46 number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control SDR 44 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee SDR 50 category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning SDR 49-51, 54 LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews SDR 50 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per AR 36-37 category according to gender, age group, minority group SDR 48-49 membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category SDR 48 Same job, same pay Human Rights Disclosure on management approach SDR 12, 48 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements SDR 52, 53 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have SDR 53 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SDR 53 Website GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of SDR 48 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour, and SDR 48 measures taken to eliminate HR7 Operations with significant risk of forced or compulsory labour, and SDR 48 measures to eliminate HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies Not applicable or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and No significant issues 48 actions taken Social Disclosure on management approach SDR 12, 53 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices SDR 55-57 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, 85 including entering, operating, and exiting SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption SDR 8 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption SDR 8 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SDR 8 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development SDR 8 and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SDR 8 politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust SDR 8 and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSDR 8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on management approach SDR 13-14, 61 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and SDR 63-65 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes on SDR 62 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and SDR 63-65 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SDR 62 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys SDR 62 that measure customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes SDR 62 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SDR 62 voluntary codes on marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of No substantiated customer privacy and losses of customer data complaints identified PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and No fines and/or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services substantiated claims for non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were identified Business in the Community Ireland External Commentary – Smurfit Kappa Sustainable Development Report 2011 We welcome the publication of what is now the fifth across the environmental dimensions of operations. full-spectrum report issued by Smurfit Kappa Group We recommend extending these long term on its sustainable development activities in 2011. sustainable development commitments to include The report, once again rated as a GRI G3 A+ report, objectives in relation to employees, customers, local continues to address various dimensions of activity, communities and suppliers – addressed under social disclosing an impressive amount of data from across and business sustainability as appropriate. 86 the Group, particularly on environmental factors, that are supplemented by case studies and testimonials. Setting out the commitments clearly at the outset SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 under the main headings would provide a natural There is a clear sense that Smurfit Kappa is drilling structure for reporting on the extensive programmes deeper into the measurement of the sustainability that Smurfit Kappa is already pursuing with these of all aspects of its activities and forging practices stakeholders and provide an opportunity to describe accordingly. Despite the current economic climate the company’s objectives and targets for these and the challenging business conditions the company constituents. faces, Smurfit Kappa continues to extend its Chain of Custody certification across the Group and to invest We note the significant improvements Smurfit Kappa in more efficient technologies such as CHP and has made across a range of environmental indicators. biomass to reduce carbon emissions and its focus on For future reports, we would recommend an ‘at a the more efficient use of water also continues. glance’ table describing how the company is faring against its long term commitments in all these areas. On Social Development, the report disclosed a range This would provide a consistent structure for the of laudable achievements. As well as the fact that the communication of targets that are dispersed European Works Council agreement with employees throughout the report as well as offering an has been renewed for another four years, the fact opportunity to consider how stakeholders, such as that environmental protection appeared on the suppliers, can further contribute to helping Smurfit agenda of those discussions is a strong example of Kappa achieve its sustainability goals. how sustainability can be integrated into day to day operations. The report also communicates the strides Finally we recommend additional illustrations that that Smurfit Kappa is making in relation to involving draw on the Group’s extensive data to describe the employees in sustainability – through the first awards life cycle of particular products in terms of all aspects for Sustainability in product development, through of sustainable development. the Safety Opinion Survey among employees across Europe and Latin America and through the roll out We highly commend Smurfit Kappa, and in particular, and the forthcoming awareness activities on the their management and Sustainability Working Group Group’s Code of Business Conduct. Also on Social for advancing the responsible business agenda across Sustainability, the establishment of the Smurfit Kappa the organisation. Group Foundation is a praiseworthy development and we look forward to reading more about the impact it will have on the areas identified. Looking ahead, we strongly recommend developing a graphical guide to make the comprehensive reporting more accessible to stakeholders. We recognise the Tina Roche success of Smurfit Kappa’s long term sustainable Chief Executive development commitments in driving extensive Business in the Community Ireland measurement, analysis, and external verification UN Global Compact Smurfit Kappa became a participant in the United relevant key performance indicators, which illustrate Nations Global Compact, a worldwide corporate Smurfit Kappa’s support for the ten Global Compact citizenship initiative, in 2010. This is now a network principles in its everyday business. Measurements of of more than 8,700 businesses and other performance related to the Global Compact participants from over 130 countries who promote principles are given using indicators provided by the ten core principles in the areas of human rights, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever feasible. labour, environment and anti-corruption. These In particular, GRI performance indicators relating to principles are listed in the table below. human rights, labour and anti-corruption principles are presented in the Social Development section As a part of this commitment, Smurfit Kappa will while environmental performance indicators reported report on the Company’s corporate responsibility in the Environment section. A complete GRI index activities and performance in an annual can be found on pages 82 to 85 of the Report. 87 Communication on Progress (COP), using the SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 annual Sustainable Development Report as the The following table shows how our performance in platform for this communication. relation to each UN Global Compact principle can be reported using a number of GRI performance The Sustainable Development Report provides a indicators. This is based on guidance documents number of examples of ongoing activities, as well as published by the UN Global Compact. UNGC principles GRI indicators Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed HR1-9, LA7-9, human rights and LA13-14, PR8 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-9 Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of LA4-5 the right to collective bargaining; 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR7 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment LA2, LA13-14, and occupation. HR4 Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; EN18, 26 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; EN1-29, PR3-4 and 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally EN2, 5-7, 10, friendly technologies EN18, 26-27 Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and SO3-4 bribery. Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the Sustainable Development Report 2011 of Smurfit Kappa Group plc. Introduction n Interviews with relevant staff concerning the sustainability strategy, communication and We have been engaged by the management of Smurfit management of these in the business, and for Kappa Group plc (Smurfit Kappa) to provide assurance other staff responsible for providing the on the information in the Smurfit Kappa Sustainable information in The Report; Development Report 2011 (further referred to as ‘The Report’). The management of Smurfit Kappa is n Conducting site visits to Nettingsdorfer (Austria), responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of San Felipe (Venezuela), Baden-Baden (Germany), the information in The Report. Our responsibility is to Birmingham and Northampton (United Kingdom) 88 provide assurance on the information in The Report. to review the quality of information management systems and the reliability of the data as reported Scope SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 to corporate level; Our engagement was designed to provide limited n Reviews of the systems and processes for assurance on whether the information in the Report is, information management, internal control and in all material respects, fairly stated in accordance with processing of the qualitative and quantitative the reporting criteria. information in The Report at corporate level; Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of n Reviewing internal and external documentation to assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of determine whether the information in The Report information and are less extensive than those for a is supported by sufficient evidence; reasonable level of assurance. n An evaluation of whether the information Reporting criteria and assurance standard presented in the report is in line with our overall Smurfit Kappa applies the Sustainability Reporting knowledge of, and experience with, sustainability Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (G3), as at Smurfit Kappa. detailed in the section Relationship to GRI Guidelines Conclusion on page 82. It is important to view the report in the context of this explanatory information. We believe Based on our work as described, we conclude that that these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of nothing came to our attention to indicate that the our assurance engagement. information in The Report is not, in all material respects, fairly stated in accordance with the reporting We conducted our engagement in accordance with the criteria. International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Other observation Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, Without affecting the conclusion presented above, we issued by the International Auditing and Assurance would like to draw the readers’ attention to the Standards Board. This Standard requires, amongst following: others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies During 2011 Smurfit Kappa has made further progress needed to understand sustainability information, in engaging in the dialogue with its stakeholders. We identify and collect the thereto related assurance recommend Smurfit Kappa to further define and information and that they comply with the implement the group-wide process of systematic requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional stakeholder engagement and describe in the Accountants from the International Federation of Sustainable Development Report how stakeholders’ Accountants to ensure their independence. expectations are managed and integrated into Smurfit Kappa’s approach to sustainability and reporting. Work undertaken Amstelveen, 26 June, 2012 Our procedures included the following: n A media analysis and internet search for references KPMG Sustainability, to Smurfit Kappa in the reporting period; part of KPMG Advisory N.V. Wim Bartels, partner Glossary BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand (one element of the COD, unit: mg O2/litre) refers to the level of oxygen uptake by micro-organisms in a sample of water measured over a period of five days. Biodiversity General term to describe the variety of life forms (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. Biofuels Fuels coming from biomass (wood rejects, bark, black liquor produced during the production of virgin pulps, pitch oil, biomass part of mixed wastes and biogas produced during the anaerobic treatment of water). Black liquor Residue from pulping that contains organic compounds (like lignin). This residue is burnt in 89 paper mills to produce energy. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. Thousands of organisations from across the world’s major economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies through CDP. CEN Comité Européen de Normalisation. The European Committee for Standardisation is major provider of European standards and technical specifications. CEPI CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries, is located in Brussels. It is a nonprofit organisation representing the European pulp and paper industry. CEPI’s mission is to promote the members’ business sector by taking specific actions and analysing activities in the areas of environment, energy, forestry, recycling and research. CHP Combined Heat and Power: a combination of a boiler and a gas and/or steam turbine that simultaneously produces electricity and thermal energy (steam) by burning fuels. This system is considered to be the most efficient technology in industries using both steam and electricity. When mills sell part of their produced steam to an external party or have net electricity export (selling more to an external party than purchasing), the consumption of fuel and emissions reported for this mill is adjusted to report only that part used to produce paper. This adjustment is based on a reference heat boiler with an efficiency of 90%, which is also used by CEPI and the European Commission for EU ETS benchmark calculations. CHP (outsourced) A CHP installation, belonging to an external party, located at or near a Smurfit Kappa site for delivering electricity and steam to the Smurfit Kappa production facility. All fuels and electricity used for the production of paper as well as emissions related to that are included in the figures for the Smurfit Kappa production facility. COD Chemical Oxygen Demand is the most commonly used test to measure the amount of organic compounds in water (unit: mg O2/litre). The result indicates the level of all organic compounds that can be oxidised by a strong oxidising agent. CoC Chain of Custody Certification applying to wood/fibre material and products. Chain of Custody is an information trail about the path taken by products from the forest or, in the case of recycled materials, from the reclamation site to the consumer including each stage of processing, transformation, manufacturing, and distribution where progress to the next stage of the supply chain involves a change of ownership. Co-generation Electricity generated by a CHP system belonging to our organisation or from a CHP outsourced. Containerboard Papers and boards mainly used in the manufacture of corrugated board. They are made from virgin or recovered fibres. Included are kraftliner, testliner, semi-chemical fluting and recycled fluting. Corrugated board Structured board made by a corrugator usually formed by gluing one fluting to two flat-facing sheets of containerboard (kraftliner or testliner). CO2 biogenic Carbon dioxide emitted when burning biofuels. This CO2 is considered to be carbon neutral as it is removed from the atmosphere and stored in biomass within a short period of time. CO2 fossil Carbon dioxide emitted when burning fossil fuels for the production of paper. The calculation is made according to international guidelines from the carbon content of each fuel. CO2 indirect Fossil carbon dioxide generated, externally to the site, to produce the electricity purchased from the grid by the company. Source: International Energy Agency Data Services. 2009: “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion (2009 Edition)”. Carbon dioxide A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based equivalent CO2-eq upon their climate change potential (CCP). The CO2-eq carbon dioxide equivalent for other emissions is derived by multiplying the amount of the emission by the associated CCP factor. CSR Corporate Social Responsibility: a concept whereby organisations consider the interests of society by taking responsibility for the impact of their activities on customers, suppliers, 90 employees, shareholders, communities and the environment in all aspects of their operations. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Dust Particles coming from the combustion of fuels. Dust emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where dust is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. ELCD European Reference Life Cycle Database. The ELCD has been developed within the “European Platform on Life Cycle Assessment” that is a project of the European Commission, carried out by the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC-IES). Environmental A set of processes and practices that enable an organisation to reduce its environmental Management impact and increase its operating efficiency. System Emissions Trading A scheme calculated to allocate greenhouse gas allowances for a list of specific activities. Scheme Fluting The ‘wavy’ middle layer in corrugated board. Fossil fuels Fuels originating from natural resources (gas, oil, coal, peat and lignite). FSC The Forestry Stewardship Council is an independent, non-governmental, organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests through independent third party certification. Gigajoule Unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 gigajoule (GJ) = one billion joules = 109 joules. GRI The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting framework is the generally accepted framework for reporting on an organisation’s economic, environmental and social performance. The sustainability reporting guidelines give the reporting principles, and the list of performance indicators, for each of the three key areas that should be disclosed in a sustainability report. Grid supply Electricity purchased from a national distribution network. GWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 GWh (GigaWatt hour) = 1 Million KWh (KiloWatt hour). Hectare A unit of area. One hectare (Ha) = 10,000 m2. One hectare = 2.471 acres. ILO International Labour Organisation. Inorganic raw Raw material used for manufacturing our products that are not organic such as: fillers, materials sodium hydroxide, sodium sulphate and calcium oxide. Innotools Innotools is a unique software suite for developing fit-for-purpose packaging. It comprises: Innobook, an internal library with over 4,000 proven design solutions used extensively by designers in Smurfit Kappa; Pack Expert, an advanced statistical model used to determine the packaging performance in the customer’s supply chain; and Paper-to-Box, a sophisticated software tool used to predict box performance based on board design and composition. ISO 9001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of quality management. ISO 14001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of environmental management. ISO 17025 This international standard lists the requirements to allow the accreditation by authorised third party of a testing laboratory and to verify its proficiency. ISO 22000 This standard specifies requirements for a food safety management system where an organisation in the food chain needs to demonstrate its ability to control food safety 91 hazards in order to ensure that food is safe at the time of human consumption. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 kTonne One kTonne = 1,000 tonnes, where one tonne (metric tonne) = 1,000 kilograms. Kraftliner Paper made mainly from virgin wood fibres. Mm3 1 million cubic metres. MJ Megajoule, a unit of energy. 1 megajoule (MJ) = 1 million joules = 106 joules. MWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 MWh (MegaWatt hour) = 1,000 KWh (KiloWatt hour). Natura 2000 Natura 2000 is an ecological network of protected areas in the territory of the European Union. In May 1992, governments of the European Union adopted legislation designed to protect the most seriously threatened habitats and species across Europe (the Habitats Directive). NGO A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) is a legally constituted organisation created by private persons or organisations with no participation or representation of any government. N (Nitrogen) Total Nitrogen is the sum of organic nitrogen, ammonia, NH3 and ammonium, NH4+ discharged with the process water. NOX Mix of nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2) calculated as NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) coming from combustion of fuels. They can contribute to the acidification of soil and water. NOX emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where NOX is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Other organic raw Raw materials used for manufacturing our products that are organic excluding fibres, materials starch or plastic raw materials which are reported individually. This category includes oil, lubricant and organic additives such as colorant or dyes. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. The PEFC is an independent, non-governmental organisation which promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third party certification. P (Phosphorous) Total phosphorous is the sum of phosphorous compounds discharged with the process water. PJ Petajoule, a unit of energy. 1 petajoule = 1,000 terajoules = 1015 joules Process water Quantity of water containing organic compounds released to the environment (river, sea) after internal water treatment or released to an external treatment plant (municipal water treatment). In all cases, levels of pollutants released are reported as outputs of the company even in the case of operations that send process water to external treatment. Purchased pulp Pulp produced by third party companies and purchased by our mills to produce paper or board (the pulps are mainly bleached). REACH REACH is the Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. REACH applies to all chemicals: not only chemicals used in industrial processes but also chemicals in articles such as paper and packaging. Recovered paper Recovered paper refers to used paper and board separately collected and classified for the purpose of recycling for use as raw material in the manufacture of new paper and paperboard. Renewable energy Energy coming from sources that are naturally renewable (e.g. biomass, hydro electricity). Sludge A solid waste that is produced during water treatment from biological activity (mainly aerobic stage). Sedex Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a membership organisation for businesses committed to continuous improvement of the ethical performance of their supply chains. Sedex is a not-for-profit organisation based in London, UK. Sedex focuses on four pillars: Labour Standards, Health and Safety, Environment and Business Integrity. Solid Wastes Wastes are classified as non-hazardous wastes or hazardous wastes and are reported 92 separately. Wood wastes and corrugated board shavings are excluded. All amounts of wastes are reported in mass as disposed. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2011 Total nonSum of all solid non-hazardous wastes that are going to landfill or are recovered or hazardous wastes comprise other wastes. Each category of non-hazardous wastes is defined and reported. Non-hazardous Part of the non-hazardous wastes that are disposed of in either internal or external landfill wastes Landfill in accordance with national legislation. Non-hazardous Part of non-hazardous wastes that are reused or recycled or composted or used in wastes Recovery agriculture or incinerated with energy recovery. Non-hazardous Part of non-hazardous wastes that does not belong to the two previous categories. This wastes Other include wastes incinerated without energy recovery or wastes for which the final disposal is uncertain. Hazardous wastes Residues of oils and other hazardous wastes (building wastes containing asbestos, ink residues, etc.). SOX Mix of sulphur oxides calculated as SO2 coming from combustion of fuels. Sulphur dioxide contributes to the acidification of soil and water. SOX emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where SOX is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. SVHC Substances of Very High Concern are defined in Article 57 of REACH Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 and include substances which are Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or toxic to Reproduction (CMR) or Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic (PBT) or very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative (vPvB). Testliner Paper manufactured from recycled fibres. TJ Terajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 terajoule = 1,000 gigajoules = 1012 joules. Total Suspended Total Suspended Solids refers to the level of small solid particles released with process Solids water. Virgin fibre Pulp obtained through a chemical process used to remove lignin from wood. As a result, the fibre can be used to produce paper. The lignin residue and other organic compounds are subsequently collected and used in the formation of black liquor. WFN Water Footprint Network (WFN) is a non-profit international network. The mission of the WFN is to promote the sustainable, fair and efficient use of fresh water resources worldwide. WTP Water Treatment Plant: facility that treats process water by a combination of physical, chemical and biological processes before discharging the water to the environment. Smurfit Kappa Group plc Beech Hill Clonskeagh Dublin 4 Ireland Tel: +353 (0)1 202 7000 Fax: +353 (0)1 269 4481 Email: sustainability@smurfitkappa.com Web: www.smurfitkappa.com
