2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability isn’t a fad. It’s not a ‘nice-to-have’. And we don’t do it to look good. Sustainability is a business imperative. It’s a competitive advantage, an economic opportunity and a driver of innovation. It’s part of a fundamental shift in the way we work and how we do business. Through sustainability we create value for MCI and the communities which we serve. This is the story of our successes, Guy Bigwood learnings and ambitions. MCI Group Sustainability Director 2 ontents Message From Our CEO 2011 Highlights Our Approach Our Progress 5 7 11 18 Scope of Report and Additional Disclosures 40 Key to icons Weblink: Find out more information online Interactive: Hover your mouse over hotspots to see more information Video: The document may ask your permission to make a connection with the internet Image: Click the exapnd button for a bigger view and more information In line with the sustainability principles we respect, this report is intended to be viewed online. 47 1114 62 52 3256 Cities Employees Nationalities Languages Events MCI’s Business Creative Production, Event Hospitality, Event Furniture and Decoration and Registration Technology. at a Glance With offices currently in 47 cities in Europe, the MCI is a globally integrated Association, CommuMiddle East, Asia-Pacific and South America, MCI nication and Event Management Company. Since is a thought leader in building community around 1987, MCI has created corporate events, meetings brands, products and services for companies and and incentives, association and governmental coninstitutions. In 2011, MCI organized 3,256 Events ventions, congresses, exhibitions and managed and with over 857,293 participants and had a volume of provided consulting to associations. MCI’s mission business of €307 million (non-audited figure). MCI’s is to help companies, governments and associations 1114 employees represent 62 different nationalibring people together to create meaningful connecties and speak 56 different languages offering lotions and win. MCI provides many stand-alone solucal knowledge in a completely international team. tions designed for those who only need a specific MCI is a private company. The Tondeur Famservice to complete their projects such as Destination ily holds 56% of shares with 44% being owned by For more information, download the Management, Sustainability Services, Technical and MCI Annual Report 2011 – “A Path to Performance” management, employees and equity investors. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report 4 Message from our CEO At MCI, our purpose is building community; that is helping our clients create and nurture meaningful and long lasting connections with their stakeholders. By embedding sustainability into our culture, operations and client services we run a better business and we can help organizations perform better within a sustainable development reality. Sebastien Tondeur This, our third sustainability report, tells the Chief Executive Officer story of how our people are integrating sustainability into our services and operations. This year’s talent survey revealed an astounding 99% of our staff think MCI should be concerned and held accountable about our environmental and social impact. It moves me to see how we have responded to this and how our CSR programme is changing MCI. 74% of our staff say that they have changed their work habits due to the CSR programme. It has brought our values to life, it motivates our talent and helps us build trust. Perhaps most importantly, it ensures that we make better business decisions based on the simple balancing of people, planet and profit. In 2007, we became the meetings and events industry’s first signatory to the United Nations Global Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report 5 Compact. Since then, these values have served as events for safety and sustainability. With the implea foundation for our commitment and are manifested mentation of new technology and processes we will in our Code of Conduct that guides how we do busievaluate the risk and performance of our teams, the ness. MCI has also become an Organizational Stakemeeting venues, caterers, destinations and clients. holder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and I am delighted to see us pioneer this level of CSR reporting for our industry and our clients. We pro“We are proud of our achievements duced 20 sustainability reports for our clients in 2011. given our resources and the An excellent year for our CSR programme, 2011 saw 85% of our offices report on their environmental and constraints that we face. But we social impact, we gained commitment from our largest supply chain partners to support our sustainabilknow that we have a lot more work ity strategy and our management participated in the to do and a long road ahead.” development and implementation of new sustainable event standards. Our staff supported over 52 community programmes with pride and contributed thouWhat we do would not be possible without our disands of hours of industry development programmes. verse teams who motivate us and give us our unique approach to solving operational and cliIt is a real honour to see how governments, asent challenges that drive sustainability. It’s amazsociations and corporations with clear sustaining to see how our CSR programme has evolved ability visions are choosing MCI to be their event and continues to innovate to take our business and association management partner. This year into a better future. We know that long term profitMCI will support the United Nations at the RIO+20 able growth can be enhanced with responsibilCorporate Sustainability Forum, the CoP11 Conity and sustainability at the heart of what we do. ference on Biodiversity and over 80 meetings about sustainability and renewable energy. Sebastien Tondeur Chief Executive Officer We are proud of our achievements given our resources and the constraints that we face. But we know that we have a lot more work to do and a long road ahead. I envision an MCI where sustainability is part of Watch: Sebastien Tonduer introduces everyone’s day-to-day work. With this in mind, we MCI’s 2011 Sustainability Report have set ambitious goals to continue to innovate and improve our sustainable performance. This year Can’t view the video? Click to watch on YouTube. we made the commitment to assess 100% of our Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report 6 2011 Highlights Key Successes, Objectives and Scorecard. Sustainability Scorecard Goals 2015 Progress 2010 Progress 2011 Goal 2012 Governance: Drive performance through leadership in sustainability reporting 100% offices to have active CSR plan 38%: 18 Offices 65%: 31 offices 85%: 40 offices 100% offices undertaking sustainability reporting 55%: 26 Offices 74%: 35 offices 85%: 40 offices Managing Directors evaluated on performance of office sustainability programme n/a n/a 50% Sustainable Operations: Integrate sustainability consistently into operations 100% of events assessed for sustainability, health and safety risks n/a 12% 90% 100% of major RFP responses and sales proposals to include n/k 54% 80% content on sustainability and MCI solutions 80% of suppliers compliant with MCI Code of Conduct 23 hotels All 67 partners with preferred Top 10 suppliers in all major offices supplier agreements Reduce operational carbon emissions per talent by 20% by 2020 4.09 tonsCO2e/talent 3.61 tonsCO2e/talent 3.42 tons CO2e/talent Empowering Clients: Develop sustainability services to support our clients and the industry shift toward improved sustainability performance Increase market share of events about CSR, Energy and Sustainability 15 events organized 89 events organized Not Defined 100% of t op 10 MCI accounts to include sustainability clauses in MCI contracts 0% 0% 10% Serving the Community: Build a vibrant culture of responsibility and care that generates value for the community 16 hours of pro-bono or community service per talent per year 1 hour / employee 1 hour / employee 8 hours / employee 880 hours total 1253 hours total 9600 hours total Funds raised by MCI Talent € 74,086 € 208,597 n/k Invest 2% of net profit to MCI sustainability programmes € 115,000 5% 173,000€ 165,000 € Talent development and wellbeing 85% employee retention 87% 83% 83% 78% talent satisfaction with MCI sustainability performance and strategy n/k 78% 80% Gender balance of women in senior management 27% 38% 34% 50% talent participation in Health and Wellbeing Programmes 1 office had programme 4 offices had programmes 20% 14,200 hours of development and learning 5,018 hours 8,624 hours 9,930 hours 8 Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 Highlights 9 Key Objectives for 2012 s ta in a b ilit y s e rvices 1. Develop su p p o rt o u r c lie n ts and the to su y s h if t to w a rd improved indu s tr 2. Integrate su ta in a b ilit y p e rf ormance s sustainability cons rate sustaina isbil tenity tly consistently into operatio 3.nsIntbeg y auditing 90% of a MCI events forint o ou r sales 5 . D pro po salll by detailing health and soaffeety liver an ris,kse oun r t c CS ucl t h Ru e r cre c e k de nti als s rvi tesrnan exce a d v ib r a e d S lly 4. Build a du th cts a ge ttint o o n e 80 r a% te u ss ta i n a of salesbpro ilitypo sals y an d pro c a r e G lo b ainl gRepo R eport p o n sib ilit s p ir r t res m niter (ov u yLbe70 in vye,00l a 0€ of Grossinma evn) g Lrgi el C fo r th e co m n d oU f N 8 G va lu e stinanim u m l o b al Comp vo lu n te e ram d a r d s b act r ta le n t to e r y e a r y A p r ou m m un it y service p il 31st 2 012 h o u rs o f c o Rollover to find out more Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 Highlights 10 Our Approach Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability is based on the principles of the triple bottom line: People, Planet, Profit. Using our values to create value At MCI we are convinced that there is no contradiction between running a financially viable business We believe our values and and contributing to sustainable development. our win-win approach to We recognize our responsibility sustainability into our events we imCSR allows us to create when it comes to our environmental prove efficiency, enhance the particivalue for our clients and impact towards employees, business partners, stakeholders and pant experience. For the associations we manage and consult, we have an for society. the communities where we operate. We believe that this approach opportunity to initiate discussions, raise issues and place sustainability is essential to being an attractive firmly on their agenda. For the combusiness partner, to building endurmunities in which we operate we can ing and meaningful relationships, use our skills, resources and talent and ultimately to our growth. to influence and advance sustainable development to make a more CSR is increasingly important to enpositive contribution to society. sure MCI’s competitiveness. It allows us to us build a responsible brand, reEthics – the backbone duce cost, capture new business opof our CSR approach portunities, encourage innovation and The MCI Code of Business Ethstrengthen stakeholder relationships. ics is the Group’s policy for Corporate Social Responsibility. Based CSR – the path to sustainability on the UN Global Compacts 10 The overall objective of our CSR principles, the Code expresses programme is to contribute to the the values and principles for consustainable development of MCI ducting business in an appropriand the communities we serve. Our ate, responsible and transparent vision for global sustainable developmanner. It is the minimum level of ment is of a sustainable planet, just behaviour and is mandatory for all society and a growing economy. MCI employees. We apply our poliWe strive to be an industry role cies to our supply chain through the model for corporate social responSupplier Code of Conduct. Jacqueline Choy sibility. We have been a pioneer in Regional HR Manager (Asia-Pacific), Director & CSR Champion sustainable event management for our clients’ events. By embedding 12 Changing Leadership behaviour Be a pioneer, stand up for what we believe in, lead from the front. 79% of MCI staff say they have changed the way Recognition they work and have Showcase best practice. Award increased sustainable achievement. Share stories. practice in their everyday lives as a direct result of our CSR programme Strategy Take a long term strategic approach. Set few but Sustainability is a dynamic and continucarefully selected targets. Sustainability ous process that is at the heart of our strategic vision and business practice. Ultimately it is about changing the way we work, our attitudes and behaviour. To guide and support this process, Governance Engagement we have researched and built on the experience of fellow sustainMeasure, evaluate, Take a collaborative able organizations to develop our own communicate using the approach with stakeholders. Global Reporting Initiative Establish open dialogue. MCI Sustainability methodology. framework and the UN Ensure understanding. Global Compact principles. Inspire participation. Integration Embed sustainability into operations, don’t ‘add on’. Apply continuous improvement, embrace innovation, invite efficiency. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Approach 13 Leadership simpler and easier to read. and ideas for improvement of MCI’s sustainability agenda is our CSR strategy and initiatives. grounded in the organization’s As signatories to the UN We engaged our clients, supvisions and values. Led by Global Compact, we report on pliers and meetings industry our Group Sustainability Directhe implementation of the ten partners in various meetings tor, Guy Bigwood it is directed principles through our annual and 22 industry sustainability by our Executive Committee UN Communication on Progress events that MCI management and implemented locally by Report. To enhance comparabilled, facilitated or presented at. over forty dedicated and pasity, rigour and transparency, this sionate CSR Champions in sustainability report is produced our offices around the world. using the Global Reporting Initiatives G3.1 Framework. Governance The CSR programme is measStakeholder Engagement ured and appraised monthly by Our approach to sustainability the Executive Vice President is driven by our assessment of and reviewed by the Executive materiality which is regularly Committee and Management reviewed and refined. In the Material Issues Board on a quarterly basis. assessment, we examine our Ethical business practices The External Advisory Board position and responsibility toTalent wellbeing & retention chaired by MCI’s founder and wards our stakeholders, evaluDiversity in management ating how our business practices Sustainability Enlarge President Roger Tondeur, reCommunity citizenship views our sustainability strategy affect them and their organizaEnvironmental impact & performance of offices & events and performance annually tions. We look for potential opSupply chain performance portunities to align our business Business Results This Sustainability Report repregoals with our efforts to help Client Success & Satisfaction sents an important component create a more sustainable world. Employee Engagement of our stakeholder engagement and governance. To identify and For this year’s materiality asReputation & Trust Revenue & Margin prioritize the issues we address sessment, we focused on five in this report we interviewed MCI key stakeholder groups with Trends & Opportunities talent and clients. We discovered whom we are engaged in variIncreasing client demand that 63% of our talent read the ous formal and informal ways. Forthcoming sustainability regulation Innovation 2010 MCI Sustainability Report In 2011, we surveyed over 300 Growth in meetings about sustainability issues and this year we responded to employees and 60 of our largest Stakeholder expectations their request to make it shorter, corporate and association clients who provided valuable feedback Material assessment of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Approach 14 Listening to our stakeholders We have to make 99% 79% 64% CSR simpler and of employees say that of employees say they report having changed Rollover to find out more it is important that feel more engaged to the way they work ** easier to implement. MCI is concerned work for MCI due to and accountable the CSR programme** Sandra Veloso for social and MCI Sao Paulo, Project Manager environmental impacts of the business** Talent Suppliers Clients Meetings Industry Insights from talent meetings and We engaged our suppliers through Valuable information was gathered Industry insights were gained workshops, online survey, and the annual procurement discussions and meetings. through proposals received, through participation in association MCI International Business Meeting. meetings and workshops boards, conferences and meetings *Data collected from Meetings Professionals International 2011 survey of 1,100 meeting and hospitality organizations.. **Data collected from MCI 2011 Client and Talent questionnaire. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Approach 15 “The opportunities for change are vast. We are not passive, helpless victims of the impersonal, determinist forces of history. The exciting thing is that we can choose our future.” Global Trends: Balancing The challenges we face are great, but Risk with Opportunity? so too are the new possibilities that appear when we look at old problems with “As the global population grows from new and fresh eyes. These possibilities 7 billion to almost 9 billion by 2040, include technologies capable of pulling and the number of middle-class conus back from the planetary brink; new sumers increases by 3 billion over markets, new growth and new jobs emthe next 20 years, the demand for anating from game-changing products resources will rise exponentially. By and services; and new approaches 2030, the world will need at least 50 to public and private finance that can per cent more food, 45 per cent more truly lift people out of the poverty trap. Read the United Nations report on energy and 30 per cent more water creating a new blueprint for sustainable — all at a time when environmental The opportunities for change are vast. development and low-carbon prosperity. boundaries are throwing up new limWe are not passive, helpless victims www.un.org/gsp/report its to supply. The current global deof the impersonal, determinist forces velopment model is unsustainable. of history. And the exciting thing is that we can choose our future” Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Approach 16 Stakeholder Driven Strategy Our analysis of trends, issues and opportunities has driven us to develop a strategic sustainability plan for our business based on five pillars: Operations Talent Clients Industry Community We commit to integrate We commit to the advanceWe commit to developing We commit to being a We commit to working principles of sustainment and wellbeing of sustainability products and leader and champion for together to build a vibrant ability consistently into each individual in MCI. solutions that empower our the implementation of susculture of responsibility the daily work of our clients and their organizatainable and responsible and care that generates teams and operations. tions to better engage stakebusiness practices and value for the communiholders, accelerate innovawill use our influence to ties where we work. tion and improve results. actively encourage meetings industry stakeholders to follow our example. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Approach 17 Our Progress Successes, lessons and challenges on the road to sustainability. Operations We strongly commit to integrating We believe in the spirit of winning: of challenging the Collating the employee flight information proved status quo and never being complacent. With quality challenging, but also an opportunity to imour principles of sustainability as a quest we constantly evolve and innovate, pushprove and simplify our processes. We are learnconsistently into the daily ing the boundaries of our systems and procedures. ing from our experience and now focus on imwork of our global teams Since 2011, we require our offices to report quarproved measurement of fewer material issues. and working processes. terly on sustainability impacts and progress. Our goals 100% offices to have 100% offices performing 100% of events assessed 100% of major RFP 80% of suppliers compliant 2015 active CSR plan sustainability reporting for sustainability, health responses and sales with MCI Code of Conduct for and safety risks proposals to include content on sustainability and MCI solutions Our progress in 2011 55% 54 % 38 % 26 offices Included 67 Key partners 12% 18 offices Assessed Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 19 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Kg/CO2e) MCI report using Carbon Dioxide Equiva2,907,172 110,926 32,700 861,437 29,474 78,093 3,608 lents CO2e, which includes carbon emiskg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e kg CO2e Avg. tCO2e sions and other more potentially damagPer employee ing greenhouse gases. The 2011 carbon footprint of the events organized by MCI for clients is estimated at 257,188 tons CO2e. For more information on measurement methodology please consult the Additional Disclosures document. Air Travel Car Travel Train Travel Office Electricity Office Gas Office Fuel Oil Average tCO2e Per Employee “At MCI it is doubly important that our talents are engaged in CSR. Not only because as individuals we can lead the way and make a difference, but also because through the events we organize we can touch hundreds of thousands of people worldwide. That’s a huge responsibility. And a huge opportunity.” Jurriaen Sleijster Executive Vice President Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 20 MCI Leadership procedures of all events. MeetGreen® calculator assessment of four events and planned on an in CSR Award additional twenty. Roll out displays were created Presented each year at MCI’s International Business to communicate the importance of sustainabilMeeting, the CSR award motivates and generates ity to delegates at MCI organized events. enthusiasm for CSR within the company. The qualSales ity of the projects entered has increased significantly MCI’s CSR reputation and deliverables asover the last few years, posing a welcome challenge sisted in winning a master agreement coverfor the judging panel. In 2011, MCI Berlin was recoging eight projects. A client campaign was tarnized as the office that most impressed the judges geted at the 100 German members of the UN with their inspired and enthusiastic CSR efforts. Global Compact, offering them free MeetGreen® Their best practice included: calculator measurement of their event. CSR Strategy Power of Action Development of a team plan with compulsory Over 80 hours were dedicated to five community involvement of all staff and departments. outreach projects, raising 4,000€ for charity. Measurement and communication X-Factor Setting of performance indicators and transparGerrit Jensen, Managing Director of MCI Berlin beent communication of progress. The team accame a member of the ISO20121 German Technical complished 90% of their green office objectives Advisory Group. Presentations were given at indusand 85% of their event operations goals. try events and over 15 articles were published about sustainability in industry media to support the develGreen Office opment and promotion of this new industry standard. Purchase of 100% renewable energy (tools/ sources e.g.). Reduction of costs through the installation of energy meters, heater regulators and water filters. Switch to 100% Eco-labelled cleaning materials, 70% organic/free trade food and beverage, 100% of paper recycled or FSC, emissions from management travel offset. Standard Operating Practices CSR checklists and policy documents translated into German and integrated into the standard Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 21 “The Berlin team is very proud to have won this prestigious award. It recognizes our team for their hard work and success in transforming our event operations and office environment. This award proves to clients and other stakeholders that we really do take action – we don’t just talk the talk!” Matthias Kuehne Project Manager and CSR Champion 22 Sustainability Principle How we can apply it to Meetings and Events Improving the Eliminate our contribution to the • Reduce the need to extract, process and burn fossil fuels. sustainability of progressive build-up of substances • Eliminate single use plastic water bottles our events extracted from the Earth’s crust (eg, • Choose signage not made from plastic and/ heavy metals and fossil fuels) or re-use signage once it is created What can we do to increase the • Promote alternative energy at venues and hotels sustainability results of our events? by choosing suppliers who invest in renewable MCI Sustainability Services has been collaboratenergy and efficient technologies ing with The Natural Step. A Swedish based Eliminate our contribution to the • Require hotels and venues to eliminate toxic and persistent NGO, that pioneered in the development of a cleaning chemicals, paints and adhesives from their operations progressive build up of chemicals scientific approach and systems thinking methand compounds produced by society • Support the growth of organic foods by working with odology towards sustainable development. The (eg, dioxins, PCBs, and DDT) caterers to increase the number of menu items which are grown without use of harmful pesticides and herbicides Natural Step identifies four keys conditions criti• Collaborate with printers who have achieved cal to enabling sustainability. In collaboration with certification that demonstrates their commitment the Green Meetings Industry Council and the to eliminating harmful industrial chemicals Natural Step, MCI assisted to adapt these condiEliminate our contribution to the • Create demand for products produced in a tions or principles for the meetings industry. progressive physical degradation sustainable and responsible way. and destruction of nature and natural • Choose venues, hotels and other suppliers who processes (eg, over-harvesting forests meet criteria of a recognized third party ecoand paving over critical wildlife habitat) certification (GreenGlobe, ISO, GreenKey etc) • Choose Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified products for any printing required for the event • Serve only seafood which meets criteria for being sustainably harvested Eliminate our contribution to • Ask suppliers for evidence that they provide fair wages and a conditions that undermine people’s safe workplace for their employees before contracts are signed capacity to meet their basic human • Create an event activity or community action needs (eg, unsafe working conditions which contributes to the local society and not enough pay to live on) • Ensure that if gifts are purchased for event participants, that local handicrafts made by people earning a fair wage are considered • Serve fair trade coffee and tea Watch: Sustainability in Two Minutes • Draft contracts which require a donation to charities for any violation of agreements reached between event planner and supplier Can’t view the video? Click to watch on YouTube. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 23 Talent Embedding CSR into MCI talent management societies in which we operate. We value and actively promote diversity employment contracts, 15% have fixed term contracts and 10% are inOur HR and Sustainability teams have in all its forms which includes culture, tern trainees. We integrated a code People and culture are at been working together to integrate race, ethnicity, age, gender, sexual of ethics into our employee induction the heart of our strategy. CSR into all aspects of the talent manorientation, gender identity and physiand in 2012 we will work to impleAs such, we recognize agement process. This starts with cal ability. As a company, we strive ment improved anti-corruption prorecruitment and proceeds to include for gender balance at all levels and cedures and control processes. that our richly diverse induction, training, career developthroughout all of our global teams. In teams represent ment and performance management. the mid-term we need to monitor and our most precious In 2012, we are improving our IT sysimprove that balance in our Asian and tems to allow us to improve the measSouth American offices, as well as resource. We commit urement of these new processes. across our Executive Committee. to the advancement Championing diversity A responsible and wellbeing of Diversity fosters an international employer and supplier each individual. mind-set that enhances innovation At MCI, we strive to create meanand our ability to work cross-culturally ingful relationships that build unand expand into new markets, givderstanding and trust. 75% of our ing us a better understanding of the workforce currently have permanent Goals 2015 Progress 2010 Progress 2011 Goal 2012 Talent development and wellbeing Programmes 85% employee retention 87% 83% 83% 78% talent satisfaction n/k 78% 80% with MCI sustainability performance and strategy Gender balance of women 27% 38% 34% in senior management 50% talent participation in 1 office had programme 4 offices had programmes 20% health and wellness programme 14,200 hours of learning 5,018 hours 8,624 hours 9,930 hours and development Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 24 Developing talents Zealand, blackouts and power outages in Brazil The development of our talent is powered by and a tsunami in Japan. Our crisis management the MCI Institute. Through robust and provprocedures were put to the test, with our teams en training and development programmes, worked around the clock to ensure the safety of The MCI Institute achieved the following: our clients and employees. Leveraging other offices and our talent we were able to reschedule 8,624 hours of learning and development and reallocate events and workload to support our were delivered (a 72% increase over 2010). client projects and ensure business continuity. 1865 people enrolled in MCI Institute Mind, body and spirit. workshops (a 270% increase over 2010). Delivering events with tight deadlines can be highly pressured and demanding. We have piloted health, In 2011, the number of online topics and hours nutrition and exercise programmes in 5 offices to delivered increased by 530% from 2010. This help keep our talents fighting fit and healthy. This resulted in a 333% increase in enrollments to concept will be expanded on a group level as the online sessions compared to 2010. Overall in Boost programme and rolled out in late 2012. 2011, online enrolments accounted for 67% of all MCI Institute learning programmes. This shift For the second time, the MCI Brussels office organto online learning can help us to reduce the ized its Health Week. Various activities took place carbon emission generated by our education within the office: a nutrition workshop, sporting activiprogrammes and their associated travel costs. ties, Zumba, yoga, running and badminton. A special healthy morning gift was placed every 64% of all training was for female day to help staff start the day the right way. employees: 36% for men. “Ama Sana InCorpore Sano” became the new MCI Brussels office motto. Every manager is responsible for assessing and developing talent in the organization. In 2011 MCI Singapore talent participated in 90% of all employees received regular perforthe Yellow Ribbon Run, a socially mance and career development reviews. responsible cause focused on building healthier communities. Promoting health & safety We take our responsibility for health and safety seri79% of employees say they feel ously. Today there are 22 office-based health and more engaged to work for MCI safety coordinators and over 500 MCI employees due to the CSR programme. have participated in health and safety training. 2011 was a challenging year in terms of natural disasters. There were earthquakes in New Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 25 Bringing it together MCI Dubai launched “Yalla MCI” meaning ‘Let’s Move MCI’ in Arabic. It was created by MCI Dubai to engage staff and create a CSR culture and experience for MCI Talents to be proud of. It integrated greening, wellness and community action projects. As part of the programme MCI staff participated in 3 awareness campaigns focusing on major health concerns prevalent in the UAE: Cardiology, Osteoporosis, Diabetes. Hannah Fani MCI Dubai CSR Champion Watch: Yalla MCI Can’t view the video? Click to watch on YouTube. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 26 responsibility and sustainability. Sustainability Services and our local offices have been building relationships with many of the most important ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) and energy organizations around the world. Clients In 2012, MCI will provide logistical and strategic advisory services to the UN Conference on Bringing added value to clients and Biodiversity (CoP11), the UN Corporate Forum their communities, our sustainability on sustainability at Rio+20 and the GRI Australia Conference on Sustainability and Reporting. programmes are designed to empower organizations to Expertise and experience MCI Sustainability Services is our business unit better engage stakeholders, that provides expert advice to our clients and supimprove operational efficiencies, pliers, who want to become leaders in the field of accelerate innovation and sustainability and gain competitive advantage. The team works globally supporting our association and increase return on investment. corporate clients but also industry associations, national tourism organizations, convention bureaux and Continuing our efforts to support organizations congress centres on bespoke consulting projects. promoting the transition to a more sustainable and responsible global economy, MCI organized over 89 events about energy, corporate Goals 2015 Progress 2010 Progress 2011 Goal 2012 Empowering Clients: Develop sustainability services to support our clients and the industry shift toward improved sustainability performance Increase market share of 15 events organized 89 events organized Not Defined events about CSR, Energy and Sustainability 100% of top 10 MCI accounts 0% 0% 10% to include sustainability clauses in MCI contracts Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 27 Our Systems, Tools & Methodologies Sustainable Event Management Personal Sustainability MCI CSR commitment and leadership Wellness and exercise programmes Standard operating procedures & compliant supply chain Health Initiatives Safety & sustainability risk assessment on all events Sustainable Event Consulting Creation Strategy co-creation & development Sustainability communications & brand development Performance Improvement Meeting design & content animation Measurement, reporting & certification Programme & Content development Community Outreach Sustainable Destination Consulting Community action Strategy development and stakeholder engagement Sustainable development projects Market analysis and research Stakeholder engagement Measurement strategies & GRI reporting See more information on our portfolio of systems, tools and methodologies Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 28 The Climate Group – Delivering Transforming destinations and dialogue on sustainability accelerating innovation For the last three years the Climate Group has selected MCI Hong Kong to help organize the “Here at the Gothenburg Business Summit on Climate Leadership. The annual meeting gathers over 150 regional Convention Bureau, we want to and international leaders with an objective be the leading sustainable events to foster dialogue, share knowledge and acdestination. In 2010 we reached celerate the world’s transition to a low carbon, out to MCI’s sustainability team smarter and more prosperous future. Leverto help us to develop a strategic aging MCI’s sustainable event management plan and engage our city and framework, MCI Hong Kong carefully selected suppliers and partners that displayed comindustry leaders in the business mitment to delivering sustainable events and of sustainability. So far, we have cost effectiveness. The Hotel Intercontinental increased hotel eco-certification Hong Kong was selected as the venue. Over to 91% of our total city inventory 65% of recycled materials were used including and venue certification to 100% name badges, lanyards, napkins and environand this year we will certify mentally-friendly decoration. The unavoidable emissions from the production of the event and all six city-organized events. from delegate travel were offset accordingly. In 2011 we were recognized as Europe’s number one EcoDestination by Business Traveller magazine. There is now an unstoppable energy in the air which will help us toward achieving our goal of being the world’s greenest city by 2021.” Lennart Johannson Director Gothenburg Convention Bureau Lennart Johannson Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress Director Gothenburg Convention Bureau 29 “In Copenhagen, we’ve invested a great deal in creating what we think of as the ‘World Capital of Sustainable Meetings’ Sustainability is an important differentiator for us and brings a number of important business benefits to our city. Our team at Wonderful Copenhagen is now well versed in the fundamentals of sustainability and embraces the need to think differently to create new solutions for the benefit of Copenhagen’s future. Thanks to the infectious enthusiasm, kinetic creativity and expertise of MCI we have continued to develop our sustainability initiatives and now are again working together on a bigger, more ambitious project called the Danish Sustainable Events Initiative.” Steen Jakobsen Director of Conventions, Wonderful Copenhagen Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 30 Pioneering sustainability standards, Measuring and reporting progress 80 saving money and driving innovation. Having produced over 20 Sustainable event reports, With a vision to the first Sustainable European MCI has become a leader in sustainable event meas60 Union Presidency, MCI and the Danish Ministry urement and reporting. Since 2009 MCI Sustainability of Foreign affairs worked together to develop a Services have been working with the 40 sustainable event management system that comEuropean Wind Energy Association to embed plies with and will be certified to the new ISO20121 sustainability into the organization of their annual 20 standard. Covering over 100 meetings, this will be conferences. Event environmental and social impacts the world’s largest implementation of the standard were assessed before and after the event using the for a government or corporate organization. The MeetGreen® tool, which measures and benchmarks Average EWEC Offshore EWEC EWEA score 2009 2009 2010 2011 Danish approach to organizing the EU Presiover 150 areas of event sustainability. Effort over non-EWEA events* dency in a more sustainable and strategic manthe last 4 events has seen a steady improvement of ner is estimated to have saved over $70 Million. sustainability practices, with a noteworthy 89% of Event sustainability performance for the EWEA event waste being recycled including over 31,340m2 conferences has been measured and improved annually of carpet in their 2011 conference in Brussels. using the MeetGreen® calculator and approach. Fighting poverty MCI Madrid helped to organize the Global Microcredit Summit in Valladolid, Spain. The event supports a campaign to ensure that 175 million of the world’s poorest families, especially the female members of those families, receive credit for self-employment and other financial and business services by the end of 2015. Watch: Pioneering sustainability standards, Careful financial management helped MCI to consaving money and driving innovation trol budget and reduce expenses so that over one million euro could be invested in grants to Can’t view the video? Click to watch on YouTube. participants and microcredit development. Her Majesty Queen Sofía of Spain, Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Professor Muhammad Yunus, and more than 2,000 delegates from over 100 countries attended the event. MCI Madrid management with Professor Muhammad Yunus at the Global Microcredit Summit. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 31 Meetings Industry Representatives of MCI occupy many prominent positions within industry associations, a fact that has enabled us to use our vision, expertise and action to share our sustainability strategy with a much wider audience and contribute to education and to the development of best practices within the industry. Being at the forefront of the latest industry Highlights and engaged with some of the most important developments and sustainability trends, MCI is able to sustainability initiatives in the meetings industry. play an active role in encouraging our clients, partners, MCI became an organizational stakeholder They were involved in the development of industry suppliers and competitors to commit to adopting a in the Global Reporting Initiative. frameworks and standards including ISO20121, the higher standard of sustainable business practice. Our Group Sustainability Director, Guy Bigwood, GRI Event Organizers Sector Supplement was the President of the Green Meeting Industry and the APEX/ASTM Environmentally Council (GMIC) until July 2011. Sustainability Sustainability Standards. MCI experts assisted Manager, Michael Luehrs, was elected President in the development of learning resources and of the GMIC from July 2011. Three MCI managers guides for the GMIC, United Nations Environmental held board positions and helped to develop GMIC Program (UNEP) and the Natural Step. chapters in Sweden, Holland and Spain. Since 2008, MCI leaders have delivered over 129 In addition, Philippe Fournier President of MCI in keynote sessions and workshops on sustainability France became the President of the International to over 18,000 people, inspiring change and better Association of Professional Congress Organizers business practices in the meetings industry. In (IAPCO), Sébastien Tondeur – MCI Chief Executive 2011 we reduced our speaking engagements to Officer became Chairman of Meeting Professionals focus on internal engagement and client projects. International and Aoife Delaney Director of Global Our opinions and experiences implementing Sales for Ovation Global DMC joined the board of sustainability have been published on our the Society of Incentive Travel Executives (SITE). ‘Less Conversation, More Action’ CSR MCI Brussels participated actively in the steering blog, which attracted 12,327 visits in 2011. group of the recently founded UN Global Compact Belgium Network.Our business leaders co-created Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 32 Community Goals 2015 Progress 2010 Progress 2011 Goal 2012 Serving the Community: Build a vibrant culture of responsibility As part of a global community, we and care that generates value for the community want to make the world in which 16 hours of pro-bono 1 hour / employee 1hour/employee 8 hours/employee or community service we live a better place. We commit 880 hours total 1253 hours total 9600 hours total per talent per year to working together to build a Fundraising by MCI Talent € 74,086 € 208,597 n/k vibrant culture of responsibility Invest 2% of net profit to MCI € 115,000 5% 173000€ 165,000 € and care that generates value. sustainability programmes This philosophy has become an integral part of the Power of Action Bertrand Mbiaffie MCI way. We regularly and proactively engage with Power of Action is the name we give to MCI Brussels, non-governmental organizations to create community our community outreach initiatives. Community Manager action projects, and use our expertise to help communities develop and become more sustainable. MCI teams are encouraged (but not obliged) to consider the following three criteria when developing community projects: Building community: Does the project create links and relationships that will bring benefit to people by facilitating business, creating networks, offering guidance and/or core MCI skills and resources? Education: Will the programme provide enhanced access to information? Will it share or develop knowledge that can stimulate life chances and development? Fun: Is the initiative engaging and positive, providing participants with buoyancy of spirit, increased optimism, hope and esprit de corps? Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 33 Believe in your heart – Developing creative and dreams can come true socially responsible leaders For the 2011 International Business For the 2010 International Business Meeting, MCI talent from around the Meeting (IBM) in Istanbul, MCI partworld provided ideas which were nered with The Young Guru Academy used to write an MCI song around (YGA), to support their programme to the event theme. With the help of create more socially responsible and professional musician Corinne Gibinnovative young leaders. MCI offices bons, the MCI CSR team recorded organized an eco-build activity for the song, “Dreaming on the Outside” 80 children, raised over €6,500 and which was then performed by 84 MCI funded the construction of a new creaTalents and Partners to thousands tive learning library for YGA’s Readof visitors at the Montreux Christmas Think-Share in Sivas, Turkey. Classes market. Uniting together to create and started at the Kizilirmak Elementary sing this song, the activity unlocked School in February 2011 with 4 unipassion in the participants, as well versity student moderators teaching as some hidden singing talent. To12 elementary school students. A total gether over 15,000CHF was raised of 13 weeks of classes were held in for the Little Dreams Foundation. The 2011 and one student achieved suffimoney is currently being used to fund cient results to be accepted and atthe No Difference campaign which tend the YGA Young Stars Leadership supports children with disabilities. Camp that took place in Istanbul in July. Classes started again in 2012. Watch: Dreaming on the Outside Can’t view the video? Click to watch on YouTube. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 34 Irish Autism Action Annual Gala Engaging suppliers and having fun Ball tops €1,000,000 target The Ovation marketing team teamed MCI Dublin reached a fundraising up with merchandising supplier Stalandmark in December. MCI has protionery 365 on a project where for duced the Keith Duffy IAA Annual Ball every €150 spent by MCI a new cuddly for the past five years. Last Decemtoy is donated to a child in need. The ber the event raised over €120,000 to Stationery 365 team came into the ofhelp Children with Autism in Ireland. fice to present the toys & share in the This brings the grand total to over MCI Music Madness Day, which was €1,000,000 raised since 2007. The created as a fun way to raise money event took place in the Ritz Carlton for the Little Dreams Foundation. Hotel (Location?) and had its highest “One of the after dinner speakers at the IAA Autism attendance to date with 400 people atAnnual Gala Ball spoke about the positive impact of tending the Gala Fundraising Evening. iPads and how the special apps can help children with Autism. We invited our client CISCO to the event, and they were inspired to help, offering to donate five iPads to the Irish Autism Association. Last night I received an emotional call from our client. He and his wife had just dropped off two of the iPads to a family who have two boys who suffer from autism. They set up the units and downloaded some Autism friendly apps. The two boys loved the iPads and took to them like ducks to water. The boys’ mother couldn’t believe it; it was one of the first times both kids looked so happy as they sat quietly playing away with their new technology. Its great to get such positive feedback from a client, sometimes the small things can mean the most.” Mark Egan MCI Dublin, National Events Director Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 35 Leverage delegates to leave a legacy On 4th Oct, MCI Singapore organized an event where by 130 Monsanto leaders congregated to build 27 bicycles for underprivileged children at two orphanages in Langkawi, Malaysia. The children were thrilled to receive the bicycles and enjoyed the event immensely. Working together In June, MCI Barcelona organized a community project for sales and marketing managers from SAP who worked together to redecorate and build furniture for the Nova Esperança children’s home. Due to bad weather the project was not finished, so MCI Barcelona staff returned a month later to finish the work. Subsequently, the MCI Barcelona team choose to make Nova Esperança their core CSR partner, and will be offering them additional hands-on help and fundraising assistance in 2012 and beyond. Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 36 When People Meet, Magic Happens. MCI Buenos Aires supported the Supervielle Bank to develop a CSR team building activity to engage their 450 staff in an activity to support disadvantaged children. The event participants worked together to build and decorate furniture that was then donated to a foster home in Mar del Plata. Materials were also donated to finish the bedrooms and bathrooms. Children and families from the foster home joined the team to celebrate all the hard work. Having fun! MCI is serious about sustainability. But for success, we have learned that you must make it fun! We believe that many small actions aggregate to create lasting change. In November, MCI Barcelona invited partners, friends and family for a special MCI Mad Music day in order to raise money for the Little Dreams Foundation. The MCI CSR champions convinced a local karaoke bar to provide them with a free space and then negotiated a split on the drinks revenues. Staff then donated CDs which were auctioned to raise cash. Sustainability – the entrepreneurial MCI way! Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 37 MCI Talent raised €207,597 through community Stockholm WaxöOmsorg projects, supporting 52 charities around the globe. RIA – supporting homeless people Mayflower Association Gothenburg Brussels Mayflower Association Serve The City “Blodomloppet” NASCI Berlin UnionhilfswerkSozialeinrichtungengemeinnützige Petersfield Berliner Stadtmission Dublin Kinderhaus Berlin-Mitte e.V. The Prince’s Trust Concern Weitblicke.V. GOAL Irish Motor Neurone Disease Niall Mellon Township Trust Irish Autism Action Beijing Rotara Beijing Zurich Glückskette “Japan” Glückskette Paris and Lyon “Libyen/Nordafrika” Planète Urgence Jeder Rappen zählt (Children in disadvantaged areas) Les Restos du Cœur National Future Day Geneva and HQ Hong Kong Aide-et-Action Hong Kong Cancer Fund Make a Wish Vancouver Box of Hope Get-the-world-moving Union Gospel Mission Phileas Canadian Blood Services Donations Singapore Dubai and Abu Dhabi Yellow Ribbon Run 2011 Dorier Association Rêves Suisse Love your Bones Smiling Children World Heart Day Sao Paulo and Rio FFFS Paroquia São Bom Jesus FADA Adelaide, Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne Brisbane flood clean up and donations Barcelona and Madrid Moggill/Bellbowrie flood victims Nova Esperanza Childrens Home Red Cross In + Out Hostel Run for Kids AccionNatura CARA Family Day volunteering RSPCA Cupcake Day Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report Our Progress 38 The MCI CSR Champions – Change Makers The MCI CSR programme is powered by a team of dedicated and passionate CSR Champions who lead the implementation of the CSR programme in our local offices around the world. 39 Scope of Report and Additional Disclosures As organizational stakeholders of the Global Reporting Initiative, this document uses the GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines to improve structure, content and comparability. Scope of Report and external stakeholders. We believe the Acknowledgements boundary and scope of this report provide We would like to say a particular thank a faithful representation of our sustainyou to all the MCI staff and the following Material issues ability strategies and material, economic, reporting experts for their time reviewThe scope and the issues covered in our environmental and social impacts of MCI. ing and providing feedback that improved sustainability report were selected based this report: Jose Luis Hervas, Andrew on the GRI G3 guidelines, the GRI boundCompliance with standards Walker, Roger Simons, Michael Luehrs, ary protocol, stakeholder input and on-going As organizational Rachael Addley and David Barder. trend analysis. We define Materiality as both stakeholders of the challenges and opportunities that potentially Global Reporting Design by nokostudio.com or actually affect our ability to achieve our Initiative (GRI), we business and sustainability objectives. Key have used the GRI Material Issues are identified (p.14) by MCI’s G3.1 Sustainabilmanagement and through stakeholder ity Reporting Guidedialogue. These Material Issues drive the lines to improve the development of our sustainability strategy. structure, content Feedback required and comparability The third MCI Sustainability Report (preof this report. It has been externally and “The journey to sustainability is a viously known as the Corporate Social independently checked by GRI and given collaborative one. Via a short Responsibility Report) covers the period a certificate of conformance at level C. online survey, we would like to since our last report, from January 1st 2011 invite you to share your thoughts until December 31st 2011. The informaAn index that outlines our compliance with about this report, as well as any tion in this report covers all MCI operations the GRI guidelines and offers an explanasuggestions that might help us but omits to cover cover joint ventures. tion of how we comply with its guiding to improve the efficiency and All references to years are to MCI’s fisprinciples is available in the Additional impact of our efforts towards cal year, January to December 2011. Disclosure Appendix. This document sustainability. Thank You” also include the Communication on ProDriving performance gress (COP) report for the United Nations Guy Bigwood The key objective of this report is to drive Global Compact. It should be used in Group Sustainability Director performance of our sustainability proconjunction with the MCI Annual Report cesses and promote accountability. 2011 entitled “A Path to Performance” The content, metrics and goals in this which contains a more comprehensive guy.bigwood@mci-group.com report are established by the MCI susreview of our financial performance, tainability and MCI’s executive managebusiness strategies and governance. @guybigwood ment team in consultation with internal Contents MCI 2011 Sustainability Report About Our Reporting 41 A huge thank you to all the dedicated and visionary people who have made the change happen that is documented in this report. www.mci-group.com/csr www.lessconversationmoreaction.com www.mci-group.com/expertise/sustainability_services
