Responsible UL.com STRQuality.com THIS DOCUMENT IS FOR GENERAL INFORMATION PURPOSES ONLY AND IS NOT INTENDED TO CONVEY LEGAL OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL ADVICE. Sourcing 2011 UNITED NATIONS Global Compact Report UL and the UL logo are trademarks of UL LLC © 2012. passion for safety AND A commitment to working with integrity Since 1894, the mission of UL (Underwriters Laboratories) has been “working for a safer world,” which is at the core of everything the company does. Through its network of nearly 9,000 employees and more than 200 laboratories and inspection centers, UL advances safety through careful research and investigation, helps prevent or reduce loss of life and property, and promotes safe living and working environments for all people. UL promotes and maintains a values-driven corporate culture, ensuring that the principles of integrity, honesty, quality and fairness are integrated into our business practices on a consistent basis around the world. I am pleased to support Responsible Sourcing’s continued membership and active involvement in the United Nations Global Compact. As the President of UL Verification Services, I hereby renew the ongoing commitment of Responsible Sourcing to the Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labor standards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption. Sajeev Jesudas, President, UL Verification Services On September 1, 2011, UL, a world leader in advancing safety, completed the acquisition of STR Quality Assurance (STR QA) within STR Holdings, Inc., including STR Responsible Sourcing (STR RS). Approximately 300 STR RS employees based around the world joined UL’s Verification Services business through the acquisition and the group is now known as Responsible Sourcing. The following report reflects Responsible Sourcing’s (formerly STR RS) global operations and activities from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. 2 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT principles UNGC PRINCIPLES 1 & 2 HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC PRINCIPLES 1 & 2 as part of their professional development. For more information about how Responsible Sourcing invests in Protecting workers during the assessment process is a primary concern of Responsible Sourcing and various steps Lastly, where sensitive issues are identified or anticipated, off-site interviews are incorporated into the audit protocol, HUMAN RIGHTS training our employees, please see page 20. are taken to reduce the risk of retaliation against workers who speak to our auditors. Firstly, Responsible Sourcing in collaboration with the client. In addition, Responsible Sourcing provides guidance, has a strict confidentiality policy and workers’ names As a good corporate citizen, we respect the human rights training, and awareness-raising for our clients and their are omitted from any written reports. Secondly, where and dignity of every person. suppliers on applying human rights and international sensitive issues are identified that could be linked to labor standards in global supply chains. individual testimony, our auditors will not disclose those Responsible Sourcing provides employees with training on issues in the closing meeting or in the report, but will human rights and international labor standards upon hire. As a third-party monitoring firm, Responsible Sourcing complete a separate shadow report for the client. Where Employees also have ongoing opportunities to further evaluates thousands of workplaces worldwide against workers indicate they would like to provide additional their education on human rights by attending additional human rights and labor standards. This activity helps our information, auditors in the US provide a toll free number trainings, engaging in activities, and reading weekly clients to reduce the risk that they might be complicit in workers can access in confidence. bulletins about various aspects of corporate responsibility human rights abuses in their supply chains. 4 5 UNGC PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 5 & 6 the U.S., Responsible Sourcing expended considerable resources on raising awareness around human trafficking with local, state and federal employment laws. We do not tolerate harassment of any kind and discrimination trafficking, child labor, and discrimination. Where such cases are confirmed, Responsible Sourcing works with the LABOR STANDARDS and modern-day slavery in supply chains during 2011. Please see page 14 for more information. based on a person’s characteristics such as race, ethnicity, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, genetic information or disability. companies concerned to develop remediation plans that put the workers’ best interests forward. Responsible Sourcing respects the rights of its employees Responsible Sourcing does not use or condone the use of worldwide to freely associate, organize and collectively child labor. We define “child” as anyone under the age of At Responsible Sourcing we strive to provide all employees bargain in line with local laws. 15 or under the legal employment age of the country or with a respectful and fair work environment free of jurisdiction, whichever is higher. All Responsible Sourcing harassment or abuse. See pages 26 for further information Responsible Sourcing does not use or condone the use of employees are above the local legal age limit and age on diversity at Responsible Sourcing. forced or involuntary labor. All employees are engaged by documentation is maintained on file for all employees. Responsible Sourcing voluntarily and employees can leave In addition to our internal policies and procedures for at their will. Responsible Sourcing does not retain original Responsible Sourcing is an equal opportunity employer employees, Responsible Sourcing works with companies identification documents of our employees. and bases its recruitment, employment, development to identify cases of infringements on labor rights in their and promotion decisions solely on a person’s ability and supply chains, including lack of freedom of association In light of the changing regulatory environment in potential in relation to the needs of the job, and complies and collective bargaining, presence of forced labor, human UNGC PRINCIPLES labor standards 6 7 UNGC PRINCIPLES Environmental Responsibility UNGC PRINCIPLES Anti-Corruption UNGC PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9 UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 for or on behalf of UL, from directly or indirectly offering bribes, kickbacks and other improper payments whether ENVIRONMENTAL ANTI-CORRUPTION in form of money or any other thing of value. UL has a Global Ethics Helpline and e-mail address for employees, RESPONSIBILITY Responsible Sourcing is committed to doing business fairly, honestly and openly, to complying with the law, clients, suppliers, or visitors to report concerns, and has a strict non-retaliation policy. For information on our ethics program see page 20. Responsible Sourcing is committed to operating in an and to meeting the highest ethical standards in all our environmentally friendly manner. For general information business activities. As of September, 2011, Responsible on our environmental initiatives, see pages 23. In Sourcing follows the UL Standards of Business Conduct 2011, Responsible Sourcing continued to expand our which stipulate that UL employees must never solicit environmental service capabilities to assist clients in gifts, entertainment or favors of any value from persons advancing environmental responsibility in their global or firms with which UL does business or may do business supply chains. with in the future. UL’s policy, as well as many laws around the world, prohibit UL employees, and anyone working 8 9 identifying supply PRODUCTS chain risks & SERVICES Responsible Sourcing is dedicated to helping our clients build secure and socially responsible relationships with their supply chain partners. We are a leading provider of corporate responsibility auditing and consulting services, which include monitoring, training, research, and program development. We are an accredited monitor for numerous social certification programs, and we partner with many organizations that share our mission of assuring responsible sourcing practices. Assessments The chart entitled “Assessments by Region 2011” shows regional trends in our assessment work based on 17,000 assessments conducted in Categories In order to gather aggregate data, Responsible Sourcing categorizes and tracks labor and human rights non-compliance issues identified during by Region of over 100 countries in 2011. While China remained our primary country of on-site assessments. The graph “Percentage of Violations by Category” operation in terms of assessments, we continued to see an increasing shows percentages of violations out of the total number of violations Violations trend in auditing in Vietnam and Thailand although we saw a decrease we found during on-site assessments in 2011. The numbers reflect the in assessments in Bangladesh and Indonesia. Our largest year-on-year percentage of violations found for each of these main categories as they increase was in Japan, followed by the US where our agricultural work relate to all the violations we found in 2011. continued to grow. ASSESSMENTS BY REGION 2011 PERCENTAGE OF VIOLATIONS BY CATEGORY 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 20% OHS (Emergency Preparedness) China (63%) 18% Work Hours Southeast Asia (10%) 18% Minimum Wage Indian Subcontinent (8%) 18% OHS (Workfloor) North America (8%) 8% OHS (Fire Safety) East Asia excl. China (5%) 6% Legal & Client Requirements Note, for the purposes of clarity, not all categories are reflected in the graph. Latin America (3%) 5% Child Labor Abbreviations used in graphs: OHS = Occupational Health and Safety Europe (3%) 3% OHS (Toilets) H&S = Health and Safety Africa (1%) 1% Environmental H&S Middle East (1%) 0 5 10 15 20 25 10 11 Identifying Average ASSESSMENT RESULTS BY GRADE CLASSIFICATION Supply Assessment 20% Low Risk Chain Risks Grades 48% High Risk 32% The graph named “Assessment Results by Grade Intermediate Classification” depicts the average grade a facility we have Risk assessed received according to our Responsible Sourcing Standard Grade classification. The majority (80%) of assessments result in medium to high risk grades. The results are based on a statistical sample of the over 20,000 assessments conducted in 2011. Training and Capacity Building In 2011, Responsible Sourcing conducted approximately 100 training and capacity-building engagements to assist suppliers in implementing management systems for sustainable compliance. Responsible Sourcing’ approach to continuous improvement starts with identifying root causes and gaining management’s commitment to addressing systemic, and not just surface, issues. In 2011, Responsible Sourcing also appointed a new Global Manager of Capacity Building and Management Advisory Services. Responsible Sourcing recognizes the problems associated with audit fatigue and we acknowledge that auditing alone does not always result in workplace improvements. However, we are committed to making a positive impact on workers and to collaborating with our clients to find ways to drive sustainable improvements in their supply chains. 12 13 industry-wide engagement and knowledge sharing Responsible Sourcing is recognized as a thought leader in responsible sourcing and Responsible Sourcing experts regularly provide industry expertise and insights in a variety of forums. Human In 2011, companies were gearing up for the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act (SB657), which went around the world, including the US, Taiwan, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand, UAE, Jordan and others. A report based including an article in the August 2011 edition of the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics magazine. Trafficking on our findings will be published in 2012. into effect on January 1, 2012. In order to help companies • Sponsoring the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking (CAST) prepare to meet the disclosure requirements contained • Revising standard audit tools and protocols, including Annual Gala in May, 2011. in the Act, Responsible Sourcing coordinated a number of employee interview techniques and rolling out global awareness-raising events including: auditor training on human trafficking and modern-day • Hosting two multi-stakeholder roundtable discussions on human An estimated 27 million people are victims of modernslavery. trafficking and modern-day slavery that included speakers from the day slavery around the world today. Human Trafficking UN Office on Drugs and Crime and from the Coalition to Abolish • Speaking at the American Apparel and Footwear is a 32 billion dollar industry and along with drugs and Association’s (AAFA) Social Responsibility Committee • Providing guidance to clients on revising their supplier Slavery & Trafficking (CAST). arms trafficking, one of the largest sources of profits for codes of conduct to cover human trafficking. meeting about human trafficking. • Conducting seminars on human trafficking organized crime. There are anywhere between 600,000 • Learning about human trafficking red flags and and the California Transparency in Supply and 800,000 victims trafficked through international • Launching a set of human trafficking indicators to help interview techniques from the Coalition to Abolish Chains Act in eight US cities and in Shanghai borders every year, which does not include the millions identify the risk of human trafficking and modern-day Slavery and Trafficking (CAST) and incorporating the and Hong Kong. slavery in global supply chains. trafficked domestically within their own countries. As methodologies into our standard auditor training. many as 18,000 men, women, and children are trafficked • Conducting research on the issue through stakeholder • Writing articles and blogs about human trafficking, into the U.S. every year. consultations in key sending and receiving countries 14 15 Conflict Minerals conflict minerals in the supply chain, including: Responsible Sourcing Industry-wide • Serving as a member of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) Consultative Panel for the Chain of Custody Standard. Annual Responsible Engagement Sourcing Summit Responding to the humanitarian crisis in the Eastern • Serving as a member of the OECD Drafting Committee for the Gold Democratic Republic of Congo, the U.S. Congress Supplement to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible tasked the Security Exchange Commission (SEC) with and Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, a In 2011, Responsible Sourcing held our sixth Annual legislation requiring companies to report on their use of • Being interviewed for various articles on conflict minerals (Agenda Knowledge Week, Wall Street Journal, CFO Magazine). Responsible Sourcing Summit in Los Angeles and featured minerals from the African Great Lakes region. Companies a number of distinguished guest speakers, including Rev. in the electronics, jewelry, pharmaceutical or automotive David Schilling, from the Interfaith Center on Corporate Sharing industries will have to submit independently audited By engaging in these initiatives, we are contributing to establishing necessary linkages between the upstream and Responsibility, Christine Bader, advisor to John Ruggie, the annual reports, describing their efforts to determine the downstream supply chain, helping to increase transparency United Nations Secretary-General’s Special Representative on country of origin of raw material used in their products. and accountability in the minerals supply chain. Business and Human Rights; and Kay Buck, Executive Director, of the Coalition to Abolish Slavery and Trafficking (CAST). In 2011, Responsible Sourcing continued to participate in industry and multi-stakeholder initiatives dealing with Danish Institute for Human Industry Association Pro Bono InItiatives and Projects Rights (DIHR) Advancing Social Responsible Sourcing is collaborating with some of the industry’s foremost institutes, NGOs and associations to advance knowledge and research around topics like child labor, women’s rights and labor law and policy. It is our hope the In 2011, Responsible Sourcing forged a partnership with Responsibility following initiatives will bear improvements to global labor standards: the DIHR to collaborate around country-specific human rights information. Responsible Sourcing is providing the In 2011, Responsible Sourcing continued to be an DIHR access to the Labor and Employment Standards active member of the American Apparel & Footwear Advancing Women’s Rights Public Sector Engagement Library (LESLi) so that DIHR can better build its human Association (AAFA) Social Responsibility Committee rights reports that will be publicly available. While the (SRC) to help identify and discuss global social in Global Supply Chains on Child and Forced Labor process that the DIHR goes through to develop these responsibility issues and trends that affect the reports includes in-country research and engagement apparel and footwear industries. Responsible Sourcing Beginning in 2011, BSR and Responsible Sourcing formed In 2011, Responsible Sourcing’ Senior Director of Research with in-country stakeholders, LESLi provides easy and presented on ISO26000 at AAFA’s SRC meeting in a partnership which will examine women’s health & Development, Rachelle Jackson, continued to serve thorough access to labor laws for countries around the March, 2011 and on Human Trafficking at the SRC’s issues in global supply chains. Building on the successful as a member in the US Department of Agriculture’s world. More information on the future portal that will September 2011 meeting. experience of BSR with the HERproject and Responsible Consultative Group to Eliminate the Use of Child Labor house these country reports can be found here: http:// Sourcing’ extensive monitoring background, this and Forced Labor in Imported Agricultural Products. www.humanrightsbusiness.org/country+portal initiative will examine the links between women’s health Established by the 2008 Farm Bill, the Consultative Building our Social Media conditions in global manufacturing facilities, business Group will develop and make recommendations to the results, and social compliance. Secretary of Agriculture regarding guidelines to reduce Industry-Specific Research Presence the likelihood that agricultural products imported into As part of this ongoing collaboration, BSR and Responsible the United States are produced with the use of child or Responsible Sourcing continued its work with several In 2011, Responsible Sourcing continued to be active Sourcing have defined a set of indicators that will allow forced labor. An update on the Group’s activities can be academic institutions, including Harvard and Georgetown in the social media space with a number of senior for data on women’s health to be collected as an add-on found here: http://www.fas.usda.gov/info/Child_labor/ universities, to analyze Responsible Sourcing generic staff members gaining influence and exposure on to Responsible Sourcing’ social compliance assessments. Stabenow%20Nov.pdf violations data. The academic teams worked on compiling Twitter. In June, 2011, Rachelle Jackson, Senior Director, Select multinational companies will be invited to additional data to be able to start running regressions. As Sustainability Practices (@csrmaven), was named as participate in this initiative, with the collection of described in last year’s report, the objective of the research having a “must-follow” Twitter account for CSR by the indicators taking place during 2012. United Nations Global is to identify the causal relationships among consumer organization Communications 4 Good. Responsible Sourcing research staff continued to publish articles on expectations, stakeholder initiatives, and brand programs Through the subsequent analysis of the collected data, Compact (UNGC) with better working conditions. Using thousands of data our blog, “Perspectives in Responsible Sourcing” (URL: BSR and Responsible Sourcing expect to gain and share points, the study will provide insight into which approaches http://cscc.typepad.com/). In 2011, topics covered on insights into the effects of women’s health on social In 2011, Responsible Sourcing continued to participate are successful in driving compliance at the factory level. The the blog included Labor Migration from Bangladesh, compliance and overall facilities and business results. actively in the UNGC Supply Chain Sustainability Working findings, when published, should facilitate a more strategic Conflict Minerals, the European Commission’s CSR Results will be published in a joint report and discussed Group and presented research on migrant workers and allocation of monitoring resources enabling Responsible Strategy, Human Trafficking, the UN Guiding Principles during a BSR “Sustainability Matters” webinar. human trafficking at the Group’s November, 2011 meeting. Sourcing’ operations and our clients’ programs to be more on Business and Human Rights, Freedom of Association effective. in Indonesia, and the UK’s Bribery Act, among others. 16 17 Anti-Bribery Operational and Ideals Anti-Corruption We strive for objectivity, thoroughness, accountability, and quality in all that we do. All Responsible Sourcing employees are required The chart entitled “Reports of Bribery Attempts by Year” More information about UL’s Ethics and Compliance to adhere to a strict Code of Business Conduct and contains the figures of reported bribery attempts from Program can be found here: Ethics. No employee or any other person or entity auditors over the last four years. In 2011, Responsible http://www.ul.com/global/eng/pages/corporate/aboutul/ representing Responsible Sourcing may receive or solicit Sourcing received a total of 25 bribery reports from the standardsofbusinessconduct/ to receive payment of money, money equivalent, gifts field staff. That is a 38% decrease from 2010. However, in or anything else of value, in any amount, from any 2011 Responsible Sourcing conducted 5% less audits than person or company in connection with the performance in 2010 and approximately 10% less audits in China than of services on behalf of UL other than the contractually in 2010. Reports of bribery attempts by year established fee for services rendered and legitimate expenses to be reimbursed in connection with the Many factors can be a contributor to the decrease on performance of such services. bribery reports. Clients and brands are improving and/ 100 Allegations Reported by Auditors 1.0% or developing stricter standards on their ethics policy. Responsible Sourcing employees have access to an Many clients have categorized bribery or first-attempt 90 % of Allegations to Audit Numbers independently managed Global Ethics Helpline to bribery as a zero tolerance issue. Therefore, many facilities % (# of Allegations to # of Audits) ask questions or report concerns confidentially and understand the consequences of a zero tolerance finding, 80 0.8% anonymously. The Helpline is available 24 hours a day, 7 which results in a decrease in bribery attempts. In days a week, and interpreters are available for submissions addition, after many years of being audited many Chinese in other languages. factories are becoming very familiar with Responsible 70 # of Reported Cases Sourcing integrity policy, which is strictly enforced by Responsible Sourcing maintains a zero tolerance policy Responsible Sourcing field staff. Lastly, there has also been 60 0.6% with respect to unethical conduct including bribery, an increase in China by consultant agencies offering their and Responsible Sourcing has established procedures services to the facilities. This allows the facilities to be 50 to proactively and reactively investigate any and all prepared for audits, which can diminish the need to bribe such situations. auditors for a “passing” grade. 40 0.4% For our field personnel, the zero tolerance policy is Responsible Sourcing has been experiencing updates regularly communicated from the outset and at the and changes on the quality and ethics functions of the 30 beginning of each assessment, Responsible Sourcing company. Responsible Sourcing has been working in field personnel and the facility management sign the updating and improving its operating procedures and 20 0.2% “Responsible Sourcing Statement of Integrity” that policies since the fourth quarter of 2011. With Responsible prohibits auditors from accepting and management from Sourcing being acquired in September of 2011, the Ethics offering (directly or indirectly) any payment, loan, service, function of the department has been officially passed on 10 advantage, entertainment, meal, travel or gifts, even to UL Corporate Ethics and Compliance beginning 2012. of nominal value. Auditors are instructed to follow the However, Responsible Sourcing continues to record bribery 0 0.0% Bribery Notification Procedure and to immediately inform reports from field staff and will work with UL Corporate 2008 2009 2010 2011 the Responsible Sourcing Ethics Director if the facility for continuous improvements. management attempts to bribe them. Year 18 19 operational ideals Commitment to Professional Environmental Quality Development Responsibility Responsible Sourcing is committed to continuously In 2011, Responsible Sourcing continued to invest heavily Responsible Sourcing did not launch any new internal improving the quality of our services and we strive to in the training and professional development of its environmental initiatives in 2011 but continues to practice maintain a high-level of consistency. employees. Responsible Sourcing employees participated environmental responsibility in our offices, including in 1,265 internal and external training courses totaling recycling, re-using and reducing resource (paper and In 2011, Responsible Sourcing appointed a new Quality 6,252 hours of training (see chart entitled “Employee energy) use. Responsible Sourcing’ largest environmental Systems Manager, based in Responsible Sourcing’ Training by Type”). impact is generated by business travel and Responsible corporate office in Los Angeles, California. The Quality Sourcing continues to use virtual meeting technologies Systems Manager’s responsibilities include (but are not Responsible Sourcing auditors undergo intensive to reduce unnecessary travel. Responsible Sourcing also limited to): classroom training and several months of field training allows flexible working options for employees with long before being qualified to conduct assessments. commutes and delivers the majority of information to our • Analyzing and amending, as needed, existing Quality Responsible Sourcing’ International New Auditor Training clients and to our employees electronically. Management Systems to meet ISO 9001:2008 and ISO Program was developed under IACET (International 17021:2011 certification requirements Association for Continuing Education and Training) Responsible Sourcing offices around the world continue benchmark standards for effective adult learning, to implement standard good environmental practices, •Working closely with various internal departments to and is aligned with ISO 19011 guidelines. Trainee’s and including: identify, document and issue required SOPs, and help to seasoned auditors’ skills are regularly evaluated through improve audit execution and reporting. interactions with peers, supervisors, trainers, and report • Using non-disposable dishware and cutlery. reviewers. In addition, interpretation of findings is • Facilitating third party Quality Management Systems supported and calibrated by the Research & Development • Printing only when necessary and using double-sided audits Department to ensure consistency of reports. printing as the default printer setting. • Reviewing, analyzing and improving, as needed, Responsible Sourcing subsidizes job-related continuing • Paper recycling (and the recycling of other materials existing quality reporting metrics, corrective actions education expenses for employees depending on certain where available). and root cause analysis criteria. • Switching off lights and electronics at the end of the • Addressing internal and external complaints as it working day. relates to quality issues Since the UL acquisition resulted in some physical changes to our global operational structure, Responsible Sourcing decided to postpone further carbon footprint measurements until the changes have been completed. 20 21 operational ideals EMPLOYEE TRAINING BY TYPE Accreditations and Memberships Auditor New Hire Training 24% • Responsible Jewellry Council (RJC) Responsible Sourcing has been recognized by the industry • Worldwide Responsible Apparel Production (WRAP) Client Specific External Training 10.65% as a quality provider of monitoring and education services • International Council of Toy Industries (ICTI) in responsible sourcing. As a result of this commitment to Training • Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC) 55% the highest standards of operation, Responsible Sourcing • Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Specialized has been awarded and continues its accreditations and memberships in the following certifications and • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Training 9.82% initiatives: • Initiative Clause Social (ICS) • IACET Approved Provider of CEUs • Fair Labor Association (FLA) 22 23 OUR EMPLOYEES our team Our employees are the industry’s most passionate, skilled, and dedicated. They exhibit humility, adaptability, and quick problem-solving abilities in their personal and professional achievements. Responsible Sourcing is committed to promoting and maintaining a workplace that provides equal opportunity for all employees. The diversity of our employees is a key asset for Responsible Sourcing. We seek to hire and develop local professionals in the countries where we operate. In 2011, 98% of global employees were local staff. Our team includes over 300 employees located in more than 40 countries conversant in over 30 languages. Globally, the majority of Responsible Sourcing employees are female (62%) and minorities represent 59% of Responsible Sourcing’ US employees. EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY GENDER DISTRIBUTION As a global company, 100% African 100% American Female we value the diverse 80% White 80% Male background of our employees. While 60% Asian 60% respecting each individual, we encourage our offices 40% Hispanic 40% around the world to employ 20% 20% talented staff based on their qualifications and 0% 0% unique backgrounds. US Senior Global Senior Employees Management Employees Management LOCALS VS. EXPATS Locals Expats 24 25 dona john Expert insight What do you do for For example, in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, there is serious infringement of Responsible Sourcing? human rights in the textile sector involving under-aged girls being pushed into the I head the Research & Development (R&D) department ‘Sumangali’ system where the girls are made for South Asia. I ensure the regional audit teams maintain to sign three-year contracts assuring a paltry a uniform approach in evaluating labor practices against amount of wages payable towards the end of the complex laws and regulations in the region. I do this their term. by conducting regular trainings on legal developments and communicating with the regional teams. I am also The ambiguous laws in the region coupled with involved in client projects related to our R&D capabilities, British-era laws make it extremely difficult for including risk services, due diligence, environmental international brands to ensure their suppliers services, and supplier trainings. are fully compliant. Corrupt bureaucracy and a lack of legislative will to revise archaic laws and enforce existing ones exacerbate these challenges. Additionally, multiple-tier What are the most systems used in the production process (such as unauthorized subcontracting) make it more Name: Dona John challenging responsible difficult to identify child labor through auditing only the first-tier level of manufacturing. Office: India sourcing issues in your region? These challenges suggest that companies Title: Research Associate The entire region poses multiple challenges. Apart from need to get creative with their responsible Indian Sub-Continent the regular sourcing issues that are common across the sourcing programs and collaborate with other globe, the most pressing ones in the region are: child stakeholders to drive long term change. labor; forced & bonded labor; the archaic legal framework; Length of service with the corruption and lack of political will. Needless to say, most company: 6 years of these sourcing issues are complex and inter-linked by various factors. Alarming poverty levels on the Indian sub-continent remain untackled and push millions of children into working at a young age; and bonded labor is often common among the poorest. Child labor is being used in industries ranging from garments, brassware, and leather goods to cotton fields and silk manufacturing. 26 27 Employee Spotlights What do you like most about What about your work your job? inspires you? There are many things I like about my job. The most preferable We can help to improve the working environment aspect for me is the international environment. I have the in factories. We can help Chinese factories to be in opportunity to work with people from different parts of the compliance and be more competitive with the rest of world. Also, I am provided with flexibility to work. The support the world. Traveling for my work also inspires me. that was extended to me and the rest that was provided to me during my pregnancy deserves praise. What inspires your work? What is the most challenging Every day when I get back home my son gives me a big aspect of your job? hug. My family, especially my husband, supports me. As an auditor, I am required to visit a new factory every day. Going to a new place, adapting to different people and various situations, but still doing a quality social compliance audit is Personal mission: Sadia Sharmin Tracey Li sometimes difficult. Pass on the values and standards of our clients to factories and help factories to be in incompliance. How has Responsible Sourcing Office: Dhaka, Bangladesh supported your professional Office: Shenzhen, China Title: Social Compliance Auditor development? Title: Continuous Improvement Analyst Responsible Sourcing has provided me with both internal and Length of service with the external trainings. The in-house training that was arranged at the company: 2 years time of recruitment has enriched my knowledge. It helped me Length of service with the understand my task properly. The external certification trainings company: 5 years have added value in my personal career. Finally, I strongly believe that the field experiences that I am gathering from my work will help me in my professional development. 28 29 MOVING FORWARD In 2012, we plan to continually improve our reporting and implement new programs that support our dedication to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labor standards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption. As we are exploring what form our Corporate Responsibility programs will take in light of changes to our corporate structure, Responsible Sourcing has postponed setting specific targets for activities that may be coordinated through the UL organization. Communication As in previous years, we will communicate our report through the following means: • Press releases sent internally and to our external mailing list • E-mails to Responsible Sourcing employees and key UL staff with report highlights • Internal staff meetings • Links to the report on the Responsible Sourcing website • Targeted stakeholder meetings Feedback We invite readers of our report to submit feedback to ul.rs.annualreport@ul.com
