CSR REPORT 2012 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility Activities IEditorial Policy IEye-friendliness and Readability Toppan is disclosing information in the hopes of encouraging dialogues on social This report considers eye-friendliness and readability in accordance with Toppan’s and environmental activities with more people, especially people who have an in-house guidelines. It also incorporates universal-design displays for as many interest or stake in Toppan’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. Toppan different types of people as possible, regardless of individual differences in color edits this CSR report in line with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000, perception. The universal design in this report has been reviewed and certified by an international standard on social responsibility. the Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO), a nonprofit organization, on IPeriod Covered entrustment by Toppan. This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2011 (from April 2011 to March 2012), though information on prior and later years is also included in parts. ICSR Report 2012: Detailed Data IScope and Boundary of this Report A PDF file with detailed information on CSR activities is posted on the Toppan In principle, this report covers the social and environmental activities of Toppan website. Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) and Group entities consolidated for accounting purposes. Most of the information on personnel applies to personnel within Toppan IURLs for Relevant Information Printing Co., Ltd., the parent company. The scope of the environmental perfor• CSR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/csr/ mance data is presented on page 36. This site posts the “CSR Report 2012: Detailed Data,” the latest information on ISelecting the Information for this Report ISO 14001 certification, the GRI content index, the CSR Procurement Guidelines, In choosing the information to present in this CSR report, Toppan assessed the and other forms of CSR information. If erroneous entries or misprints are found “materiality” of the information for society and the Company itself. after CSR reports are issued, the related information will be shown here. To assess whether information can be considered material for society, Toppan • IR information: http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ir/ holds in-house discussions on the following points: opinions gleaned from diaDetails on corporate governance can be found at the following URLs. logues inside and outside the Company, questionnaire responses to CSR reports Corporate governance reports: http://www.tse.or.jp/listing/corpgov/ (in Japanese) from inside and outside the Company, the content of various guidelines (such as Financial statements: http://info.edinet-fsa.go.jp/ (in Japanese) the Environmental Reporting Guidelines [fiscal year 2007 version] from the Ministry of the Environment of Japan and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 IPublication Dates from the Global Reporting Initiative [GRI]), questionnaire items from third-party organizations, and CSR-related information from media and news agencies. Previous report: December 2011 IGuidelines Observed Current report: October 2012 This report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Next report: October 2013 (planned) Guidelines 2006 at an application level B+ as defined by the GRI. IReliability IContact Information KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. provides independent assurance for this CSR Promotion Department, Legal Affairs Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. report. As a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented (Tokyo, Japan) in the report, Toppan is authorized to attach the following mark. Any report bearEmail: csr@toppan.co.jp ing this mark meets the standards for sustainability report assurance and registration established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://www.j-sus.org/). The United Nations Global Compact sets forth 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. Toppan supports and implements the 10 principles as a socially responsible corporation. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTENTS Executive Message 2 Group Business Outline 4 Special Report 1: B ook Wagon— Mobile Libraries to Support the Creation of Communities 6 Special Report 2: L abor-Management Committee for the Creation of a Working Environment Amenable to Enhanced Job Satisfaction 10 Results in Fiscal 2011 and Future Measures 12 Toppan’s CSR Activities 14 Initiatives at Toppan and Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 16 Organizational Governance 17 Human Rights 20 Labor Practices 22 Fair Operating Practices 26 Consumer Issues 30 Community Involvement and Development 34 The Environment Toppan’s Environmental Activities 36 Environmental Targets and Results 37 Toppan’s Environmental Burden 38 Environmental Management Activities 40 Eco-protection Activities (Mitigating global warming, building a recyclingoriented society, preventing pollution, controlling chemical substances, conserving biodiversity) 42 Eco-creativity Activities 47 Environmental Communication Activities 48 Independent Assurance 49 Independent Assurance Report 50 Group Business Structure 51 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 1 Executive Message Contributing to Fulfilling Lifestyles The Great East Japan Earthquake is already a year and five effective ones across the operational sites in Japan taking months behind us. Yet our journey of reconstruction has into account the lessons learned from the earthquake and only just begun. I would like once more to extend my symits significant impacts in fiscal 2011. pathies to all of the people affected by the disaster and to express my strong hope that the disaster-stricken areas To Be a Robust Group of Companies will be restored swiftly and without delay. Trusted and Respected by Society I believe that change will continue to pick up speed not The Japanese economy was buffeted by myriad changes only in the Japanese economy, but throughout all of the in fiscal 2011. On one level, Japan’s industries were under world. In today’s tough environment, however, a company immense pressure to cope with the power shortages and must develop steadily in step with all of society. I broken supply chains caused by the Great East Japan understand that the crucial challenge for us now is to use Earthquake and the nuclear accidents. On another level, the printing technologies we have cultivated since our the floods in Thailand caused widespread damage and the ­founding to help solve social issues and create a new yen rose sharply in reaction to the economic disruption of engine that will allow us to grow steadily in step with the the EU triggered by the financial crisis in Greece. sustainable development of all of society. I will be advoIn the Toppan Group we expedited recovery at all of our cating and tackling three management challenges for three disaster-stricken plants, strove to save electricity, and these purposes. supported reconstruction efforts in the affected areas The first challenge is to advance our Group-wide structhrough united, Group-wide action. We also started to tural reform in order to reorganize ourselves into a lean restructure our business continuity plans (BCPs) into more organization that can make profit by responding promptly to today’s ever-changing markets. The second is to create new businesses and new markets by intensively devoting managerial resources to businesses with growth potential. The third is to accelerate global business expansion for swift operations by arranging business alliances and M&As and by restructuring our production sites and reinforcing our sales structures in the growing markets of emerging countries mainly in Asia. TOPPAN VISION 21 is positioned as the foundation for all of our corporate activities. This vision consists of a ­Corporate Structure (the Corporate Philosophy, the ­Corporate Creed, and a set of Conduct Guidelines defining the values and standards we should respect) and five ­Business Fields based on the Corporate Structure. To make TOPPAN VISION 21 a reality, I am convinced that it will be vital for us to accomplish the three management challenges and fulfill our social responsibilities as a corporation. We will be developing socially and environmentally balanced corporate activities in parallel with operations in pursuit of economic profits. Through these efforts we would like to establish ourselves as a robust company group that is trusted and respected broadly by society. 2 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 To a New Stage of CSR Management The impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake broke apart precious kizuna—tightly woven ties between peoToppan has been participating in the United Nations Global ple—and destroyed human communities that had been Compact and supporting the 10 principles of the Global built up over many generations. Compact on human rights, labour, environment, and antiIn July 2011, we launched the Book Wagon mobile corruption since September 2006. libraries and plotted out their routes through 14 temporary For the fulfillment of our social responsibility, I will conhousing areas for disaster victims in Sendai City, Miyagi tinue espousing the United Nations Global Compact as Prefecture. The wagons served as venues for communicaan invaluable guideline for shaping our corporate social tion among residents through the lending out of books. We responsibility (CSR) activities. started this activity at the proposal of a young employee In November 2010, the International Organization for who envisioned mobile libraries as cozy places of refuge Standardization (ISO) issued its 26000 Guidance on Social where displaced people could come together and take Responsibility as an international standard for organizacomfort. This employee hoped that the Book Wagons tions. Multiple stakeholders took part in the formulation of would become instruments of community reconstruction. ISO 26000 from the early stages. Governments, consumer By the end of March 2012, a cumulative total of about groups, industries, labor unions, NGOs, and experts from 5,000 residents had used the Book Wagons. Local governmore than 100 countries, many of them developing, were ments and the like commended the activity. involved in the process. The standard condenses various We also established the Reconstruction Support social issues to be solved. From my perspective, it also ­Development Center in the Higashinihon Division of Toppan serves as guidance for implementing the United Nations Printing Co., Ltd. in April 2012 as an organization to provide Global Compact. medium-and-long-term support for the disaster-stricken We incorporated ISO 26000 in our CSR management areas through Toppan businesses. Toppan will remain compractices in fiscal 2011 and have been pushing forward mitted to the disaster-affected communities through this with our CSR activities by checking our initiatives and pieccenter and will keep up its support works to solve the ing together a clear picture of the social issues we should various challenges confronting the communities. help solve and the social responsibilities we should fulfill. With Our Stakeholders Towards a Sustainable Society From fiscal 2011 we began disclosing information on our Japan’s demand-and-supply balance in energy has shifted CSR activities closely aligned with the seven core subjects dramatically since the Great East Japan Earthquake. On addressed in ISO 26000. We would like to continue disclosthe demand side, Toppan, like Japan itself, must use energy ing information through this CSR report, one of our most more efficiently to carry out business operations. On the valuable tools for communicating with our stakeholders. I supply side, heightened expectations for renewable energy am eager to hear your candid opinions about this report. in Japan can expand business opportunities for Toppan, a We will keep up our work to contribute to the creation provider of functional components for solar cells and lithof fulfilling lifestyles in a sustainable world. We rely on your ium-ion batteries. In every scenario going forward, I recongoing support and guidance. ognize that the energy demand and supply will become an increasingly significant management challenge. I am also July 2012 sure that it is important for us to sustainably use the mateShingo Kaneko rials on which we rely for our businesses. In this regard, President & Representative Director we will consider forest environments when procuring paper Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and will advance the practical application of biomass plastics and other eco-friendly materials. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 3 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Group Profile Corporate name Number of employees The Toppan Group comprises Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and 194 related Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (nonconsolidated) companies (165 subsidiaries and 29 affiliates) engaged in manifold busiHead office 8,508 (as of the end of March 2012) nesses in three main fields: Information & Networks, Living Environment, 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Number of employees and Electronics. Tokyo 101-0024, Japan (consolidated) The positioning of Toppan and related companies in these fields is outPhone +81-3-3835-5111 47,872 (as of the end of March 2012) lined on page 51. Established Capital (nonconsolidated) January 17, 1900 104.9 billion yen President & Representative Director Shingo Kaneko Business Fields Information & Networks Providing solutions to increase the value of information and effectively deliver information for customers who require smooth communication Securities and Cards Commercial Printing Publications Printing Living Environment Providing customers around the world with products and services optimal for creating fulfilling lifestyles in fields such as medicine, food, and housing Packaging Functional Product and Energy Interior Décor Materials Related Electronics Personal Service Next-generation Products Ball SAW sensors Fuel cell Display Related Semiconductor Related Shufoo!—an online mall for digital components flyers (in Japanese) Working with leading-edge technologies to provide electronic components Providing consumers with Toppan’s Providing high-performance induswith strong potential to be adopted as de facto standards original brand of innovative informatrial materials with links to the next tion services and devices to enrich generation by developing fields of the links between people and goods business with growth potential 4 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Net Sales Operating Income or Loss Net Income or Loss (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated (billion yen) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated 2,000 80 40 38.5 72.1 1,670.3 1,617.3 60 30 1,500 1,506.7 1,556.4 1,510.4 25.2 45.0 40 38.2 20 1,000 1,022.9 967.6 31.6 29.1 31.5 885.9 895.5 849.2 11.7 12.4 12.1 20 10 15.3 5.8 500 7.8 6.6 3.0 0 0 0.5 –7.1 –3.2 0 –20 –10 –7.7 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Number of Employees Number of Employees by Business Field (consolidated) Q Consolidated Q Nonconsolidated Electronics Company-wide 50,000 47,522 47,650 48,197 47,872 48,197 7,075 positions 959 40,000 38,570 30,000 20,000 10,000 11,181 11,548 8,769 8,633 8,508 0 Living Environment Information & Networks 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 11,349 28,489 (fiscal year) Net Sales by Business Field Capital Expenditure Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) Electronics 100 2,000 3.0 250.8 (17%) 92.0 1,787.4 1,694.3 80 2.1 1,681.7 1,665.6 1,586.8 72.9 1,500 2.0 68.0 65.0 66.8 60 1,000 1.0 0.7 0.7 40 0.2 500 0 20 0 0 –0.4 –1.0 Living Environment Information & Networks 381.9 (25%) 877.6 (58%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Net Sales by Region R&D Expenses Net Assets & Return on Equity (ROE) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) Asia, excluding Other regions 35 1,000 8.0 Japan 43.4 (3%) 9,403 940.3 29.7 867.7 874.0 864.0 866.2 170.2 (11%) 28.7 28 800 6.0 24.4 4.8 23.4 21 21.4 600 4.0 14 400 1.6 1.6 2.0 -1.0 0.4 7 200 0 0 0 –2.0 Japan 1,296.6 (86%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) Notes: 1. Net sales do not include consumption taxes. 2. The number of employees is the number of employees working at the Group. The number of non-regular employees for fiscal 2011 stood at 9,160 on a consolidated basis (the average number of employees throughout the fiscal year, including part-time workers but excluding temporary staff). TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 5 Special Report 1 Book Wagon—Mobile Libraries to Support the Creation of Communities Toppan runs a core business related to information and communication. This put Toppan in an ideal position to launch Book Wagon mobile libraries in the areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake over the post-disaster period from July 2011 to March 2012. Each week the wagons did their rounds, lending out books and magazines to displaced disaster victims in temporary housing areas. The Book Wagons were arranged proactively as means to provide mental support for victims at a time when great stresses were anticipated and to support the creation of new communities among the residents living in the temporary housing areas. This special report describes the Book Wagons and related activities. 6 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Temporary Housing Areas on the Book Wagon Routes Book Wagon #1 Book Wagon #2 On Tuesdays On Tuesdays Sendai Oroshimachi 5-chome Ogimachi 4-chome Shiogama Port Park Park Takasago 1-chome Tsurumaki 1-chomeSendai City, Ro Sendai Station ad Park Higashi Park Miyagi Prefecture bu On Wednesdays On Wednesdays aiTo Se Okada-Nishimachi Park Fukudamachi-Minami nd 1-chome Park Ogimachi 1-chome Park Konan-Nishi Park On Fridays On Fridays Sendaiko Haigochi-6 JR Minami-Koizumi Park Apartment Shichigo-Chuo Park Wakabayashi-Nippe Ground On Saturdays Arai-Shogakkoyochi On Saturdays Asuto Nagamachi 38-gaiku How Can Toppan Contribute to and enjoy conversation and interchange, it would become Disaster-stricken Areas? a venue for community creation. Toppan is closely involved in books through its printing business and has longstanding Administrative bodies, NPOs, and private companies pledged relationships with many publishing companies. It also operates commitments and started activities to support disaster victims businesses related to community creation to help meet public soon after the Great East Japan Earthquake struck on March challenges. Toppan found many reasons to plan and execute 11, 2011. Toppan discussed the types of support it could its mobile library project in the disaster-stricken areas. provide and considered how it could most benefit the disasteraffected areas on diverse levels. Toppan focused on the types of support required to address the medium-and-long-term demands arising in the affected Activity Results areas and activities in spheres where it could contribute the July 11, 2011 (Monday)–March 31, Activity period 2012 (Saturday) most. In the early discussions, a young employee submitted Mobile library 2 vehicles a plan to support the areas by deploying mobile libraries. 14 temporary housing sites in Sendai The plan was premised on the following prediction. Once Travel route City, Miyagi Prefecture relocated from the shelters to temporary housing, the victims Number of on-site staff 123 would have to rebuild their lives while still enduring the pain from the Toppan Group and confusion of the disaster and evacuation. They would have Number of people who dropped by the Book 9,650 to communicate and form relationships with new neighbors. Wagons At a time when both mutual support and mental healthcare Number of people who 5,123 were vital, books could provide comfort and encouragement. took out books If the mobile library became a place where people could gather Number of books lent out 17,105 Aims of the Book Wagons Emergency evacuation Period for rebuilding lives Recovery period period (in shelters) (in temporary housing) (in restoration housing) Modes of IPreparing hot meals, transporting IAssisting with relocation to temporary support supplies housing expected to be IRemoving dirt, clearing and tidying IMotivating affected individuals in life, ISupporting the creation of towns, etc. most needed devastated spaces, etc. providing jobs, etc. Book delivery People can converse and share ideas through weekly visits over many weeks Contributing to mental healthcare and building communities in the temporary housing areas TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 7 Ceremony to mark the launch of the project on the first day of operation at Special bookshelves put together to match the season and the visitors’ the Company’s operational site in Izumi Ward, Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture. interests. The selected themes were travel, Japan, self-reflection, connectThis was the base for Book Wagon operations, the point where project ing with others, and so on. ­organizers and volunteers pooled their hearts on reconstruction assistance. Towards Community-rooted Activities with tions that they, the support-providers, had to make, the best All-hands Participation methods for communicating with the residents in temporary housing, and so on. Toppan set two principles in establishing the operating structure for the Book Wagons. Actual Situation in the Field—Understood One was to make the wagons an activity in which all of through Books the Toppan employees who wished to could take part. Many employees across the Company had already expressed the About 5,000 books were prepared for the Mobile Wagons. wish to contribute to the disaster-stricken areas. The Book The books were donated by Toppan employees, Group comWagon planners responded to their wishes by encouraging panies, the publisher SHUEISHA Inc., and the ‘Daishinsaiemployees within the Group to join in an all-hands activity. Their taisaku’ Publisher’s Committee, a support force formed by a hope was to keep the concern for the victims and the spirit of large number of publishing company sponsors in response to support alive in as many Toppan people as possible. Employees the earthquake disaster. The Book Wagons also purchased a had the opportunity to take part in either of two ways. One was selection of the latest bestsellers from bookshops in Sendai to donate books they recommended to the mobile libraries. City. The librarians operating the wagons came up with their The other was to actually operate the libraries on site as mobile own book classifications for the shelves in consideration of the librarians. The Book Wagons were to be deployed into the field sentiments and needs of the temporarily housed residents. from July 2011, four months after the quake, about when the They prepared shelves for books related to mental healthcare victims who had evacuated to the shelters would be settled and life reconstruction. Special shelves were also set aside for in temporary housing. The planners began to request books books on seasonal topics. that people thought would be most useful and comforting for The Book Wagons did regular weekly rounds over the many the victims as the post-disaster period drew on. The mobile months of operation following their inauguration on July 11, librarians were replaced every week to ensure that as many 2011. As weeks passed and new temporary housing structures Toppan employees as possible could join in the operation. were built, more and more residents dropped by the wagons. The second principle was to root the activity in the communiThe number of picture books lent out rose sharply in sumties themselves. The planners were determined to leave the commertime, when children had their vacations from school. With munities with lasting records of the Book Wagon activities and the children came their parent homemakers, who took out the relationships the wagons helped to forge. Meanwhile, Toppan Types of Books Lent out (in a month; abstract) employees living outside the affected areas could only see news (books) reports and had no means to fully understand real situation. Picture books 1,000 Toppan therefore invited the participation of Miyagi Sendai Kodomo-no-oka, a specified nonprofit corporation that pro834 800 vides support to communities and families raising children, Novels mainly through the operation of children’s centers in Sendai 600 Recipes/ cookbooks Comic books City, ­Miyagi Prefecture. Toppan also invited Dunamis Inc., an operator of student internship programs. Both organizaReligion/ 400 psychology/ Craft/ tions had already been involved in assistance for shelters and philosophy fancywork 340 252 reconstruction through their own networks. Both provided the 200 209 Book Wagon librarians with support-giving pointers during daily 105 115 operations: the real feelings of the victims, the mental prepara0 8 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Children perched themselves on cushions next to the Book Wagon and Visitors chatted as they browsed the bookshelves. Some were already ­surrendered their imaginations to their favorite books. ­acquainted. Others got to know one another through their encounters at the wagons. a great many cookbooks and magazines with recipes. One ers. It will be wonderful if some of the interchanges between mother commented, “Since the quake my parents have been the temporarily housed and ordinary residents blossom into living with us under the same roof. Now I have to cook for my lasting friendships. children and my parents.” Another said, “Now I want to get Most of the visitors to the Book Wagons overall were elderly as much fun out of cooking as I can.” Cooking seemed to be women, mothers, and children. Concerned about the relaa first step in rebuilding an ordinary life. tively low visit-rate by middle-aged and elderly men, the mobile Books on fancywork, knitting, and travel started to get librarians steadily acquired more magazines, special hobbypopular at the end of summer. Borrowers reported new resorelated books, and other content they hoped would appeal to lutions: “I’m going to start knitting again;” “I want to take a males who had lost their jobs because of the quake. journey through books.” Their words and the sorts of books In collaboration with companies and universities, Toppan they took out seemed to reflect a growing motivation to get also held special Salon Space events such as a workbook into the swing of their new lives. communication program, a book café, and the Art Salon, an Some book borrowers spoke with the mobile librarians art session for refreshing the mind through the creative work about the novels and self-help books they took out. Their of painting. Toppan strove to provide opportunities to engenconversations revealed much about how they felt about living der conversation and interchange among the residents in the in an unfamiliar environment. affected areas through regular visits and extended-period operation over the nine months of the Book Wagon service. Contributing to Community Creation The mobile librarians set up a tent called the Salon Space next What Toppan Got back from the Communities to the Book Wagon. Residents could visit the space for chats Toppan was richly rewarded by the interest and kindness over tea or to browse newspapers and magazines. Grounds surof residents in the communities. The mobile librarians were rounding the Salon Space were opened for recreational events delighted by the small groups of children already waiting for arranged in cooperation with volunteers from Miyagi Sendai the Book Wagons when they arrived. They were also touched Kodomo-no-oka. The main events were a fancywork activity for by the words of gratitude residents gave to them and the gifts women and activities for children such as origami, picture-story of cold tomatoes and cucumbers residents brought in the hot shows, and games such as tag. summer. The Book Wagon experience reawakened Toppan volThe mobile librarians noted how the Book Wagons served unteers to the magnificence of books and gave them a chance as meeting points and motivators for interchange among resito reflect. In daily meetings and reports, the mobile librarians dents. When residents meeting at the Salon Space exchanged often expressed their eagerness to continue aiding the disasternames, some found that they were close neighbors and stricken areas and their gratitude to the residents of the comestablished ties. Others returned to meet new friends they munities, especially those living in the temporary housing. had made there. Some residents who described themselves The Book Wagon activity gave many employees pause to as reluctant to go out in general made it a point of visiting the realize how they could make precious contributions to society Book Wagon when it parked nearby. Others who described through works closely tied with Toppan’s businesses. Toppan themselves as new to the area and in want of friends struck will keep up its efforts to contribute to the affected areas and up acquaintances with the librarians. Sendai residents living the general public with the help of its conscientious and comnearby also came by, drawn to the temporary housing areas passionate people. because they were generally located in parks and other scenic *The Book Wagons resumed operations in collaboration with Tohoku locales. Most of these visitors were children and their mothFukushi University, an Art Salon cooperator, in June 2012. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 9 Special Report 2 Labor-Management Committee for the Creation of a Working Environment Amenable to Enhanced Job Satisfaction Work-life balance, mental healthcare, and human resource development are examples of recent criteria for measuring the quality of the relationships between companies and their people. Toppan has striven to nurture employee job satisfaction by mutually cooperating and sincerely engaging in frank exchanges of views between the Labour Union and the Company. Emphasizing Job Satisfaction Labor and management formed this committee in the shared belief that in today’s business climate of uncertain growth, the As the saying goes, “A company is its people.” If the employees Company should pursue increased productivity by enhancing derive no joy from work, the company will never grow. The job satisfaction and heightening the motivation and pleasure personal development of employees will be stunted and the employees find in work. workplace will lack vibrancy. Since its founding, the committee has engaged in laborToppan understands the importance of workplace morale management dialogues focused on issues at the workplace and takes steps to enhance employee job satisfaction. The and measures to solve them. Several features of the commitCompany has long pursued the creation of a friendlier working tee set it apart from the other entities usually entrusted with environment through the establishment and review of working labor-management consultations: systems and the implementation of in-house enlightenment • All members are free to express their true hopes and intenactivities. These measures, however, will only go so far in tions at the meetings, where labor and management meet enhancing employee recognition of the value of the company on an equal footing. and their jobs. Toppan has therefore positioned the enhance• Members meet in small groups to maintain an atmosphere ment of a work-friendly environment and true employee job more conducive to frank and vigorous discussion. satisfaction—the pride and pleasure of working at Toppan—as • Measures are taken to encourage members to speak more a major management goal. freely. Job satisfaction is an amalgam of diverse factors that tend • Once reaching consensus on initiatives, the committee conto be seen in different ways by different people. Toppan prosigns them to different bodies to deliberate concrete actions. motes diverse initiatives to nurture a tangible job satisfaction The committee for the creation of a working environment that all of its people can share. amenable to enhanced job satisfaction is a totally new structure for dialogues between labor and management. It tranCommittee for Enhanced Job Satisfaction scends the boundaries and ideas of earlier labor-management The committee for the creation of a working environment ameconsultations at Toppan and conventional labor-management nable to enhanced job satisfaction is a new structure for laborconsultations in Japan. management consultations established in meetings during the annual spring round of the collective labor bargaining of 2008. 10 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Actual Results from the Committee’s Work Labor and management have exchanged opinions on varihouse mental healthcare systems. One prominent step was ous topics in meetings of the committee for enhanced job the creation of the Art Salon, a program in which employees satisfaction. A number of tangible actions have emerged from and even union executives can unwind and create art. The their discussions. In the summer of 2010, for example, labor committee examined a basic concept, framework, etc. for and management cosponsored the Toppan Sports Festival at many issues, including the promotion of working hour reducthe Seibu Dome in Saitama Prefecture to help strengthen the tion and an upgrading of basic working conditions in Group Group’s solidarity and enhance the health of employees and companies. Toppan will rely on the various opportunities the their families. Younger members of the Labour Union and the committee provides for initiating labor-management discusCompany operated an event of their own making. As many as sions on different issues. 4,400 people enjoyed the festival, an event that transcended the boundaries between Group companies and workplaces. Labor and management also worked together to prepare and fund Toppan’s Welfare Guidebook, a single-volume compilation of information on the various welfare systems provided by the Company, the Labour Union, the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union, the Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society, and local and national governments for employees at different stages of their lives and careers. The Welfare Guidebook has been valued since its distribution to all employees in Japan. Welfare Guidebooks (in Japanese) Toppan Sports Festival Of all the tasks to be performed by labor and management, the top priority goes to those related to safety and health. The committee formulated the Basic Policy on Health and Safety for the entire Group. Another initiative is the Anzen Dojo, a safety training facility outfitted to simulate occupational accidents such as the jamming of body parts in machines. A permanent facility has been established and touring facilities are operated in regional areas. Toppan has also taken steps to enrich inArt Salon Anzen Dojo, a safety training facility Communication between Labor and Management Labor and management are partners: Workplace activation for the happiness Strengthening labor-management of employees and sound growth of communication Group companies At Toppan, the Labour Union and the management of the As a unified organization for the Group, Toppan Printing Company have worked together to cope with wide-ranging Labour Union is run by members from 12 Group companies, issues in the belief that labor and management are partincluding Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. To mark the 60th anniners. This is a fundamental philosophy clearly stated in the versary of its founding, the Labour Union adopted its “One general principles of the collective labor agreement conto One” slogan in 2006. Over the years the union has percluded between the Labour Union and the Company. Laborformed activities to make the workplaces and companies management problems can be swiftly solved when the two healthy and vibrant mainly through people-to-people links ­parties meet in lively dialogs to exchange ideas from diverse and ­communications. The labor-management committee viewpoints. The labor-management committee for the for the creation of a working environment amenable to ­creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced enhanced job satisfaction provides rich opportunities for job satisfaction was formed as a forum for this mode of labor and management to discuss wide-ranging issues earexchange and has already produced many successful nestly, positively, and frankly. As I see it, deeper and more results. Toppan will strive to increase chances for face-totrusting relationships between labor and management and face communication with union members and employees activated communications at the workplace can facilitate through recreational events cosponsored by labor and the happiness of employees and sound growth of Toppan management and through labor-management consultation Group companies. bodies such as the committee for the creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction. Shinichi Okubo Managing Director Toshiyuki Tsurimoto Personnel & Labor Relations Division President Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Toppan Printing Labour Union TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 11 Results in Fiscal 2011 and Future Measures Seven Core Subjects Action Points and Targets for Fiscal 2011 Main Measures in Fiscal 2011 • Promote an understanding of ISO 26000 and promote CSR activities in line Developing CSR management based on ISO 26000 with the seven core subjects Organizational governance Formulating business continuity plans (BCPs) across the Group • Formulate BCPs, facilitate BCM, and implement BCP education and training in and establishing structures for business continuity managethe primary domains of business ment (BCM) • Implement BCP education and training at the head office and Group companies • Organize various educational training programs to nurture businesspeople Raising awareness of respect for basic human rights guided by the concept of respect for people Providing an open environment and information for recruitment • Strengthen global recruiting activities Proactively appointing female employees to higher positions • Leverage female talent through positive action Working for equal opportunity in individual career development •C  ontinue using the Challenging Job System (for the self-determination of career paths) Human rights and helping employees pursue their own career paths to appoint employees to the departments and divisions where they would like to work • Use the Senior Reemployment System as a tool for leveraging the expertise, Supporting second careers for retired employees knowledge, and experience of veteran employees • Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities in cooperation with Promoting employment of persons with disabilities local public job-placement offices in Japan • Devise schemes to give employees more opportunities to take on career development challenges Operating personnel treatment systems properly • Consider and implement measures to sustain employee motivation and follow up on morale-related issues • Begin imposing working-hour controls to limit overtime work to 60 hours a month Supporting work-life balance 1) • Make maximum use of the multi-shift working system, the monthly/yearly ➞ Shortening total working hours flextime/irregular working schedules, the compensatory half-day off system, and the special shortened working hour system • Continue convening labor-management committees for the creation of a Supporting work-life balance 2) working environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction ➞ Creating a working environment where employees can strike • Keep every employee informed of childcare-leave-related systems, such as the a balance between working and raising children extra childcare leave for mothers and fathers • Continue holding routine business councils and convening labor-management committees for the creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced Creating a better working environment through partnerships job satisfaction ­between labor and management • Hold labor-management councils to coordinate working conditions at Labour practices manufacturing subsidiaries after their consolidation within the Group • Upgrade safety education at Anzen Dojo; operate touring dojo facilities at Ensuring occupational safety and health operational sites across Japan • Continue holding safety meetings at operational sites across Japan • Develop Group-wide countermeasures against large-scale disasters as initial actions under the BCPs Reinforcing countermeasures against fires and disasters • Formulate initial actions to be taken in the event of an earthquake disaster • Hold comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills and the like; stock up on emergency supplies for use during earthquake disasters • Offer healthcare guidance on the preemption of lifestyle-related diseases and Promoting healthcare and health enhancement prescribe lifestyle improvement programs for employees with health risks associated with metabolic syndrome, based on the results of medical examinations • Continue operating Art Salon and conduct art sessions over a wider geographic area in Japan Arranging measures for mental healthcare • Provide opportunities for employees to consult with counselors over a wider geographic area in Japan Fostering self-reliant employees based on “conduct of high • Enrich various measures to foster human assets, including rank-based and ­value,” a key concept in human asset development department-based training The environment See page 37 Heightening awareness of laws, regulations, and the Conduct • Expand the roles of the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Guidelines • Update tools to promote the Conduct Guidelines • Organize training on compliance with the Antitrust Laws of Japan Complying with transaction-related laws • Ensure proper subcontract transactions; build proper relationships with partner companies Fair operating practices • Improve compliance in procurement operations by asking 10 main business Improving compliance in procurement operations partners to report on their relationships with Toppan in a questionnaire survey • Verify and reassess improvements at business partners who have received lower ratings in the questionnaire survey on the current status of their CSR Promoting CSR initiatives in the supply chain activities (Give guidance to business partners whose improvements Toppan sees as inadequate; raise the levels of CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain) • Continue performing regular audits and certification screenings of operational sites inside and outside the Company in the food packaging and filling/packing businesses to assess their conformity to the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging Ensuring consumer safety through the strict prevention of •F  ormulate a set of quality assurance guidelines for orders received for and the pro­duc­tion quality-related accidents of packaging products related to pharmaceuticals (including packaging for medicinal drugs and quasi drugs) and put the guidelines into effect on a trial basis • Continue managing chemical substances in products based on a set of Green Procurement Standards at each division Consumer issues • Organize education for the persons in charge of reporting the carbon footprint of products (CFP) at operational sites in the Information & Networks and Living Developing eco-friendly products Environment fields • Acquire Japanese CFP certification for the Company’s printed materials • Upgrade and disseminate management measures based on risk levels in Establishing an information security management structure operations entrusted to Toppan towards the complete elimination of information-related • Revise the policies and rules in line with Group management accidents • Accelerate PDCA with a focus on priority measures at Group companies • Carry out medium-term recovery assistance measures for the areas stricken Community involvement Arranging social contribution programs to help solve social by the Great East Japan Earthquake and development ­issues • Sponsor and organize the fifth series of Toppan Charity Concerts 12 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Results in Fiscal 2011 Self Evaluation Action Points, Targets, and Main Measures for Fiscal 2012 • Deepened the understanding of ISO 26000 throughout Toppan via Companywide basic education • Hold briefings with relevant departments to implement CSR management at A • Convened regular CSR promotion department meetings to check the progress Group companies in Japan of activities and expedite the next stages • Formulated BCPs in three business fields and information system departments; facilitated BCM through education, training, etc. based on the formulated BCPs A • Formulate BCPs throughout the divisions, main Group companies, etc. • Formulated BCPs and implemented introductory training at the head office and Group companies • Organized education through rank-based training, Company-wide basic educa­tion • Continue organizing various educational training programs to nurture businessA on CSR, training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders, and so on people guided by the concept of respect for people • Strengthened global recruiting activities and hired 5 non-Japanese persons at • Strengthen global recruiting activities through various approaches, including the A Toppan Printing in Japan (joined in April 2012) hiring of non-Japanese students studying in Japan • Attained a 4.6% ratio of females among managerial and supervisory staff (as of April 1, 2012) A • Leverage female talent through positive action by proactively appointing female employees to higher positions and leveraging female talent • Appointed 133 employees to other divisions through the system (as of April 1, • Continue using the Challenging Job System with the aim of appointing 20% of A 2012) employee applicants to the departments and divisions where they would like to work • Considered various strategies for developing job positions for veteran • Use the Senior Reemployment System as a tool for leveraging the expertise, A employees up to the age of 65 under the continuous employment system knowledge, and experience of veteran employees • Attained a 1.91% ratio of employees with disabilities in the total workforce (as of June 1, 2012) • Diligently facilitate the hiring of persons with disabilities in cooperation with local A • Developed job positions at workplaces to prepare for the hiring of employees public job-placement offices in Japan with disabilities • Examined a system for career selection • Rearrange working conditions and personnel systems to enhance the Company’s • Reallocated human assets to construct business portfolios by accurately A capacity to respond to environmental changes in business; introduce and keeping track of employee performance and behavior examine new systems and schemes • Achieved further reductions of average hours of overtime worked per month, • Make maximum use of various working systems, including the multi-shift attaining an almost 20% decrease compared with the fiscal 2007 level working system A • Decided to adopt a new employment management system for closer • Facilitate close supervision of working hours by adopting a new employment supervision of employees’ working conditions management system • Convened labor-management committees in July and December for the • Continue convening labor-management committees for the creation of a working creation of a working environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction A environment amenable to enhanced job satisfaction • Encouraged eligible employees to take childcare leave by informing them and • Continue informing employees of various childcare-leave-related systems their immediate superiors of the childcare-leave-related systems available • Continued holding routine business councils and convening labor-manage• Increase opportunities for opinion exchanges between labor and management, ment committees for the creation of a working environment amenable to including various council meetings and tripartite conferences enhanced job satisfaction • Modify clauses on debt in the Company’s collective labor agreement and • Convened labor-management committees on wages as a step to coordinate A conclude individual collective labor agreements at manufacturing subsidiaries working conditions at manufacturing subsidiaries after their consolidation and affiliated companies within the Group; negotiated and agreed upon the retirement allowances at • Continue holding and gingering up recreational events jointly organized by labor these subsidiaries and management • Enriched education content on fireand disaster-preparedness at Anzen Dojo; • Continue operating touring Anzen Dojo facilities at operational sites across had almost all employees participate in the touring dojo across Japan A Japan and begin operating the dojo at manufacturing subsidiaries • Held safety meetings at 9 operational sites across Japan • Open the Safety and Monotsukuri Library • Installed satellite-based mobile phones and other emergency communication • Install Group-wide task force functions in Tokyo and the Kansai region in Japan hardware at main operational sites across Japan; checked and replenished • Formulate initial actions at each operational site; prepare a management system stockpiles of supplies B at each division (comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills, installation of • Held large-scale earthquake disaster preparedness drills doubling as trial runs emergency communication hardware, full-scale operation of the safety for the safety confirmation system confirmation system, stockpiling of supplies for use during earthquake disasters) • Asked industrial physicians and nurses to form and prescribe health improve• Reduce the number of employees with health risks associated with metabolic ment plans for employees with health risks associated with metabolic B syndrome through preventive measures against lifestyle-related diseases syndrome and to conduct follow-up monitoring • Opened Art Salon at 11 operational sites across Japan (4 more sites than in fiscal 2010) and engaged 143 participants (35 more employees than in fiscal 2010) • Give employees opportunities to take part in Art Salon or consult with counselors A • Increased the number of operational sites staffed with in-house counselors to over a wider geographic area in Japan 13 (7 more sites than in fiscal 2010) • Upgraded the existing programs and prepared the relevant environment and • Enhance employee skills in communication and networking and introduce A infrastructure practical programs to address business challenges • Organized Group-wide training for 542 Leaders in the first sessions and 508 • Expand the roles of Leaders and reinforce the approach to prevent improper Leaders in the second sessions A conduct • Issued every employee a revised Conduct Guidelines Casebook • Implement the Conduct Guidelines in overseas Group companies • Organized training on compliance with the Antitrust Laws of Japan for employees in the sales departments (2,802 trainees completed) • Continue organizing training on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan • Organized training on compliance with the Subcontract Law of Japan for for employees in the production control departments of Toppan and Group A employees in the production control departments of Toppan and Group companies and continue interviews to check how subcontract transactions are companies (2,064 trainees) and interviewed with these departments to check being handled how subcontract transactions were being handled • Collected questionnaires from 13 business partners and analyzed operations performed at a cumulative total of 67 Toppan operational sites • Continue assessing the status of compliance in the procurement departments by A asking 10 main business partners to report their satisfaction with Toppan in a • Analyzed the results to identify points requiring improvement in the procurequestionnaire survey ment departments and instructed them to improve these points • Reassessed 68 business partners (including main partners and some partners whose CSR activities were seen to be at a lower grade); interviewed business partners whose improvements Toppan found still to be inadequate, pointed out problems and other • Review the CSR Procurement Guidelines with an eye to ISO 26000 issues to be tackled, and informed them of their obligation to improve these points B • Establish operational rules accommodating global procurement • Held 4 briefing sessions on CSR for 283 business partners involved in production in the Information & Networks field • Held nationwide quality meetings of filling/packing plants in Japan to share with operational sites across the Group cases where quality improvements were achieved • Carried out 32 audits at 25 operational sites inside and outside the Company, • Continue product safety management activities in the food packaging and filling/ including food packaging and filling/packing plants packing businesses; audit the medical and drug packaging businesses • Formulated and put into effect pharmaceutical affairs guidelines that were behind A • Execute priority measures, including steps to prevent the admixture of different schedule and audited new partner companies in the Information & Networks field products and foreign substances in all types of packaging manufactured • Revised Green Procurement Standards at each division to meet the require• Continue managing chemical substances in products based on Green Procurements under Ver. 3.0 of the Toppan Group’s Standards for the Management of ment Standards at each division Chemical Components of Raw Materials • Revised calculation denominators (per unit) for in-house CFP calculation tools • Establish and operate promotion structures to disseminate CFP reporting and educated persons in charge at the divisions throughout the divisions • Acquired Japanese certification for the Company’s printed materials: Tips for A • Set the groundwork for smooth revisions of the CFP calculation method (shifting Eco-business leaflet (in Japanese) and this CSR report (Japanese-language version) certification units from product-by-product units to a comprehensive unit • F ormulated application manuals for acquiring Japanese certification and educated persons in charge covering the entire system) • Revised the installation and operational criteria governing the tightly secured • Instruct the tightly secured areas designated for the handling of personal information (48 areas designated for the handling of personal information and shifted to a sites) on the conformity to the new criteria and re-qualify them based on the new criteria qualification system for these areas A • Facilitate cooperation among Group companies to take countermeasures • Revised the related rules and verified the progress of priority measures at Group companies against IT risks (antivirus measures, related education) • Deployed the Book Wagon mobile libraries on regular rounds of 14 temporary housing areas for disaster victims in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture as mobile • Continue carrying out medium-term recovery assistance measures for the areas venues for communication among residents A stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake (continue the Book Wagon activities) • Sponsored the concerts for two days as scheduled and donated 2.24 million • Sponsor the sixth series of Toppan Charity Concerts yen to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets; A, Targets achieved; B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved; C, Activities insufficient TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 13 Toppan’s CSR Activities Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” C  orporate Philosophy, Corporate Creed, and TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concept and direc­Conduct Guidelines tionality for the continual growth of the Group in harmony with The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: society and the global environment. ­Toppan’s Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” and a set the Conduct Guidelines. These elements specify a complete of “Business Fields.” The Corporate Structure specifies ideals set of values, standards, and guidelines for the operations of and important values and concepts for the Toppan Group. the Toppan Group. The Group believes that endeavors to realize the Corporate Toppan established the Corporate Philosophy, the top-level Structure will support the sustainable development of Toppan concept underpinning all of Toppan’s corporate activities, to and society as a whole. promote Toppan’s continual development as a socially valuable corporation. The Corporate Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when performing business operations. Built on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed, the Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees both as businesspeople and as members of society. Toppan’s Ideal “Corporate Structure” Corporate Philosophy Corporate Creed Conduct Guidelines Each of us shall To build our customers’ trust though Chapter 1: Basic Principles sincerity, enthusiasm, and creativity in 1. Respecting basic human rights reciprocate our customers’ all our corporate endeavors. 2. Having high ethical standards continued trust, and acting as a responsible member of society create dedicated products by To strive for total innovation from 3. Complying with laws and harnessing our vibrant knowledge a global perspective by conducting company rules and conducting marketing and technological fair business operations and technology, development rich in originality. 4. Avoiding all links with antisocial and contribute to a fulfilling lifestyle as groups 5. S triving to improve quality a mainstay of information and culture. To conduct fair and open business and providing creations operations while acknowledging our that contribute to customer satisfaction social responsibilities and aspiring for 6. R ecognizing the importance of Established in June 2000 harmony with our global environment. information related to business and managing it appropriately To create a positive working 7. P roactively undertaking conservation of the global environment by maximizing our environment individual talents and strengths 8. Embracing change and taking as a team. on new challenges 9. B uilding trust from society TOPPAN VISION 21 through social contribution To enhance our corporate activities and appropriate http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ corporateinfo/vision/corp_image/rinen.html standing and promote the continual disclosure of information development of the Toppan Group 10. Bringing together individual through the exploration of new strengths to fully exploit the integrated strength of the group possibilities. Established in June 2000; revised in November 2010 See page 29 for Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Established in June 2000 Guidelines. 14 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 CSR Activities Dialogue with Stakeholders Corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities are prominent Toppan has recognized categories of stakeholders who are among Toppan’s many endeavors to realize the ideal Coreither vital for its business operations or potentially impacted porate Structure the Group envisions. As measures seeking by them: customers (client companies, consumers), business to incorporate social demands into business operations, the partners, communities, shareholders/investors, and employees. CSR activities are vital for Toppan’s growth as a corporation To shape CSR activities satisfactory to all stakeholders, in ­harmony with society and the global environment. Toppan attaches great importance to stakeholder dialogues In designing concrete activities, Toppan closely refers to the and reflects stakeholder opinions in its activities. ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility, an international Along with the regular dialogues with its stakeholders in the standard formulated through the consensus of diverse stakecourse of daily business, Toppan has been holding meetings holders around the world. Various types of organizations and with representatives from each stakeholder category and with entities have engaged in the standard-making process. This experts and organizations deeply knowledgeable on social standard therefore typifies demands from society at present. issues since fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2011, Toppan took part in ISO 26000 provides guidance on the principles of social the ISO 26000 Working Group organized by Global Compact responsibility—what it means and how it applies to organizaNetwork Japan and carried on a dialogue with global NGOs on tions. Any type of organization of any size can use it. Unlike topics to do with the environment, human rights, com­munity other standards on quality or environmental management, this involvement, fair operating practices, and labour practices. guidance standard focuses on stakeholder opinions: no certification is granted by third-party organizations. Toppan will promote CSR activities with this guidance in mind and disclose the results via this CSR report in line with the seven core subjects of social responsibility defined under ISO 26000. Toppan’s Stakeholders and Seven Core Subjects Customers (client companies, Employees consumers) TOPPAN Labour practices Corporate Human rights Structure Community The environment involvement and development Organizational governance Fair operating Consumer issues practices Shareholders and Business partners investors Stakeholders Communities Seven core subjects Dialogues TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 15 Initiatives at Toppan and Seven Core Subjects under ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Seven Core Subjects Issues For Details Pages Organizational Organizational governance I Corporate Governance P. 17− I CSR Initiatives governance I Risk Management Structure I Business Continuity Management Human rights Issue 1: Due diligence I Respecting Basic Human Rights and Operating Hotlines P. 20− Issue 2: Human rights risk situations Issue 3: Avoidance of complicity I Collective Labor Agreement Issue 4: Resolving grievances I Working for Equal Opportunity and Eliminating Discrimination Issue 5: Discrimination and vulnerable groups Issue 6: Civil and political rights Issue 7: Economic, social and cultural rights Issue 8: Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour practices Issue 1: Employment and employment relationships I Basic Concept of Human Assets P. 22− Issue 2: Conditions of work and social protection I Labor-Management Partnership Issue 3: Social dialogue I Supporting Work-Life Balance Issue 4: Health and safety at work I Occupational Safety and Health / Issue 5: Human development and training in the Healthcare and Health Enhancement / workplace Fireand Disaster-preparedness I Measures for Mental Healthcare I Developing and Fostering Human Assets The environment Issue 1: Prevention of pollution I Toppan’s Environmental Activities P. 36− Issue 2: Sustainable resource use I Environmental Targets and Results Issue 3: Climate change mitigation and adaptation I Toppan’s Environmental Burden Issue 4: Protection of the environment, biodiversity I Environmental Management Activities and restoration of natural habitats I Eco-protection Activities I Eco-creativity Activities I Environmental Communication Activities Fair operating Issue 1: Anti-corruption I Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines P. 26− Issue 2: Responsible political involvement I Toppan Group Helpline ­practices Issue 3: Fair competition I Implementing the Conduct Guidelines in Issue 4: P romoting social responsibility in the value Overseas Group Companies chain I Compliance Education Issue 5: Respect for property rights I Promoting CSR Procurement Consumer issues Issue 1: F  air marketing, factual and unbiased ­information and fair contractual practices I Assuring Product Safety and Quality P. 30− I Challenges in Universal Design Issue 2: Protecting consumers’ health and safety I Protecting Personal Information Issue 3: Sustainable consumption I Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Issue 4: Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution Issue 5: Consumer data protection and privacy Issue 6: Access to essential services Issue 7: Education and awareness Community Issue 1: Community involvement I Community Contribution and Involvement P. 34− Issue 2: Education and culture I Cooperating with International ­involvement and Communities to Address Social Issues Issue 3: Employment creation and skills development development Issue 4: Technology development and access Issue 5: Wealth and income creation Issue 6: Health Issue 7: Social investment 16 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Organizational Governance  oppan has strengthened its governance structure through the establishment of a Management Audit Office, T Points Compliance Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of Japan. Toppan develops governance aimed at maximizing the corporate value of the entire Group under the Related Company Administration Regulations. Corporate Governance C  orporate Auditors, Board of Corporate Auditors, Corporate governance provides the foundation for addressing and Audit Firm the seven core subjects. As of the end of March 2012, Toppan has five corporate audiToppan has strengthened its governance structure through tors, including three external auditors, of whom two are indethe establishment of a Management Audit Office, Compliance pendent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the Department, and Ecology Center under the purview of a Board corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors of Corporate Auditors according to the Companies Act of and Management Committee and important meetings on risk Japan. Toppan develops governance aimed at maximizing the management. They systematically carry out audits for operacorporate value of the entire Group under the Related Comtional sites and related companies in close cooperation with pany Administration Regulations prescribed for the advancethe audit firm and internal audit-related departments of the ment of fair management for the Group. Company. Through these tasks, they audit and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure the legality T  he Directors, Board of Directors, and Various of the operations of the directors and departments and smooth ­Meetings and appropriate corporate management in line with company Toppan has 26 directors, including two outside directors, on policies and regulations. They also regularly convene a board its board (as of the end of March 2012). Board meetings are of corporate auditors of related companies to improve the held monthly and whenever a pressing matter requires action effectiveness of the audits by the corporate auditors across or deliberation. Especially important management themes the Group. are deliberated beforehand by the Management Committee, Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the a body made up of directors selected by the President & RepCompany’s accounts through audits to enhance the reliability resentative Director. The goal is to lay weight on managerial and transparency of the Company’s financial information. efficiency in business decision making. Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Structure Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Supervising Selecting or dismissing Special Committee (for Advising and defending against takeover bids) counseling Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Management Committee Responds to Considers issues prior to board emergencies of directors’ meetings (Board of) Corporate Auditors Directors in charge Auditing Investigates and audits the legality and Auditing Observing Management Audit Office appropriateness of operational activities Business Divisions and guiding Promotes, monitors, and verifies the Audit firm Group companies strict observance of business-related Compliance Department laws and regulations and the establishment Reporting Independently check, evaluate, and make improvements of ethical business practices Corporate Auditors Office under the direction of Coordinates, supervises, and verifies departments responsible Ecology Center Toppan’s environmental activities for laws and regulations Guiding Instructing National Conduct Guidelines Assisting Promotion Supervisors Other organizations for control Chief information Safety and Health Committee security manager National Eco-protection Committee TPM National Conference Working together TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 17 Strengthening Audit Functions Remuneration to Directors and Corporate Auditors The Management Audit Office is a body established indeIn fiscal 2011, the total annual remuneration to directors was pendently from the business divisions. Working from legal and 1,089 million yen and the total annual remuneration to corporational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits rate auditors was 110 million yen. Please refer to the Status on the administrative and operational systems and practical of Corporate Governance, etc. in the financial statements for status of the Company’s management activities. The office details on the method used to determine remunerations and provides feedback to the relevant departments on problems, remuneration-related information. proposes measures for improvement, and reports the audit results to the President & Representative Director, directors CSR Initiatives in charge of relevant departments, and corporate auditors. In Promotion Mechanism fiscal 2011, the office carried out 28 management audits and Under the President & Representative Director and the Director operation audits. It also conducted maintenance and operain charge of CSR, divisions of the head office work in collaborational evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting tion with each other to promote CSR activities. for all business divisions and major subsidiaries. These directors and divisions devise action plans every year. The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs Division They convene regular CSR promotion department meetings to spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure the strict report the progress of activities undertaken at each division, observance of laws and regulations and to firmly establish share relevant issues to be tackled, discuss ways to resolve ethical business practices. The department facilitates the these challenges, and share what they believe society expects ­complete awareness of the Conduct Guidelines, organizes from CSR initiatives in general. Under this mechanism, Toppan employee education on compliance with applicable laws, and works to steadily disseminate the social responsibilities it seeks implements internal audits on information security (➞PP. 26, to meet across the Company and to perpetually upgrade its 32). The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing Management CSR activities. Organizational Governance Division supervises environmental activities, conducts internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the progress of improvements (➞P. 36). CSR Promotion Structure Risk to Be Managed and the Relevant Head Office Divisions in Charge President & Representative Director Risk to Be Managed Accidents involving products Accidents or complaints related to products (Manufacturing Management Div.) or product liability Director in charge of CSR Accidents related to main systems (ICT Div.) Occupational accidents, traffic accidents, or other accidents involving employees (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) CSR promotion department meeting Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable (Finance & Accounting Div.) Administration Accidents or disasters related Legal problems with orders received (Legal Affairs Div.) to company operations Legal Affairs Division Leakage of personal information, internal confidential information, etc. (Legal Affairs Div.) Accidents or disasters related to fires or explosions (Manufacturing Secretary Office Management Div.) Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, management of dangerous chemicals, etc. (Manufacturing Management Div.) Public Relations Division Damage to the company’s internal computer system due to cyber terrorism, illegal access or use of company information, leakage of Defamation, slander, or other personal information, internal information, etc. (ICT Div.) Corporate Planning criminal damages Acts of violence against the company (threats, kidnapping, robbery) Division (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Relationships with antisocial Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations, transactions conducted Personnel & Labor organizations between business partners and antisocial organizations (Legal Affairs Div.) Relations Division Material losses or personal accidents suffered by customers or the Finance & Accounting company due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning, etc. Natural disasters (Personnel & Labor Relations Div.) Division Operational shutdowns due to large-scale earthquakes or other Manufacturing unexpected events (Legal Affairs Div.) Management Division Risk in business management Shareholder derivative lawsuits, hostile takeovers (Legal Affairs Div.) Unlawful activities related to Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan, illegal transactions with Business Development external contracts business partners (Manufacturing Management Div.) & Research Division Infringement of intellectual Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights (Legal Affairs Div.) property Violations of environmental laws or standards, illegal disposal of industrial Environmental problems waste (Manufacturing Management Div.) Product accidents, environmental problems, fires or natural disasters, Risk in overseas business damage to human or physical resources caused by international conflicts activities or terrorism, etc. (Corporate Planning Div.) 18 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Risk Management Structure Business Continuity Management Toppan manages risk comprehensively to avoid risk and miniAs a preparation for a possible operational shutdown in the mize the losses incurred when events at risk occur. aftermath of a large-scale earthquake, Toppan has been forThe Rules on Risk Management have been established to mulating business continuity plans (BCPs) designed to enable address matters regarding risk avoidance and the minimization the resumption of business operations as rapidly as possible of loss when an event at risk occurs. In accordance with these in a post-disaster environment. The Group applied BCPs at rules, the Company has set up a risk management structure its main operational sites in the Tokyo metropolitan district in under which the responsibilities for risk management are allotfiscal 2010. From fiscal 2011, Toppan has been laying down ted to specific divisions in the head office based on the types BCPs throughout the whole Group, including the head office of risk involved. Under this structure, the directors in charge departments and Group companies. Based on lessons learned of each relevant division are responsible for taking measures from the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster, the Group has to prevent, avoid, and correct each type of risk. also begun surveying the suppliers’ current levels of disaster Toppan reviews risks to be managed once a year and exampreparedness as a preliminary step for building a stable supines countermeasures to be taken in line with the rules. The ply chain. Company also holds a regular Risk Management Liaison MeetAs a basic precondition for business continuity, Toppan ing for the persons in charge of risk management in the head gives overriding priority to safety and the assurance of human office divisions in order to share information on a continuous life as a matter of course. In fiscal 2011, Toppan thoroughly basis and respond to risk practically. revised the Group-wide basic plan for countermeasures against earthquake disasters in order to establish a structure conducive to prompt response from the first minutes of a disaster to the early resumption of operations. The Group will accelerate its business continuity manageOrganizational Governance ment (BCM) activities to give concrete form to the BCPs from fiscal 2012. Toppan will consistently improve the BCM activities by sequentially executing preliminary countermeasures, Countermeasures against Disasters arranging education and training programs for employees, Toppan has carried out comprehensive self-evaluating its actual practices, and implementing various disaster-preparedness measures throughother measures. Through these efforts, Toppan seeks to secure out its operational sites under a basic plan Group-wide competence for business continuity while coexistfor countermeasures against disasters. The foremost aims of the countermeasing with communities as a social benefactor. ures against disasters at the Group are to ensure the safety of all Toppan employees and their families and to provide aid for affected people in general. A safety confirmation system composed of multiple communication channels such as email and mobile phone has been in place since 2011 as a tool to allow employees to immediately confirm their safety in the event of a wide-scale disaster such as an earthquake. All operational sites reserve stockpiles of food and other requisites for commuters who have no means to return to their homes. The Group has also been preparing procedures to minimize damages to business operations, preserve company assets, and provide assistance to customers and disaster-affected In-house BCM seminar by outside professionals Large-scale earthquake simulation drill people and areas in cooperation with companies and residents in the community as a socially responsible corporation. In parallel with these disaster-preparedness measures, steps are also being taken to raise awareness of disaster-mitigation procedures among individual employees. Through the regular repetition of evacuation drills for all employees and other various drills in fireand disaster-preparedness, every employee will have the know-how to deal with emergency situations quickly and properly. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 19 Human Rights  ased on the concept of respect for people, Toppan is committed to respecting basic human rights inside B Points and outside the Company and has prepared an environment and systems for this purpose. Inside the Company, Toppan concludes a collective labor agreement, works for equal opportunity and the elimination of discrimination, and undertakes other relevant activities. Respecting Basic Human Rights and Collective Labor Agreement Operating Hotlines The Toppan Printing Labour Union and the management of the Respecting Basic Human Rights Company have concluded a collective labor agreement in order Toppan operates business under the foundational concept to stabilize labor-management relations, maintain and improve of respect for people. To ensure this principal, the Conduct working conditions, and secure the corporate concord. The Guidelines call for respecting basic human rights (respecting agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor and personal qualities and individuality; prohibiting discrimination management, the rules governing union activities and laborand harassment; prohibiting child labor and forced labor; and management negotiations, and employment conditions such complying with laws [➞P. 29]). Toppan has been carrying out as wages and working hours. education on basic human rights and harassment in rankAs a fundamental policy between labor and management, based training for employees to prevent harassment and other Article 1 of the collective labor agreement, the General Princiinappropriate actions from occurring. ples, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute to To disseminate the concept of respect for people throughsociety through business operations and collectively work for out the entire supply chain, Toppan sets forth an article on the benefit of the Company and long-term stability of employrespecting basic human rights in the CSR Procurement Guideees’ livelihood. Labor and management both uphold these as lines of the Group and requires Group companies and business common goals. Article 2 of the agreement specifies that the partners to comply with this article. Company shall respect the union’s rights to organize and colToppan has set up dual hotlines through which both employlectively bargain and act. It clearly states that the union has ees and business partners can promptly report inappropriate all the rights established by law. The effective period of the actions. collective labor agreement is two years. When neither the union No instances of child, forced, or compulsory labor have nor the Company indicates its intention to revise or terminate ever occurred in the Company. the agreement at least thirty days before its expiration, the Human Rights agreement will remain in effect for no more than another six months after the expiration date. Initiatives for Respecting Basic Human Rights Participating in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan participates in the global policy initiative and respects basic human rights in a proactive manner with other business participants. Respect for people A universal concept highly valued by Toppan Establishing and disseminating Working for equal opportunity Organizing training the Conduct Guidelines and eliminating discrimination and education ( PP. 26, 29) Toppan specifies respect for basic Toppan respects personal Toppan organizes training sessions human rights in the Conduct qualities and individuality, and hires for new employees to educate them Guidelines—its listing of behavioral and treats employees without about respect for basic human rights norms for employees—and disseminates discrimination of any kind. in easy-to-understand lessons. this principle across the Group. Promoting CSR procurement Operating hotlines Contributing to society ( P. 28) ( PP. 26, 28) ( P. 34) Toppan cites respect for basic Toppan supports people’s livelihood Toppan operates dual hotlines human rights as a guiding principle in through educational cooperation in through which both employees and the CSR Procurement Guidelines and developing countries and the business partners can report requires business partners to comply donation and supply of money and inappropriate actions. with the guidelines. goods throughout the world. 20 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Working for Equal Opportunity and Employment of Persons with Disabilities Eliminating Discrimination Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities mainly Positive Action via Tokyo Metropolitan Government (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Toppan has promoted positive action aiming at the creation Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary that employs persons with disaof new services and businesses. To better respond to cusbilities. As of June 1, 2012, persons with disabilities accounted tomer and social needs, the Company needs to develop new for 1.91% of the total workforce at Toppan. products and services from feminine perspectives. Toppan employs 176 female managerial and supervisory staff (as of Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment April 2012). Toppan offers various employment opportunities for persons of both genders and persons of many nationalities, ages, S  elf-determination on the Career Path / and levels of physical ability. Recruitment takes mainly three Second Careers forms: regular hiring of new graduates from universities and Toppan has established the Challenging Job System, a prohigh schools; mid-career hiring of experienced personnel year gram to encourage employees to consider their own work round; and hiring of persons with disabilities year round. To experiences, official qualifications, and the departments and hire new graduates from universities, Toppan conducts screendivisions to which they would like to be transferred. Employees ings in seven geographical areas across Japan. The Company think carefully about their own medium-to-long-term career also sets by-job-type screenings in Japan and recruits global development and the skill-enhancement plans necessary to personnel. All candidates screened are given the chance to move them on track. The system cultivates a problem-solving, choose in accordance with their own aspirations and vocacan-do mindset that kicks in when employees reach the new tional aptitudes. Before the screenings, Toppan determines positions to which they aspire. For retired employees in their the talent requirements based on the results of employee second careers in company life, the system offers working consciousness surveys and a review of the behavioral charHuman Rights options matched to their career aspirations and the knowledge, acteristics of outstanding achievers in the Company. During experience, and skills they have acquired through long years the screening, Toppan tries to estimate if the recruits have of service. Seventy of 80 employees who retired in fiscal 2011 suitable competencies and potential. The Company also runs were reemployed and now remain with the Company. internship programs to boost student awareness about work. A cumulative total of about 2,000 students participated in workshops, practical training sessions, and online training courses in fiscal 2011. Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff Number of Recruits Q Female supervisory staff Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Q Female managerial staff (as of April) 200 Regular Sales, Male 57 51 60 176 recruitment of administration, etc. Female 20 23 24 161 new university 150 149 Male 56 83 105 140 graduates and post-graduates Technical Female 21 22 26 100 133 115 124 Male 0 3 0 110 New graduates from high schools and National Colleges of Technology Female 9 13 11 50 Total number of regular recruits 163 195 226 34 37 43 (percent female) (30.7%) (29.7%) (27.0%) 0 30 Mid-career recruitment of experienced — 2009 2010 2011 2012 (year) 18 5 personnel Employment of Persons with Disabilities 2010 2011 2012 Employees 183 199 196 Percentage of total 1.89% 1.97% 1.91% workforce* *The percentage is calculated based on the total number of regular employees (as of June 1) as a denominator. The total number was presented in the Disabled Persons Employment Report in accordance with Article 8 of the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled of Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 21 Labor Practices  oppan recognizes how deeply it depends on employees and encourages them to work vigorously and T earnestly with strong motivation. Points Toppan establishes labor-management relationships in which labor and management stand on equal footing and trust and respect each other. Toppan has established a Health, Safety & Fire Safety Promotion Department at the head office to reinforce safety management. Basic Concept of Human Assets Labor-Management Partnership Toppan values its employees as precious company assets As partners with shared ideals, Toppan’s labor union and man(“human assets”) and recognizes how deeply it depends on agement have trust in each other and respect for each other’s them. From this perspective, the Company supports the motipositions. The two parties work on various issues together on vated, vigorous, and earnest work of the Toppan workforce. an equal footing and hold events of various sorts, including The Company keenly understands the importance of the motirecreational activities for employees. In the summer of 2010, vation to take on new challenges, the drive to work vigorously for example, they cosponsored the Toppan Sports Festival at with a healthy body and mind, and earnest commitment to the Seibu Dome in Saitama Prefecture, an event attended by follow through on tasks to completion. When employees are 4,400 participants, including employees from Group compavigorous, earnest, and have strong motivation, Toppan is connies in the Tokyo metropolitan area and their families. At each vinced that they show their true abilities to the full. operational site every year, labor and management organize Toppan strives to improve the abilities and draw out the sports meets of various kinds and invite employees’ families organizational powers of every employee through the stages of to recreational activities. hiring, appointment, training, and treatment. To do so, Toppan Business councils are convened as Company-wide and places high priority on communication in a spirit of mutual trust, operational site forums to discuss wide-ranging managerial career progress in the directions in which employees envision, issues. Several types of special committees to deliberate indiclearly defined rewards and penalties, and the establishment vidual issues are also convened. Standing committees meet of an open and fair environment. Toppan reinforced its functo discuss issues such as working hour reductions, wages, tions to control human resource development throughout the welfare, and safety and health. Likewise, individual committees Group in fiscal 2011. Toppan will develop the Group further meet when necessary to discuss specially designated subjects, by fostering more talented individuals who can create new such as the creation of a working environment amenable to businesses and markets. enhanced job satisfaction. Toppan has adopted a union shop Labor Practices system. In principle, all non-managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. Number of Employees (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Temporary Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 27 1,670 1,853 7,672 14.4 40.0 Fiscal 2009 8,769 541 144 Female 1 30 104 1,097 8.5 31.5 Male 26 1,686 1,800 7,512 14.4 40.7 Fiscal 2010 8,633 647 47 Female 0 33 114 1,121 8.7 32.2 Male 26 1,687 1,749 7,363 14.9 41.3 Fiscal 2011 8,508 730 68 Female 0 39 121 1,145 9.2 32.8 Reasons for Leaving*1 Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Personal reasons 110 (40) 116 (38) 131 (48) Average paid 7.7 7.8 8.2 leave used (days) Retirement 118 ( 0) 89 ( 0) 80 ( 1) Average ratio* 2 40.8% 40.7% 42.4% Requested by the 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) company *2 Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted Other 50 ( 4) 60 ( 2) 84 ( 1) Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Total 278 (44) 265 (40) 295 (50) Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Turnover rate 3.1% 3.0% 3.4% Employees taking 45 72 58 *1 T  he number of female employees who left the company is shown in maternity leave parentheses. Employees taking 72 (0) 94 (1) 114 (2) childcare leave*3 Average Annual Salary *3 T  he number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 parentheses. Total 6,442,189 yen 6,680,897 yen 6,397,624 yen 22 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Supporting Work-Life Balance Efforts to Foster the Next Generation Efforts to Shorten Working Hours Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which Excessive overtime is a longstanding issue for Toppan. Every employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so operational site has examined and implemented measures to by providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, control the numbers of hours worked. For the time being, for reduced working hours, and for a higher family allowance however, characteristics of the printing industry and other facfor dependents. A rehiring system for employees who resign tors still prevent the Company from achieving fundamental from the Company to deliver and bring up children has been solutions. In October 2008, Toppan launched a Company-wide in place since fiscal 2006. As of April 2012, twenty resigning effort to eradicate extended overtime work as a means of achievemployees have registered for future rehiring. ing better work-life balance and maintaining employee health. Toppan has made institutional improvements for the childcare Senior management, managers, and employees jointly leave system, as well. For parents, for example, the Company undertake initiatives to improve operating effectiveness by has extended the period of childcare leave up to the first March reviewing the ways individuals work and the ways management 31 after the employee’s child reaches the age of 12 months, administrates; to equalize overtime hours by adjusting operaa point in time beyond the requirements of the applicable law tions within the departments; and to introduce new working in Japan. This change eases difficulties parents face in Japan, systems such as flextime and irregular working schedules. where entry to daycare services is often impossible midway At the ongoing business councils and labor-management through the year. Meanwhile, the eligibility period for reduced committees, senior management and labor exchange opinions working hours for employees with childcare responsibilities is and deliberate on measures to further shorten overtime workset to continue up to the end of the child’s third year of elemening hours and to comply with the revised Labor Standards Act tary school (again surpassing legal requirements in Japan), of Japan. They also analyze the actual overtime practices and even in cases where the employee’s spouse has time to devote review the use of the newly introduced working systems. to childcare. A staggered working-hour system for expectant Labor Practices As a result of these initiatives, the number of employees mothers and childrearing parents has also been introduced. who worked long hours was reduced by 95% in fiscal 2011 Toppan will continue enriching measures to foster the next compared with fiscal 2007, the year before the measures generation and improve work-life balance for employees. were introduced. The average hours of overtime worked also decreased by almost 20%. Main Leave Systems / Measures to Support Work-Life Balance and Foster the Next Generation Stock Leave Employees can accumulate up to 50 days of annual paid leave (exercisable within two years from the date the days are granted). Employees are eligible to use their stock leave for therapeutic treatments for themselves or their dependents, healthcare or nursing care for their families, or recovery work in the aftermath of unexpected disasters. Childcare Leave Both mothers and fathers are eligible for fulltime childcare leave consecutively up until the first March 31 after their child reaches the age of 12 months (thirteen male employees have taken childcare leave so far, on a cumulative basis). Employees on leave receive 10% of their regular salaries from the Company (until their child reaches the age of 18 months) and subsidies of 30,000 yen a month from the Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society. They can also work for shorter hours (maximum reduction of two hours per day) or select a flextime or irregular working schedule from the date of their return to the job until their child completes the third year of elementary school. The Company subsidizes certain childcare costs and provides childcare-related information through a consultation office. Rehiring of Employees Rehiring is guaranteed for an employee who resigns to deliver and raise a child, provided that the employee has worked for who Leave the Company Toppan for more than three consecutive years up to the date of resignation. A resigned employee who meets these conditions to Raise Children will remain eligible for rehiring until May 1 of the year when the child enters elementary school. Nursing Care Leave Employees are entitled to take leave for nursing care. The maximum consecutive leave and maximum reduction in a working day are one year and two hours, respectively, for every family member requiring nursing care. The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society pays a 30,000-yen subsidy per month as assistance during the nursing care leave. The Company subsidizes certain nursing care costs and provides nursing care-related information. Leave for Child Employees can take up to 10 days of leave a year, regardless of the number of children they are raising. These days can be Healthcare taken in half-day allotments when necessary. Volunteer Leave In principle, employees can take volunteer leave to engage in socially beneficial activities for a maximum of one year. Employees on volunteer leave receive an allowance. Staggered Work-hours An employee can adjust daily working hours upward or downward by up to one hour to avoid rush-hour commutes during pregnancy and by up to two hours for childcare (until his or her child completes the third year of elementary school). Dependent Family The Company pays every employee with children a monthly allowance of 20,000 yen for each child. This allowance is Allowance discontinued on the first April 1 to arrive after the child’s 18th birthday. (No limit for the number of children is applied.) Partial Subsidization of The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society subsidizes 50% of babysitter expenses (up to a 5,000-yen limit per day) for up Babysitter Expenses to 90 days a year. Other Systems The Toppan Group Health Insurance Union offers a supplementary allowance in addition to a lump-sum allowance for childbearing and childrearing. It also provides one-year free subscriptions to the monthly childrearing magazine Baby and Mommy and runs a consultation office for employees with questions about the health of the body and mind. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 23 Occupational Safety and Health / will introduce full-fledged risk assessment activities for accident Healthcare and Health Enhancement / prevention across the Group. All operational sites will work in Fireand Disaster-preparedness concert to completely eliminate occupational accidents. Labor and management at Toppan have integrally propelled activities to enhance occupational safety and health. The Safety Measures for Mental Healthcare and Health Committee of each operational site plays a central Labor and management regard the maintenance of employee role in these activities with the goal of completely eliminating health as a shared mission vital for the corporate activities at occupational accidents. Toppan formulated the Basic Policy on Toppan and have regularly met to exchange frank views on Health and Safety in June 2010. Months later, in October of the mental healthcare measures. same year, labor and management strictly affirmed that safety Based on the opinions exchanged, several rules have been should take top priority in business operations and clarified the appended to the employment regulations to help the Company actions to be carried out by all operational sites towards the provide a working environment to which employees can more complete elimination of accidents. Toppan also established the readily return from mental healthcare leave. These rules define Health, Safety & Fire Safety Promotion Department, a body a clear set of criteria for deciding when an employee should at the head office dedicated to supporting safety and health return to work, measures to prevent the recurrence of leave, promotion activities at all operational sites. These efforts have and programs to support employees once they return to work. gradually reduced the number of occupational accidents. To prevent mental illness or promptly detect and cure it, Toppan In parallel, Toppan has opened the Anzen Dojo, a safety trainalso holds regular mental health check-ups for all employees ing facility, in Kawaguchi, Saitama Prefecture. This facility serves and arranges mental healthcare training for employees of every as a safety education resource equipped with fireand disasterrank from recruits to managerial staff. preparedness goods and specialized hardware developed to In a project conducted with a Group company called Instisimulate accidents involving fire, explosions, and the jamming tute of the Formative Art Co., Ltd., Toppan also operates Art Labor Practices of body parts in machines. These goods and simulators have Salon, an art session to refresh employee minds and bodies been presented year around and steadily enriched since their through the creative work of painting. Sessions are held at establishment in August 2010. In fiscal 2011, Toppan demonoperational sites across Japan, delighting many of the employstrated a new danger simulator specially designed for regional ees who take part. Employees are also encouraged to freely sites throughout Japan to enhance the safety awareness of consult with counselors in counseling rooms in all regions individual employees of the Group. Moving forward, Toppan where Toppan sites operate. As a further assurance, Toppan Occupational Safety and Health Overview of the Mental Healthcare System 2009 2010 2011 Steps to Prevent Primary Secondary Medical Recurrence: Deaths from 0 0 0 Prevention: Prevention: Treatment: Support for returning occupational accidents Proactive measures Early detection Early cure employees (fresh starts) Frequency rate* 1 0.09 0.00 0.10 Severity rate*2 0.003 0.00 0.004 Regular mental health check-ups, Contracts with mental healthcare specialists including stress checks *1 N umber of occupational accidents requiring employee leave, per million working hours Mental health Cooperation with medical and counseling institutions outside Toppan (reflects the frequency of occupational training I In rank-based Guidance and information about • A clear set of criteria accidents) for deciding when *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence training consultants outside Toppan an employee on I Incorporation (contracted with the Toppan Group leave should return of occupational accidents, per thousand into optional Health Insurance Union) • Rules for preventing working hours (reflects the severity of the recurrence of (group) occupational accidents) training mental healthcare leave Programs to support employees returning from mental healthcare leave Counseling rooms Art Salon, an art session for employees Appointment and Steps to allay deployment of a anxiety after person to take resignation Financial assistance charge of mental from the Toppan Group health enhancement Fraternal Benefit at every operational Society and other sources for fixed site periods after resignation Danger simulator at Anzen Dojo 24 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 has concluded advisory agreements with mental healthcare correspondence learning courses (the Challenge School). A cumuspecialists to secure a ready source of instruction and advice lative total of 10,651 employees participated in fiscal 2011. from professional viewpoints. Employees also have ready access to basic, Company-wide education via Toppan’s e-learning system year round. A cumuDeveloping and Fostering Human Assets lative total of 135,423 employees took part in fiscal 2011. Concept of Human Asset Development and Fosterage In December 2011, Toppan established a new training Mindful of how deeply it depends on employees, Toppan foscenter in Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture. The Company also ters ambitious, noble, and virtuous human assets. Toppan renovated its existing training center in Kawaguchi, Saitama would like to contribute to society as a whole as a corporation Prefecture to augment its functions for nurturing talents who blessed with excellent human assets. Rank-based training will go on to shape tomorrow. brings the Company closer to achieving this by helping employees understand and appreciate the roles and responsibilities Fostering New Employees of each rank. The Company also provides a wide variety of Toppan regards the first three years after recruitment as a Comtraining programs to encourage employees to systematically pany-wide fosterage period for new employees (the “early career gain the “abilities and skills” required by each workplace. planning” period). To encourage new employees to pursue career To offer customers and society enhanced values rooted ideals they themselves affirm, Toppan organizes Company-wide in its pool of ingenious human assets, Toppan arranges nettraining and on-the-job training (OJT) with help from the new working programs for its female employees and cross-industry employees’ immediate superiors, the “Brothers” or “Sisters.” social events for all of its employees as means for opening up channels for new networks and facilitating communication. Fostering Human Assets Active in Global Businesses Toppan has set up an assortment of systems to support overVarious Education Systems seas study for human assets who can play active roles in global Labor Practices The head office organizes various education programs. Along businesses. The selective training on globalization supported with rank-based and department-based training, the office 136 candidates for overseas assignments in fiscal 2011. The enriches selective training courses planned out to foster leadCompany also launched a trainee system in the course of ers of tomorrow. the year to provide employees practical training in day-to-day The Toppan Business School, meanwhile, offers self-developbusiness activities overseas in fiscal 2011. ment training for employees via optional courses (lectures) and Systematic Human Asset Development Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust of Strengthening business Fulfilling corporate Strengthening Improving customers foundations social responsibility organization corporate value “Abilities and Skills” for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify and Ability to Techniques and Skills in communication information skills formulate tasks accomplish tasks know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training I New division manager training I New employee Company-wide I Selective training for section I Training for employees in I New department manager training training managers in sales departments production control departments I New manager training I Early career planning I Selective training for mid-level staff I Training for new supervisors in I New supervisor training I OJT brother/sister training in sales departments technology departments ITraining for new section managers in I Individual department-based training technology and manufacturing (Purchasing, Secretary, Personnel & departments Labor Relations, Technology & Research, and other divisions) Basic Company-wide Education (e-learning) Training for Globalized Businesses Training by the Divisions Toppan Business School I Basic education on TOPPAN I MBA abroad training I Training in each division and each I Optional training VISION 21 I Study abroad program for workplace I Challenge School I Basic education on CSR engineers I Video library I Basic education on the environment I IT training in India Selective Training I Education on profit creation in I Short-term overseas study I Executive business school business I Selective training on globalization I Training to nurture industry-leading talent I Basic education on globalization I Program to develop and grow new businesses and markets *Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd. (in the Toppan Group), an education consultation company entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Company. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 25 Fair Operating Practices  oppan issued a fully revised edition of the Conduct Guidelines Casebook. T Points Toppan organized education on compliance with the Antitrust Laws and Subcontract Law of Japan. Toppan continued with business partner dialogues and surveys to promote CSR procurement. Disseminating the Conduct Guidelines  issemination Activities by Conduct Guidelines D In June of the year 2000, the centennial of Toppan Printing ­Promotion Leaders Co., Ltd., Toppan established the Conduct Guidelines, a set The Leaders formulate action plans tailored to the details of of normal standards of behavior based on the Corporate Phibusiness operations and situations, staff compositions, and losophy and the spirit of compliance with laws and regulations. other individual factors at the workplaces where the Leaders In November 2010, Toppan completely revised the Conduct serve. They organize read-throughs of the Conduct GuideGuidelines as a set of common principles that all Group comlines and facilitate discussion using concrete cases to enhance panies around the world are required to observe for the assurcompliance awareness among their colleagues. ance of total Group-wide compliance. Tools to Promote the Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System Toppan posts regular Conduct Guideline Notifications with Toppan operates a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader topics relative to the guidelines. The notifications published in system. In this system, every Group operational site assigns fiscal 2011 offered advice on thorough information security, a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor (the “Supervisor”) the elimination of improper conduct, the assurance of proper and Leaders (the “Leaders”) for disseminating the Conduct subcontract transactions, and other working tasks. Toppan Guidelines and ensuring full guideline compliance. Supervialso issued every employee in Japan a completely updated edisors and Leaders implement ongoing activities directly contion of the Conduct Guidelines Casebook with revised descripnected with their daily business operations. Seven hundred tions of the actual situations that can arise in daily work. The and nine Leaders were deployed across the Group in fiscal Leaders make good use of the casebook and notifications to 2011, including 57 females (8% of the Leaders). A cumuladisseminate the guidelines at their workplaces. tive total of 4,503 employees have worked as Leaders since the system was launched in 2004. Toppan will continue with Toppan Group Helpline Fair Operating Practices measures to deploy many more Leaders and to resolutely When an employee discovers a legal violation or improper confoster and assign more female Leaders. duct somewhere in the Toppan Group, he or she is to report it to his/her superior for deliberation, in principle. When the employee’s superior fails to settle the problem, the employee is encourStructure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Affairs Division Divisions in the Company Divisions of the head office Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Senior General Manager Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors of Legal Affairs Division Person in charge of management: Business Strategy Department GM Person in charge of education: General Affairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning in administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Sales promotion Managers or supervisors Managers or supervisors Educational leaders managers, etc. from each department from each department Employees Employees 26 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 aged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s internal In these sessions, Toppan devises ways to enhance the reporting system. The helpline is kept open for use by all Group effectiveness of training through activities such as group employees, including temporary staff and part-time workers. ­discussions using case methods describing actual incidents The helpline was used in seven cases in fiscal 2011. The and accidents. incidents reported involved power and sexual harassment and other inappropriate actions. All seven cases were strictly invesE  ducation on Compliance with Transaction-related tigated and properly handled, and necessary countermeasures Laws were taken to prevent recurrence. Toppan has organized regular education on compliance with the Antitrust Laws and the Subcontract Law of Japan, Implementing the Conduct Guidelines in fundamental laws for proper transactions. In fiscal 2011, Overseas Group Companies the ­Company carried out an e-learning-based program for The Toppan Group revised Conduct Guidelines for Eastern employees in every domestic sales department focused on Asia based on the Group-wide Conduct Guidelines and held compliance with the provisions of the Antitrust Laws related briefing sessions on revisions in this region in fiscal 2011. to the prohibition of collusion and cartels. As many as 2,802 The Group will provide ongoing compliance education in the employees took the course. region and steadily implement guidelines in other countries To attain full compliance with laws governing transactions and regions overseas. with subcontractors, Toppan held 29 sessions on compliance with the Subcontract Law for 1,287 employees in the proCompliance Education duction control departments of domestic Group companies from October 2011. In a separate effort, Toppan checked how Training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders subcontract transactions were being handled in 36 sections As in the previous years, Toppan held the group training for across Japan. Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders in fiscal 2011. The Fair Operating Practices training was scheduled in two phases. In the first, 542 LeadBriefing on Compliance ers were trained in 36 sessions across Japan from May to Toppan was not involved in any serious accidents or violations of September 2011. In the second, 508 Leaders were trained in laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2011. 32 sessions from November 2011 to March 2012. Toppan Group Helpline Communicator When the problem remains unsettled Every Group employee Reporting and consultation Reporting on Superior progress and results, follow-up communication Internal reporting Conduct Guidelines Casebook (in Japanese) (emails or sealed documents sent with the employee’s real name) Approach to Intellectual Property Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial issue Receiver for Toppan, a company engaged in planning and development in the President & Representative Director diverse business fields of Information & Networks, Living Environment, or Senior Corporate Auditor Electronics, Personal Service, and Next-generation Products. The ComToppan Printing Co., Ltd. pany devotes strict attention to measures to prevent the infringement of copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties while obtaining patents for its own technologies and business Instructions Reporting models. As one measure, Toppan regularly holds training sessions for business partners of the planning departments, in addition to sessions for Department responsible for employees. Participants in these sessions acquire basic knowledge of investigation and countermeasures laws on intellectual property rights by reviewing actual cases involving troubles in design work and the like. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 27 Promoting CSR Procurement In fiscal 2011, Toppan reassessed 68 suppliers on the activiThe Toppan Group implements CSR initiatives in cooperation ties they reported in the questionnaires and visited some of and collaboration with business partners throughout the entire these suppliers to interview them face to face. supply chain. The Group also held briefing sessions for 283 business The CSR Procurement Guidelines are a set of principles the partners involved in production. The briefings were designed Group observes to drive this endeavor. These guidelines conto renew the awareness of business partners and encourage sist of the Basic Procurement Policy, a conceptual framework them to fully implement measures on important CSR-related to be closely observed by every employee involved in procureissues such as waste control, occupational safety, and the ment operations, and the CSR Procurement Standards, a set management of personal and confidential information. of requirements to be satisfied by every business partner. Promoting Compliance in Procurement Departments Complying with the CSR Procurement Standards The Toppan Group has established the Supplier Hotline, a porThe Toppan Group launched its CSR procurement initiative tal for receiving reports from business partners, on its website. in fiscal 2007. Since then, every business partner willing to The Group regularly conducts Business Partner Monitoring, cooperate with the initiative has submitted a memorandum of a questionnaire-type system for surveying business partner cooperation and reported the current status of its CSR activisatisfaction with Toppan. ties in a questionnaire. In fiscal 2011 the Group asked 13 business partners to Toppan compiles the information filled out in the memoranfill out the questionnaires. Toppan analyzed the results and dums and questionnaires into a Business Partner Database. devised countermeasures for issues that came to light in the This database serves as a valuable information resource for surveys. Toppan and its business partners as they work to establish a supply chain trusted by society. Fair Operating Practices Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (revised from the Procurement Guidelines in May 2007) Basic Procurement Policy I We impartially offer opportunities to all suppliers. I We give full consideration to impacts on the environment. I We comply with all domestic and overseas legislation and perform fair I We pursue QCD (Quality, Cost, Delivery) in order to meet the needs of the business dealings based on corporate ethics. market. I We strictly control the information obtained through our procurement activities. I We implement CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. CSR Procurement Standards (11) T  he company strives to make timely and appropriate disclosure of 1. Basic human rights information relating to matters such as the details of business ac(1) The company respects basic human rights. tivities, quality, and product safety. (2) The company does not carry out unjust discrimination in the treatment 4. The environment and safety and employment of employees. (12) T  he company strives to use raw materials and components with a 2. Public order, compliance with laws, fair business activities low impact on the environment. (3) The company does not carry out inappropriate profit sharing or re(13) T  he company strives to devise processes with a low impact on the ceipts. environment for manufacturing and processing. (4) The company does not have dealings with any antisocial individual or (14) The company carries out appropriate management of chemical group. ­substances specified by Toppan. (5) The company complies with laws, regulations, and government notices (15) T  he company carries out appropriate disposal of industrial waste. applicable to business activities, such as company laws, antitrust (16) The company strives to prevent work-related accidents and create laws, subcontracting laws, labor-related legislation, and environmenta safe and clean workplace, and also works to ensure the safety of related legislation. employees in an emergency. (6) The company complies with laws protecting those who disclose in5. Improving quality formation in the public interest, and it protects the rights of those who (17) T  he company meets the standards for quality required by Toppan report internally. and strives to improve quality. (7) The company complies with legislation related to exports and with the 6. Appropriate pricing laws of the countries and regions in which it operates. (18) T  he company provides products or services at a price that is com(8) The company does not allow child labor or forced labor. petitive in the market. (9) The company does not infringe intellectual property rights such as 7. Stable supply patents, copyrights, and trademarks. (19) T  he company meets stipulated delivery dates and supplies items 3. Management and disclosure of information safely and reliably. (10) The company carries out appropriate management of confidential 8. Social contributions information and personal information obtained through its dealings. (20) The company engages in contributions to society. 28 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Conduct Guidelines and Information Management Policy Conduct Guidelines Here are the specific conduct guidelines presented after Chapter 1 of the Conduct Guidelines (described on page 14). Chapter 2: Specific Conduct Guidelines Chapter 2 defines the specific conduct practices that we should undertake based on the Basic Principles provided in Chapter 1. Basic Principle 1: Respecting basic human rights Basic Principle 4: Avoiding all links with antisocial groups 1. Recognizing the diverse values of individuals and respecting personal 1. Prohibition of any dealings with antisocial groups qualities and individuality 2. Prohibition of involvement in antisocial activities 2. Prohibition of discrimination of any kind 3. Prohibition of provision of unjust benefits 3. Prohibition of sexual and power harassment Basic Principle 5: S  triving to improve quality and providing creations Basic Principle 2: H  aving high ethical standards and acting as that contribute to customer satisfaction a responsible member of society 1. Making our best efforts for the customer and building a relationship of In the conduct of business trust 1. Acting with pride as a member of the Toppan Group 2. Striving to improve quality in every process 2. Prohibition of tacit approval of illegal conduct and rule violations 3. Fully ensuring the safety and security of products and services 3. Respect for foreign cultures and customs 4. Prohibition of the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others In our private lives Basic Principle 6: R  ecognizing the importance of information related 4. Prohibition of conduct that causes distress to other people to business and managing it appropriately 5. Prohibition of drink-driving 1. Protecting information regarding customers 6. Prohibition of the possession and use of illegal drugs 2. Protecting the company’s confidential information 7. Prohibition of gambling 3. Appropriate handling of personal information Basic Principle 3: C  omplying with laws and company rules and 4. Striving for the appropriate management of information and records conducting fair business operations Basic Principle 7: P roactively undertaking conservation of the global Legal compliance environment 1. Prohibition of collusion and cartels 1. Striving to reduce the environmental burden of business activities 2. Prohibition of improper conduct in dealings with business partner companies 2. Promoting businesses with consideration for the environment 3. Prohibition of improper conduct against competitors 4. Prohibition of false transactions Basic Principle 8: Embracing change and taking on new challenges Fair Operating Practices 5. Respecting business partners’ standpoints and building appropriate rela1. Making proposals that embrace change to customers tionships with customers 2. Advancing technical development that meets the needs of customers 6. Prohibition of bribery and inappropriate entertainment practices 3. Having an awareness of problems and striving to improve the status quo 7. Prohibition of illegal political contributions or donations 4. Striving to enhance one’s knowledge, skills and techniques 8. Prohibition of insider trading 5. Securing and using intellectual property 9. Prohibition of illicit import and export transactions Basic Principle 9: B  uilding trust from society through social contribution 10. Prohibition of child labor and forced labor activities and appropriate disclosure of information 11. Compliance with international rules and local laws in overseas business 1. Proactively participating in the company’s activities to contribute to society Compliance with company rules and local communities 12. Maintaining discipline and order in the workplace 2. Contributing to the development and passing on of skills and culture 13. Prohibition of other work without the company’s permission 3. Disclosing information appropriately and enhancing the transparency of 14. Prohibition of conduct that causes a conflict of interests with the company business activities 15. Prohibition of receipt or provision for personal gain or rebate 16. Appropriate management of assets entrusted to the company by customers Basic Principle 10: B  ringing together individual strengths to fully exploit 17. Appropriate management and use of company assets the integrated strength of the group 18. Prohibition of prejudicial treatment of persons that have reported problems 1. Striving to create a lively and vibrant workplace via the appropriate procedure 2. Striving to create a safe and clean workplace 19. Fulfilling duties with integrity 3. Taking pride in the Toppan Brand and striving to cultivate it 20. Reporting promptly and appropriately 4. Group companies working together to maximize integrated strength Established in June 2000 Revised in November 2010 Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security As a group of companies operating in the information communication industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Groupwide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. 1. W  e manage information necessary for our business appropriately in observ4. W e are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, such ance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social order. as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against ­methods. these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems that occur promptly and 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in order in an appropriate manner. to reciprocate our customers’ trust. 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Established: April 1, 2001 Latest revision: August 1, 2011 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 29 Consumer Issues  oppan has been decisively fostering human assets responsible for product safety management. T Points Toppan has made steady progress in its universal design (UD) initiatives. Toppan has reinforced the management of operations involving the handling of personal information. Assuring Product Safety and Quality C  ertified Approval System for Manufacturing in Quality assurance for products at Toppan is a concern for every Food Packaging department, not only the departments directly responsible for Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety production. The departments involved in marketing, R&D, planand sanitation. Toppan has adopted a certified approval sysning, design, sales, and delivery all contribute to quality. This tem to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partner is why Toppan describes quality assurance in production as a companies can manufacture containers and packages only total activity (“Total Quality Assurance”) and strives to improve after receiving the required ratings in the audits. The audits product quality and manage product safety. are conducted based on the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging using a checklist. Toppan carried out 32 Product Safety audits at 25 operational sites inside and outside the Company Toppan has established its Basic Stance on Product Safety in fiscal 2011. Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management to secure the safety of the products Toppan manufacManagement of Chemical Substances in Products tures. The latter provides guidelines for the following measures: Toppan intensively promotes product safety management in namely, the establishment of a structure to secure product all manufacturing processes, from material procurement to safety by identifying and evaluating the risk of improper use or product shipment, by controlling various chemical substances other product-related mishaps and complying with laws and whose use is prohibited or restricted. While adhering to green regulations relevant to products manufactured by each diviprocurement standards prescribed by client companies, the sion; information collection and provision and actual measures Company has established a set of Green Procurement Standin the case of product-related accidents or problems; and ards attuned to the features of products manufactured by every product recall procedures. division in the business fields of Electronics, Living EnvironTo support product safety management, Toppan strives to ment, and Information & Networks. Toppan manages chemical Consumer Issues improve product quality on an ongoing basis. Every operational substances in products throughout the whole supply chain. site has acquired the ISO 9001 certification for its quality management system (QMS) and works to update it. Three hundred and twenty-five employees took part in Toppan’s training sessions for internal auditors at operational sites in fiscal 2011. Basic Stance on Product Safety Audits for the Food Container Management and Filling/Packing Businesses We promote product safety Audit Points management throughout • Agreement with customers the Group by securing safety and • Quality assurance system • Management of equipment and improving the quality of our products inspection devices based on the Basic Principles of • Management of safety and sanitation Conduct Guidelines and • Steps to prevent the admixture of the principles of corporate social different products responsibility as a protector of • Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign substances user safety and health. • Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products • Steps to prevent contamination Operational site audit • Traceability • Security • Education and training • Maintenance of systems and frameworks Operational Sites Audited Food containers • 9 operational sites at divisions and manufacturing subsidiaries Filling/packing business • 5 operational sites at manufacturing subsidiaries • 11 operational sites at production business partners Training session for internal auditors 30 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Challenges in Universal Design Examples of Universal Design Universal design (UD) is one of the prime corporate social One of Toppan’s packaging departments joined in a project to responsibilities for Toppan, a company that designs and proredesign the package for CHARMY Crysta Powder, a dishduces packaging and communication tools consumers see washer detergent manufactured by Lion Corporation. A new and use every day. Toppan strives to help realize the fulfilling CHARMY package developed based on usability verifications lifestyles enunciated in the Corporate Philosophy by producing in a simulated kitchen won the Technical Packaging Award in attractive, easier-to-use products and services suitable for the 35th Kinoshita Prize sponsored by the Japan Packaging users in various scenes of life. Institute. The departments have also started a consulting service on next-generation UD. Besides giving advice on existing  oppan Declaration on Universal Design and T UD development methods, the consultants running the service ­Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design help client companies develop designs through analytical UD plays an increasingly important role worldwide, especially ­surveys of the appeal points of products and verify design in Japan, as societies are reshaped by trends such as declineffects through eye-tracking research and other advanced ing birthrates, the ageing of the population, and enhanced techniques. social ethics and a stronger emphasis on comfort and sensory Departments in the Information & Networks field, on the values among consumers. other hand, have adopted a UD commitment to developing In keeping with the Toppan Declaration on Universal Design easier-to-understand, user-friendly designs in order to help and Toppan’s Principles on Universal Design, the Company client companies communicate with their customers smoothly promotes UD initiatives that assign greater weight to sensory and accurately. The departments have also adopted a UD values and customization while emphasizing functions such commitment to offering the employees of client companies as understandability and usability. easier-to-understand, easier-to-use designs that lead to streamlined business operations. As information increasingly Consumer Issues migrates from paper to display screens in today’s ever-more paperless society, Toppan facilitates UD on display screens as well as in pamphlets and application forms on paper. Toppan Declaration on Universal Design The starting point of our Universal Design is the provision of dedicated products and services realized through compassionate consideration of users. By engaging in repeated dialogues with people from all walks of life and consistently incorporating the ideas of each person, we will create dedicated products that are comfortable, easier-to-use, and environmentand human-friendly. As a corporation extensively involved in human life, we will help realize a society with a high appreciation of diversity through approaches to Universal Design. Established in April 2010 CHARMY Crysta Powder © Lion Corporation Toppan’s Seven Principles on Universal Design 1. D esign products and services that are more responsive to people with different physical abilities and perceptions. 2. Facilitate communication using multiple channels for communication, including visual, aural, and tactile channels. 3. Make products easier to use by making them easier to understand. 4. Make products that are easier to move, easier to approach, and require less strength (remove the physical burdens). 5. Design products that are safe to use procedurally, functionally, structurally, materially, and environmentally. 6. Provide products at a reasonable price and in the amounts required by society. 7. Engage in design that appeals to the senses with consideration for comfort, enjoyment, and beauty. Established in 2001 Revised in April 2010 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 31 Protecting Personal Information After the review, Toppan introduced a qualification system for Toppan handles a great deal of personal information in the tightly secured areas. course of arranging and sending direct mail, issuing and I Introducing an Assignee Registration System for processing cards, and conducting campaign secretariat affairs Secure Delivery and web-related operations. All personal information entrusted Toppan reviewed its security criteria for the consignment of to the Company is treated with the utmost care to ensure the secure delivery of personal information, cash vouchers, and safety and security of Toppan’s customers and the enhanced other important information or tangible assets. A total of 16 quality of Toppan services. partner companies are currently registered as assignees. IE stablishing the Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security  einforcing the Management of Operations Involving R Toppan revised its Information Management Policy into a the Handling of Personal Information Group-wide policy to strengthen coordination on information Toppan implemented the following measures for more stringent security across the Group. Toppan will standardize rules to be control over personal information handing in fiscal 2011. shared throughout the entire Group. I Introducing a Group-wide Personal Information Management System Making Activities Ongoing Toppan has structured a new system to control all operations Toppan conducted quality-oriented audits on personal informainvolving the handling of personal information with a centraltion handling for 28 relevant operations in fiscal 2011. ized numbering code across Japan. In this system, no departThe Company also arranged 301 face-to-face lectures for ment is allowed to conduct any operation using information all employees across Japan to heighten their awareness on outside the scope of its control. Orders are only issued to the the handling of personal information. registered partner companies to which the operations have In addition to issuing the Information Security Management been consigned. Guidebook (2011 revised edition), an educational booklet for Consumer Issues I Improving the Operation of Tightly Secured Areas read-throughs at the workplace, Toppan surveyed actual dayDesignated for the Handling of Personal Information to-day practices for the handling of personal information to Toppan reviewed the management rules it established in confirm how strictly the relevant rules were being followed. 2007 for the governance of tightly secured areas. These rules The Company collected 21,869 responses in fiscal 2011 and required adjustment to cope with rising IT risks and the diversianalyzed the data to clarify department trends. The survey fying types of personal information entrusted to the Company. results were used for the internal audits. Activities in Fiscal 2011 Meetings of Information Security Managers: May 2011, March 2012 Various surveys I Survey of tightly secured areas designated for the handling of personal information: from May to August 2011 I Audits on partner companies registered as assignees for secure delivery: from April 2011 to February 2012 I Audits on the handling of personal information: from April 2011 to February 2012 I System asset audits: from September to November 2011 Information Security I Survey of the actual conditions of information security management: August 2011 Management Entry and exit gates at tightly secured areas desEducation Guidebook I Regular training for information security: from June to (2011 revised ignated for the handling of personal information December 2011 edition; in Japanese) I Issuance of the Information Security Management Guidebook (2011 revised edition) booklet: October 2011 Toppan Group Companies with PrivacyMark Accreditation (as of June 10, 2012) • Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. • Toppan Travel Service Corp. • Toppan Forms (Sanyo) Co., Ltd. • Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms (Hokkaido) Co., Ltd. • Toppan Graphic Communications Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. • TOSCO CORPORATION • Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Operation Co., Ltd. • Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. • Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. • Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. • Toppan Editorial Communications Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Services Co., Ltd. • Tokyo Logistics Co., Ltd. • Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. • Livretech Co., Ltd. • Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. • EduFront Learning Research Co., Ltd. • Bitway Co., Ltd. • Toppan Forms Process Co., Ltd. • Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. 32 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Contributing to Sustainable Consumption Reporting the Carbon Footprints of Products Toppan produces a host of environmentally friendly products The carbon footprint of products (CFP) is a measure of CO2 designed to contribute to a sustainable society. emissions associated with products or services. It is a single In the field of cylindrical paper containers, Toppan has been number anyone can understand. Within the framework of CFP collaborating with Nestlé Japan Ltd. on the development of reporting, it is anticipated that individual consumers will volNESCAFÉ Eco & System Pack, a paper-based container for untarily choose more eco-friendly products. instant coffee. This eco-friendly container is made with Forest Toppan was a participant in the CFP Pilot Program operated Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified paper as a raw material. by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan until In March 2012, NESCAFÉ Eco & System Pack was redesigned the project was discontinued in fiscal 2011. The Company into a more environmentally friendly aluminum-free container collaborated with the ministry in the formulation of Product composed of significantly less plastic than ever before. Category Rules (PCRs) for publication and commercial printed In the field of flexible packaging materials, Toppan has materials (intermediate goods), for containers and packagdeveloped the world’s first packaging film made of biomass ing, and for printed materials for advertisement and business. polyethylene. The plant-derived material for this film reduces ­Toppan has applied for CFP certification for its pamphlets fossil resource consumption compared with petroleum films. and for the Japanese version of this CSR report (760 g-CO2 When this film is used for packaging, the CO2 absorbed by emitted per copy) since fiscal 2011. Toppan will participate in the raw material during its cultivation as a plant offsets the CO2 the CFP Communication Program, a Japanese CFP scheme emitted during incineration of the film at the time of d ­ isposal. undertaken by the Japan Environmental Management AssociaToppan will endeavor to develop more eco-friendly products tion for Industry (JEMAI). in the future. Meanwhile, data on manufacturing processes collected for CFP calculations will help Toppan visualize its energy consumption and implement more effective activities for savConsumer Issues ing energy and reducing CO2 emissions. Toppan is seeking productivity enhancements to reduce the amounts of wasted paper in particular, as paper accounts for a large part of the CO2 emissions associated with the manufacturing of printed products. Before renewal After renewal CO2 Emissions Associated with the Ratio by Life Cycle Stage Sticker abolished Manufacturing of the Japanese Version Use, maintenance/ Disposal, recycling 1% of the CSR Report (15,000 copies) management 0% Shrink film abolished Distribution 10% Membrane converted Raw-material procurement from aluminum foil to film Paper, ink, CTP Production 9,240 kg-CO2 Funnel converted from plates, etc. 7% plastic to paper Production Inner surface of the cartridge converted Prepress, printing, 849 kg-CO2 from aluminum foil to film binding, etc. *FSC-certified paper is Distribution also used after renewal. Transport, etc. 1,146 kg-CO2 NESCAFÉ Eco & System Pack: Key points of new structure Use, maintenance/management Raw-material procurement 82% Reading, etc. 0 kg-CO2 Disposal, recycling Transport, treatment, 171 kg-CO2 etc. Emitted 11,406 kg-CO2 in total (760 g-CO2 per copy) *This calculation covers the printed version in Japanese only. The PDF, digital catalogue, and English-language versions are excluded from the calculation. Standing pouch for refills made of biomass polyethylene TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 33 Community Involvement and Development  he Toppan Group has supported the areas distressed by the Great East Japan Earthquake and Thailand Flood. T Points The Group has striven to improve industrial safety and health and to build up cooperative structures at a time of disaster in the communities where its operational sites are located. The Group has carried on with activities to help raise literacy rates across the world. Community Contribution and Involvement the affected areas at their worksite cafeterias, and supported Toppan’s domestic and overseas operational sites have helped disaster relief efforts by donating portions of the sales proceeds their own communities solve local issues and have contributed paid into specially installed vending machines. to sustainable local development as community members. Every operational site has been involved in neighborhood Improving Industrial Safety and Health associations and other community organizations that bring All operational sites in Japan have endeavored to improve together the opinions of members in the communities. The sites industrial safety and health in their own communities. The sound out community demands and issues through dialogue operational site in Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefecture, for examand organize activities effective in addressing these issues. ple, has engaged in activities sponsored by a Labor Standards Association in Fukuoka Prefecture. In joint work with a local A  ssisting the Areas Distressed by the Great East Labor Standards Inspection Office, the site has carried out Japan Earthquake educational activities and gone on safety and health patrols in In fiscal 2011, all Toppan Group companies in Japan renand around companies across the region, including companies dered ongoing assistance to the people living in the areas outside the Group. The Toppan Group has helped deepen distressed by the Great East Japan Earthquake. In Sendai cooperative relationships between companies in the same region City, Miyagi Prefecture, for example, volunteers from all of the and improve industrial safety and health in the communities. Group companies helped operate the Book Wagons, mobile libraries deployed on regular rounds of temporary housing Community Cleanup and Beautification areas for disaster victims (➞PP. 6–9). The Toppan Group has organized activities to clean and beauThe operational site in Sendai City worked with the Ishinotify the environment around its operational sites as one of its maki Volunteer Center to remove dirt and debris mainly in the most basic community contributions. The operational site in disaster-ravaged coastal districts of Ishinomaki City. On a Itami City, Hyogo Prefecture received an official letter of appreCommunity Involvement and Development cumulative basis, 193 employees took part in activities on 16 ciation from the Mayor of Itami City for continuously dispatchseparate occasions from May to November 2011. Toppan will ing employees to carry out intensive community beautification organize similar activities in fiscal 2012. activities such as the cleaning of commuting routes, river Other operational sites distant from the disaster-stricken cleanups with neighboring residents, and the clearing of waterareas held charity events, served produce shipped in from ways adjacent to the site. Charity event (Koishikawa, Tokyo) Letter of appreciation for environmental beautiClass for elementary school students invited to fication achievements (Itami, Hyogo) the site (Nagoya, Aichi) Book donation (Toyama) Evacuation drill for neighboring residents (Numazu, Shizuoka) 34 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012  ostering the Coming Generations and Contributing F neighboring residents evacuate to building roofs at the site in to Education a special disaster drill. Operational sites in Japan have held plant tours, organized classes in cooperation with schools, arranged work experience Initiatives at Overseas Operational Sites and internship programs, and taken part in activities of many The operational sites in Asia, Europe, and the United States sorts to foster the children, students, and other young people have also striven to support their communities. Toppan sites who one day will be sustaining society. in China have contributed to their communities through charThe operational site in Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture planned ity activities, environmental beautification works, job creation, and gave integrated learning classes in collaboration with a and local material procurement. The Toppan site in Thailand local elementary school and NPO. The site applied Toppan assisted residents and employees affected by the widespread know-how in the classes. In one class on the environment, flooding of 2011. A site in the US has been involved in local students learned about environmentally friendly products from Special Olympics games through both donation and volunteer Toppan. In another class, students were instructed on commuactivities. nication and composed graduation songs with a thanksgiving theme. The operational site in Toyama City, Toyama Prefecture Cooperating with International has been donating children’s picture books, illustrated referCommunities to Address Social Issues ence books, and the like to a local library and nursery schools Starting from fiscal 2008, Toppan has participated in worldwide via a local administrative institution since 2003. activities to enhance literacy (the abilities to read, write, and calculate with adequate proficiency to function well in daily Building up Cooperative Structures at a Time of Disaster life), a living skill essential for escaping poverty and enjoying a Group companies in Japan have responded to requests from healthier, more culturally enriched existence. surrounding communities by advancing their efforts to build As in the previous years, Toppan sponsored the Toppan Community Involvement and Development up mutual cooperative structures for evacuation in disaster Charity Concert series in fiscal 2011 and donated about two conditions and to open up their facilities for community use. million yen in concert proceeds to the Asia-Pacific Cultural Responding to a request from a local organization on resident Centre for UNESCO (ACCU). The funds donated this year will evacuation in the event of a large-scale tsunami emergency, be used for literacy education and classes on maternal and the operational site in Numazu City, Shizuoka Prefecture had child health for mothers raising young children in Cambodia. Toppan Charity Concert Toppan Charity Concert Literacy education in Cambodia ©ACCU (Maki Mori, a soprano) (The JADE, a vocal quartet) Seashore cleanup (Toppan Leefung in Hong Provision of supplies for flood victims (Siam Kong) Toppan Packaging Co., Ltd. in Thailand) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 35 Toppan’s Environmental Activities  oppan proactively promotes environmental initiatives based on The Toppan Group Declaration on T Points the Global Environment. Toppan operates environmental activities in four areas: environmental management, Eco-protection, Eco-creativity, and environmental communication. Overview of Environmental Activities coming decade and concrete targets are set for each current Toppan established the Ecology Center in 1991 and promfiscal year based on individual environmental objectives. This ulgated Toppan’s Declaration on the Global Environment, a methodical approach to goal setting enables Toppan to clarify basic philosophy for environmental conservation activities, in the activities to be taken and the criteria for assessing achieve1992. Toppan has promoted environmental initiatives based ments (➞page 37 for the environmental targets). on the declaration ever since. In April 2009, the Company Toppan’s environmental activities are divided into four revised Toppan’s Declaration on the Global Environment into areas—environmental management, Eco-protection, EcoThe Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment, creativity, and environmental communication. To intensify the a new basic philosophy for environmental activities for the Eco-protection Activities, Toppan enacted a set of five bylaws: entire Group. The revised declaration reflects Toppan’s desire the Bylaw on Global Warming Mitigation, the Bylaw on the to help realize a sustainable society by taking a more asserBuilding of a Recycling-oriented Society, the Bylaw on Chemitive approach to the conservation of the global environment. cal Substance Management, the Bylaw on Pollution Control, Toppan specifies environmental objectives for the realization and the Bylaw on Biodiversity. Toppan has taken steps to of the goals of the Declaration on the Global Environment. conserve the global environment in each of four activity areas Medium-and-long-term environmental targets are set for the based on the five bylaws. Scope of Environmental Performance Data The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment 195 Toppan Group entities in all As responsible members of international society, we who work within the Toppan Group 165 consolidated subsidiaries strive to realize a sustainable society Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) through forward looking corporate activities with consideration 20 domestic manufacturing The Environment for the conservation of the global environment. subsidiaries*1 within the scope of the Company’s Basic Principles environmental targets 29 affiliated companies 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the environment. 20 domestic subsidiaries*2 outside the scope of the 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of limCompany’s environmental targets ited resources and the reduction of all types of environmental burden. 3. With foresight, we promote the development and widespread use of products that show consideration for the environment, and contrib28 overseas subsidiaries ute to the environmental activities of customers. *1 Manufacturing subsidiaries that share 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a wide important roles in the Company’s range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive environmental conservation efforts are for mutual understanding. included within the scope. 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in *2 The subsidiaries to be included within the corporate activities in international society. scope are selected based on the autonomy and independency of their Established in April 1992 environmental activities. Revised in April 2009 Scope P. 37 Environmental targets: 21 companies ( , ) P. 38 “Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/ Environmental management activities OUTPUT data):” 21 companies ( , ) Activities for systematically managing environmental initiatives P. 39 “Ratios of Domestic and Overseas Environmental Burdens:” 69 companies ( – ) Domestic (within the scope of the environmental targets): 21 Eco-protection Activities companies ( , ) Activities to minimize CO2, waste, chemical substances, Domestic (outside the scope of the environmental targets): 20 and other environmental burdens associated with companies ( ) corporate operations Overseas: 28 companies ( ) “Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency:” 21 companies ( , ) Eco-creativity Activities “Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field:” 21 companies Activities to proactively promote the development, ( , ) assessment, and sales of environmentally friendly products PP. 42–44 All the charts: 21 companies ( , ), but; and technical services “Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics” on P. 42: Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd. only P. 47 Total sales of the environment-related businesses: 8 companies Environmental communication activities ( , Toppan Forms Co., Ltd., Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd., Tamapoly Activities for sharing environmental awareness with Co., Ltd., Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd., Tosho Printing Co., Ltd., Toppan stakeholders Cosmo, Inc., and Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd.) Data on overseas subsidiaries is posted on the Toppan website. 36 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Environmental Targets and Results  oppan reduced carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 4% compared to the fiscal 2010 level. T Points Toppan reduced final landfill waste disposal by 2% compared to the fiscal 2010 level. Toppan reduced volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions into the atmosphere by 7% compared to the fiscal 2010 level. Evaluating Achievement of the Establishing Environmental Targets for Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Based on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global EnviToppan has established a set of environmental targets for fiscal ronment, Toppan sets medium-and-long-term environmen2012 based on the achievement rates for the environmental tal targets and concrete targets for each current fiscal year. targets for fiscal 2011 and other relevant factors. ­Toppan achieved nine out of 14 environmental targets set for Toppan will continue pressing ahead with its initiatives to fiscal 2011. attain the medium-and-long-term environmental targets. Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 1. Mitigation of global warming 2. A  ction for building a recycling3. C  onservation of the atmospheric I Reduce CO2 emissions by 11% compared oriented society environment to the fiscal 2008 level I Reduce final landfill waste disposal by I Reduce VOC emissions into the (751 kilotons ➞ 669 kilotons: –82 kilotons) 87% compared to the fiscal 2008 level atmosphere by 70% compared to the (1,584 tons ➞ 206 tons: –1,378 tons) fiscal 2008 level (7,326 tons ➞ 2,198 tons: –5,128 tons) Results and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2011 and Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2011 Environmental Targets For Environmental Targets Management Indicators Achievement Target Values Results Evaluation (Values) for Details Rates Fiscal 2012 1. Mitigation of global warming IReduce CO2 emissions ICO2 emissions 740 kilotons 695 kilotons 106.1% S 739 kilotons P. 42 ICO2 emissions per unit of ­— — — — 0.72 tons/ sales million yen 2. A  ction for building a recyclingThe Environment oriented society IReduce final landfill waste disposal IFinal landfill waste disposal 639 tons 633 tons 101.0% A 475 tons P. 43 IReduce waste generation per unit of IWaste generation per unit of 0.656 tons/ 0.659 tons/ 99.5% B 0.653 tons/ production value*1 production value million yen million yen million yen 3. Conservation of the atmospheric environment P. 44 IReduce VOC emissions into the IVOC emissions into the 5,500 tons 4,885 tons 111.2% S 5,250 tons atmosphere atmosphere 4. Waste reduction P. 43 IControl waste generation IMaterial recycling rate 92.7% 91.5% 98.7% B 92.4% 5. Chemical substance management IReduce the handling amount of IHandling amount of chemical 9,236 tons 7,203 tons 122.0% S 8,643 tons P. 44 chemical substances designated substances designated under under the PRTR law the PRTR law 6. Initiatives to conserve biodiversity Established a set of IPromote conservation during paper IUsage rate of certified paper Continuous paper procure­ment — A Continuous procurement and at operational sites and recycled paper increase guidelines increase IOperational sites for 1 site Considered at — A — P. 46 biodiversity conservation 1 site IOperational sites for land-use Continuous 5 sites — A 2 sites assessment increase 7. E  nvironmental contribution through products P. 47 IDevelop and expand the sales of ITotal sales of environmentally 230 billion yen 241.1 billion yen 104.8% A 240 billion yen environmentally friendly products friendly products (Cartocan, etc.) 8. Facilitation of environmental communication P. 48 IMaintain adequate communication IIssuance rate for Site Eco Reports*2 95% 93% — B 100% 9. Prevention of environmental risk IEstablish and observe new in-house IRate of establishment of new 100% 63% — C 100% P. 45 control standards in-house control standards 10. Enrichment of environmental IRate of course completion in 100% 99% — B 100% — education e-learning-based programs 11. Environmental conservation at IEstablishment of in-house Checks on the Checked the Trial assessment overseas production sites standards in-house in-house — A using the in-house — standard values standard values standard values Evaluation criteria: S, Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] 105); A, Targets achieved (100 achievement rate [%] 105); B, Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 achievement rate [%] 100); C, Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] 70) Achievement rates: For environmental targets #1, 2, 3, 5: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%]; for environmental targets #4, 7: (values actually achieved / target values) × 100 [%] *1 This item was included in environmental target #4 “waste reduction” for fiscal 2011. This year it is included in environmental target #2 “action for building a recycling-oriented society” for conformance with the ordering of the fiscal 2012 targets. *2 Toppan independently determines which operational sites are required to issue Site Eco Reports. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 37 Toppan’s Environmental Burden  s one step in reducing environmental burden, Toppan assesses the environmental impact of its overall A Points business activities. Paper accounts for the greater portion of material input and total waste discharge at Toppan, while activities in the Electronics field account for the greater portion of water consumption and effluent discharge. Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) INPUT Material Input Total Energy Consumption Total Water Consumption Total PRTR Handling Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks 865,309 (59.8%) 4,044 (25.4%) 1,002 (7.2%) 955 (13.2%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 543,146 (37.6%) 5,337 (33.6%) 1,795 (12.8%) 2,827 (39.3%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 37,264 (2.6%) 5,848 (36.8%) 10,762 (77.0%) 3,416 (47.4%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 0 (0%) 667 (4.2%) 416 (3.0%) 5 (0.1%) Total 1,445,719 (Unit: tons) Total 15,896 (Unit: 1,000 GJ) Total 13,975 (Unit: 1,000 m 3 ) Total 7,203 (Unit: tons) The Environment Information & Networks Living Environment Electronics OUTPUT Total Waste Discharge CO 2 Emissions Total Effluent Discharge Total PRTR Release Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks Information & Networks 134,060 (50.1%) 174,669 (25.1%) 685 (5.4%) 55 (16.4%) Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment Living Environment 101,522 (37.9%) 255,493 (36.8%) 1,377 (11.0%) 267 (78.5%) Electronics Electronics Electronics Electronics 28,612 (10.7%) 237,692 (34.2%) 10,133 (80.5%) 17 (4.9%) Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites Non-production sites 3,456 (1.3%) 27,129 (3.9%) 388 (3.1%) 1 (0.2%) Total 267,650 (Unit: tons) Total 694,983 (Unit: t-CO 2) Total 12,583 (Unit: 1,000 m 3 ) Total 340 (Unit: tons) Note: E  nergy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. Some of the material inputs are calculated from estimated values based on production values. I “ Waste” in this report includes industrial waste of no value and materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). IT  otal energy consumption is the quantity of electricity and fuels consumed. 38 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Environmental Burden and Environmental of Toppan’s overseas environmental burden is expected to rise Impact as the Company accelerates its global operations. Toppan will Every operational site at Toppan aggregates its environmental continue controlling environmental burdens overseas as strictly burden via data on INPUT (materials and energy used) and as it does in Japan. data on OUTPUT (materials discharged as a result of production), then assesses its impacts from various environmental LIME for Assessing Environmental Impact standpoints. Toppan establishes environmental targets and LIME*1 is a method for producing an environmental impact priorities in activities based on the results of these assessindex. Multiple factors with impacts on the environment, includments and verifies the results of the environmental activities. ing resources (such as paper) and energy (such as electricity) Toppan classifies its environmental burden data (on domestic input into business activities and waste and VOCs output from Group entities within the scope of the Company’s environmanufacturing, are weighted based on scientific and statistical mental targets) into the three business fields of Information & findings and integrated into a single index of environmental Networks, Living Environment, and Electronics. The assessimpact. ments of environmental burden by business field are shown Toppan regularly discloses the environmental impact and on the opposite page. Activities in Information & Networks and the environmental efficiency (net sales per unit of environmental Living Environment account for 97% of material input at the impact) of its business activities in order to better compreCompany. Paper accounts for 82% of the total material input hend and reduce the integrated environmental impact of its and 74% of the total waste discharge. Activities in Electronics, activities. In fiscal 2011 the Company lowered its environmental meanwhile, account for 77% of the total water consumption impact by 22% compared to the fiscal 2006 level. This reducand 81% of the total effluent discharge, making up significant tion was attained by a reduction of VOC emissions through portions of the totals. the appropriate control of solvent treatment equipment in the The environmental burden associated with domestic activiLiving Environment field and reduced energy consumption in The Environment ties is more significant than that associated with overseas the fields of Electronics and Information & Networks. activities, as shown in the chart below. Henceforth, the ratio Ratios of Domestic and Overseas Environmental Burdens Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field Overseas 21% Domestic Overseas 30% Domestic 100% (within the scope of (within the scope of Other Other Other the environmental targets) the environmental targets) 65% 58% 80% Photochemical oxidants Environmental impact 60% Global Global warming Global warming INPUT data OUTPUT data 40% warming Energy CO 2 emissions 20% Resource Resource Resource 0% consumption consumption consumption Domestic Domestic (outside the scope of (outside the scope of Information & Networks Living Environment Electronics the environmental targets) the environmental targets) 14% 12% *In Living Environment, the chart shows a significant impact from photochemical oxidants, pollutants formed by reactions between sunlight and Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency*2 VOCs released into the atmosphere. This demonstrates how environmental impact can be effectively reduced through the appropriate control of solvent Q Environmental impact Environmental efficiency*3 treatment equipment. 100 100 270 *In Electronics, the chart shows a high impact of energy consumption on 90.4 global warming. This underlines the importance of energy saving in clean 87.8 80 82.2 245 rooms and other facilities with high energy-loads. 78.0 60 213 220 *1 L ife-cycle Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME): A version of the damage-oriented environmental impact assess217 216 40 195 ment method adjusted for application in Japan based on the environmen201 tal background domestically. Damages derived from impact categories 20 189 170 are quantified for each part of the environment to be protected (e.g., human health, biodiversity). Once the damages are quantified, the environ0 0 mental impacts of multiple factors are integrated into a single index. 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) *2 The value in fiscal 2006 = 100 (baseline); Recalculated by excluding non-production sites. *3 Net sales / environmental impact TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 39 Environmental Management Activities T  oppan operates an established environmental management system at every operational site and Points continues upgrading these systems. Toppan conducted internal environmental audits at 62 domestic sites and eight overseas sites. Structure to Promote Environmental progress of the activities every month to ensure that any newly Management Activities arising problems are resolved as quickly as possible. Toppan’s environmental management relies on the operation Every operational site sends the Ecology Center reports on of established environmental management systems (EMSs) major environmental performance data periodically. Results on based on the Company’s environmental management rules. energy are sent monthly, for example, while those on waste The Company continues upgrading these systems by practicare sent every half-year. Toppan prepares an effective system ing the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. To ensure the effecfor evaluating the achievement of its environmental targets and tiveness of the PDCA cycle, top management conducts ongoreviewing the targets whenever necessary. ing environmental management reviews. The Ecology Center regularly collects environmental performance data. Each time Environmental Audit System it does, the Director in charge of the Center evaluates and Toppan’s environmental audit follows a three-stage screenverifies the data and reports the evaluation and verification ing process: a management system audit by an ISO 14001 results to the Board of Directors and other management bodregistrar, an internal audit by the Ecology Center, and another ies. Improvements to the EMSs are proposed and implemented internal audit at the individual site. throughout the entire Company. In the internal audits by the Ecology Center, internally certified environmental auditors and assistant auditors appointed  eatures of Toppan’s Environmental Management F to oversee the environmental management system (EMS) Systems inspect and evaluate the status of the EMS, compliance with Toppan’s EMSs are uniquely managed. The PDCA cycle is environment-related laws, regulations, and in-house standards, put into practice at every operational site, irrespective of the environmental impact on water and the atmosphere, and daily ISO 14001 certification. Sixty-three domestic sites have been control of energy and waste at every operational site audited. pressing ahead with their environmental activities to achieve Once a site is audited, it prepares a Plan for the Improvement The Environment the targets set under the Eco-protection Activity Plan. of Specified Issues pointed out during the audit (Improvement The Eco-protection Promotion Committees check the Plan) and works to correct the deficiencies. At sites where the Overview of Environmental Management Act Plan Management reviews Planning I Issue instructions for evaluating and I Ascertain environmental factors improving the EMSs (task for top I Identify legal requirements and other management) relevant requirements and determine applicable procedures I Establish objects and targets and formulate a detailed implementation plan Environmental management I Continuous improvement via the PDCA cycle Check Do Monitoring and measuring Implementation and operation I Assess compliance status I Determine resources, roles, I Confirm nonconformity and take responsibilities, and authorities corrective and preventive measures I Enhance competence, organize education I Manage records and training, and encourage awareness I Conduct audits (system audit, internal I Stimulate communication environmental audit by the Ecology I Manage documents Center, internal environmental audits at I Control operations individual sites) I Prepare and respond to emergencies 40 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Ecology Center deems it to be necessary, the auditors conduct Environmental Education an additional Review of the Internal Environmental Audit to Toppan provides environmental education through com­ assess the progress towards the required improvements. prehensive e-learning-based programs for all employees. It also organizes specialized training sessions for employees of Results of Fiscal 2011 Internal Audits every rank, including new employees and newly appointed The internal environmental auditors identified 623 issues in managers. need of improvement at 62 domestic sites in fiscal 2011. To In fiscal 2011 the Company arranged e-learning-based procorrect the deficiencies pointed out, each operational site grams covering in-house environmental rules, including The ­follows an Improvement Plan with a detailed list of improveToppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment. ment measures and target dates for completion. Among Personnel from the Ecology Center lecture trainees in these specified issues, Toppan has confirmed the progress of ­sessions of the optional courses at the Toppan Business improvement measures on 56 issues at four operational sites School held each year. Lecture topics include an introduction through the Reviews of the Internal Environmental Audit. The to environment-related laws, an introduction to ISO 14001, and progress and effects of countermeasures against the remainmethods to enhance the skills of internal ISO 14001 auditors ing 567 specified issues are to be reviewed during the internal presented in a seminar form. environmental audits for fiscal 2012. Meanwhile, the correspondence learning Challenge School Onsite interviews and inspections are also carried out for offers 19 courses related to the environment. overseas production sites every other year, in principle. Toppan uses these education activities as opportunities Six sites in China and two sites in Southeast Asia underwent to enhance the environmental knowledge and awareness of local environmental audits in fiscal 2011. The audits identified employees and to continuously maintain and improve the qual99 issues in need of improvement. The overseas production ity of the Company’s environmental activities. sites have followed the example set by the domestic sites The Environment by taking necessary procedures to achieve better operational conditions under the Improvement Plans. Internal environmental audit interview Internal environmental audit inspection “Introduction to environment-related laws,” presented by Toppan personnel Fiscal 2011 Results of Environmental Education Number of Education or Training Trainees New employee training: General environmental education (introductory level) 192 E-learning: Basic education on the environment 22,691 Toppan Business School 22 Challenge School: 19 courses related to the environment 114 Internal environmental auditor training program 154 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 41 Eco-protection Activities  oppan defines its Eco-protection Activities as activities to minimize the environmental burden associated with T Points corporate operations. Toppan undertakes initiatives aimed at mitigating global warming, building a recycling-oriented society, preventing pollution, controlling chemical substances, and conserving biodiversity. Mitigating Global Warming and Saving To reduce loss and waste, Toppan will take extensive steps Energy to streamline equipment operations in fiscal 2012 by further Developing Energy-saving Activities upgrading energy control systems. The Company will also Toppan has shifted its target on CO2 emission control from make efforts to replace existing air conditioners, refrigerating a per-unit-of-sales basis to a total-emission basis in order to machines, boilers, and other machines with high-efficiency better control the emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse alternatives, to install more LED lights and other energy ­efficient gases. Under the renewed target, the Company has reshaped devices, and to use more renewable energies such as solar its energy-saving initiatives from fiscal 2011. power. Toppan engaged in diverse activities to cope with the power shortage in East Japan in the summer of 2011 after the Great Improving Transport Efficiency in Logistics East Japan Earthquake. LED lights, heat-shield coatings, Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the and heat-shield window films were introduced, along with a ­Toppan Group, is reducing the energy consumption per unit number of energy-saving practices that have been in place for of transport volume by company vehicles and the volume of years (such as the turning out of unnecessary lights, reviews CO2 emissions in a coordinated effort with its shippers, ­Toppan of preset temperatures for air-conditioners, and the installaGroup companies. tion of “green curtains” [➞P. 48]). On the manufacturing front, Energy consumption per unit of transport volume in fiscal the Company shifted production to other areas in Japan and 2011 was 64.9 kL/million ton-kilometers, which was 0.2% less adjusted working hours as a means of controlling the peak than the fiscal 2010 level and short of the 1% target for the power demand. year. CO2 emissions were 35,221 tons, or 5.4% higher than Through these efforts, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2011 were the fiscal 2010 level. reduced to 695 kilotons, below the target of 740 kilotons for Toppan Logistics will further improve transportation effithe year. Toppan will reinforce its energy-saving activities to ciency by optimizing transportation conditions in fiscal 2012 The Environment reliably accomplish its medium-and-long-term environmental in an effort to accomplish the targets for the year. target in the years to come. Energy Consumption Note: E  nergy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated (1,000 GJ) Q Energy consumption Energy consumption (GJ/million yen) using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment per unit of sales of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary ­energy 28,000 20 input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly 16.98 17.03 17.20 as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. 16.30 CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the 21,000 15 Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Busi17,182 16,390 16,589 nesses (2003) from the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) of Japan. 15,896 14,000 10 The CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption, however, are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2011 amounted to 697,124 t-CO2 when 7,000 5 calculated using the effective emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calcu0 0 lation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on March 31, 2010). CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO 2) Q CO 2 emissions CO 2 emissions (t-CO 2 /million yen) per unit of sales 1,500 1.00 1,200 0.74 0.74 0.75 0.80 0.71 900 0.60 751 715 722 695 600 0.40 300 0.20 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) 42 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Building a Recycling-oriented Society Toppan has worked to increase the material recycling rate*1 In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, Toppan has for waste plastics by separating refuse and processing comstriven to reduce the discharge of waste and other types of posite plastic into pellets and has endeavored to reduce the environmental burden, press ahead with recycling, and condischarge of waste acids and alkalis by applying internal duct appropriate waste treatment. chemical treatments. Moving forward, the Company will intensify the control of Reducing and Recycling Waste waste discharged from offices and other non-production sites. Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the Effective from fiscal 2012, Toppan has established more Information & Networks and Living Environment fields makes detailed criteria for approving “zero-emission sites.” Under the up the largest portion (74%) of the total waste discharged at former criterion, an operational site qualified as a zero-emission Toppan sites. This is followed by waste plastics from plants site if it had a recycling rate of 98% or over. By setting higher in the Living Environment field and waste acids and alkalis targets for fiscal 2012 onwards, the Company will strengthen such as waste etchant from plants in the Electronics field. its efforts related to waste discharge reduction and recycling. Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate Fiscal 2011 Results of Waste Discharge and Recycling (%) Recycling rate (recycling / total waste discharge) Waste Type of Recycling Material recycling rate (material recycling / total waste discharge) Discharged Ratio Primary Reusage 100 Waste Rate 99.3 99.4 (tons) 98.8 99.0 Waste 197,060 73.5% 99.9% Recycled paper 98 paper The Environment Waste Plastic materials, 96 27,032 10.1% 99.1% plastic RPF*2 94 Waste acid 11,941 4.5% 99.2% Neutralizer 93.0 92.4 Recycled oil, 92 Waste oil 7,274 2.7% 99.5% 91.5 91.5 fuel Roadbed 0 Sludge 7,113 2.7% 97.9% materials 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) Waste 5,571 2.1% 97.9% Neutralizer alkali Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal Waste (1,000 tons) Q Total waste discharge Q Final landfill waste disposal (1,000 tons) 5,566 2.1% 99.8% Metal materials metal 350 25 Wood Chip, paper 2,794 1.0% 99.9% 313.8 waste materials 280 281.5 277.8 20 Roadbed 267.6 Cinder 1,832 0.7% 80.0% materials 210 15 Other 781 0.3% 76.6% — 140 10 Glass chip 482 0.2% 94.9% Glass materials 70 5 Food waste 204 0.1% 82.2% Feed 1.6 0.9 0.6 0.6 0 0 Total 267,650 100.0% 99.4% — 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) Waste Discharge Per Unit of Production Value *1 M aterial recycling: Defined by Toppan as “the reuse of waste as raw (tons/million yen) materials” (refers to recycling methods other than thermal recycling) 1.0 *2 Refuse Paper & Plastic Fuel (RPF): Solid fuel primarily made from refuse paper and plastic waste 0.8 0.719 0.709 0.665 0.659 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 43 Preventing Pollution Preventing Water and Soil Pollution Every Toppan site ascertains actual conditions by measurTo prevent water pollution, Toppan has installed wastewater ing its environmental burden. The Eco-protection Promotion treatment facilities designed to cope with specific water conCommittee at each site sets in-house control standards at sumption and pollutant conditions at individual plants. levels more stringent than the regulatory standards require. By Wastewater recycling systems have been introduced complying with these standards, Toppan sites work to reduce at Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant environmental burden and prevent pollution at the sites. amounts. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the plants have been reducing the levels of water P  reventing Atmospheric Pollution and Protecting the consumption and effluent discharge. Ozone Layer Regarding soil pollution, Toppan has been taking preventive To prevent atmospheric pollution, Toppan controls boilers and measures based on the regulatory regime for facility structures other equipment responsible for smoke and soot by switching and methods for the prevention of groundwater ­pollution stipufuels and managing operations under appropriate combustion lated by the revised Water Pollution Control Law of Japan. conditions. In fiscal 2011 the Company continued enhancing efficiency in effluent-gas treatment by precisely controlling the Controlling Chemical Substances treatment equipment and replacing existing equipment with In fiscal 2011, Toppan continued reinforcing the control of high-efficiency alternatives at facilities subject to the requirechemical substances designated under the Pollutant Release ments stipulated under the Air Pollution Control Law of Japan. and Transfer Register (PRTR) law of Japan and reducing As a result, VOC and toluene emissions into the atmosphere in the amounts of these substances handled. Total handling, fiscal 2011 were both reduced compared with the fiscal 2010 release, and transfer were all decreased from the fiscal 2010 levels. Toppan will keep on thoroughly controlling atmospheric levels through the use of alternative substances, refinements pollutants in the coming years. of usage methods, and the implementation of other control The Environment For ozone-layer protection, all equipment that uses specimeasures. Toppan will strive to consistently reinforce the confied chlorofluorocarbons at Toppan plants is controlled in control of chemical substances. formance with the applicable laws and regulations. VOC and Toluene Emissions into the NOx and SOx*2 Emissions*3 Chemical Substances Designated Atmosphere*1 under the PRTR Law*4 (tons) VOCs Toluene (tons) NOx SOx (tons) Total Total Total handling transfer release 10,000 200 10,000 8,681 8,140 7,500 7,326 150 7,500 7,203 142 122 127 117 5,271 5,000 4,885 100 5,000 3,119 2,500 50 2,500 2,002 32 31 30 27 362 412 376 317 399 340 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2010 2011 (fiscal year) (fiscal year) (fiscal year) *1 E missions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). The data for fiscal 2010 have been adjusted based on revised methods for calculation. *2 NOx: Nitrogen oxides; SOx: Sulfur oxides *3 Facilities subject to the calculation of NOx and SOx emissions are limited to those responsible for smoke and soot specified under the Air Pollution Control Law of Japan. The data for fiscal 2010 and earlier are therefore adjusted. *4 Dioxins are excluded because of a difference in the counting unit. 44 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Approach to Environmental Compliance Communication with Surrounding Communities  ompliance with Regulatory Standards in Fiscal 2011 C Communities around Toppan’s plants filed 13 complaints In Japan, one production site recorded VOC emission levels and inquiries at nine domestic sites in fiscal 2011, indicatexceeding the regulatory standards set under the Air Pollution ing that many stakeholders were inconvenienced. Many of Control Law and two sites recorded odor levels exceeding the the complaints and inquiries concerned noise. Toppan has limits set under the Offensive Odor Control Law. Four proreviewed the control of facilities and equipment responsible duction sites, meanwhile, recorded excessive levels of BOD, for noise and either installed isolators or assessed plans to n-hexane extractable material, and hydrogen-ion concentration install them. Further, the Company has stepped up routine relative to the regulatory standards set for water contaminants inspections and other measures to prevent the recurrence under the Water Pollution Control Law and Sewerage Law. of noise-related problems. Toppan will continue engaging in Regarding noise, nine production sites exceeded regulatory environmental management through dedicated communicastandards set under the Noise Regulation Law. (Toppan is tions with residents in surrounding communities. devising countermeasures, including investigations into the sources to determine whether the noise is Toppan’s responsiEmergency Responses bility or the responsibility of others.) The Company took immeTank trucks convey chemical solvents into the plant premises diate corrective measures for every case, including steps to every day and transfer the solvents to storage tanks. Leakrevise the control methods for equipment. Since implementage accidents during the operations pose the risk of soil and ing these corrective measures, Toppan has reviewed control water pollution. procedures and taken necessary actions to reliably prevent Toppan has therefore prepared oil absorbents, sandbags, recurrences. In fiscal 2011, each plant set in-house standards and other necessary safeguards to prevent the outflow of solor reviewed existing standards in an effort to ensure that none vents in the event of an emergency or accident during producof the regulatory standards would be exceeded. tion operations. Emergency-preparedness drills have also been The Environment Regarding the pollution of soil and groundwater environheld regularly. The Company formulates procedures to prevent ments, Toppan has taken the countermeasures shown in the environmental pollution during emergencies. The effectiveness table below. of the procedures is verified during the drills and defective points are reviewed. Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Operational Site Detail Current Progress* Niigata Plant Soil pollution by fluorine and its Remediation work completed (Shibata City, Niigata) compounds Groundwater pollution by VOCs Asaka Plant (Voluntary investigation of well water Continuously monitored (Niiza City, Saitama) on the plant premises) Itabashi Plant Groundwater pollution by hexavalent Groundwater pumped and (Itabashi Ward, Tokyo) chromium and toluene purified; continuously monitored Itabashi Plant Minami Soil pollution by hexavalent I bldg. Remediation work ongoing chromium and lead (Itabashi Ward, Tokyo) Ebie Plant Soil pollution by hexavalent Remediation work ongoing Replacement of effluent-gas treatment equip(Osaka City, Osaka) chromium and lead ment *As of June 2012 Emergency-preparedness drill to cope with a hypothetical leakage scenario TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 45 Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity versity, the Technical Research Institute and four other opera stablishing a Set of Paper Procurement Guidelines E tional sites applied a land-use assessment method* to monitor The Toppan Group established the Paper Procurement Guideorganisms within their premises and to assess the degree lines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources in September to which their land-use methods contributed to biodiversity. 2011. These guidelines stipulate that the Group must verify Toppan will examine how to implement conservation plans, the legality of the lumber, pulp, and other materials for paper including planting designs that coexist harmoniously with it procures and take steps to increase the use of paper types the ecological systems surrounding operational sites and the produced by processes more supportive of the sustainability installation of biotope spaces within the site premises. of forest resources, such as recycled paper, forest-certified *Based on a set of Guidelines for Sustainable Business Site Management® established by Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) paper, and paper made with pulp from forest-thinning operations. Under these guidelines, Toppan sales departments will Promoting the Conservation of Forests in Japan recommend and offer their customers paper produced with a Among the various forest conservation activities Toppan higher awareness of biodiversity conservation. engages in domestically, the employees of the Sakai Plant in Osaka continue participating in the “Volunteer Tree-planting  ctively Utilizing Lumber Harvested from A Program for Symbiotic Forests,” a tree-planting activity sponForest-thinning Operations sored by the nonprofit organization GREEN BAY OSAKA. Toppan encourages the conservation of forests in Japan by actively utilizing lumber harvested from forest-thinning operaJoining in Hands-on Education on Forestry tions. Thinning is a process to keep spaces between trees by Employees and their families took part in the “Expedition to clearing out poorly grown trees. The ecological benefits of the Explore Living Creatures in Tokyo’s Umi-no-mori (Sea Forest),” thinning operation help to nurture sound forests and conserve the “Big Autumn Harvest Festival in Miwa Satoyama*,” and biodiversity. Cartocan, Toppan’s paper-based beverage conThe Environment other events sponsored by an environmental NPO called tainer, is produced from pulp using more than 30% domestic “SHU.” Toppan will carry on more hands-on educational prolumber, including lumber harvested from forest-tinning operagrams to provide opportunities for communion with forest tions. Toppan is authorized to display the forest-thinning prodenvironments and will duplicate these programs at more sites uct logo on its Cartocan. across Japan. *Satoyama: A richly biodiverse habitat within a landscape carefully manI mproving Land-use Practices at Operational Sites aged by humans for mixed uses such as forestry, rice paddies, reservoirs, In an effort to facilitate land-use practices supportive of biodigrasslands, and so on. Cartocan Green space at an operational site (Technical Expedition to Explore Living Creatures in Tokyo’s Research Institute) Umi-no-mori (Sea Forest) Logo for forest-thinning products A logo designated by the National Federation of Coop­ erative Associations for Forest Owners under the guidance of the Forest Agency Cream-spotted lady beetle Blue dragonfly and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan. The logo is displayed on products developed with the sundry aims of spreading awareness and wider proliferation of forest-thinning operations, promoting the use of lumber harvested from forestSilver-washed fritillary Black freshwater snails thinning operations, and offering consumers a wider range of eco-options. Creatures found in Toppan’s operational sites Big Autumn Harvest Festival in Miwa Satoyama 46 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Eco-creativity Activities T  oppan has registered a total of 105 environmentally friendly products. Points Toppan has assessed the environmental impact of products based on LIME. Developing and Certifying Environmentally Life Cycle Assessment of Products Friendly Products From fiscal 2008, Toppan has been making environmental Toppan develops eco-friendly products in accordance with impact assessments based on LIME*1 under the guidance of Toppan’s 14 Environmental Points based on ISO 14021 and Mr. Norihiro Itsubo, Associate Professor of Tokyo City Univereach division’s own set of criteria. Newly developed products sity. LIME quantitatively assesses the environmental impact meeting the criteria are certified and registered as “environassociated with activities for producing individual products. mentally friendly products.” Two products were registered in The Company aims to formulate a model for comprehensively fiscal 2011, bringing the total up to 105 as of the end of March assessing the environmental impact of production activities 2012. Toppan will press on with environmental conservation (➞P. 39) and performing life cycle assessments*2 (LCAs) for activities through the development and sales of environmentally Toppan products. friendly products. In fiscal 2011 Toppan carried out a comparative assessment between GL Film and aluminum foil and reported the results Environment-related Businesses at Group at a meeting of the Institute of Life Cycle Assessment, Japan. Companies GL Film is an environmentally friendly alumina deposition PET The companies of the Toppan Group, like Toppan itself, have film manufactured by Toppan. The film holds an advantage forged ahead with corporate activities geared to conserving the over ordinary aluminum foil by virtue of its lower consumption global environment. Each company develops, produces, and of aluminum, a metal resource. The comparative assessment markets eco-friendly products in line with its own Eco-product proved that GL Film has a 61% lower environmental impact Standards formulated in consideration of products, services, than aluminum foil over the stages from material collection to and social demands. The total sales of environmentally friendly film manufacture. products satisfying the criteria of individual Group companies Toppan will apply LCAs to its environmentally friendly and Toppan itself in environment-related businesses stood at designs for developing and modifying products. The Environment 241.1 billion yen in fiscal 2011. Toppan’s 14 Environmental Points and LCA of GL Film*3 Environmental Considerations 100 Toppan’s 14 Environmental Environmental impact (per unit area) Life Cycle ISO 14021 Environmental Global Points for Environmentally warming Stage Labeling Type II Friendly Products 80 (CO 2, etc.) Production 1. Use of safe materials Atmospheric Atmospheric and 60 pollution pollution distribution Recycling rate 2. Use of recycled materials (NOx, SOx, etc.) (NOx, SOx, etc.) Resource reduction 3. Resource-saving 40 Resource Resource consumption Global consumption 4. R  educed energy (crude oil, warming (crude oil, consumption in production 20 natural gas, (CO 2, etc.) natural gas, Waste etc.) etc.) Recovered energy 5. Use of recovered energy Waste 0 Reduced solid waste 6. Reduced solid waste Aluminum foil GL Film Use Energy-saving 7. Energy-saving 8. R  educed release of *1 LIME: See page 39 for details. chemical substances *2 Life cycle assessment (LCA): An assessment method for quantifying Long-life products 9. Long product life resources input and the environmental burden output at all stages of the product life cycle, from raw material procurement through to manufacturAfter use Reusable/refillable 10. Reusability ing, distribution, use, disposal, and recycling Recyclable 11. Recyclability *3 The environmental impact of aluminum foil = 100 (baseline). The assess­ 12. Suitability for disposal ment covers life cycle stages from material collection to film manufacture. 13. E  asy separation and Easy detachment design disassembly Degradability 14. Biodegradability TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 47 Environmental Communication Activities T  oppan sites in Japan issue Site Eco Reports to facilitate communication with stakeholders. Points Toppan presented its eco-friendly products at Eco-Products 2011. Communication outside the Company Major Environment-related Awards I ssuing Site Eco Reports The Itabashi Plant won the grand prize in the group category Toppan’s ISO 14001-certified sites in Japan have been issuing at the Itabashi Green Curtain Contest held by Itabashi City, Site Eco Reports to disclose environmental burden data and Tokyo. The plant was awarded for building an approximately the details of their environmental activities since fiscal 2000. As 70-meter-wide, 3-to-4-meter-high “green curtain” composed periodic communications directed towards local municipalities of bitter melon plants. This grand green curtain for fiscal and residents in surrounding communities, 26 reports from 33 2011 was twice the size of the curtain the plant built in fiscal sites were issued in fiscal 2011. 2010. One of the employees at the Niigata Plant of Toppan ElecMeeting Residents to Report Environmental Activities tronics Products Co., Ltd. was selected by an environmental The Kawaguchi Plant in Saitama Prefecture invites residents conservation association in Kaetsu, a region in the north of from surrounding communities every year to brief them on its Niigata Prefecture, as the fiscal 2011 recipient of the assoenvironmental efforts and take them on plant tours. ciation’s award for individuals who have made distinguished In a briefing held on August 26, 2011, the plant presented environmental contributions. The association selected this products manufactured at the plant and examples of its employee as an award winner in recognition of his dedicated environmental efforts, including works to install environmentenvironmental conservation initiatives to reduce the release of ­oriented equipment. chemical substances designated under the PRTR law, upgrade risk control, and foster communication with residents from Presenting at Various Exhibitions surrounding communities. Toppan exhibited and presented existing and newly develToppan will help realize a sustainable society by pressoped eco-friendly products at the Eco-Products 2011 event ing ahead with its energy saving measures and various other at Tokyo Big Sight. environmental conservation activities in the years ahead. The Environment Site Eco Reports (in Japanese) Eco-Products 2011 Award for individuals from an environmental conservation association in Kaetsu, Niigata Meeting to report environmental activities Itabashi Green Curtain Contest (Kawaguchi Plant, Saitama) (Itabashi Plant, Tokyo) 48 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Independent Assurance Toppan began aggregating some of its environmental performThere are still limits, however, in the disclosure of personnelance indicators using a new information system introduced related indicators, which generally cover only Toppan Printing in fiscal 2011. There were no major problems, even though Co., Ltd. We must call attention to this restriction on disclo2011 was the first year the system was used. We believe that sure as a continuous challenge for the Company to address. this new system has enabled Toppan to compile data more Given that the Company’s employees account for less than effectively. Henceforth, system implementation will make it 20% of Group employees on a consolidated basis, we believe easier for the Company to analyze rising and falling performthat Toppan needs to expand the scope and boundary of ance values based on comparisons with earlier data. Toppan data disclosure—incrementally if necessary—through discusplans to incorporate other major environmental performance sion with Group companies and relevant departments at the indicators into the system step by step. We expect the comCompany in the years ahead. ing incorporation will streamline data aggregation and further Shinichiro Akasaka improve accuracy. KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Indicators in this Report Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Pages Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Number of Recruits; Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff; Employment of Persons with Disabilities; 21 Human Rights number of retired employees; number of reemployed employees Number of Employees; Reasons for Leaving; Average Annual Salary; Annual Paid Leave Used; Employees 22 Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Rates of decrease in the average hours of overtime worked (in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2011); number of employees 23 who have resigned from the Company and registered to join the rehiring system for employees who resign Labor Practices from the Company for the delivery and upbringing of children 24 Occupational Safety and Health Number of employees who participated in the Toppan Business School; number of employees who 25 participated in basic, Company-wide education (via e-learning programs); number of employees who participated in selective training on globalization 26 Number of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; ratio of female Leaders Number of employees who participated in training sessions for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders; 27 number of employees who participated in the e-learning-based education program on compliance with the Fair Operating Practices Antitrust Laws of Japan Number of companies reassessed by Toppan in relation to the Group’s CSR procurement initiatives; number 28 of companies that participated in briefing sessions on the Group’s CSR procurement initiatives Number of employees who participated in training sessions for internal auditors; results of the audits 30 Consumer Issues conducted using the quality audit checklist Results of the progress towards the environmental targets for fiscal 2011 37 Environmental Targets and Results *Only the numerical results are assured. 38 Major Environmental Burdens by Business Field in Japan (INPUT/OUTPUT data) Toppan’s Environmental Burden 39 Ratios of Domestic and Overseas Environmental Burdens Environmental Management 41 Number of internal environmental audits conducted; Fiscal 2011 Results of Environmental Education Activities Energy Consumption; CO2 Emissions; energy consumption per unit of transport volume and CO2 emissions 42 in logistics Recycling Rate and Material Recycling Rate; Total Waste Discharge and Final Landfill Waste Disposal; Waste 43 Discharge Per Unit of Production Value; Fiscal 2011 Results of Waste Discharge and Recycling Eco-protection Activities VOC and Toluene Emissions into the Atmosphere; NOx and SOx Emissions; Chemical Substances 44 Designated under the PRTR Law Compliance with Regulatory Standards in Fiscal 2011; number of complaints and inquiries from communities 45 around Toppan’s plants; Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Number of newly registered environmentally friendly products; total sales of environmentally friendly products 47 Eco-creativity Activities at Group companies and Toppan itself Some data in the “CSR Report 2012: Detailed Data” posted on the Toppan website are also assured by the assurance provider. Level of Conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 This report is at an application level B+ as Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ defined by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement Guidelines 2006 (G3 Guidelines). 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B OUTPUT G3 Profile 2.1-2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 *Please access http://www.toppan.co.jp/ 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured english/csr/ for the GRI content index. Not Required Management Management Standard Disclosures Approach Disclosures Approach disclosed OUTPUT G3 Management Approach for each Indicator for each Indicator Disclosures Category Category Report on a minimum Report on a minimum of Report on each core of 10 Performance 20 Performance G3 and Sector Indicators, including at Indicators, at least one Supplement* G3 Performance least one from each of: from each of: economic, indicator with due OUTPUT Indicators & Sector social, economic, and environment, human regard to the Supplement environment. rights, labor, society, materiality principle Performance Indicators product responsibility. by either: a) reporting on the indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 49 Independent Assurance Report 50 TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 Group Business Structure Customers Toppan Group Structure Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Companies Sales Companies Toppan Communication Products Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. Information & Networks 58% Total Media Development Institute Toppan Graphic Communications Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 3 other companies Toppan Travel Service Corp. 8 other companies Toppan Printing Co. (America), Toppan System Solutions Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Inc. (USA) Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. 10 other companies Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. 26 other companies T.F. Company, Ltd. (PRC) (PRC) ∗Toppan M&I Co., Ltd. 8 other companies Toppan Printing Co., (Shenzhen) 8 other companies Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Manufacturing and sales company) Ltd. (PRC) ∗Data Products Toppan Forms Toppan Leefung Pte. Ltd. 13 other companies Ltd. (Thailand) (Singapore) 9 other companies ∗Toppan Leefung Printing (Shanghai) 28 other companies Co., Ltd. (PRC) 1 other company Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Company Sales Companies Toppan Packaging Products Toppan Cosmo, Inc. Co., Ltd. Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd. Living Environment 25% Toppan Functional Products Toppan Containers Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Tamapoly Co., Ltd. Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd. Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. Toppan Packs Co., Ltd. 2 other companies 8 other companies ∗Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd. Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products 3 other companies Ltd. (PRC) P.T. Toppan Printing Indonesia 2 other companies (Indonesia) Toppan Interamerica Inc. (USA) 7 other companies Manufacturing Companies Manufacturing and Sales Companies Sales Companies Toppan Electronics Products Toppan Electronics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. NEC Toppan Circuit Solutions, Inc. 3 other companies Toppan TOMOEGAWA Optical Toppan CFI (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Electronics 17% Products Co., Ltd. Toppan Photomasks, Inc. (USA) 5 other companies 9 other companies ∗Panasonic Industrial Devices ∗Advanced Mask Technology Optical Films Co., Ltd. Center GmbH & Co. KG 1 other company (Germany) 1 other company Products Materials Service Notes: INo symbol: subsidiary—165 companies *: affiliates—29 companies (as of the end of March 2012) IToppan Group’s business activities are usually divided into five fields. Here, however, they are divided into three fields based on the current sizes of the ­businesses and other factors. IThe composition ratios given under each business field are percentages of overall net sales contributed. (“Net Sales by Business Field” are shown on page 5.) IToppan Forms Co., Ltd., Tosho Printing Co., Ltd., and Toyo Ink SC Holdings Co., Ltd. are listed on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. IToppan operational sites span 15 countries and regions, including Japan. TOPPAN CSR REPORT 2012 51 As a member of GPN, we incorporate Green Purchasing in our printing services. This report incorporates eye-friendly displays as a consideration for as many different types of people as possible, regardless of individual differences in color perception. Monitors from the Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO), a nonprofit organization, have reviewed and certified this report for its universal design. http://www.toppan.co.jp/english/ © TOPPAN 2012.10 K I Printed in Japan
