Ericsson-LG UN Global compact Communication on Progress 2011 Ericsson-LG UN Global compact Communication on Progress 2011 Contents 03 CEO Message 04 Vision and Value 05 Sustainability Management System 07 About the Company 11 About this Report 12 Corporate Governance 13 Stakeholders 15 Implementation of Global Compact Principles 40 Memberships and Awards 41 GRI Index www.ericssonlg.com Overview the first report CEO of Ericsson-LG Message on the implementation of thE promise Ericsson-LG is a wired/wireless communication equipment and networking solution company established in July 2010 by LG Electronics, Inc., which has led the IT industry in Korea, and Ericsson, the number one company in the world wireless network market. Based on the cutting-edge technical capabilities and development experiences accumulated for a long period of time, Ericsson-LG recorded the biggest turnover in 2011 since its foundation despite the environment of increasing uncertainty in the global economy, rapidly changing technical advancement, and fierce competition. In addition to financial achievement, we have strengthened global business capability by providing differentiated customer value through our products and solutions and established the base for sustainability management by operating a CSR Committee and building a sustainability management achievement administration system. We are paying careful attention to social and environmental concerns to become a responsible member of the community and are appropriately and correctly coping with the demands of stakeholders. Ericsson-LG believes that the products and services it has provided as a global leader in the communication field have potential to bring enormous profit to society. At the same time, we know that it is important to act with a sense of social and ethical responsibilities. We have interest in the people who have participated in production and the people who support our products and services spread across the whole world, and we are endeavoring to improve productivity and minimize the environmental impact on society where we are working. Ericsson-LG is supporting the UN Global Compact Initiative, which handles issues related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We have established a corporate code of conduct based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact to keep the promise for the Initiative made to employees, partners, customers, and diverse stakeholders, with the content posted on the website. This is the first report of Ericsson-LG on the implementation of that promise, wherein not only the UN Global Compact but also the activities of Ericsson-LG in relation to its social responsibilities in all aspects of environment, society, and economy are comprehensively put in place. Ericsson-LG will keep supporting the UN Global Compact continuously and make every effort to become a company that caters to the interest and expectations of stakeholders, fulfills its responsibilities, and pursues sustainability growth and advancement. Thank you. Martin Wiktorin, CEO Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 03 Overview Vision and Value The prime driver in an all communicating world VISION VALUES PRINCIPLES MISSION Professionalism Customer first/Execution/ Customer. First Accountability Innovating to Innovate. Everyday Respect empower people, Empowerment/Trust/ Speed. Quality Diversity business, Empower. Action and society Perseverance Change agent/Courage/ Perform. Team Passion to Win Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 04 Overview Sustainability Management System Sustainability Policy █ Continuously reduce the environmental impact of our own operations █ Increase the knowledge and awareness about sustainability among employees █ Use Design for Environment (DfE) strategies to achieve continuous environmental improvements regarding mass and energy flows related to Ericsson-LG´s product portfolio █ Engage in selected activities that, in addition to promoting Ericsson-LG’s business, have positive socio-economic impacts and promote the vision of communication for all █ Use Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology as a means for determining significant aspects and as a basis for communicating environmental performance of our operations, products, services and solutions █ Engage our suppliers to ensure adequate sustainability standards in our supply chain █ Actively engage with our stakeholders about our sustainability performance █ Meet or exceed applicable legal requirements in the socio-economic and environmental areas █ Provide product take-back services to our customers as part of our producer responsibility, to assist them in the end-of-life management of products and solutions Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 05 Overview Sustainability Management System Sustainability strategy █ Improve our own sustainability performance : We do this by continuously reducing our environmental impact, deepening our understanding of the business potential within sustainability and by further integrating sustainability in our culture and ways of working. █ Provide products, solutions and services so that customers improve their own environmental performance : Our ambition is to be the undisputed leader in energy efficiency and environmental performance to reduce our own and our customers’ environmental impact throughout the value chain. We set ambitious targets, provide our customers with products, services, and solutions aimed at greater energy efficiency, and drive standardized metrics to capture improvements in energy efficiency and life-cycle impacts including product take back. █ Enable a low-carbon economy : To promote ICT as a catalyst for change, we actively engage in global policy to address climate change and we also strive to capitalize on business opportunities to drive the transition to a low-carbon economy, from smarter and connected cities and villages to the intelligent grid and sustainable transport. █ Enable communications for all : We demonstrate how ICT can contribute to socio-economic development and contribute to the Millennium Development Goals. We build our strategy on sustainable business models and alliances with stakeholders who share our commitment. █ Be a trusted partner : We are recognized for high standards of business ethics and manage corporate responsibility business risks to secure that Ericsson-LG is a trusted partner among our stakeholders. We fulfill this aim by engaging to address global challenges, and ensuring a robust system of corporate governance which includes the Code of Business Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy. Sustainability Management CEO Board of Directors Organization S&CR Committee S&CR Office S&CR Work Group S&CR Work Group >> Consisting of S&CR related organizations ※ S&CR : Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility >> S&CR implementation and achievement review Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 06 Overview About the Company General Status Ericsson-LG is a company launched on July 1, 2010 when Ericsson purchased the entire shares of Nortel in LG-Nortel. We are doing our best to help customers have access to the desired information more conveniently using advanced technical capabilities and competitiveness in the development and sales fields of communication equipment and network solution products and to enhance opportunities and quality of communication not only in business but also in daily life. ·Company name : Ericsson-LG ·Date launched : July 1, 2010 ·President & CEO : Martin Axel Wiktorin ·Number of employees : About 1,200 (as of December 2011) ·Adress : GS tower, 679 Yeoksam-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea 135-985 (www.ericssonlg.co.kr) Organization CEO Enterprise Solutions CFO COO Finance & Business Business Control Operations Human CTO Deputy CFO Resources Technology & Deputy COO & Organization Innovation Integration & Sourcing Sales SD&O CS&E R&D KT Account LGU+ Account SKT Account Operations ※ As of April 16, 2012 Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 07 Overview About the Company Business fields Business fields and representative products Ericsson-LG possesses diverse portfolios such as wired/wireless communication equipment, enterprise solutions, services, and various applications. Aside from supporting optimized network and communication infrastructure for small/medium businesses and large companies as well as communication service providers not only in Korea but also in the global market, we also provide efficient solutions suitable for each environment. CaRRIER ENTERPRISE NETWORKS SOLUTIONS Wireless (LTE, WCDMA, CDMA) Voice Solution (IP PBX, IP Hybrid solutions) Wireline (IP & Optic) EFA (WDM-PON) Applications (NMS,UMS,UCS,UDM,SIP Clients etc ) Small Cell Services Client Devices (IP Phone, Multimedia terminal) Major milestones of the company 1984 1995 2001 2005 Started commercialization of fully Completed commercialization Completed commercialization Joint venture (LG-Nortel) electronic switching system of CDMA for the first time in the of asynchronous IMT-2000 established by LG Electronics, world system (UMTS) Inc., and Nortel 2006 2007 2009 2010 Mobile phone-based HSDPA Started LG U + CDMA Rev. A Commercial WDM-PON I service Nortel’s share of LG-Nortel network opened for the first time service started (by Agder Broadband, acquired by Ericsson, company in the world (by SK Telecom) Norway) renamed LG-Ericsson Ultra-high-speed wireless network Completed development of Service of Korea Telecom opened (by Korea Telecom) multimedia phone with embedded Cloud Communication Center Android for the first time in the world commercialized 2011 2012 Selected as 4G/LTE supplier for LGU+, SK Telecom and Korea Telecom Company renamed Ericsson-LG Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 08 Overview About the Company Business places CIS OFFICE MOSCOW UK OFFICE LONDON Ericsson-LG EUROPE Ericsson-LG CANADA AMSTERDAM OTTAWA Ericsson-LG USA IRVINE YKX HANOI, VIETNAM LNSC(SRITHAI COMM) CHACHOENGSAO, THAILAND Global Office The Company has a great number of customers in more than 58 countries all over the world. Korean Office The Company has about 1,200 Headquarters (Seoul) employees including some 700 R&D employees throughout the country. R&D (Anyang) Cheongju site Daejeon office Daegu office Busan office Gwangju office Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 09 Overview About the Company Market Share Status of domestic market share of Carrier Networks Business as of 2011 3g lte Ericsson-LG A COMPANY B COMPANY Domestic market share of Carrier Networks Business as of 2011 46% 42% 12% Ericsson-LG A COMPANY B COMPANY Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 10 Overview About this Report About this Report Reporting purpose This is the first report of Ericsson-LG on the progress of implementation of the UN Global Compact. Ericsson-LG seeks to make available -in a transparent manner -its implementation results achieved in 2011 to stakeholders through this report and continue meaningful communication with them by consolidating their opinions. Reporting period and scope This report is prepared based on data from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2011. Part of quantitative data of 3 ~ 4 years are presented together for trend analysis. The quantitative and qualitative data required for the report include the achievements in implementing the 10 major UNGC principles and track record and detailed sustainability management activities of all the domestic business places of Ericsson-LG. Reporting principle This report is prepared by taking into account the G3 guidelines presented by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). Inquiries on the report Additional information related to this report can be found at www.ericssonlg.co.kr (domestic) and www.ericssonlg. com (global). For more details, please contact: CSR Team, HR&O Division, Ericsson-LG LG R&D Complex I, Hogye-1-dong, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea Tel : +82-31-8054-5775 Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 11 Overview Corporate Governance Shareholders & Board of Directors Shareholder status With LG-Nortel established jointly by LG Electronics, Inc., and Nortel on November 3, 2005, Ericsson became the largest shareholder of EricssonLG after taking over all shares owned by Nortel in July 2010. As of April 2012, Ericsson and LG Electronics, Inc., have 75 % and 25 % shares, respectively. Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Ericsson-LG is made up of a total of 7 directors and is chaired by Mats Olsson, president of Ericsson RCNA. A total of four board meetings (March, June, September, and November) were held in 2011; special board meetings are held when needed in accordance with the issues. Board of directors composition Board of directors activities in 2001 ※ As of June 2012 Name Company/Position Date Particulars Mats Olsson* President of Ericsson RCNA Mar. Approval of 2010 business report and financial statements Approval of designation of 2011 external audit organization and expense Patrick Johansson CFO of Ericsson BNET Approval of limits on pay for directors and auditors Ulf Ewaldsson CTO of Ericsson Report on business achievements in the first quarter of 2011 Martin Wiktorin CEO of Ericsson-LG Jun. Report on business achievements in the second quarter of 2011 Report on the Five-Year Growth Plan Jan Signell President of Ericsson Japan Sept. Approval of the Five-Year Growth Plan Do-hyun Jung CFO of LGE Report on business achievements in the third quarter of 2011 Sang-hoon Koo CFO of Ericsson-LG Dec. Report on business achievements in the fourth quarter of 2011 Approval of the 2012 business plan Approval of the 2012 financial plan Approval of promotion of directors * Chairperson Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 12 Overview Stakeholders Stakeholders Ericsson-LG classifies stakeholders having practical or potential interest in or influence on its corporate activities into employees, suppliers, customers, shareholding companies, and local communities. It seeks to become the most trusted company by understanding their expectations and demand and reflecting such on its corporate activities. Ericsson-LG Survey To grasp the recognition of employees on the current level of sustainability management activities of the Company and the activities whose importance is deemed by the employees to increase in the future, a survey was conducted through the company intranet in April 2011. · Invigoration of communication with stakeholders · Ethical management Activities whose · Reinforcement of sustainability Activities · Social contribution activities · Development of importance management governance recognized at · Reinforcement of environmental environmentally friendly will increase management such as release of present products · Union-management relations in the future environmentally friendly products · Protection of rights of employees and enhancement of their satisfaction Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 13 Overview Stakeholders Materiality Analysis Ericsson-LG is conducting materiality analysis to grasp the issues whose preferential consideration is being requested by stakeholders and determine the priorities of the issues that it should promote intensively. · Implementation of responsibilities to customers such as product quality and customer safety Customer · Periodic execution of survey on customer satisfaction and opinions · Operation of a unit exclusively in charge of customer protection and product responsibilities · Execution of sufficient investment in the education/training of employees Employees · Support for the maintenance of balance between work and personal life · Operation of fair evaluation and compensation system · Eradication of unfair demand on suppliers by abusing the superior position · Operation of a system that ensures the transparent and fair execution of tender and contract Suppliers with suppliers · Development of a system related to suppliers wherein they are recognized as partners · Positive operation of a support system that can encourage employees to participate in social Local contribution activities Communities · Operation of a unit exclusively in charge of social contribution · Disclosure of information on community contribution activities · Positive operation of a development procedure for the improvement in energy efficiency of products · Consideration of environmental issues across the entire process from product development and Environment sales to disposal · Positive operation of a system for saving of direct/indirect energy and resources Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 14 Implementation of GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLEs human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Implementation of Global Compact Principles Commitment human Ericsson-LG respects the human rights of individuals and observes domestic rights and foreign laws related to human rights and labor in all its business places. Our obligation is to avoid involvement in the maltreatment of people or violation of human rights in countries where laws/regulations and ethical standards are not applied. The key technologies of Ericsson-LG will help in promoting a democratic society, creating economic opportunities, and improving the quality of life. System Ericsson-LG has established a code of business ethics based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. It is asking the board of directors, management, and employees to act based on honesty and ethics. In addition, a “Grievance Committee” is organized within the Employee Management Council to hear and resolve the grievances of employees. Ericsson-LG is operating a unit exclusively in charge of safe working environment for and health of employees in its business places and is participating in Global OHS 18001 certification. Code of Business Ethics OHSAS 18001 Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 17 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Implementation activities human rights Respect for human rights of employees Ericsson-LG has -within EMC (Employee Management Council) -a “Grievance Committee” that hears and resolves the grievances of employees. The Grievance Committee consists of a total of 4 members to whom employees can report grievances orally, in writing, or via e-mail. When grievance is received from an employee, the committee should notify such employee of the action taken and the result of other processing within 10 days. In addition, Ericsson-LG is providing professional education on sexual harassment prevention to all employees for about 2 hours every year to foster recognition on the issue of sexual harassment in its business places. Ericsson-LG is operating reasonable welfare systems such as enhancement of health and female welfare system based on respect for the human rights of employees. We shall not be satisfied with the current level, however. Instead, we shall further explore diverse systems that can uphold better the human rights of employees in their working lives. >> Human rights support program Classification Particulars Support for medical Support for medical expenses of employees and family members examination and Execution of general medical examination of employees older than safety of the aged 35 and their spouses Execution of periodic medical examination and preventive examination every year Group insurance: Payment of insurance when an accident occurs and the victim receives treatment Female welfare Operation of nursing room system Operation of pregnant women support system (leave system, selective working hours, etc.) CSR Education of employees Operation of medical examination system Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 18 Implementation of Global Compact Principles human Learning & Development rights Ericsson-LG is ensuring the proper execution of occupational health and safety management works by establishing the OHS operation procedure. No major accident related to occupational health and safety has occurred in 2011 since we have identified potential risks through risk assessment and carried out activities to prevent accidents. >> Number of employees trained Ericsson-LG is prioritizing the health of employees and safety across the entire working environment in business places by controlling the noise 806 802 level, temperature, ventilation, lighting, hygienic facilities, and hazardous 750 substances of business places, guided by the principle that a pleasant, safe 176 165 121 working environment translates into a more efficient working environment. 2009 2010 2011 >> Training program Essential program Job/Language/Others Training Course Particulars Talent attraction program Leadership program >> Training hours per person Essential program Education of promoted employees, education of new employees 65 Functional job training Ericsson Academy, My Learning, Technical Certification Program, 60 etc. 55 Language program In-house language school, internal TOEIC Speeking Test 2009 2010 2011 Business issue Book education, 6 sigma, Ethical management, prevention of sexual harassment, etc. Occupational health & safety management Ericsson-LG is ensuring the proper execution of occupational health and safety management works by establishing the OHS operation procedure. No major accident related to occupational health and safety has occurred in 2011 since we have identified potential risks through risk assessment and carried out activities to prevent accidents. Ericsson-LG is prioritizing the health of employees and safety across the entire working environment in business places by controlling the noise level, temperature, ventilation, lighting, hygienic facilities, and hazardous substances of business places, guided by the principle that a pleasant, safe working environment translates into a more efficient working environment. OHS Communication Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 19 Implementation of Global Compact Principles human Participation in local communities rights Ericsson-LG is practicing “Sharing Management” under the slogan “A Life Lived Together” and leading the realization of a warm, happy future society. We are positively cooperating with international relief organizations, domestic welfare organizations, and volunteer activity organizations in local communities to respond to corporate social responsibilities positively and performing our responsibilities as a corporate citizen and a member of society. >> Number of participants in social >> Expenditure for social contribution contribution activities 80 224 197 53 194 37 (million Won) 179 35 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ericsson-LG Social Service Group The Ericsson-LG Social Service Group consists of about 100 employees led by the CEO and includes an Employee Board, Facilitators of each unit (Change Agents), unit heads, and pure volunteers. The group was launched when we participated in the removal of oil slick in Tae-an, Chungcheongnam-do in April 2008. Having assumed the form of the current organization in 2009 when informal groups that had been independently active joined the group, it is Launch of Social Service Group (2008) continuing diverse social service activities quarterly. Social Service Group Secretariat Employee Change Team Leaders Informal Board Agent Group Employees who want to participate in volunteer activities Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 20 Implementation of Global Compact Principles human Volunteer activities rights Ericsson-LG is holding various social contribution activities through the Social Service Group for the welfare of local communities as a corporation that creates a warm society and a happy future. Farm village service activities Ericsson-LG is practicing the spirit of win-win between cities and farm villages by helping farmers in the harvest of crops, repair of home appliances, and purchase of agricultural products. We visit the home town recommended by employees during the busy season once a year. Taking beautiful photographs Ericsson-LG is practicing respect for the elderly by periodically performing a volunteer activity of taking photographs of the aged to make framed “pictures of the deceased” and give them twice a year. Sisterhood relations service activities Ericsson-LG is sharing close friendship with military units by establishing sisterhood relations with them. We carry out volunteer activities once a year in cooperation with them in villages near their bases and give them consolatory money at the same time. Service activities conducted jointly with other companies Ericsson-LG is conducting service activities for local communities jointly with 9 companies around the Volunteer Center of Anyang-si where the Company Research Center is located. The companies are playing the leading role in providing services and funds as a very unique form of volunteer activity. Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 21 Implementation of Global Compact Principles human Charity Activities rights Ericsson-LG seeks to become a reliable friend and neighbor of local communities through activities that keep dreams alive and inspire courage among socially neglected neighbors in achieving self-reliance. Visit to welfare foundations Ericsson-LG is carrying out activities such as experiencing environment cleaning service, playing the role of one-day helper by visiting welfare foundations in local communities such as Hansarang House of the Disabled (Gwangju, Gyeonggi-do) and House of Anyang (Anyang, Gyeonggi-do) once a year, and empathizing with the socially underprivileged. Making Kimchi of love With employees and their family members in attendance, the Employee Board of Ericsson-LG is holding an event of making Kimchi for winter every year and giving it to welfare foundations in local communities and scholarship students it supports. Helping orphans “Sarang Society,” an informal group in Ericsson-LG, is doing mentoring to give hope and courage to orphans through periodic meetings and exchange of letters and holding an event of giving basic supplies and cakes at the end of every year. Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 22 Implementation of Global Compact Principles human Donation event rights Ericsson-LG is donating to needy neighbors using the Social Contribution Fund raised voluntarily by the employees (odd-numbered amount of monthly pay and fixed amount donation), with the Company making a corresponding contribution (Matching Grant System). Helping needy neighbors Ericsson-LG is holding events such as “Briquette of Love Sharing,” “Home Appliances Donation,” “Winter Kimchi Donation,” and “Book Donation” for low-income neighbors/foundations having difficulty making a living by themselves. Scholarship support Ericsson-LG is supporting poor youngsters in areas where its business places are located in the form of monthly scholarship using the Social Contribution Fund raised jointly by the employees and the Company to help them overcome their difficult environment and grow into future persons of talent. Support for children’s foundations Ericsson-LG is sponsoring the “Milk Prince Campaign,” which provides milk support to a designated number of children of low-income families based on a donation agreement, and helping growing children foster trust and nurture dreams in society. Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 23 Implementation of Global Compact Principles human Supplier Code of Conduct (S-CoC) rights Ericsson-LG’s S-CoC is based on Ericsson’s S-CoC prepared based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. S-CoC includes risk assessment, audit, education of suppliers, and knowledge sharing. The Company is helping suppliers achieve by themselves improvements in many parts regarding respect for the human rights of employees through S-CoC learning. Communication with suppliers Ericsson-LG is recognizing suppliers not as vertical but as horizontal partners having organic relations and sharing visions and goals and pursuing mutual win-win with the Company. Customer information protection Ericsson-LG is faithfully observing the Act on Customer Information Protection. It operates the “Personal Information Handling Policy” it established and prevents the illegal outflow of personal information by designating a department and a manager exclusively in charge of personal information management. S-CoC Partners Conference Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 24 labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation of Global Compact Principles Commitment labor Ericsson-LG is encouraging employees to establish or join organizations peacefully and legally and of their own volition and to exercise their right to collective bargaining. It respects the equality and diversity of employees in business and prohibits compulsory labor and discrimination. System Ericsson-LG is operating various communication channels such as EMC (Employee Management Council) organized by representatives of employees and management, EB (Employee Boar), which is an autonomous body of employees, TDC (Top Direct Communication) carried out by the CEO, and AEM (All Employee Meeting) for communication between the relevant director and employees of each unit to consolidate the opinions of employees on the working conditions and overall matters related to working life and to reflect them positively. In addition, the Company has declared related regulations and internal policies for all aspects of labor such as service, working hours, employment, evaluation, and diversity for observance by all employees. Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 26 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Implementation activities labor Communication between union and management Ericsson-LG is operating various communication channels to cope promptly with changes in management and labor environment in and outside the Company and to ensure smooth communication within the organization. EMC (Employee Management Council) EMC is organized and operated by the same number of executives and employees for enhancement related to the rights and interests of employees and advancement of the Company. Classification Particulars Convening Quarterly Main issues discussed Pay, bonus, welfare, and other management issues Others Operation of the Grievance Committee TDC (Top Direct Communication) The CEO explains the vision, strategy, and management issues of the Company to employees by visiting each business place every quarter and collects the opinions of the employees to reflect them on policies. AEM (All Employee Meeting) Business achievements are shared, and management issues are conveyed quarterly and semiannually on unit basis; the opinions of employees are collected and reflected on the operation of the organization to build trust between the units and employees. EMC TDC AEM Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 27 Implementation of Global Compact Principles UNGC 원칙 실행 labor EB (Employee Board) As an autonomous body of employees, EB collects the opinions of employees and executes communication with the management team. It is conducting diverse activities aimed at upholding the rights and interests of employees. Classification Major Issues Compensation Suggestions on pay and bonus HR System Suggestions on education system and welfare program improvement Social Responsibilities Suggestions on and participation in matching grant and social service activities Regular Meeting of EB CA (Change Agent) Members of CA are employees performing the roles of communicators and motivators who proactively lead the change activities of the organization. Last year, 61 change agents were selected; they actively participated in organization invigoration activities such as reading forum, companywide events, and social contribution activities. CA Workshop Corporate culture activities Family Day Event Ericsson-LG is steadily operating companywide events such as spring picnic, athletic meeting, business conference, family day, and “Hanmadang for Takeoff” once or twice a year. In addition, a total of 19 informal in-house groups organized for sports, leisure, culture, knowledge learning, and volunteer activity are active as of the end of 2011. Biz. Conference Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 28 Implementation of Global Compact Principles labor Employee diversity Ericsson-LG employs human resources through fair procedures in accordance with domestic and international regulations and respects the diversity of employees. Expansion of female manpower >> Manpower status (2011) Ericsson-LG is making efforts to provide opportunities for fair employment 87.4% and promotion as well as appropriate working environment for female manpower. Employees newly employed in 2011 numbered 80, 27 % of Total whom were women. Female manpower is steadily increasing every year. 1,195 12.6% Furthermore, the ratio of male and female managers is taken into account Male Female to expand the ratio of female managers; various programs such as female leadership training are also operated for the expansion of female manpower. Fair evaluation and compensation >> Temporary employees Ericsson-LG applies a standardized evaluation system to all employees (exceptions: new employees, dispatched employees, and contract 3.1% 2.1% employees). Performance and competency evaluations are conducted, and 2.0% results are reflected on incentives and annual pay of each individual. The Company induces excellent performance by providing differentiated 2009 2010 2011 compensation to employees who have demonstrated high performance based on the evaluation results. It encourages and assists employees with poor performance to improve their performance by providing clear feedback >> Separation rate and coaching. 7.3% As of the end of 2011, the pay for a new employee is higher than the legal 5.8% minimum wage; fair compensation is given to males and females based on 3.8% their abilities, without any difference in the basic pay. 2009 2010 2011 Classification Particulars Evaluation Performance evaluation: Goal achievement level/Level of difficulty/ Level of goals of the relevant rank Competency evaluation: Job competency and common competency >> Years of consecutive service (2011) Compensation Basic annual pay: Differentiated adjustment by annual pay grade Less than 5 years 10.5% every year (accumulated pay) 5~10 years 23.3% I ncentive: Incentive paid to employees demonstrating superior performance 11~15 years 28% Management bonus: Management bonus paid in accordance with the business performance More than 15 years 38.1% Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 29 Implementation of Global Compact Principles labor Work and life balance Ericsson-LG is operating rational and competitive welfare systems such as stabilization of livelihood, health enhancement, leisure activities, and support for work life so that employees can take pride in being part of the Company and enhance work efficiency. Classification Particulars Support for Housing support: Support for the purchase and lease of house stable living Support for expenditure for family events: Payment of expenditure for family events and granting of family event leave for family events of employees and their family members S upport for school expenses: Full subsidy of school expenses for children attending middle/high school and college Operation of welfare point system Support for Lunch and dinner support: Provision of meals in each business place work life Commuting bus support: Payment of transportation expenses, operation of commuter and shuttle buses Loyalty award: Reward and travel support for employees who have served the Company for a continuous, long period Utilization of Resort facilities: Support for use of GS Gangchon Resort, Daemyeong leisure Condominium, LG Life Training Center, Hanwha Condominium, and Koresco Condominium Language education: Support for language school courses Sports game watching: Support for tickets of LG Twins and FC Seoul Selective Payment of points equivalent to 1 million KRW every year welfare system Points used for purchase of articles, self-development, and leisure utilization purposes Legal welfare Support in the form of National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, and Employees’ Compensation Insurance Execution of Retirement Pension System Family-friendly system Ericsson-LG is operating the various systems it adopted such as “Selective Working Hour System,” “Recommended Leave System,” and “Family Day” to help employees derive satisfaction from both work and personal life. Classification Particulars Selective Working The time of coming to work and leaving the office is decided by Hour System each employee (coming to work: 08 ~ 10 o’clock, leaving: 17 ~ 19 o’clock). Recommended Fifteen recommended annual leave are designated (2011). Leave System Evaluation Leaving the office at the designated time every 25th of the month Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 30 environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Implementation of Global Compact Principles Commitment environment Ericsson-LG is observing the Sustainability Policies in order to contribute to the sustainability advancement of society and provide products and solutions delivering high environmental performance. System To minimize the impact of business activities on the environment, EricssonLG has acquired ISO 14001 in 2009, based on which the environmental management system is adopted to make efforts for systematic, continuous management. Moreover, we are conducting energy-saving activities wherein all employees participate and recognize the importance of addressing the problem of climate change. We are also operating the Environmental Operation and Management System we established in 2010 to manage greenhouse gas emissions systematically. We are operating the IT system that we developed and which manages information on the use of hazardous substances (HSMS: Hazardous Substance Management System) to manage efficiently information on the hazardous substances contained in raw materials and parts. Environmental Operation and Management System ISO 14001 Certification Hazardous Substance Management System Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 32 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Implementation activities environment Greenhouse gas emission reduction Though it is not a company that emits direct pollutants, Ericsson-LG recognizes the importance of addressing the problem of climate change as a communication equipment company. We have been carrying out greenhouse gas reduction activities in 2011, placing emphasis on 4 areas: travel efficiency ; energy saving in our office and facility; CO2 emission from our product transport, and; control of CO2 emission across all processes from the product manufacturing phase to disposal. Greenhouse gas emission reduction Environmental Operation and Management System CO2 Travel Energy emission Life Cycle efficiency saving in from Assessment office transport Classification Major Activities Travel efficiency Utilization of videoconference system Expansion of smart tools Energy saving in office Energy management of IT equipment Management of energy use data of business places Green life practice campaign CO2 emission from transport Distribution data management Life Cycle Assessment Carbon Footprint Labeling Certification Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 33 Implementation of Global Compact Principles environment Travel efficiency Ericsson-LG determines the expected greenhouse gas emission of business travels of employees and continuously makes efforts to reduce such through the enhancement of efficiency of works during business travels. In 2009, videoconference systems were built in all domestic and overseas business places. Smart work solutions such as webconferencing and individual audioconferencing were also adopted in 2011. Smart solutions were expanded Videoconference System 2012~ 2011 CO2 emissions of business traveltravels were Smart tools are calculated adopted 2009 Business travel data are managed Videoconference systems were built Environmental Management Education Energy saving in office The greenhouse gases emitted by the business places of Ericsson-LG are those generated by two energy sources: electricity and gas. Last year, we improved the energy efficiency of the air inflow control equipment in the Data Center, one of the places with the biggest energy consumption in the office. For 2012, we are planning to have energy-saving activities concentrated in STP and LAB in the R&D Center, the place with the biggest energy consumption. >> Energy consumption Classification Electricity (Kwh) Gas (m2) 2010 11,929,012 422,409 2011 13,414,061 365,193 Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 34 Implementation of Global Compact Principles environment Participation in Carbon Footprint Labeling Certification for product Ericsson-LG understands the environmental impact wielded by products and makes efforts to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. Last year, we acquired Carbon Footprint Labeling Certification by executing evaluation on the entire process of the VoIP phone set on a trial basis. Carbon Footprint Labeling Certification means indicating on the product the total quantity of CO2 emitted in all processes from production, distribution, and consumption of a product to disposal. Certification in the field of office phone set was carried out by Ericsson-LG for the first time in Korea. Environmentally friendly products development As the direction in which Ericsson-LG develops environmentally friendly products, it responds in a timely manner to domestic and international environmental regulations and control and minimizes environmental impact Acquisition of Carbon Footprint Labeling Certification by taking into account the environmental aspects in the life cycle of products. Energy efficiency enhancement of products Ericsson-LG is applying the “Energy Efficiency Design Check Sheet” it developed to improve the energy efficiency of products. We are also observing the ErP Directive to minimize standby power. In addition, we are participating in ESP (Energy Standby Program) operated by a government organization (Korea Energy Management Corporation) as a standby power reduction activity. Verification of environmentally friendly products Ericsson-LG not only evaluates autonomously whether a product is an Verification of Product by a Thirdenvironmentally friendly product at the development phase of the product Party Certification Institute but also assesses the inflow of hazardous substances periodically at the production phase using an external third-party certification institute. Sponsored Establishment of WDM-PON International Standard Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 35 Implementation of Global Compact Principles environment Hazardous substance management Ericsson-LG is operating the IT system that it developed and which manages information on the use of hazardous substances (HSMS: Hazardous Substance Management System) to manage efficiently information on the hazardous substances contained in raw materials and parts. Furthermore, we require suppliers to prepare analysis reports for parts at the product development phase and manage whether hazardous substances are used or not in accordance with the management standard of each supplier. Basic information (Parts, Company, Environmental control) HSMS Response Design New Registration of to buyer Product ES Development Test part information requirements (Development, Mail / Board and Purchase) Evaluation of part regulations information Suppliers / Buyer Environmental impacts reduction of customers CN Development Test Ericsson-LG developed the CCC (Cloud Communication Center) system, which improved communication quality, network speed, and energy efficiency, and applied it to several areas such as Gangnam, Myeong-dong, and Jongro, Seoul starting from Anyang through telecommunications provider KT from February 2011 for the first time in the world. KT expects CO2 emission to be reduced by 10,000 tons per annum – which is equivalent to the CO2 emissions of about 3,000 automobiles -by reducing power consumption by 67 % through the performance of the CCC equipment itself and improvement in the network structure. Provision of solutions with improved energy efficiency The goal of Ericsson-LG with regard to the reduction of environmental impact by customers is to provide products and solutions with improved energy efficiency at the right time. Energy efficiency is divided into minimizing energy Announcement of CCC Operation Result consumption at the network phase, optimizing site power at the site phase, by KT and investing in alternative energy sources. Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 36 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Implementation of Global Compact Principles Commitment AntiEricsson-LG considers honesty and ethics to be the most important key Corruption values in corporate activities, and it is trying to deal with customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, and other stakeholders based on mutual trust as well as on such values. System Ericsson-LG is operating the Cyber Sinmungo System, a whistleblowing system, to protect the Company and employees from misconducts and to cope with incidents and accidents promptly. Moreover, we are operating a hotline that plays the role of a practical, constructive problem-solving venue through the provision of information related to ethical culture and Ethical Management. We are continuously reinforcing monitoring for the establishment of a right view of value by employees and fair performance of their jobs. We are providing compulsory education on the Code of Business Ethics to all employees to foster business ethics and instill a sense of responsibility. Employees are required to observe related regulations, provisions, and instructions. Hotline system Ethical management practicing program ● Preparation of written pledge to practice ● Ethical management campaign ● Audit of expense appropriateness ● Diagnosis of overseas corporation Cyber Information System Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 38 Implementation of Global Compact Principles Implementation activities AntiCorruption Cyber Information System Ericsson-LG is invigorating the whistleblowing system by promptly and fairly taking care of information reported with regard to unethical behaviors of employees such as unfair demand using position, dishonesty, and corruption of employees and by guaranteeing that all stakeholders -such as customers, employees, suppliers, and local communities -reporting such a problem shall not be placed at a disadvantage. Status Incidents/ Audit Disciplinary checking/ Audit accidents result committee/ Audit plan execution receipt report Disciplinary establishaction ment Code of Business Ethics >> No. of reports submitted and disciplinary actions (2011) Item No. of reports submitted and disciplinary actions Internal 4/4 External 1/1 Total 5/5 Ethical management education Ericsson-LG is providing compulsory education on ethical management to all employees periodically every year to foster business ethics and sense of responsibility. Occasional ethical management education is provided when necessary such as for new employees, etc. >> Ethical management education records (2011) Item Education Time (Hour) Object No. of Employees 2010 2h All employees 1,214 Irregular (Online) 1h New employees 36 Irregular (Offline) 1h CTO sector 22 Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 39 Memberships and Awards Memberships status Domestic NGMC Korea Invention Promotion Association KANI KINPA KINCOA Future Network 2000 Forum Forum: Leaders in Korean IT Femtocell (FMC) Forum TTA Korea Society of Information and Telecommunications Facilities Spectrum Engineering Forum Korea Information and Communication Contractors Association Korea Information and Communication Korea Electrical Contractors Association Society MSS Forum Korea Engineering and Consulting Association Overseas 3GPP Small Cell Forum ITU-T SG15 Full Service Access Network (FSAN) Metro Ethernet Forum (MEF Forum) List of awards received Date Award Name Jul. 25, 2007 Grand prize in third 2007 CEO Awards of Korea Nov. 14, 2007 Grand prize in third Korean Internet Awards – Minister of Information and Communication Nov. 19, 2007 8th Radio Broadcasting New Technology Award – Prime Minister Jan. 29, 2008 Commendation from the Mayor of Seoul Metropolitan City Dec. 16, 2008 German IF Product Design Award 2009 – International Design Award Dec. 23, 2008 2008 Hi-Tech Award – Grand Prize in the Field of Information and Telecommunications Facilities Jun. 17, 2009 2009 Vietnam Labor Order Jul. 14, 2011 2011 Frost & Sullivan Korea Excellence Awards Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 40 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX No. Index Content Page Related Content Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 2 CEO message organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2, 4, 12 Stakeholder Organization Outline 2.1 Name of the organization 5 About the company 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6 About the company 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 5 About the company 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 5, 7 About the company 2.5 Number and names of countries where the organization operates 7 About the company 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 10 Corporate governance 2.7 Markets served 8 About the company 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 5 About the company 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 10 Corporate governance 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 36 Status of Organization Memberships and List of Awards Received Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 9 Outline of the report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 9 Outline of the report 3.3 Reporting cycle 9 Outline of the report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content 9 Outline of the report 3.5 Process for defining report content 9 Outline of the report 3.6 Boundary of the report 9 Outline of the report 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 9 Outline of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Joint venture agreement outsourced operations, and other entities to be followedand BOD regulation 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Measurement by sustainability management performance index 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information provided in earlier Published for the first time reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Published for the first time 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 37~39 GRI Index report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance No external verification Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 42 GRI INDEX No. Index Content Page Related Content Corporate Governance, Responsibility, Participation 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 10 Corporate governance 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 10 Corporate governance executive officer 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body No external director 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4 Sustainability management system recommendations or direction to the highes governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the 10 Corporate governance upper management and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to 10 Corporate governance ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Shareholding company BOD members of the highest governance body operation process 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission and principles 13, 21, 26, 34 Shareholding company BOD operation process 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 4 Sustainability management system the management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 10 Corporate governance own performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how precautionary approach 15, 27 ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 or principle is addressed 4.12 Externally developed charters to which the organization 36 Status of Organization subscribes Memberships and List of Awards Received 4.13 Memberships in associations 36 Status of Organization Memberships and List of Awards Received 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 11 ~ 12 Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 11 ~ 12 Stakeholders to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency 11 ~ 12 Stakeholders of engagement 4.17 Key concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 11 ~ 12 Stakeholders engagement Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 43 GRI INDEX ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable No. Index Content Application Page Remarks Level Economy EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ○ Financial statements are disclosed on the company website. EC2 Financial implications for the organization’s activities ● 33 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan ● 25 National pension and retirement obligations pension are being executed. EC4 Signif icant f inancial assistance received from ○ Not applicable government EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared ○ Higher than the legal minimum to local minimum wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally◐ 20 based suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of local ◐ 24 senior management EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments ◐ 16 ~ 19 and services provided EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect ◐ 12, 24 economic impacts Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ○ Status of materials is managed. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input ○ Recycled plastic is used. materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 29 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source ○ Greenhouse gas emission is being measured. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency ◐ 30 improvements EN6 Reductions in energy requirement as a result of energy ● 33 efficient or renewable energy initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and ● 30, 33 reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ○ Water consumption is being measured. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of ○ Located inside the R&D complex water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and ○ Located inside the R&D complex reused EN11 Location and size of areas of high biodiversity value N/A Not applicable EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities on N/A Not applicable biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A Not applicable EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for N/A Not applicable managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national N/A Not applicable conservation list species EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by ◐ 29 Greenhouse gas emission is being weight measured. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by ◐ 29 Greenhouse gas emission is being weight measured. Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 44 GRI INDEX ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable No. Index Content Application Page Remarks Level EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ● 30, 33 reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ○ Not applicable EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type ○ Located inside the R&D complex and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ○ Located inside the R&D complex EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ○ Located inside the R&D complex EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ○ No outflow accident occurred. EN24 Weight of exported, imported, transported, or treated N/A Not applicable hazardous waste under the terms of Basel Convention EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of N/A Not applicable water bodies and related habitats EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products ● 30, 33 and services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging ○ materials EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance ○ No violation case with environmental regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting ● 28 ~ 29 products and other goods EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and ○ investments Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 45 GRI INDEX ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable No. Index Content Application Page Remarks Level Labor LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment ● 24 contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age ◐ 24 group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees ● 14, 25 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective N/A 22 There is no union. Unionbargaining agreements management meeting is operated. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational N/A 22 There is no union. Unionchanges management meeting is operated. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal ○ 22 There is no union. Unionjoint management-worker health and safety committees management meeting is operated. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, ● 15 No accident absenteeism, and fatalities LA8 Programs to assist workforce members, their families, ○ 14 Medical expenses for employees are or community members regarding serious diseases paid. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements ◐ 15 Occupational Health and Safety with trade unions Committee is operated. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee ● 15 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning ● 15 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance ◐ 24 and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of ● 10, 24 employees per category LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee ○ 24 category Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment N/A Reflected on the contract agreements that include human rights clauses HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that have undergone ○ S-CoC is applied. screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies/procedures ● 14 concerning aspects of human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions ● 35 taken HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise ● 21 ~ 22 freedom of association and collective bargaining HR6 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of N/A No employee under 18 child labor and measures taken HR7 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of N/A Being general/office employees, forced or compulsory labor and measures taken no compulsory labor HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the ○ Located within the R&D complex organization’s policies or procedures HR9 Percentage of security personnel trained in the N/A organization’s policies or procedures Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 46 GRI INDEX ● Reported ◐ Partly reported ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable No. Index Content Application Page Remarks Level Society SO1 Effectiveness of any programs/practices that asses and ◐ 16 ~ 19 manage the impacts of operations SO2 Total number of business units analyzed for risks related ○ Ethical management to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti● 35 Ethical management corruption policies SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ◐ 35 Ethical management SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy ○ Participating in activities of development and lobbying domestic/overseas associations/ organizations SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to N/A Provision of political fund by political parties, politicians, and related institutions by companies is prohibited by the country Political Fund Law. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive N/A No violation behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practice and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance N/A No violation with regulations Product Liability PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of ◐ 30 products and services are assessed for improvement PR2 Total number of non-compliance incidents with N/A No violation regulations concerning health and safety PR3 Type of product and service information required by ○ 30 ~ 33 Development of environmentally procedures friendly products PR4 Total number of non-compliance incidents with N/A No violation regulations concer ning products and services information & Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction including ○ Supplementation of customer survey results on satisfaction satisfaction investigation activity PR6 Programs for adherence to standards and voluntary ○ Operating the customer participation codes related to marketing communications program PR7 Total number of non-compliance incidents with N/A No violation regulations concerning marketing communications PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding N/A 20 Customer personal information customer privacy and data losses protection PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance N/A No violation with laws concerning the provision and use of products and services Ericsson-LG 2011 UNGC COP 47 Ericsson-LG UN Global compact Communication on Progress 2011 Published By Ericsson-LG Co., Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility Team LG R&D Center, 533 Hogye 1-dong, Dongan-gu Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, 431-749, Korea Tel +82 31 8054 5775 hokwon.jeon@ericssonlg.com www.ericssonlg.com
