Aeon Environmental and Social Report 2012 Aeon Basic Principles Peace The Customer People Community The word aeon (Aeon) has its origins in a Latin root meaning eternity. Aeon abides by the unchanging principles of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to local communities, centered on customers.” The Aeon Commitment was established to help us implement these principles and to guide us in our practice of the Customer-First philosophy. [Peace]: Aeon is a corporate group whose operations are dedicated to the pursuit of peace through prosperity. [People]: Aeon is a corporate group that respects human dignity and values personal relationships. [Community]: Aeon is a corporate group rooted in local community life and dedicated to making a continuing contribution to the community. Aeon Commitment We hope to create a future of limitless promise by transforming daily life through our open, dynamic approach. 1 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Editorial Policy CONTENTS This report reports on characteristic initiatives of Aeon Top Message 3 Group companies, primarily for the General MerchandisAeon Group Overview 5 ing Store Business and Supermarket Business. Aeon Group CSR 7 This report presents both environmental and social initiatives of Aeon Group companies, focusing on pure holding company Aeon Co.,Ltd. and the General Merchandising Store Highlight 2012 and Supermarket Businesses. Initiatives included in the report Aeon Group CSR and Growth Strategies 9 have been selected based on the level of public interest, the Part 1 Promoting ‘Localization’ 11 level of emphasis by Aeon and other factors. They include Part 2 Responding to an ‘Aging Society’ 15 environmental conservation activities and social contribution Part 3 Enhancing ‘Popular Products’ 19 activities conducted together with customers as well as Fiscal 2011 Activities 23 initiatives conducted through products and at stores. Results and Target of Key Issues The 2012 edition introduces the three themes of localization, aging society and attractive products in the Highlights Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society 27 2012 section, while initiatives from fiscal 2011 are reported Reduce CO2 Emissions in Stores with particular attention given to important target areas one Reduce CO2 Emissions in Products and Logistics thru four established as key performance indicators. Information is also provided on our ongoing support to those Key Issue 2 in need following the Great East Japan Earthquake. Conservation of Biodiversity 33 Biodiversity Conservation in Products and Logistics •Report Period Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level FY2011 (March 1, 2011 – February 29, 2012)* Actions Taken with Customers *For operating companies with different fiscal years, the relevant time periods are indicated on each report section. Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources 37 •Scope of Report Effective Utilization in Stores This report covers the pure holding company AEON CO., LTD. Together with Customers and its consolidated subsidiaries 181 companies, 24 companies equity-method affiliates (as of February 29, 2012). Key Issue 4 Dealing with Social Matters 41 When a section applies to only certain operating companies, Community Involvement it is indicated as such. Fair Business Practices •Target Audience Consumer Issues Our customers, shareholders, students, local residents who Human Rights live in the neighborhood of the stores of the group, business Labor Practices partners, NPOs, NGOs, government, investors and Aeon people (Aeon employees) Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 61 •Reference Guidelines Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) CSR Management 63 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) Corporate Governance Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY2007 Version), Risk Management Ministry of the Environment of Japan Compliance and Corporate Ethics Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environmental Management Environment of Japan ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility Independent Review 71 Disclaimer Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment 72 This report contains plans and strategies for the future of Primary environmental conservation and social contribution activities 72 Aeon Group, as well as predictions and prospects regarding our performance. Such information is based on our determiGRI Guidelines Indicators 73 nations and convictions made based in accordance with the facts and information currently available to us. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 2 Top Message The Aeon group of companies will proceed to establish a foundation to contribute to sustainable development in Asia through the two inseparable components of ‘global CSR activities’ and ‘activities rooted in local communities.’ Responding to Pressing Needs of People and Communities One year has passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake created tremendous and unprecedented destruction. We offer our sincere condolences to all who suffered from the disaster, and pray for the community to recover as quickly as possible. All members of the Aeon Group have been working together through this national crisis to ensure a swift re-opening of stores, and have also been committed to support of fundraising activities and promotion of local products from the stricken area. Moreover, we have been dedicated to speedy provision of products and services appropriate to ever changing needs as operations shifted from recovery to restoration. The driving force that enabled this was of our retailer’s sense of mission to provide daily necessities, and also Aeon’s basic principles Member of the Board of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and contributing to President and Group CEO communities, centered on customers.” The resolve to pursue Aeon AEON CO., LTD. principles was reinforced in the minds of Aeon people throughout Japan observing the activities of Aeon people and our business partners in the affected Tohoku area who, despite having experienced hardship themselves, made every effort to provide ‘life Motoya Okada necessities’ to local residents. As head of Aeon Co., Ltd., my understanding was confirmed that my most important work and greatest responsibility is to carry out the Aeon principles and take initiative to find solutions to the pressing needs and challenges facing people and communities. A ’Problem Solving’ and ‘Growth Opportunity’ Approach to the Rapidly Developing Asia Market The concept of ‘4 shifts,‘ central to Aeon’s medium-term management plan formulated last year, also relates to the idea of actively addressing individual needs and providing solutions to pressing community issues. The advance of one billion new middle-income earners in Asia has created an ‘Asian economic shift.’ For a retail distribution enterprise to experience growth of operations in such a context, an ‘Asia shift’ – incorporating a coordinated business presence as a retailer, a developer, and a provider of financial and other services – is essential. In Asia, however, problems related to people in an aging society being cut off from the retail sector, and issues of 3 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 waste and environmental pollution that go along with urbanization protecting human rights in the labor market. Moreover, we are becoming apparent. In such circumstances, Aeon is promoting formulated the Aeon Sustainability Principle in March 2011 that store and product reform, both domestically and abroad, to allow defines CSR activities for the entire Group. In this, we have laid out customers to enjoy shopping with confidence, in view of ‘senior four key objectives for achieving sustainable management that shift’ and ‘digital shift’ whereby seniors can easily do their shopping balances Group growth with the development of society. These are: by taking advantage of the spread of the internet and of mobile 1) realization of a low-carbon society; 2) conservation of devices. Further, while promoting ‘urban shift’ through stores that biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) dealing with social respond to the changing lifestyles of city dwellers, Aeon is matters. confronting the environmental problems that beset Asia with environmental protection measures developed through experience Promotion of Local Business Activities in Japan. The retail and service business sectors are highly regional because Seeing trends and social needs in the Asian market as both a they develop in relation to local values and food culture that are ‘growth opportunity’ and as a need for ‘problem solving’ allows influenced by local history and climate. Aeon is contributing to Aeon to develop as a sustainable corporate group together with comfortable lifestyles in local communities through the practices of Asian stakeholders. This is what Aeon seeks as a ‘supra-regional putting the customer first, acting on experience gained in operating retailer connecting with Asia.’ stores in Japan, and actively developing business in accordance with the needs of local customers and the nature of the local market Sustainable Management: Promoting Locally community. In our expansion overseas, Aeon is implementing Oriented Global Expansion programs, for human resource development and tree planting, prior Along with outlining the ‘4 shifts’ of its ‘shifts for a new growth to opening stores, as a first step to co-existing with the local strategy,’ the medium-term management plan also specified a communities. policy for the ‘establishment of a management base to support In March 2011, Aeon Group’s China Headquarters (Aeon (China) growth.’ Aeon will establish ‘glocal’ (global/local) management, Co., Ltd.) was established in Beijing to accelerate localization. Aeon combining the two fundamental management points ‘promotion is also planning to establish an ASEAN Headquarters in the near of locally oriented business activity,’ and ‘establishment of a base future. for global CSR (corporate social responsibility).’ Convergence of Diverse Values, Capabilities and Establishing a Base for Global CSR Character By promoting a strategy for growth, Aeon is seeking to make a In order to accelerate ‘glocal’ management in this stage of significant contribution to the preservation of the environment and developing the Asian market, Aeon is looking for Aeon people with to Asian people and society. high personal aspirations of developing global skills. For this With this goal in mind, we drew up the Aeon Supplier Code of purpose, Aeon decided to organize job fairs in 10 cities worldwide Conduct, that is enabling us to work together with the supply chain, in fiscal 2012 . including our manufacturing partners, both domestically and A very large part of my work from now on will leadership in internationally, to pursue environmental conservation activities and business activities that contribute to the development of a establish appropriate working conditions. In 2004, Aeon became sustainable society respecting such diverse values, abilities and Japan’s first retailer to sign on to the United Nations Global individual character as were present at these job fairs. It is my desire Compact, a set of 10 principles laid out by the UN on human rights, to create a group of companies we can take pride in, and that labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We were also the first through dialogue and cooperation with diverse stakeholders will to acquire SA8000 certification, an international standard on have an affinity with local communities. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 4 Aeon Group Overview The Aeon Group consists of around 200 companies in Japan and abroad, employing over 300,000 people unified in the aim of contributing to a comfortable and convenient lifestyle for our customers. Aeon is mainly a GMS (General Merchandise Store) General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business enterprise, but is expanding to large mall-type regional commercial area shopping centers (SC) as well as a variety of Offering an attractive shopping environment to meet diversified customer needs local commercial area specialty shops that supply life’s daily We operate General Merchandise Stores (GMS) throughout Japan from Hokkaido to Okinawa necessities and offer specialized services to the local as the core stores of our shopping centers. GMS offer overall support for people’s daily lives, community. In addition, in support of our customers’ healthy providing customers with a wide lineup of clothing, food, and household goods selected with and comfortable life, we are developing a variety of wide-ranging expertise, and also related services. businesses such as small supermarkets, convenience stores, ■ AEON Retail Co, Ltd. ■ AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. ■ TOPVALU COLLECTION CO., LTD. drug stores, and general financial services. More than ■ AEON Hokkaido Corporation ■ AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. ■ Bon Belta Co., Ltd. 300,000 Aeon employees, in around 200 Aeon Group ■ SUNDAY CO., LTD. ■ JOY Co., Ltd. ＊ The Daiei, Inc. companies in Japan and abroad, are striving to contribute to the convenient and comfortable living of our customers and to achieve global ‘customer satisfaction.’ Supermarket (SM) Business As Japan’s No. 1 Operating Revenue (billion yen) supermarket chain FY 2007 5,167.3 With more than 1,500 stores operated by 20 Group companies throughout Japan, our sales from supermarket operations exceed 2 trillion yen. In the Supermarket Business, we are FY 2008 5,230.7 striving to earn even greater support from customers and root our business in the local community. FY 2009 5,054.3 ■ Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. ■ KOHYO CO., LTD. ■ MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU FY 2010 5,096.5 ■ Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. ■ SANYO MARUNAKA CO., LTD. CO., LTD. FY 2011 5,206.1 ■ Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. ■ MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD. ■ marunaka CO., LTD. ■ Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. ■ MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD. ＊ The Maruetsu, Inc. Others ■ Maxvalu Hokkaido Co, Ltd. ■ MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. ＊ KASUMI CO., LTD. China Business ■ Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. ■ MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. ＊ Belc CO., LTD. ■ AEON KIMISAWA CO., LTD. MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. ○ Inageya Co., Ltd. ASEAN Business ■ FY 2007 Specialty Store Business 156.0 Service FY Business 2007 5,167.3 FY 2008 Shopping Center Operating Revenue 124.3 Development Business GMS Business FY 2008 by Segment 130.1 5,230.7 FY 2009 Financial Services Business (FY2011) Discount Store (DS) Business FY 2009 5,054.3 FY 2010 Strategic Small 172.3 Size Store Business Offering greater convenience and low FY 2010 5,096.5 FY 2011 195.6 SM Business prices through low-cost operations FY 2011 5,206.1 * The graph was created based on values simply totaled without consolidated Our Discount Store Business rises to the challenge of improving the quality, price, and Others adjustments. lineup of everyday essentials and achieving low-cost operations to provide customers with China China Business Business ASEAN Business genuinely low prices and high levels of convenience. Operating ASEAN Income (billion yen) Business Specialty Store Business Specialty Store Business Service Business FY 2007 Shopping Center 156.0 ■ AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. ■ AEON BIG CO., LTD. Service Business Development Business Operating Revenue GMS Business FY 2008 by Segment Operating Income 124.3 GMS Business Financial Services Business by(FY2011) Segment FY 2009 Strategic Small 130.1 (FY2011) SM Business Size Store Business Shopping FY 2010 Center 172.3 Strategic Small Size Store Business Development Business Strategic SMSmall Size Business Store Business Serving everyday life at FY 2011 195.6 Financial Services Business neighborhood stores China Business Through this Business we are supporting the daily lives of people, particularly, those living in ASEAN Business metropolitan areas. Specifi¬cally, we are operating over 4,000 convenience stores in Japan Specialty Store Business and other Asian countries and are also developing small-scale supermarkets and specialty Service Business stores selling boxed lunches and ready-made meals. Operating Income GMS Business ■ MINISTOP CO., LTD. ■ My Basket CO., LTD. ■ RECODS. Co., Ltd. by Segment ■ ORIGIN TOSHU CO., LTD. (FY2011) SM Business Shopping Center Development Business Strategic Small Size Store Business ＊ Equity-method affiliates Financial Services Business ○ Affiliated companies * The graph was created based on values simply totaled without consolidated adjustments. 5 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Drugstore & Pharmacy Business Specialty Store Business Supporting our customers’ health through Supporting the unique lifestyle of specialized expertise and a diverse product lineup every customer Through alliances with drugstores and dispensing pharmacies, we are developing new This Business operates specialty stores dealing in a wide range of products, such as fashion, healthcare products and services and supporting the training of pharmacists who will play an sporting goods, and books. These stores are stand-alone or tenants housed in shopping important role in community healthcare services. centers, station buildings, etc. ■ CFS Corporation ＊ GROWELL HOLDINGS ＊ Shimizu Drug Co., Ltd. ■ GFOOT CO., LTD. ■ Claire’s Nippon Co., Ltd. ■ MEGA PETRO Co., Ltd. ■ Cosmeme Co., Ltd. CO., LTD. ○ TSURUHAHOLDINGSInc. ■ COX CO., LTD. ■ Talbots Japan Co., Ltd. ■ LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN ■ TAKIYA Co., Ltd. ＊ Medical Ikkou Co., Ltd. ○ KUSURI NO AOKI CO., LTD. ■ Abilities JUSCO CO., Ltd. ■ Branshes Co., Ltd CO., LTD. ＊ Welpark Co., Ltd. AEON FOREST CO., LTD. ■ MIRAIYA SHOTEN CO., LTD. ■ AT Japan Co., Ltd. ■ AEON PET CO., LTD. ■ Mega Sports Co., Ltd. ＊ Taka: Q Co., Ltd. AEON BODY Co., Ltd. Financial Service Business Offering comprehensive financial E-commerce Business services with retail expertise We provide financial services centered on the credit card business in Japan and other Asian Interacting with customers through countries. In Japan, we provide unique financial services as a retailer, such as convenient new multiple channels banking and WAON e-money services. In this Business, based on the common E-commerce infrastructure built and provided across the Group, we are making efforts to establish business models unique to the Aeon Group by combining services provided at actual stores with those provided online. ■ AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. ■ AEON THANA SINSAP ＊ AEON BANK, LTD. ■ AEON CREDIT SERVICE (THAILAND) PLC. ＊ AEON INSURANCE SERVICE (ASIA) CO., LTD. ■ AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. ■ Aeon Link Co., Ltd. ■ Digital Direct Corporation (M) BERHAD ASEAN Business Expansion and financial services stores Shopping Center Development Business in the ASEAN countries Transforming from stores that just sell We are operating a total of 28 shopping centers and other outlets in Malaysia and 29 “goods,” into producers that create various “events” supermarkets in Thailand, mainly in the center of Bangkok. We have also begun conducting surveys and other preparations for the launch of stores in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Indonesia. IIn Japan and other Asian countries, we are developing shopping centers that harmonize with local communities. We are making efforts to improve services and facilities in response to the changing times and diversification of customer needs. ■ AEON Co., (M) Bhd. ■ AEON（Thailand）CO.,LTD. ■ AEON VIETNAM Co., LTD ■ AEON Mall Co., Ltd. ■ AEON TOWN Co., Ltd. China Business Service Business Mobilizing all available group resources to Creating a comfortable environment at operate businesses in China our shopping centers Utilizing our know-how in store development and management gained in Japan, we are We are providing customers of our shopping centers with a range of services to make their developing a range of businesses in China, including the core Shopping Center and General visit a pleasant one, including the improvement of the facilities to ensure their safety and Merchandise Store Businesses, and also Financial Services, Service Business, and Specialty comfort. Store Business in the country. ■ AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. ■ AEON Eaheart Co., LTD. ■ JUSVEL CO., LTD. ■ AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD. ■ AEON South China Co., Ltd. ■ Guangdong JUSCO ■ AEON Fantasy Co., Ltd. ■ AEON CINEMAS CO., LTD. ■ Reform Studio Co., Ltd. ■ AEON Stores (Hong Kong) ■ Beijing AEON Co., Ltd. Teem Stores Co., Ltd. ■ ZWEI CO., LTD. ■ KAJITAKU Co., Ltd. ＊ Warner Mycal Corporation Co., Ltd. ■ Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. Shared Function Companies ■ AIC Inc. ■ AEON GLOBAL ■ AEON MARKETING CO., LTD. ■ Aeon Integrated MERCHANDISING CO., LTD. ■ Cordon Vert CO., LTD. The shared function companies are companies in which the common Business Service Co., Ltd. ■ AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. ■ Research Institute For functions that used to be fulfilled individually by Group operating ■ AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. ■ AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd. Quality Living Co., Ltd. companies, such as product procurement, distribution, and IT, are ■ AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD. ■ AEON Bakery Co., Ltd. ■ Tasmania Feedlot Pty. Ltd. ＊ YAMAYA CORPORATION consolidated to maximize group synergies and reduce costs. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 6 Aeon Group CSR KPI (key performance indicator) based on the Aeon Sustainability Principle History of Aeon’s CSR Activities CSR Activity Principles Serving the Local Community through Based on the United Nations Global Commerce Compact Aeon’s predecessor company, JUSCO, Inc., came into being in 1970, With a view to reinforcing its global perspective on CSR, Aeon in as the result of a merger between three companies – Okadaya, Inc., 2004 became Japan’s first retailer to sign the United Nations Global Futagi, Inc., and Shiro, Inc. JUSCO expanded business with the Compact. Based on the 10 principles outlined in the United Nations mission statement at the time of ‘support the community through Global Compact, Aeon formulated its “Aeon Supplier Code of commerce.’ In the 40 years since then, sales have increased from Conduct”(CoC)(p. 48), and acquired SA8000 certification (p. 49), an 500 million yen to 5 trillion yen. The number of stores has expanded international standard related to human rights and labor from 70 to 10,000 and the number of employees has increased from conditions. 4000 to 300,000. In view of such continued growth, the JUSCO Since 2008, Aeon has participated in Company Welfare Fund (the present Aeon Welfare Fund) was the Supply Chain Sub-committee of the established in 1977, demonstrating the company’s contribution to Global Compact Japan Network in order society as a corporate entity. to promote CSR together with our supply Against this background, in the second half of the 1980s Aeon chain partners. Dialog with member built a system to promote CSR activities in earnest. In 1989 the companies is ongoing. AEON Group 1% Club (the present Aeon 1% Club) was established and in 1990 the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee was formed, along with the Aeon Group Environment Foundation (the present AEON Environment Foundation). In 1991, a variety of activities were begun that are linked to present day CSR activities the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program,’ the experimental ‘Bring Your Own Shopping Bag’ and the ‘Collecting Recyclable Resources at Stores’ campaigns. History of Environmental and Social Activities as well as Future Aspirations Scope / Level of activities 1990 to 1991 2000 to 2001 2008 to 2010 2011 to 2020 Building a Framework and Expansion of Systemization of Management Focused on Launching Initiatives Individual Initiatives Policy and Publication Society and the Environment ● Established the Aeon 1% Club ● Started the Aeon Happy Yellow ● Response to climate change ●Developed the Aeon and Aeon Environmental Receipt Campaign ● Response to protecting Sustainability Principle Foundation ● Initiated the My Basket & My Bag ecosystems ●Developed KPI System ● Initiated the “Aeon Hometown campaigns ●Developed Aeon China CSR Forests Program” ● Acquired ISO 14001 certification Principles ● Commenced the “Bring Your ● Endorsed the United Nations ● Established the Sustainable Own Shopping Bag” Campaign Global Compact Management Committee on a trial basis as well as launched the experimental Formulated the Aeon “Collecting Recyclable Resources Manifesto on the Prevention of at Stores” Campaign. ● Started Clean & Green activities Global Warming and the Aeon Biodiversity Principle ● 1965 Donated 1,000 cherry trees to the Realize sustainable city of Okazaki at the opening of the Changed company name management Okazaki Okadaya Store Launched the JUSCO Started Aeon Day ● 1977 Established the JUSCO Company Earth-Friendly Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Committee Welfare Fund) Year Review of Business Activities ● Announced medium-term management plan ● Opened the first overseas store, the Dhayabumi Store, in Malaysia ● Opened Jusco Tianhe Guangdong, Jusco’s first store in mainland China Asia shift ● Opened Jusco Stores (Hong Kong) first store in Kornhill Plaza ● Started to create stores incorporating the Universal Design concept Senior shift ● Launched My Basket stores (small urban supermarket) Urban shift ● Started WAON pre-paid card service Digital shift’ ● Developed and began selling Green Eye organic produce ● Started selling new reasonably priced TOPVALU original brand TOPVALU First ●Developed and began selling Fairtrade and MSC/FSC certified products 7 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Basic CSR Activity Principles and Key Issues ‘4 Key Issues’ for Aeon Sustainability Principle Sustainable Management Aeon aims to realize a sustainable society with With the launch in November 2010 of the ISO26000, an stakeholders based on our basic principle of international CSR guideline, the idea spread that ‘all kinds of “pursuing peace, respecting humanity and organizations must promote measures in support of a sustainable contributing to local communities, society.’ In the past few years, Aeon’s business activities have centered on customers.” become substantially more globalized and as the number of With “realization of a low-carbon society,” stakeholders has increased, Aeon’s influence on society and impact “conservation of biodiversity,” on the environment has also increased dramatically. “better use of resources” and In March of 2011, Aeon formulated its ‘Aeon Sustainability “dealing with social matters” Principle’ to promote CSR activities throughout the Aeon Group of companies, and publicly announced its intention to achieve as pillars, we will think globally and advance sustainable management through balancing ‘Aeon Group growth’ activities locally and actively. and ‘societal development.’ In order to make steady progress in achieving sustainable management, Aeon decided to address 4 key Key Issue 1 Key Issue 2 Key Issue 3 Key Issue 4 issues, each having its KPI (Key Performance Indicator) quantitative Realization of a Conservation of Better Use of Dealing with indicators to assess achievement. The 4 issues are: 1) realization of a Low-carbon Biodiversity Resources Social Society Matters low-carbon society; 2) conservation of biodiversity; 3) better use of resources; and 4) dealing with social matters. Aeon will be verifying objectives based on social tendencies and on stakeholder feedback, and will annually report on the KPI of the objectives through CSR Promotion Structure publications such as the ‘Social and Environment Report.’ Sustainable Management Committee For fiscal year 2011 targets and results, please see page 23-26. Aeon established the Sustainable Management Committee in June, 2012 in order to promote the 4 Key Issues and other CSR activities. The Committee will meet in three sub-committees (see chart), to understand the status of various activities on group-wide themes and make recommendations. In addition the committee will report on annual objective targets, achievements and other issues to the Aeon Management Committee. Sustainable Management Committee Secretary General CO2 Visualization Operations Companies/ Shared Function Companies Group Chief Executive for Environment Affairs Logistics Visualization Sub-committee on Products and Distribution Food Products Recycling Sustainable Management Committee Customers and Stakeholders Customer Communications Facilitation Aeon Management Committee CSR Procurement Guideline Study Group Energy Conservation and Innovation (new) Communications Sub-committee on Energy Strategy Non-CFC (chlorofluorocarbon) Topics Smart Communities Environmental Communication Sub-committee on Stores and Customers (new) Community Involvement 3R Promotion AEON Sustainability Report 2012 8 Highlight 2012 Aeon CSR and Growth Strategies Responsibilities and Activities as a Supra-regional Retailer Connecting Asia Asia Shift Senior Shift The Aeon Group is making a concerted effort to promote With more than 23% of the population over 65 a variety of community-based projects in the quickly years of age, Japan is considered a ‘super aged developing China and ASEAN areas. Committed to a society.’ It is expected that Asia will follow suit as ‘customer first’ policy, and taking advantage of store an aging society in the near future. Aeon is management and infrastructure expertise gained in meeting the needs of the aging society on 4 Japan, Aeon aims to be service themes: products, stores, retail tenants, Number 1 in Asia in and service. both scale of operations and in brand quality. Urban Shift Digital Shift To meet the needs of urban dwellers, Aeon is Aeon is developing business such as ‘Netsuper’ in developing various types of stores and new urban response to the needs of customers who want to businesses. Building on the expertise gained in Japan, enjoy shopping through the convenience of the Aeon is also developing such businesses appropriate internet and mobile devices, and of seniors who are to a growing number of metropolitan area local having difficulty shopping because of a lack of communities in Asian supermarkets in countries. their vicinity. 9 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Working with the People of Asia for Sustainable Growth By the year 2020, the number of middle-income earners in Asia is expected to reach 1 billion, and the quickly rising GDP in Asia is expected to be the highest in the world. While the emergence of a new urban consumer market in Asia is a great opportunity for Aeon, it also presents concerns related to new problems and social issues that arise, such as increased waste and CO2 emissions and the disintegration of local communities. In light of this, Aeon is aiming for sustainability management through a balance between ‘Aeon Group growth’ and ‘community development.’ In a medium-term management plan for fiscal 2011-2013, Aeon has laid out a new growth strategy for sustainability in Japan and Asia, taking into account ‘Asia shift,’ ‘senior shift,’ ‘digital shift,’ and ‘urban shift.’ Further, in order to enhance the purchasing power and comfortable life of customers in a prolonged deflationary economy, Aeon is expanding the TOPVALU private label brand, using a ‘TOPVALU First’ strategy. By such means, Aeon’s growth will go along with growth in Asia. Aeon aims to be a ‘supra-regional retailer,’ joining Asia and Japan in peace and prosperity by refining expertise gained in Japan to go along with conditions such as ‘an aging population,’ ‘urbanization,’ and the need for ‘environment protection,’ ‘safe food and reliable products’ and ‘quality.’ Three Perspectives Connecting ‘Group Growth’ and TOPVALU First ‘Societal Development’ Aeon developed the TOPVALU brand having in mind improvement of the daily life of our customers. In order to get the message across to more people, Aeon Part 1 Promoting ‘Localization’ P 11 continues to expand and improve the quality of the TOPVALU lineup of safe and environmentally sound Contributing to Sustainable products. Development in China Part 2 Responding to an ‘Aging Society’ P 15 Providing Seniors a Safe and Comfortable Lifestyle Part 3 Enhancing ‘Popular Products’ P 19 Greater Variety in Products and Genres that Respond to Customer Expectations AEON Sustainability Report 2012 10 Highlight 2012 Aeon Group CSR and Growth Strategies Responsibilities and Activities as a Supra-regional Retailer Connecting Asia Part 1 Promoting ‘Localization’ Contributing to Sustainable Development in Yuki Habu China AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD. (Aeon Group’s China Headquarters) Director Aeon Group United for Sustainability in China Aeon China Declaration Conference After opening stores in Hong Kong in 1987 and in Guangdong in The ‘Aeon China Declaration Conference’ took place in Beijing on 1995, Aeon, with its fundamental ‘customer first’ stance, continued September 1, 2011, prior to the establishment of Aeon Group’s in earnest to expand business in China, drawing on experience and China Headquarters, as a kind of ‘re-initiation ceremony’ for Group expertise gained in development of stores and operations in Japan. employees in China. Responding to customer expectations for ‘safe,’ ‘convenient,’ and Over 310 employees attended from the Aeon Group’s 20 ‘quality’ goods, Aeon opened businesses centered on GMS (General companies having operations in China (as of February 2012). Merchandise Stores) in the 5 areas of Beijing, Tianjin, Shandong, The president of Aeon’s China Headquarters announced his Guangdong, and Hong Kong. At present, there are over 12,000 management policy, employee representatives expressed their Aeon Group employees in China and we expect the number of commitment, and awards were implemented for in-house systems, Aeon people in China to grow with the acceleration of Aeon store giving Aeon people a chance to confirm the Aeon ideals and ideas openings in China. for growth, and the continuing connections between Aeon people. As the lifestyle and expectations of Chinese customers becomes To celebrate the new start in China, a ‘Clean & Green’ (Close Up ) more and more diverse, Aeon needs to proceed with a multicampaign, and other activities, were conducted. format strategy, offering specialized stores and services, such as supermarkets (SM), shopping center development, general financial services and other services in addition to GMS, that are suited to the local community. Aeon Group’s China Headquarters (Aeon China Co. Ltd.) began operations in Beijing on March 1, 2012 to oversee Aeon’s strategy and product development, recruitment and training, CSR, and other activities in China. Implementing a ‘glocal’ (global/local balancing global and local community interests) management perspective, Aeon aims to be branded the top CSR company in China. Aeon’s China Headquarters is targeting Hubei, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Fujian, areas expected to show future market growth, as new locations for business expansion. Aeon China Declaration Conference 11 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Store Development in China China China China's Retail Market Trends 30Stores 11Stores 29Stores 240Trillion yen 27Stores 37Stores 24Stores 101 5Sites 2009 2020 GMS SM Convenience Stores Other Retail Stores Specialty Stores Financial Services Service Business (as of February 2012) Close Up Voice China Headquarters Established; Aeon Group Companies Close Up – the ‘Clean & Green’ Working Together for the Environment and Social Activities Campaign Aeon China is carrying out ‘Clean & Green’ activities in China, just As of February 2012, there are around 20 as in Japan, with employees, customers and business partners Aeon Group companies with operations in together donating funds in a desire to plant trees and to clean China and each has been involved in tree streets and public parks. (p. 42) For two months from June to planting and other environmental and August, 2011, in celebration of the establishment of Aeon China social contribution projects. With the new Headquarters, approximately 10,000 employees and customers integrated management, the companies from Aeon Stores Hong Kong, Aeon Huanan, Guangdong JUSCO, will be able to join hands to increase Aeon Qingdao, and Aeon Beijing implemented a ‘Clean & Green’ social contributions. In conjunction with Mia Hu campaign in the form of a relay race. AEON (CHINA) CO., LTD. establishment of the China headquarters, ( A e o n G r o u p ’s C h i n a Aeon’s ‘all Aeon’ CSR policy for China Headquarters) is moving forward for environment conservation and social activities. In August 2012, all of the Aeon Group companies in China started the ‘Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign.’ following the same system as the Aeon Group companies in Japan. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 12 Highlight 2012 Part 1 Promoting ‘Localization’ Japan-China ‘Environment Risk Management formulated an ‘Aeon China CSR Policy,’ and in order to manage the progress of this, set up a joint Japan-China team as the ‘Environment Committee’ Risk Management Committee.’ An example of Aeon’s ‘Global Management’ is the establishment of The Committee has identified 4 priority themes: ‘energy the ‘Environment Risk Management Committee. The approximately conservation,’ ‘risk management,’ ‘compliance,’ and ‘community 20 Aeon Group companies in China are planting trees and engaging contribution and communication.’ Sub-committees for each priority in activities to protect the environment and to contribute to local meet or hold conferences or video-conferences once a month, and communities. However, in order to strengthen compliance and risk a general assembly meeting to report results and confirm progress management, the bedrock of CSR, and to ensure that individual takes place once every three months . company innovations are communicated group-wide, it is necessary Aeon plans also to establish a headquarters for the ASEAN area, that the various Aeon companies in China collaborate with each and envisions that the Aeon companies in Japan and in ASEAN other and with Aeon companies in Japan, where various activities countries will compete with each other and work together towards have already been promoted, to work as 'All Aeon.' Aeon China has improvement. Aeon (China) CSR Policy 1.We will put energy and resource conservation into effect in order 3.We will create a work environment of mutual respect and to halt global warming recognition 2.We will provide our customers with safety and security 4.We wlll do business in a just and transparent manner 5.We will support community activities as a corporate citizen. Environment Risk Management Committee Organization Chart/Main Agenda of Fiscal 2011 Environment Risk Management Committee Sub-committees Energy Conservation SubRisk Management SubcomCompliance Subcommittee Community Contributions committee mittee ・Create the Chinese language version Subcommittee ・Create and oversee an ‘energy ・Create a risk management system of the ‘Compliance Basic Manual’ ・Formulate Aeon China ‘CSR Policy’ conservation checklist’ applicable organization structure ・Hold seminars on the theme of ・Set an ‘Aeon Day’ to all Aeon companies operating in compliance ・Determine the start date of China the group-wide ‘Yellow Receipt ・Plan and manage energy Campaign’ conservation targets for 2012 The Committee is headed by the Aeon (China) Chief of Staff and the general managers of the various companies promoting GMS in China. Sub-committees are headed by managers of Aeon Japan’s departments of General Affairs, Environment and Community Contributions, Legal Affairs, and Aeon Delight’s Environment Affairs manager. The persons responsible for environmental affairs from each of the Aeon Group companies in China attend the meetings as members of the Committee. Message Aeon’s Overseas Expansion – as a community based group of companies Aeon early on saw the potential of economic growth in Asia, and opened Aeon Group is working together to develop this across Asia. In fiscal 2011, stores in Malaysia and Thailand in 1985, and in China (Hong Kong) in 1987, there were over 100 GMS (general merchandise stores) and SM (supermarkets) always with a ‘customer first’ philosophy. With knowledge and expertise in Asia. Aeon is planning in the near future to establish an Aeon ASEAN gained in the Japanese market, Aeon was able to respond to local community Headquarters and to open stores in new regions, starting with Vietnam and customer expectations and to thereby aggressively develop overseas regional Cambodia. We are already, for several years now, dispatching project teams operations. engaged in ongoing social and environment conservation activities. Along with contributing to local communities through our businesses and In January 2012, Aeon hired around 230 new employees in ASEAN by instituting, in advance of opening stores, tree-planting and educational countries, and ceremonies to welcome them were held simultaneously in programs to train the next generation, Aeon’s expansion internationally Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. focuses not exclusively on profit, but rather more on growing as a corporate Aeon’s goal is to integrate CSR activities with business activities in Asia, and group with stakeholders in the region and through business activities that fit to develop as a presence indispensable to sustainable regional community the local community. growth. Aeon is presently promoting an ‘Asia shift’ corporate focus and the entire 13 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Close Up Major CSR Activities of Fiscal 2011 Initiatives of Aeon China Companies China-Japan Joint Efforts Aeon Beijing JUSCO Guangdong Human Resource Development Projects ● Aeon Qingdao ‘Aeon Quindao University’ education program: invited lecturers from Japan to discuss ‘customer service,’ ‘risk management,’ and ‘compliance’ Aeon Beijing lent support to the Aeon EnvironStart of China version of ‘Tomato ● Japan ‘Corporate Ethics Team’ ment Foundation sponsored ‘Great Wall of China’ Club’ Activities annual study sessions with local tree planting (a total of 1 million trees planted as of April 2010) executives and store managers, Aeon Qingdao and CSR managers: Training Aeon Huanan sessions for all Aeon companies started from 2011. Compliance ●Helpline (Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline) to strengthen compliance competence expanded to various Group companies Lucky Porridge campaign (donations Visits to homes for the aged ● Preparation of Compliance for children’s heart disease charity) Manual and compliance Aeon Stores Hong Kong instruction Food Hygiene Management Knowledge Transfer ● Guidelines created based on the Japanese ‘Customer service Manual,’ localized for China Continued support (since 1992) for a used book charity to fund school Promotion of Aeon Code of construction Conduct to Aeon Suppliers ● Compliance check, in In fiscal 2011, Aeon Beijing International Mall Shopping Center conjunction with the China garnered the ‘2011 CCFA (China Chain Store and Franchise staff of AIC, Inc., an Aeon group Association) Shopping Center Golden Lily Award’ and Aeon Huanan company, of the Chinese factories was chosen locally as the ‘Most Popular Retail Brand of the Year’ producing TOPVALU products Aeon’s History in the ASEAN Region 1985 Jaya Jusco Dayabumi store, Aeon’ s first overseas store, 2010 2012 2010 Aeon ASEAN opened in Malasia Aeon Unicef Headquarters 2000 2000 Safe Water Campaign to be launched School Construction started Support Project in Asia 1990 1991 started in Cambodia Aeon Hometown Forests Program started Jaya Jusco Dayabume store (now AEON Co., (M) Bhd.) opened in Malacca 1980 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 14 Highlight 2012 Aeon Group CSR and Growth Strategies Responsibilities and Activities as a Supra-regional Retailer Connecting Asia Part 2 Responding to an ‘Aging Society’ Providing Seniors a Safe and Comfortable Lifestyle Hideaki Yajima AEON CO., LTD. Aeon Mall Funabashi opened In April 2012 as a model example Initiatives for an Aging Society of Aeon’s idea and vision of ‘allowing seniors a pleasurable and secure shopping experience.’ (see Close Up) The ratio of elderly in Japan‘s population is expected to increase Also in April 2011, 26 Aeon group companies together presented to 29% by 2020, up from 23% in 2010, and the retail market is ‘Grand Generation’s Collection in Tokyo,’ an exhibition of goods and contracting overall. Since seniors already represent 40% of the services geared to seniors, the first such event by retail industry. (see domestic market, building stores that appeal to seniors has become Close Up) a major point for surviving a shrinking market. Through such activities, Aeon is creating a new business model In this climate, Aeon is promoting a ‘senior shift’ enhancing and sharing prosperity with our senior customers through new ‘products,’ ‘sales floor,’ ‘retail tenant development,’ and ‘services’ for products and services that reflect customer needs and expectations. seniors. To meet the challenges of an aging society, we need to do what we can as a retailer to provide senior customers a new sense of a secure and comfortable lifestyle. Close Up ‘Grand Generation’s Collection in Tokyo’ 26 Aeon Group companies took part in the ‘Grand Generation’s* Collection in Tokyo’ event held at Tokyo International Forum in April 2012. Featured were a wide variety of clothing, cosmetics, and health food items, as well as services, all geared to seniors. There were also seminars and talks on subjects of interest to seniors. *Grand Generation refers to seniors enjoying an active and enjoyable ‘second life’ after retirement. Kundo Koyama, screenwriter for award winning film Departures, said that this is ‘the best generation of life.’ 15 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 ‘Senior Shift,’ ’Digital Shift,’ ‘Urban Shift’ – ‘Urban shift’ also incorporates measures to consider our senior customers. For example, Aeon is increasing the openings of ‘My helping challenged shoppers Basket’ small supermarkets in urban neighborhoods, with the aim ‘Senior shift’ is taken up in Aeon’s medium-term management plan of allowing seniors to be able to shop within walking distance in as one of the 4 major shifts, along with ‘digital shift,’ and ‘urban their urban neighborhoods. shift’ and is closely related to these. Also, Aeon’s RECODS stores, combining the advantages of a According to a survey, the range of activity of seniors decreases convenience store with the specialized services of a drugstore, take as age advances. There is also the problem of few local stores in the into consideration and reflect the needs of senior customers. areas they live, and this has been recognized as a social problem. At the time of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon stores in the The aim of ‘digital shift’ is to develop internet shopping sites and affected area quickly re-opened. This was greatly appreciated by internet supermarkets, enabled by the spread of digital devices with the local people, and we at Aeon could confirm our role as a retailer intuitive operation such as remote operated television internet, and to be an indispensible ‘lifeline.’ In order to continue to carry out this smart phone and tablets that can access the internet. Obviously, retailer’s role in a Japan that is aging, we must continue to focus our many seniors are among the people who will be using e-commerce attention on ‘senior shift,’ digital shift,’ ‘and ‘urban shift.’ and internet shopping, and Aeon has introduced services such as its ‘Todokun desu’ delivery service and ‘Yuu Yuu WAON’ to enable more seniors to more easily take advantage of the opportunities of internet shopping. We consider this an important part of our responsibilities. ‘My Basket’ Shopping portal site “AEON SQUARE” ‘RECODS’ Services for Seniors by Industry Business Examples of initiatives GMS (general merchandise store)(Aeon) Delivery services SM (supermarket) (Maxvalu) Acceleration of small store SM opening(Maxvalu Express) DS (discount store) General DIY for senior oriented home improvement and gardening. Strategic Small-size Stores Taking orders, ordering services, catalogues Drugstore/pharmacy Health consultation General Financial services Club membership system DV (developer business) Relaxation spaces, clinic malls, mall walks Service Dispatched housework, nursing, meal delivery Specialty Stores Culture/hobbies model Digital Business New media Shared Function Companies Senior PB (private brand/small backpack) development AEON Sustainability Report 2012 16 Highlight 2012 Part 2 Responding to an ‘Aging Society’ Close Up Aeon Mall Funabashi Initiatives Products The Sales Floor Product Lines Targeted to Senior Lifestyle User-friendly Space and Personal Support Aeon’s TOPVALU brand is responding to the needs of an increasing number We are incorporating easy to of single-person households, mainly senior, with products geared to health understand Universal Design consciousness and people eating alone. Aeon is also targeting active seniors product information and inwith an assortment of increased clothing choices that combine functionality store signage, and providing rest with attractive designs. area space, all to allow people to shop in comfort. We are also supporting our customers’ shopping by instituting ‘care fitters’ (see p. 54) and ‘supporters for people with dementia’ (see p. 54) Retail Tenant Development Service Specialty Comprehensive Support Money Saving and Convenient Shopping To support secure and comfortable living, Aeon is setting up clinics Aeon is offering special services to seniors, such as the Yuu Yuu that can respond to a wide range of medical care needs and ‘financial WAON’ prepaid card which offers special services for people 65 and plazas’ that can offer financial services such as loans, insurance, over, ‘same day delivery’ service* for home delivery of purchased investments, etc. items, and the Todokun Service that allows seniors to make catalogue orders by fax or phone. *Deliveries are limited to specified areas. 17 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Applying Senior Initiatives in Asia We believe that the knowledge and expertise we have gained through addressing Japan’s aging society can be applied in Asia. The senior demographic in Asia is expected to increase from 280 million in 2010 to 400 million by 2020, an increase of 40%. Obviously, the phenomenon of an aging society is not limited to Japan that is already a ‘hyper-aging society, ’ and response to an aging society has in fact become a pressing issue in other Asian countries as well. As a ‘supra-regional retailer,’ Aeon intends to provide a convenient and safe shopping environment for the people in those countries and communities as a part of the promotion of Aeon’s ‘Asia shift.’ First of all, Aeon plans to become the group of companies in Japan that is most supported by seniors, and that can provide for seniors on the sales floor, through merchandise, through retail tenant development, and 1.4 times services. The objective is ambitious, but we will achieve 400million people this goal by steadily putting each of its steps into practice. 280million people 2010 2020 Voice Particularized Responses to Differing Generational Tastes and Lifestyles At Aeon Mall Funabashi, we do not concentrate exclusively on seniors as a single target. Rather, we are dedicated to meeting specific lifestyle tastes and needs of all the different age groups and local communities. By having a diversified approach to a diverse customer base, we hope in some small way to contribute to the ‘revitalization’ of Japan. Masataka Koizumi Hiroyuki Kotera Aeon Mall Funabashi Aeon Funabashi Mall Manager Store Manager AEON Sustainability Report 2012 18 Highlight 2012 Aeon Group CSR and Growth Strategies Responsibilities and Activities as a Supra-regional Retailer Connecting Asia Part 3 「Enhancing ‘Popular Products’ Greater Variety in Products and Genres that Respond to Chozo Nakaya Customer Expectations AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD.. President & CEO. TOPVALU ‘5 Commitments’ Serving Customer Product Safety – Top Priority on Product DeNeeds velopment, Manufacturing, and Distribution A great deal of attention is being focused on product safety To ensure the safety of TOPVALU products and create new products following a spate of accidents involving cars, bicycles, electrical that reflect the expectations of our customers, Aeon is involved in appliances, fitness equipment, playground apparatus, etc. In product development, from the stage of planning and design to particular, food safety is a serious consumer concern because it the selection of manufacturing partners, determination of product directly threatens life. Many consumers emphasize product safety specifications, and management of production and sales. as a motivating factor in their purchases. In product planning and design, we carefully consider the suppliers Aeon, with its ‘Customer First’ policy, developed the TOPVALU and safety of raw materials, including whether additives have been brand in 1974 in response to such concerns. TOPVALU, with an used or not in the manufacturing process, etc. Further, through annual product sales volume of around 530 billion yen, has become implementing the Aeon Supplier CoC,* Aeon is surveying and Japan’s largest PB (Private brand) and continues to concentrate on assessing product safety as well as plant hygiene of manufacturing improved safety, support for the environment, etc. partners Prototypes are evaluated and only those meeting quality The idea to continuously ‘offer excellent and safe products at standards are delivered to stores. In addition, product surveys are reasonable prices’ is grounded in the fundamental principles conducted on a regular basis even after a product goes on sale. of TOPVALU’s ‘5 Commitments.’ Along with reaffirming these principles, and strengthening efforts related to ‘safe,’ ‘convenient, *Aeon Supplier CoC: Code of Conduct for manufacturing partners, ensures that manufacturers comply with national and regional laws and regulations, operate a ’environment-friendly’ ideals, Aeon is expanding diverse product safe and hygienic work environment, respect human rights of workers and lines in answer to customer expectations for fresh food. guarantee proper wages and working conditions. 5 TOPVALU Commitments 8 TOPVALU brands 1 We shall reflect the voices of customers in our products. 2 We shall offer safe, reliable and environmentally friendly products. 3 We shall present product information in an easily understandable way. 4 We shall offer products at affordable prices. 5 We shall guarantee our customers' satisfaction. 19 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Voice On-site Quality and Hygiene Management Checks Independent Checks for Radiation In order to ensure contract manufacturers In response to customer concern about are following the rules and procedures of the safety of fruits and vegetables, rice, the Code of Conduct, Aeon is conducting meat, fish and seafood, Aeon has taken site visits to inspect the manufacturing responsibility to conduct independent process, including product quality and inspections through third party agencies. In safety, plant hygiene, etc. For frozen the case that above limit radioactive cesium vegetables such as frozen TOPVALU salted is detected, Aeon makes it a rule to forgo boiled broad beans, we visit the farms in Nire Kamoshida purchase or to switch to sources or fisheries Minako Kawaguchi Research Institute For Agricultural Product PlanChina, check on farming conditions, records Quality Living Co., Ltd. in different regions. In November 2011, ning Development Dept. of pesticide use, etc. We also regularly visit Aeon set up a website publically listing AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. processing plants to check for hygiene results, in response to customer requests and safe materials management. The Research Institute for Quality for information. Aeon will continue to do everything possible to let Living, Co., Ltd, an Aeon Group company, works together with our our customers feel secure and confident in their purchases. contract manufacturers to continue to improve production systems and ensure the improved product quality and safety our customers have come to expect Close Up TOPVALU Product Development and Distribution 1. Planning and Designing Products ▶ 2. Selecting Manufacturing Partners ▶ Along with listening to the expectations of our customers, Aeon Aeon selects manufacturers after conducting inspections to confirm fully takes into account the issue of product safety, including appropriate product safety and hygienic factory conditions, and inspections of materials and the manufacturing process, in order to compliance with Aeon’s Supplier CoC. eliminate any safety or health hazards. POINT Producing Products that Reflect CusPOINT Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct tomer Opinion Aeon established the Aeon Supplier Code of The starting point of TOPVALU product development is customer Conduct in 2003 in order to carry out its social feedback. For example, hearing that customers wanted one-person responsibility to ensure the quality of TOPVALU portions, we started packaging spaghetti in 100g units, or hearing that products. The Code also guarantees that business transactions with both Japanese and overseas customers wanted to know the expiration date for individual units of suppliers of TOPVALU brand products are fermented beans packaged appropriate and that manufacturers are providing together but with the a proper workplace environment. Aeon requires expiration date only on suppliers to sign a ‘Compliance Pledge’ to the Code’s 13 points calling for the outer packaging that compliance with local and international laws, establishing a quality assurance system and among other requirements, ‘respect for workers’ human rights, would be discarded, we put including proper wages in a safe and healthy working environment. In addition, the expiration information Aeon requires that the companies submit to regular audits by both Aeon on each unit. auditors and by professional outside agencies. With the rapid acceleration of globalization, Aeon intends to focus on training local auditors as well. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 20 Highlight 2012 Part 3 Enhancing ‘Popular Products’ certified wood and paper products and is currently is using recycled TOPVALU and Environment Conservation materials for product labels and tags, etc. (see p. 33). Development of TOPVALU Products: focus on ‘safety’ and ‘reliability’ and on environmental protection. The ‘TOPVALU Kyokan Sengen’ brand was developed and marketed beginning in the year 2000 as a line of eco-products MSC-certified TOPVALU salted emphasizing ‘4 R’s’: ‘reduce,’ ‘re-use,’ ‘recycle,’ and ‘returnable.’ It wild salmon further encouraged sustainable use of marine products by selling Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified Alaskan salmon and salmon roe from 2006 and, as of February 2012, Aeon has the most MSC certified products among Japanese retailers, with 12 categories and 26 varieties certified (see p. 33). From 2008 Aeon has also been selling notebooks made from FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) FSC certification on a TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN A4-size notebooks Promoting TOPVALU’s Value to Customers As a retailer interacting with customers on a daily basis, we would TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN LED light bulbs herbal fragrance concentrated like more people to know about TOPVALU’s ‘safe,’ ‘reliable,’ laundry detergent and ‘environmentally sound’ products, as well as community TOPVALU Product Development and Distribution 3. Determining Product Specifications ▶ 4. Inspecting Products Customer monitors and Aeon employees evaluate Products produced following product specifications are checked for whether product prototypes. Following strict standards, or not they meet expected quality levels and safety standards. The Research products that fail to garner a total of 70 percent of Institute for Quality Living, Co., Ltd. conducts around 7,300 specialized quality highest and 2nd highest ratings in a 5 step evaluation check inspections a year. are rejected. In these cases, specifications would In order to allow customers to choose TOPVAbe reviewed, re-checking raw material ingredients, POINT additives, and conditions of LU products with confidence the Aeon product labels display 18 items related to product safety, such as possible manufacturing 5 allergen ingredients, in addition to the 7 indications required by law. Moreover, as process. much as possible, we list information important to our customers on nutritional 4 values, genetic engineering, salt content, etc. In addition, for Aeon’s TOPVALU More than 70% Green Eye agricultural products, Aeon has introduced a traceability system of the evaluators rated 3 whereby customers can easily access product history by 2 computer or mobile phone. ＜5-point scale＞ 1 21 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 FLO(Fairtrade Labeling Organizations International) certification logo contributions and we would like to to raise awareness of these issues. For example, in Aeon’s ‘Rice Paddy Project for Elementary School Students,’ started in 2008 with local agricultural cooperatives and NPOs, students produced ‘Topvalu Green Eye Specially Cultivated Rice’ and experienced the whole production process, from planting the rice to harvesting it and then presenting it for commercial sale. TOPVALU Drip Coffee Fair Trade Blend TOPVALU Fairtrade Chocolate TOPVALU Sales in China TOPVALU products are produced and manufactured in many countries, including China, Thailand, Vietnam, etc., and all share in common the values of being ‘safe, eco-friendly, with high cost TOPVALU Gurinai bell peppers performance.’ From March 2012, we have begun selling products targeted for the Chinese market that conform to quality standards Topvalu Gurinai Specially Cultivated Rice developed in Japan. Specifically, we have started sales of 115 items such as peanut oil, fruit jelly Also, in response to customer wishes to make contributions (popular with children), chestnuts, internationally to developing countries through daily purchases, thick bottomed slippers and socks, Aeon has been developing and selling Fairtrade* products, and other products that are basic introducing TOPVALU Fairtrade coffee in 2004 and selling TOPVALU household items in China.The Fairtrade chocolate since 2010 (see p. 50). number will be expanded to 500 items within the present fiscal *doing business with producers in developing countries in need of support and setting prices of raw materials and products at levels commensurate with the year, and to 1000 items developed labor involved, assisting producers economically and socially, and also supporting to reflect customer needs and environment conservation. expectations within 2013. TOPVALU brand products in China 6. Product Management After ▶ 5. Product Distribution ▶ Product Introduction ▶ 7. To Our Customers Aeon is eliminating extra costs Contracts with manufacturing partners allow We have set up a Call Center and are through taking full advantage of our Aeon to conduct and record inspections for every listening to our customers’ opinions own distribution network. product manufacture lot. We also conduct periodic and suggestions about products. spot checks of items on sale at Aeon stores. POINT Aeon Co. Ltd., as ‘Seller’ on Product Packaging TOPVALU packaging displays Aeon as the ‘seller’ rather than naming the manufacturer. In the case of PB (private brand) goods jointly developed by a retailer and a manufacturer, and produced according to the specifications of a manufacturer, the names of the two companies will both usually be on the label. However, Aeon takes the position of bearing full responsibility for product quality and will manage the entire manufacturing process from material procurement through to distribution. Aeon has also instituted a toll free telephone line for customers to be able to get product information, and this is at the same time contributing to our ability to speedily develop new products based on our customer’s feedback and comments. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 22 Fiscal 2011 Activities Aeon devised and prepared a KPI (Key Performance Indicators) system as a base for realizing sustainable management. Having assigned divisions and person in charge for each KPI field, we are taking stock of and managing the progress of activities on a regular basis. From this fiscal year forward, our intention is to report on the state of KPI implementation and to share that information with all stakeholders. Also, given that circumstances related to KPI, both within Aeon and externally, are subject to change, we will be reviewing and reconsidering guidelines on a regular basis. Reports are based on new KPI targets and performance. Results of the previous year are listed in parenthesis in the fiscal 2011 KPI performance column, Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Key Issue 1 Realization of Reduce Total CO2 Total Annual CO2 Emissions Factor Realizing a Low-Carbon Society a Low-carbon Emission (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area） * Society Aeon is taking various CO2 reduction initiatives, placing priority on stores and on products and distribution. Improve Energy Total Energy Use Factor (Amount of Heat / As a result of improved energy management in stores, Efficiency Total Floor Area)* based on both training and investment in energy efficient equipment, mainly lighting and refrigeration Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount cases that use natural coolants, the CO2 reduction level and Preventing Leakage target set in the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention Prevent Leakage of of Fluorocarbons used in Refrigerated Display Cases Reduce CO2 Emissions in Fluorocarbons and of Global Warming was achieved a year in advance of Stores Promote Use of Natural projections. Refrigerants Number of Stores Installing We will further improve reduction management Refrigerated Display Cases that use Natural Refrigerants on a by shifting from ‘total emissions’ to ‘per unit emission’ Trial Basis targets. See p. 27-32 for details Develop Eco Stores Develop Eco Stores Number of Products with Communicate CO2 CO2 Visualization (number of Reductions to Customers product SKUs for which CO2 emissions are calculated) Reduce C02 Emissions in Products and Logistics Biodiversity Conservation Initiatives CO2 Emissions per Case during Promote Visualization in Shipment from Distribution Based on Aeon’s Biodiversity Principle, Aeon is Logistics Center to Store providing biodiversity-friendly products, and is promoting tree planting together with our customers Key Issue 2 at new stores through the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program.’ In fiscal 2011, the increase in the richness of Conservation Biodiversity Communicate Visibility of Biodiversityforests through the ‘Aeon Hometown Forests Program’ of Biodiversity Conservation in Products Biodiversity-friendly friendly Products and Logistics Products to Customers was noted. We will work to increase communication with our customers about such activities in the interest of letting Biodiversity Formulation and Evaluation Develop and Evaluate them understand the significance and importance of Conservation at the Store Indicators Indicators for Impacts on Level Ecosystems biodiversity. See p. 33-36 for details Actions Taken with Aeon Hometown Forests Maintenance and Management Customers Program Situation of Forests *Quantitative figure indicating CO2 emissions per 1㎡ of floor space at stores and energy use. It shows the efficiency of CO2 emissions and energy use. KPI targets indicate that despite large changes in the number of future stores, CO2 emissions and energy use efficiency will improve (emissions and use cut in half by 2020). 23 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Chart: KPI Formulation Realization of a low-carbon society Concept Issues of stakeholder interest ● ISO 26000 ● GRI (G3) Conservation of ● United Nations biodiversity When formulating KPI, Aeon had to examine ● Global Compact Japan Ministry of Better use of r the twin perspectives of ‘matters of high the Environment (Environmental esources interest to stakeholders’ and ‘matters ● Reporting Guidelines) Customer inquiries Dealing with important to Aeon’s growth,’ in light of the and feedback to Social Matters all Aeon companies dual objectives of ‘community development’ and ‘growth of the Aeon Group. Aeon Issues important to Aeon’s growth determined approximately 20 items to ・Medium term management plan quantitatively ascertain progress. ・Management policies of Aeon companies Scope Covered Target FY2011 Results Summary of Actions/Initiatives FY2010: 0.10 t/m2 ▼ (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on lighting Consolidated Group ・FY2013: 0.08 t/m2 0.09t/m2 solutions companies in Japan ・FY2020: 0.05 t/m2 (Total emissions of 2.2 million tons) (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy *Emissions coefficient uses the post-adjusted (3) Conduct energy management training courses emissions coefficient from 2010. Consolidated Group FY2010: 2.53 GJ/m2 (1) Make investments in energy conservation centered on lighting companies in Japan and ▼ solutions 2.23 GJ/m2 overseas (Japan, China ・FY2013: 1.86 GJ/m2 (2) Step up measures to operate stores with reduced amounts of energy and ASEAN) ・FY2020: 1.27 GJ/m2 (3) Conduct energy management training courses Consolidated companies ・During FY2012: Complete consolidation of CFCs in Japan for General replenishment amount Ascertained CFCs replenishment (1) Formulate rules for ascertaining replacement amounts Merchandising Store amount and implemented leak (2) Examine and execute leakage prevention measures and Supermarket ・Reflect actual conditions of retail sector in government prevention measures businesses regulations on leak management Consolidated companies Plan for installation at new stores in Japan for General ・FY2012: 10% Published Aeon Natural Refrigerants Start to resolve challenges relating to regulations, safety and costs through Merchandising Store ・FY2013: 15% Declaration and currently preparing partnerships with external stakeholders and Supermarket ・FY2014: 25% project team businesses ・FY2015: 100% ・FY2013: Formulate concept for next-generation Eco Stores and begin store development with aim of reducing CO2 emissions by 50% (1) Formulate concept for next-generation Eco Stores (Future Stores) Consolidated Group Began designing the concept draft ・FY2020: 30% CO2 emissions reduction for standard stores (2) Select suitable properties from among our supermarkets companies in Japan for next-generation Eco Stores Develop zero emissions stores (3) Undertake design and development using the new concept Install refrigerators and freezers that use natural refrigerant at 100% of stores ・FY2013: Review standard Eco Store concept and apply Reviewed standard Eco Store (1) Re-examine concept for each type (general merchandising store and Consolidated Group revised standards to all new stores concept supermarket) companies in Japan ・FY2020: 30% CO2 emissions reduction for standard ・40% reduction in CO2 emissions (2) Apply standards to new stores stores ・CASBEE assessment A (1) Ensure transparency and fairness using self-calculation guidelines We built a management system for ・Streamline through system accreditation FY2010: 21 SKUs the calculation of CO2 emissions, (2) Step up communication to customers ▼ also participated in a subsidy ・Appeal benefits to customers Private Brand (PB) ・Calculate for 100 SKUs every year program sponsored by the Ministry ・Market contributions to a more affordable lifestyle and a low-carbon products ・Every year communicate products that help reduce of Economy, Trade and Industry and society CO2 emissions externally passed a screening conducted by a (3) Eliminate waste through CO2 emission analysis and cost analysis third-party organization. (4) Expand the number of products in the initiative (in particular, TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN products) (1) Improve fuel efficiency by introducing energy-friendly vehicles ・Trial use of large, natural gas-powered vehicles Compared to FY2010 Began calculating CO2 emissions ・Promote greater use of eco-friendly vehicles ▼ Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. amount per case for shipment from (2) Continue to hold the eco-driving accreditation course ・FY2013: 5% reduction distribution center to store (3) Expand the system for recognizing good, eco-friendly drivers ・FY2020: 15% reduction (4) Visualization of emissions occurring during shipment of PB products from the factory to the store ・FY2012: Conduct consumer research (1) Step up communication of biodiversity initiatives ・FY2013: 40% visibility in consumer research ・Develop core PB products and market accordingly (PB products) ・Market regionally developed products (regional TOPVALU) in each region Private Brand (PB) *Sales of MSC certified products: 7,120 million yen Began preparation for consumer (2) Expand the number of biodiversity-friendly products developed products in 2012 research ・Provision of TOPVALU Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certifi ed *Sales of FSC products: 2,568 million yen in 2012 products: ¥11,000 million (7.3% share of total TOPVALU marine produce category sales) Expand initiatives at regional Topvalu (3) Verify visibility and criterion and analyze the resultsZ Formulate indicator measuring the impact Conducted self-assessment on Aeon (1) Participate in the corporate network “Japan Business Initiative for Consolidated Group commercial facilities have on the surrounding Mall Itami Koya and Aeon Town Biodiversity” companies in Japan ecosystem and evaluate stores based on Chikusa based on the assessment (2) Formulate an impact indictor for the above-mentioned initiative relevant standards rules of the JBIB* (3) Study off set methodology Revised manual and commenced (1) Formulate manual and improve managerial skills in regional training Consolidated Group ・2012: Phased implementation (2) Create program management ledger for each store technical training for persons in companies in Japan ・2013: 100% implementation (3) Establish budget for each store and systematically maintain and charge through on-site lectures manage forests Refer to the next page for focused target areas (3) and (4). AEON Sustainability Report 2012 24 Key Issue Main Category Subcategory KPI Key Issue 3 Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the Better Use of Reduce Amount Act on the Promotion of Sorted of Materials Used Resources in Packaging and Collection and Recycling of Containers Containers and Packaging (basic unit per 100 million in net sales) Number of Employees Effective Utilization in Completing Internal Management System for Stores Training Course to Improve Waste Emissions Management of Waste Emissions Better Use of Resources Food Waste Emissions Aeon is working together with customers to reduce the Reduce Waste (amount per 100 million yen in sales) use of plastic bags and packaging materials. We are identifying key issues related to waste management at stores and, along with giving focused Percentage of Cuetomers Reduce Number of Plastic Declining Plastic Shopping support to concerned stores and businesses, are Together with Customers Shopping Bags Bags improving our emissions management through greater (nationwide store average) in-house training. Key Issue 4 Dealing with Make Contributions to Yellow Receipt Campaign See p.37-40 for details Social Matters Local Communities Submission Rate Community Involvement Contributions to the Community Develop the Human Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs Resources of the Future Aeon is participating in communities with activities Compilation of CSR centered on the ‘Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Procurement Guidelines Guidelines (sustainable procurement and Campaign’ and the ‘Aeon Cheers Club,’ and is also purchasing guidelines) promoting themes such as transaction transparency and worker rights through the ‘Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct.’ Establishment of Audit System Fair Business Practices Linked to Topvalu Fast In 2012, in consideration of recent social circumstances, we decided to add new KPI items Promote the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct related to fields such as labor practice and product safety and store security. Confirmation status of Fair Trade Manufacturers for the TOPVALU Brand We will be developing various initiatives to reach our goals and to increase the range of our activities. Number of TOPVALU Products Safe Food and Reliable Removed due to Serious See p. 41 -1 60 for details. Products Incident Safety and Security Store Safety and Security Infrastructure Development Consumer Issues *New for FY2011 Number of Complaints and Complements Received System of Dialog with Customers Number of Products Developed / Improved based on Customer Feedback Ratio of Female Executive Officers Human Rights Promote Diversity Ratio of Employees of Foreign Nationality Labor Practices Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Labor Practices *New for FY2011 Workplaces 25 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Scope Covered Target FY2011 Results Summary of Actions/Initiatives Consolidated companies FY2010: 55 tons (1) Reduce materials used in stores, such as plastic shopping bags subject to third-party ▼ ・Change packaging material specifi cations processing requirements 50 tons ・FY2013: 47 tons (*15% reduction compared to ・Re-examine provision methods (38 companies as of 2011) FY2010) (2) Properly follow legal requirements for calculating usage amounts ・FY2012: 100 employees (1) Partner with external specialist organizations to compile training Consolidated Group Seminar participants: 82 ・FY2013: 100 employees curriculum companies in Japan Successful candidates: 55 Cumulative total: More than 250 employees (2) Continue to conduct rank-based waste management training Consolidated companies ・FY2012: Perform trials and take measurements at in Japan for General (1) Establish a system to measure actual emissions and accurately grasp model stores ― (New category; results to be Merchandising Store the amount of emissions ・FY2013: Ascertain volume and set reduction reported in FY2012) and Supermarket (2) Set reduction target factor and implement / manage targets businesses Consolidated Group 2010: 61.5% (1) Based on agreements with local governments, increase the number of companies in Japan and ▼ stores no longer off ering free plastic shopping bags overseas for General 60.4% ・2013: 70.0% (2) Approach local governments in areas that still off ers free plastic Merchandising Store and ・2020: 80.0% shopping bags Supermarket businesses FY2010: 45% of GMS stores had submission rate of Consolidated Group greater than 20% 38.1% of stores had submission rate companies in Japan and (1) Thoroughly promote campaign in stores ▼ of less than 20% overseas for General (2) Increase the number and location of submission boxes ・FY2013: Submission rate of greater than 20% at all (GMS: 70.3% / Supermarkets: 14.0% Merchandising Store, (3) Promote greater participation by marketing the campaign in various stores taking part in the campaign. / Discount stores: 5.9%） Supermarket, and media including the corporate website ・FY2020: Greater than 30% submission rate at all [Japan] Discount Store businesses stores FY2010: 191 clubs Consolidated Group companies ▼ (1) Support the Aeon 1% Club Secretariat to establish new clubs in Japan and overseas for the 382 clubs, 5730 persons ・FY2020: 600 clubs (2) Host store leader training and effi ciently manage the clubs General Merchandising Store [Japan] Implement activities undertaken by 60,000 (3) Provide more information in stores business persons annually (1) Establish working group internally ・FY2012: Start seminar Consolidated Group Gathered information on CSR ・Evaluate impact on business activities ・FY2013: Prepare formulation of CSR procurement companies in Japan procurement activities Ex.: Social responsibility in terms of biodiversity and other areas guidelines (2) Link with the Supplier Code of Conduct Development of Aeon second-party audit certified auditors (1) Establish system for second-party audits overseas Aeon Second-party Audit 5 in Japan, 11 overseas *excluding ▼ (2) Enhance auditor education Certified Auditors those in Japan ・FY2013: 8 in Japan, 20 overseas (3) Establish audit system in China and ASEAN countries *including Aeon China and Aeon ASEAN Announced formulation of fair trade guidelines at the Aeon Management TOPVALU Manufacturing Committee. Currently collaborating (1) Formulate guidelines ・Confirm manufacturers at least once in 3 years Partners with the Products Department of (2) Confirm manufacturers based on guidelines AEON TOPVALU Co., Ltd. to create a draft of the guidelines (1) Identify problems from customer suggestions ・FY2013: 55（apparel: 22; food: 14; living / HBC: 19) (2) Step up collaboration with the Products Department and Quality ・FY2020: 30（apparel: 12; food: 8; living / HSC: 10) Consolidated Group 67 Control Department of AEON TOPVALU Co., Ltd. aimed at finding the *Need to compare with a new indicator due to the companies in Japan and (apparel: 28; food: 16; living / HBC: cause and implementing preventative measures increase in the number of TOPVALU products overseas 23) (3)Review product specification sheet content Example) Impact on sales from removal of TOPVALU (4)Tighten pre-shipment product inspections and provide instructions to products / TOPVALU sales manufacturing partners ・Completed repair work on stores (1) Improve warm and cold water pipe installation work Number of stores reinforced against earthquakes Consolidated Group damaged in the Great East Japan (second floor and above) ・FY2012: Complete improvement work at 45 stores companies in Japan for Earthquake (2) Prevent smoke vents from dropping (second floor and above) in the Kanto, North Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai General Merchandising ・Narrowed down earthquake safety (3) Change hanging smoke barriers to fireproof sheets (all floors) areas Store, Supermarket, and measures (4) Prevent falls on or from escalators (all floors) ・After FY2013: Steadily complete work at 270 Discount Store businesses ・Completed earthquake (5) Reinforce GMS ceilings against vibration (all floors) applicable stores reinforcement work at some stores (6) Reinforce large ceiling spaces in movie theaters against earthquakes Number of service complaints (1) Enhance initiatives aimed at the 7 challenges ・FY2013: 3,900 Service complaints (2) Inspect and improve basic customer service items using mystery Consolidated Group ・FY2020: 2,420 4,838 shoppers companies in Japan and (3) Establish education system led by each company overseas Number of complements Complements (4) Continue to implement the HAPPY Letter Campaign and share cases ・FY2013: 1,900 1,463 across the entire organization ・FY2020: 2,900 (5) Introduce more examples of when complements were received Consolidated Group (1) Quality for each line, MT product design and MT continuation and ・FY2013: 120 companies in Japan and 93 improvement recommendations based on customer suggestions ・FY2020: 180 overseas (2) Step up collection of customer suggestions 5.8% （33 persons） *Number of female executive Consolidated Group ・2020: 30% officers out of 620 total executive Actively develop female managers under the management training companies in Japan and *Ratio of Female Executive Officers = Female officers including consolidated program overseas Executive Officers / Total Executive Officers Group companies. Includes 3 female corporate auditors. 2.82% ・In 2020: Make ratio of non-Japanese employees to *Number of non-Japanese (1) Actively hire human resources around the world AEON CO., LTD. Japanese employees 1:1 employees out of 424 employees (2) Centrally manage human resource information that employed by Aeon Corporation Promote initiatives under the General Business Action Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support (1) Confirm importance of initiative at Group companies Consolidated Group 9 companies certified to use the the Development of the Next Generation (expand (2) Formulate guidelines for certification to use the Kurumin logo companies in Japan Kurumin logo number of companies certified to use the Kurumin (3) Manage initiative progress logo) AEON Sustainability Report 2012 26 Key Issue 1 Realization of a Low-carbon Society FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Reducing CO2 in Stores Total Annual CO2 Emissions Factor (CO2 Emissions / Total Floor Area) 0.09t/㎡ Decreasing CO2 emissions Target FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 For Aeon, which has a store network spanning Japan as well as other countries in Asia, reducing CO2 emissions from stores* plays a key role in reducing emissions for the entire company. That makes it 0.10t/㎡ 0.08t/㎡ 0.05t/㎡ all the more important for us to focus on reducing CO2 in our stores. In fiscal 2011, Aeon announced a plan to reduce its electricity usage per store by 15%. As part of this plan, we have been able to Total Energy Use Factor reduce CO2 emissions by switching to LED lighting, strictly (Amount of Heat / Total Floor Area) managing the temperature and air volume control of air conditioning as well as refrigerated display cases, and installing 2.23GJ/㎡ 1.27GJ/㎡ ‘demand controllers’ to control power consumption systematically Target across 1,200 Aeon and Maxvalu stores. FY We will continue implementing measures to achieve targets 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 listed under our key performance indicators (KPI) in fiscal 2012 as Target well. *All CO2 emitted from stores can be attributed to energy consumption. Specifically, around 10% comes from direct emissions through city gas, LP gas and combustion of 2.53GJ/㎡ 1.86GJ/㎡ heavy oil (Scope 1) and around 90% comes from indirect emissions through power consumption (Scope 2). The calculation of CO2 emissions from power consumption uses calculation standards and an emissions factor pursuant to the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. LED lighting Demand Controllers TOPICS A Year in Advance, Aeon Achieved Goals of Fiscal 2012 target of 1.85 million ton-CO2 reduction exceeded in fiscal 2011, the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming with a 2.08 million ton-CO reduction 2 In March 2008, we announced a fiscal 2012 total carbon dioxide Target emission reduction target of 1.85 million tons-CO2 less in AEON At Stores comparison with fiscal 2006 levels, and the Manifesto on the 50 (Energy source) Prevention of Global Warming, a specific plan to achieve this. The Manifesto has three main platforms. The first centers around 116 development of eco-stores, eco-efficient store facilities and On Products and systems. The second concerns products and logistics, switching to 57 Packaging alternative packaging materials and transportation methods. The third involves customer cooperation to reduce plastic bag With Customers consumption. 31 66 In fiscal 2011, Aeon stores made substantial CO2 emission Purchases of CO2 reductions, exceeding 2012 reduction target levels at 2.08 million 47 Emissions Credits ton-CO2. 22 4 FY2011 FY2012 Actual Reduction (10,000 ton CO2) Reductions Targets 27 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons and PromotEnhancing Energy Efficiency ing Use of Natural Refrigerants Aeon stores consume a large amount of energy through air More and more freezing and refrigeration units started using conditioners, lighting, and freezing and refrigeration cases. Looking non-ozone depleting alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) as at a breakdown of energy consumed on a heat conversion basis, refrigerant following the abolition of the production and use of around 90% is accounted for by electricity and the remainder by ozone-depleting CFCs under the Montreal Protocol adopted in city gas, LP gas and heavy oil. 1987. However, these alternatives have extremely high global In fiscal 2011, in response to calls to conserve electricity warming potential (GWP)*1 and the problem of leaking into the following the Great East Japan Earthquake, we implemented a atmosphere, which prompted calls to switch to natural refrigerants variety of power-saving initiatives that included turning off every with low GWP. other row of fluorescent lights on the ceiling, displaying certain Against this backdrop, Aeon announced the Aeon Natural drink products at room temperature and setting in-store Refrigerants Declaration in November 2011. The declaration states temperature higher than normal years. As a result, we cut our use of that Aeon will progressively switch to natural refrigerants (CO2)*2 for electricity by 30% during times of peak demand at stores in areas freezing and refrigeration cases throughout our Group stores, and serviced by the Tohoku Electric Power and Tokyo Electric Power that from 2015 on, all new stores will feature natural refrigerant Company and made a 10% cut at stores in other areas. systems. This is a first for the Japanese retail industry. We will continue implementing measures to achieve targets In fiscal 2011, we examined the amount replenished of listed under our KPI in fiscal 2012. alternatives to CFCs used as refrigerant by Group companies during the year in line with the announcement of this declaration. Aeon’s Peak-time power reduction rate comparison with Summer 2010, Aeon faces certain issues ahead of the introduction of natural in the Tokyo Electric Power Company(TEPCO) and the Tohoku Electric Power operation areas refrigerants, including the lack of manufacturers and high usage costs. We will do our utmost to overcome these issues and promote 32% lower Reduction Aeon’s average peak-time rate electricity use reduction rate the industry-wide use of natural refrigerant through awareness(%) for July and August 2011: than 2010 40 raising activities and building ties with companies within the same 30 Aeon’s target electricity use reduction industry and other industries. 25% 20 Government goals for *1 Global warming potential (GWP): Value expressing the amount of greenhouse gas electricity use reduction contained in a substance as a factor of carbon dioxide. 10 15% *2 Natural refrigerants: Naturally occurring refrigerants such as ammonia, hydrocarbon and CO2. 0 2011 7/8~ 7/15~ 7/22~ 7/29~ 8/5~ 8/12~ 8/19~ 7/1~ FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Improving Energy Management Practices Measures for Ascertaining Replacement Amount and Preventing Leakage of Fluorocarbons used In order to promote greater energy conservation in our stores, in Refrigerated Display Cases we need to operate our air conditioning and other equipment Target more efficiently. To this end, Aeon began holding the Energy FY Target 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Management Seminar in fiscal 2011. FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 The focus area for the seminar in fiscal 2011 was air conditioning. Lectures were held on methods for using air conditioning systems Ascertained CFC replenishment ・Complete consolidation of CFC amount and implemented leak replenishment amount and equipment more efficiently, while participants were also Ascertained CFC replenishment prevention measures ・ amount and implemented leak ・Complete consolidation Reflect actual ofCFC conditionsof retail sector in taken to visit stores to see these methods in use. Feedback from replenishment amount on leak government regulations prevention measures ・Reflect actual conditions of retail sector in management participants included: “I hope to improve my management government regulations on leak capabilities further, instead of leaving everything up to the facilities management management company.” Number of Stores Installing Refrigerated Display This seminar will be held for three years, with the focus area Cases that use Natural Refrigerants Target on a Trial Basis shifted to refrigerated display cases for the second year and lighting FY Target 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 for the third. 2010 FY 2012 2013 2020 2011 Published Aeon Natural Refrigerants Plan for installation at new stores Declaration and currently preparing Published Aeon Natural Refrigerants project team ・FY2012: 10%・FY2013: 15% Plan for installation at new stores Declaration and currently preparing ・FY2014: 25%・FY2015: 100% project team ・FY2012: 10%・FY2013: 15% ・FY2014: 25%・FY2015: 100% AEON Sustainability Report 2012 28 In fiscal 2012, we will continue implementing measures to achieve Development of Eco Stores targets for fiscal 2013. * CASBEE A Comprehensive Assessment System for Building Environmental Efficiency in Aeon’s Eco Stores generally aim to acquire greater than a CASBEE* buildings that was developed by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and A assessment in which they achieve 20% lower CO2 emissions in Tourism in 2001. It is used as an indicator for assessing and describing environmental performance objectively, including factors such as consideration of the global comparison with conventional stores. Since the opening of our first environment and the natural surroundings, waste in running costs and comfort for Eco Store Aeon Town Chikusa in May 2005, 11 such stores had been users. opened by February 2012. In fiscal 2011, we started working on the design concept proposal for our KPI target of formulating the concept of and developing The Progress of Eco Stores and Eco Shopping Centers next-generation Eco Stores in order to reduce CO2 emissions Amount of CO2 Shopping Center (SC) Name Reductions (Annual) by 50%. We also decided on the concept and standard for our GMS (General Merchandise Store) Eco Stores as “40% lower CO2 Aeon Town Chikusa 1st Store 2005 Aeon Co., Ltd. (now Aeon Retail Co., Ltd) Aichi 729t-CO2 emissions and a CASBEE ranking of A”. Aeon’s first eco store Prefecture Actual value Aeon Mall Kashima 2nd Store Aeon Co., Ltd. (now Aeon Retail Co., Ltd) Chiba 1,656t-CO2 FY2011 Results and Target of KPI First eco store in the Kanto region Prefecture Actual value 2006 Develop Eco Stores Aeon Mall Dainichi 3rd Store 4,769t-CO2 Aeon Co., Ltd. (now Aeon Retail Co., Ltd) Osaka Actual value First eco store in the Kansai region ・Began designing the concept draft for next-generation Eco Stores ・Reviewed standard Eco Store concept ”40% reduction in CO2 Aeon Mall Kagoshima 4th Store emissions, CASBEE assessment A” 2007 Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd Kagoshima 1,507t-CO2 Prefecture Actual value First eco store in Kyushu Target Target Aeon Mall Tomakomai 2010 FY 2012 2013 2020 Aeon Hokkaido Corporation 6th Store 3,300t-CO2 2011 First conversion of an existing store Hokkaido Actual value Aeon Laketown 7th Store 2008 MORI zone certified for “S” ranking Saitama 11,895t-CO2 Formulate concept for ・30% CO2 emissions reduction for under the CASBEE system. Prefecture Actual value next-generation Eco Stores and standard stores begin store development with aim ・Develop zero emissions stores Aeon Mall Hiezu 8th Store of reducing CO2 emissions by 50% ・Install refrigerators and freezers that Aeon Retail Co., Ltd Tottori 2,247t-CO2 Additional floor space added to an existing store Prefecture Actual value use natural refrigerant at 100% of stores 2009 Aeon Mall Tsuchiura 10th Store 3,362t-CO2 Ibaraki Aeon Retail Co., Ltd Actual value Prefecture Review standard Eco Store concept ・30% CO2 emissions reduction for and apply revised standards to all standard stores 11th Store new stores 2011 Aeon Mall Itamikoya Hyogo 4,842t-CO2 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Prefecture Actual value The concepts and eight approaches of Eco Stores Concepts We will actively use natural energy such as wind, solar and water as appropriate 1. Energy saving/generation Change and for the local community. Tangible Aspects technical 2. Environmental efficiency We will build stores using materials minimizing environmental burden. innovation 3. Natural environment We will make efforts to let in natural light, sound and water. 4. Landscape and biodiversity We will provide a space that can be a home not only to humans but to all living things. Learning and collaboration 5. Safety, security and We will actively work to provide everyone with environmentally friendly products. environmental consideration Intangible Aspects We are striving to recycle waste within the local area in partnership with members 6. Recycling within the region (including the government and non-profit organizations) of the local community. We will provide easy-to-understand information about the environmental Disseminated 7. Disclosure policies being pursued at our stores and across AEON as a whole. information We will strive to create stores that don’t require plastic shopping bags 8. 21st century community (in other words, stores which don’t waste resources). 29 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Recharging Stations for Electric Vehicles Reducing CO2 in Products and Logistics Aeon first set up a high-speed recharging station for electric vehicles at the Aeon Lake Town store located in Koshigaya City, Saitama Prefecture in 2008 in order to respond to the increasing Informing Customers of CO2 Emission Reductions use of electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Since then, we have set up recharging stations at most of our new stores opened Aeon is committed to showing the carbon footprint (CFP) of a in shopping centers as well as certain existing stores based on product in order to make it easier to visualize the CO2 emissions it demand. generates through its lifecycle, from raw materials to processing, Going forward, we will continue to install recharging stations distribution, consumption, disposal and recycling. This helps to at our stores, while monitoring the spread of electric vehicles and increase customers’ interest in the environment and spur further plug-in hybrid vehicles, as part of our efforts to support the ecocorporate initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions and perform cost friendly lifestyles of our customers. analyses. Aeon has participated in the CFP seminar hosted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) since 2008 and has been implementing related initiatives in collaboration with METI. In 2009, Stores installing recharging we launched an internal project and have been promoting a series stations for electric vehicles of initiatives such as formulating independent guidelines for Total number of stores calculation of CFP and introducing rules for labeling. (As of February 29, 2012) In fiscal 2011, we built a management system and created the 19 stores necessary tools for promoting the calculation of CO2 emissions, including a carbon footprint management manual and ledger. We also participated in a subsidy program sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and passed a screening conducted by a third-party organization. FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Number of Products with CO2 Visualization (number of product SKUs * for which CO2 emissions are calculated) We built a management system for the calculation of CO2 emissions, also participated in a subsidy program sponsored by the Ministry of Economy,Trade and Industry and passed a screening conducted by a third-party organization. Target TOPICS FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Our 12th Eco Store AEON Mall Funabashi 21SKU ・Calculate for 100 SKUs every year (Funabashi City, Chiba Prefecture) ・Every year communicate products that help reduce CO2 emissions externally 16億 97.6% of the lights at AEON Mall Funabashi, which opened in 6,155万枚 April 2012, including Aeon operated stores, SC Mall, andレジ袋削減枚数 all * Stock Keeping Unit (SKU): Smallest unit to identify products used when managing 17 13億with LED. In anticipation of parking areas have been replaced actual sales volume or inventory of a product at final retail points in distribution 億 operations. 922万枚 our customers becoming increasingly eco-aware, and a growing number of electric powered cars, we are installing 3,890 three sets of car battery recharge stations in the parking area. 万枚 Through such technologies and innovative approaches, Aeon 7億 aims to achieve CO2 emissions 30% lower in comparison with 6,714万枚 レジ袋辞退率 stores to 60.0 % 61.5% date. 4億 2,450万枚 48.0% 60.4% 16.4% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 30 [2nd time] Increasing Visibility of Distribution Operations ・Period: From October 22, Saturday, through November 20, Sunday, 2011 Aeon is employing various shipping innovations to reduce CO2 ・Participating companies: 19 Group companies (consolidated) emissions related to distribution. ・Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 1,896 tons-CO2 We are implementing initiatives from both physical and ・Amount of emissions credits purchased: 3,460,000 yen operational perspectives such as converting our fleet of trucks to ever-more fuel-efficient models that place lower burdens on the ● Eco Gifts environment as well as conducting an eco-driving accreditation Aeon purchased emissions credits to offset CO2 emissions in delivery course* and enhancing the system for recognizing good, ecoof gifts for Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, and traditional midsummer friendly drivers. gift in fiscal 2011. From fiscal 2011, we started calculating CO2 emissions per case in deliveries from distribution centers to stores. Clearly making [1st time] emission amounts more visible in this way drives momentum for ・Period: From March through July, 2011 further reductions. ・Participating companies: 20 Group companies (consolidated) In fiscal 2012, we will continue implementing measures to achieve ・Amount of emissions credits purchased: 1,441 tons-CO2 a 3.5% reduction in CO2 emissions per case compared to fiscal 2010. [2nd time] *1 Eco Drive: Driving technique that enables drivers to reduce fuel consumption by starting the vehicle and moving forward gently and eliminating wasteful idling to ・Period: From November through December, 2011 ultimately reduce CO2 emissions. ・Participating companies: 20 Group companies (consolidated) ・Amount of emissions credits purchased: 1,679 tons-CO2 FY2011 Results and Target of KPI CO2 Emissions per Case during Shipment from Distribution Center to Store ● Sale of My Baskets with Carbon Offsets Aeon sold My Baskets with Carbon Offsets and purchased CO2 Began calculating CO2 emissions amount emissions credits (certified emissions reductions, or CER: Kyoto per case for shipment from distribution 15% reduction center to store Mechanism credits) related to a biomass power generation project Target in India (transferred to the government free of charge) to offset CO2 emitted in the process from production through delivery of My FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Baskets. Target ・Period: From 21, January through 20, March 2011 5% reduction ・Participating companies: 20 Group companies ・Amount of emissions credits purchased: 94 tons-CO2 Carbon Offset Initiatives In fiscal 2011, Aeon worked on three occasions to offset all or part of its greenhouse gas emissions which it was unable to reduce by purchasing emissions credits generated from CO2 emission reduction activities in other locations. ● Carbon Offset Campaign Aeon carried out two carbon offset campaigns targeting specific food products and household products. We purchased emissions credits (certified emissions reductions, or CER: Kyoto Mechanism credits) related to a wind power generation project in India (transferred to the government free of charge) to offset CO2 emissions in delivery, store sales and disposal of products. [1st time] ・Period: From May 22, Sunday, through June 21, Tuesday, 2011 ・Participating companies: 18 Group companies (consolidated) ・Quantity of emissions credits purchased: 2,189 tons-CO2 ・Amount of emissions credits purchased: 3,751,000 yen 31 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies in Japan AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. Awarded Energy Conservation Grand Prize in ‘Excellent Aiming to Popularize Electric Vehicles Example’ Category. Started a Joint Project with Saitama City In February 2012, AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD was awarded METI Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. concluded the E-KIZUNA Project agreement (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) Minister Award Grand with Saitama City in December 2011. Under the agreement, the Prize for fiscal year2011 in the Excellent Example category, and first of its kind in the retail industry, Aeon Retail agreed to was recognized with the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry collaborate on a joint initiative E-KIZUNA Project with Saitama City Minister Award for success in achieving, both in its physical to promote the use of electric vehicles. building and in its operation systems, maximum energy Based on the agreement, Aeon Retail will accelerate the conservation results. introduction of electric vehicles used as delivery vehicles for Aeon’s online shopping business throughout Japan, beginning with Saitama City, to enable delivery that minimizes CO2 emissions. At the same time, the company will promote the installation of electric vehicle recharging units at shopping centers and work to make the environment suitable for the use of electric vehicles. The company will also hold events aimed at popularizing electric vehicles and learning sessions for children as a means to increase awareness among local citizens. Awards Ceremony AEON Environmental Foundation Donating Solar Power Systems As part of its 20th anniversary commemorative projects, AEON Environmental Foundation has donated solar power systems to junior high schools throughout Japan since fiscal 2009. The donations aim to increase awareness of solar power systems among local residents by installing them at junior high schools at the heart of the community and to be used as educational material to learn about the environment by junior high school students, the leaders of tomorrow. In fiscal 2011, the third year of the five-year program, the Foundation donated the systems to five schools, making a total of 15 recipient schools since fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2012, the fourth year of the program, the Foundation plans to donate Donation Presentation Ceremony systems to other Asian countries in an effort to deepen the understanding of renewable energy and aid the spread of it. * See pgs. 36 for Details AEON Environmental Foundation AEON Sustainability Report 2012 32 Key Issue 2 Conservation of Biodiversity ● Selling MSC-Certified Products Conservation through Products and Distribution The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification assures consumers marine products harvested through properly managed fishing practices. The MSC certification aims to help protect limited Communicate Biodiversity-friendly Products to marine resources. The Marine Eco-Label is placed on marine Customers products caught by certified fisheries. Aeon aims to gain the understanding and support of customers Aeon started selling Alaskan red salmon, salmon roe and other regarding the significance and importance of protecting MSC-certified seafood in 2006, a first for the Japanese retail biodiversity. Based on this philosophy, we implement a variety of industry, and recently added salted mackerel and seasoned cod roe activities such as providing products that help preserve biodiversity to the list of products available. In total, as of the end of February while also developing products together with customers that serve 2012, we offer customers 12 MSC-certified products across 26 the same purpose. species—more than other retailers in Japan. In March 2012, we ran a marketing campaign aimed at informing as many customers as possible of marine products certified as FY2011 Results and Target of KPI sustainable by MSC. As part of the campaign, which was conducted Visibility of Biodiversity-friendly Products in collaboration with graphic design students of Kyoritsu Women’s University and MSC, posters of MSC designed by the students were Began preparation for 40% visibility in consumer put up and lectures were held by members of the fisheries industry consumer research research (PB products) that practice MSC-certified fishing. MSC-certified seafood was also made available to sample. FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Target Conduct consumer research Aeon Biodiversity Principle Basic Principle MSC-certified TOPVALU salted wild salmon Grasping the impact our overall corporate activities have on the ecosystem, we actively focus on reducing the impact on the ecosystem and conservation activities, working in collaboration ● Selling FSC® certified products with our stakeholders, including our customers, local authorities The Forest Stewardship Council certifies wood products and paper and non-profit organizations. manufactured with timber from properly managed sustainable We focus on the following points related to the ecosystem in our forests. corporate activities: Aeon has been selling notebooks and other FSC-certified paper Through our corporate activities, we products since 2008. 1. Remain conscious of blessings and burdens. From fiscal 2011, we have been using FSC certified materials for 2. Engage in initiatives that protect and nurture. frequently used price tags and care labels. 3. Disclose information on our activities. Action Guidelines (Excerpt) 1. Products: We will set sustainability targets for resource-managed fresh seafood and processed by products, engage in their purchase and sale while sharing those targets with our business partners, and communicate related information to customers. 2. Stores: We will continue to promote treeplanting campaigns with customers at new store sites and continue to develop Eco Stores with less environmental impact than conventional facilities. 3. With Customers: Through tree-planting campaigns and other programs, we will share environmental awareness and learn FSC certification on a TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN A4-size notebooks together with everyone. 33 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 ● Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Students Aeon began the Rice Paddy Activities for Elementary School Biodiversity Conservation at the Store Level Students project in 2008. This is an effort undertaken with local agricultural cooperatives and NPOs to teach children about food and sustenance by giving them the opportunity to experience the Developing and Evaluating Indicators production process from planting through harvest, and, ultimately, the sale of rice at a retail store. This activity provides a platform for Aeon pays great attention to conservation and creation of children to learn about biodiversity and the environment through ecosystems in developing its stores through initiatives such as observation of creatures living in the rice fields. planning and implementing biodiversity evaluation and In fiscal 2011, reached its fourth year, we expanded this project environmental burden reduction measures when opening stores. to include Akita, Iwate, Shiga, and Saga prefectures. The children The aim is to minimize the impact of our stores on the surrounding wanted to do something to help people who suffered from the environment and ecosystem. Examples of these initiatives include Great East Japan Earthquake, so the rice they harvested was the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and installing biotopes at donated to schools in the affected areas. some of our shopping centers. Although we have taken part in a wide range of initiatives to date, we did not quantify or evaluate the specific effects. Accordingly, we set a target of formulating indicators to measure the impact our commercial facilities have on the ecosystem by fiscal 2013 under our list of KPI devised in 2011. In fiscal 2011, we conducted a self-evaluation at two stores, Aeon Mall Itamikoya and Aeon Town Chikusa, based on a “Land Use Morioka City Shibutami Elementary Daisen City Kyowa Elementary School, Score Report®*1“ developed by Japan Business Initiative for School, Iwate Prefecture Akita Prefecture Biodiversity (JBIB)*2, a network of companies in Japan. Based on the results of this self-evaluation, we identified areas where we either lacked or needed improvement in terms of our biodiversity conservation initiatives, and we also began to examine initiative implementation methods as a new indicator. *1 Land Use Score Report®: A tool to evaluate the extent to which a company considers biodiversity in land use based on indicators that include green area as well as its Saga City Akamatsu Elementary Nagahama City Hayami Elementary quality and management system. School, Saga Prefecture School, Shiga Prefecture * Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB): General incorporated association 2 established on April 1, 2008 that conducts joint research related to preservation of biodiversity from an international perspective as well as activities to preserve biodiversity together with various companies. FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Formulation and Evaluation Indicators for Impacts on Ecosystems Conducted self-assessment on Aeon Mall ItamiKoya and Aeon Town Chikusa based on the assessment rules of the JBIB Target FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Formulate indicator measuring the impact commercial facilities have on the surrounding ecosystem and evaluate stores based on relevant standards The rice that is being cultivated by children in Shiga, Iwate and Akita is labeled ‘Specially Cultivated TOPVALU Gurinai Rice’ and the children of Saga prefecture produce “TOPVALU Kyushu Hinohikari’ rice. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 34 It has been 20 years since the start of this initiative. Accordingly, Actions Taken with Customers nurturing the trees has become increasingly important, particularly managing their condition following planting and maintaining the forest where these trees grow. In fiscal 2011, we revised the forest management manual and started training sessions to improve the Aeon Hometown Forests Program forest management skills of managers at Aeon stores. We will continue conducting these training sessions nationwide Aeon, since the launch of our Hometown Forests Program in 1991, in fiscal 2012 and work to ensure that every store’s Aeon Hometown has been integrating new stores and encouraging local residents in Forests are maintained and managed in line with the manual the greening of their communities. Under this program, we join guidelines by fiscal 2013. with our customers to plant trees on new store sites. In fiscal 2011 we planted a total of 62,048 young trees in 27 locations. FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Aims of the Aeon Hometown Forests Program Maintenance and Management Situation of Forests Planting native trees Revised manual and commenced technical training for persons in charge through on-site 100% implementation 1 Aeon is planting native trees best suited to the lectures local natural environments. Planting a variety of species 2010 FY 2012 2013 2020 2 A mixture of 10-20 species of native trees, allows 2011 the planted trees to compete and grow naturally. Target Local Customers Take the Lead Phased implementation 3 At each location, local customers plant trees one by one. Trees Planted by Area Combined total for the Aeon Hometown Forests Program and AEON Environmental Foundation Total 9,675,858trees Planting trees in Chita City, Planting trees AEON Mall Aichi Prefecture, Itamikoya, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan Japan Planting trees at AEON Mall Omuta, Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan China Japan 1,153,117trees 7,865,313trees Laos Vietnam 148,250trees 29,000trees Planting trees in Jakarta, Indonesia Thai Kenya 225,500trees Cambodia 3,450trees 12,844trees Planting trees at Hue, Vietnam Malaysia 224,184trees Australia Indonesia 200trees 14,000trees Planting trees at Angkor, Cambodia 35 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 AEON Environmental Foundation Aeon Tree-Planting Activities AEON Environmental Foundation, with the cooperation at the national and local government level, conducts tree-planting activities that aim to regenerate forests devastated by natural disasters. These activities are also part of Aeon’s tree-planting initiatives. Tree-planting activities being undertaken by AEON Environmental Foundation have their origins in a similar forest development project implemented in Thailand by Japan International Volunteer Center in 1991. The Foundation’s current tree-planting initiatives are being carried out in different parts of the world, particularly in Asia, in addition to Japan. In fiscal 2011, we started a five-year tree-planting project in Chita City, Aichi Prefecture to ensure reclaimed land in Ise Bay becomes a viable habitat for living creatures. It was also the final year of tree-planting projects on Miyakejima Island and Lake Shikotsu in Hokkaido, which aim to regenerate forests lost in volcanic eruption and typhoon. Overseas, we have planted trees in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos in addition to a newly started project in Jakarta. A five-year tree-planting project near the Great Wall of China that started in 2007 to commemorate the 35th anniversary of normalization of diplomatic relations between Japan and China has also entered its final year. Aeon will continue expanding activities to nurture bountiful forests around the world going forward. Honoring Biodiversity Conservation Activities The Aeon Environmental Foundation honors individuals and positive initiatives that contribute to the field of biodiversity conservation. In 2010, the International Year of Biodiversity, the foundation created the MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity to commemorate its 20th anniversary. This award was first given out in 2010 and is intended to recognize as well as support an individual that contributes to the field of biodiversity conservation. 2012 will mark the second time this award has been presented. On the occasion of the 10th Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biodiversity (COP10) held in Japan in 2010, the AEON Environmental Foundation also inaugurated the Japan Awards for Biodiversity. These awards honor excellence in the promotion of biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of biodiversity. For the 2nd Japan Award for Biodiversity in 2011, five Excellence awards were presented, one of which was the Grand Prize. Initiatives at Group Companies in Japan MINISTOP CO., LTD Four Aeon Group Companies in Tohoku Region Store Development in Consideration of Ecosystem Start of Aeon Forest Tree-planting Activities in Aomori Preservation Prefecture MINISTOP CO., LTD. for example, uses 100% FSC Japan certified Four companies in the Aeon Group, namely SUNDAY Co., Ltd., materials. The Koshigaya Lake Town East store was the first Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and Aeon Superconvenience store in Japan to acquire FSC certification. center Co., Ltd., are engaged in the “Aeon Forest” project in a As of the end of February 2012, 25 Aeon stores are FSC certified, 5.2-hectare are of the Shimamori district of Nango Ward in and we are aiming to increase this number. Hachinohe City based on a forest development agreement with the Aomori Prefectural Government, which was signed in August 2010. The project will be implemented over a five-year period from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2014 using proceeds from plastic shopping bags received from customers as we conduct the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags” program. In addition to Aeon Group employees and their families, around 150 local elementary and junior high school students took part in the effort in October 2011, the second year of the project. Approximately 800 young trees were planted and participants had Store under constructhe opportunity to learn tion about the forest environment at the same time. * In addition to Aomori Prefecture this initiative is also being held in Miyagi Prefecture, Yamagata Prefecture, and Fukushima Prefecture. MINISTOP store （FSC-JPN-0036 ®FSC, A.C. All rights reserved.） “Aeon Forest” project AEON Sustainability Report 2012 36 Key Issue 3 Better Use of Resources Management System for Waste Emissions Effective Utilization in Stores Aeon holds internal training courses on a regular basis aimed at improving its management of waste disposal. Each year the Waste Reducing Amount of Materials Used in Packaging Management Training Course, which was developed together and Containers with an external specialist organization, is held for environmental Most of the rubbish discharged from the home is made up of managers and waste management leaders of Group companies. packaging and containers. It is therefore an important responsibility In fiscal 2011, a certification test for waste managers was given of the retail industry to sell products used in everyday life that to 82 employees that took part in the Waste Management Training contribute to less rubbish by minimizing them. With this in mind, Course, with 55 passing. Aeon is working actively to reduce the amount of packaging and We plan to have a cumulative total of 250 people pass this test containers we use. by fiscal 2013 and with this in mind will continue with efforts to In addition to focusing on reducing plastic shopping bags, we educate employees on waste management. are also promoting the use of thinner as well as more eco-friendly Each Group company also provides training to relevant persons trays. in charge in order for them to acquire the necessary skills and When developing TOPVALU products, we closely examine knowledge for managing the waste manifest. packaging and containers and after careful consideration of the impact on the quality of product contents and safety during FY2011 Results and Target of KPI shipment, we work to make product containers lighter and more thin-walled and switch to recyclable material. Additionally, we Number of Employees Completing Internal are striving to develop refillable products and change packaging Training Course to Improve Management of material based on customer feedback. Waste Emissions As a result of these efforts, we reduced the required amount Seminar participants: 82 100 employees of packaging and containers for recycling by a third party (per Successful candidates: 55 Cumulative total: More than 250 employees ¥100 million in net sales) under the Law for Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging by 9.1% in Target fiscal 2011 compared with fiscal 2010, with a total of 50 tons. FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Moving forward, we plan to take further actions in order to Target achieve our fiscal 2013 target. 100 employees FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Reducing Waste Amount for Third-Party Processing Required under the Law for the Promotion of Sorted Aeon is committed to reducing food waste. For example, Aeon Collection and Recycling of Containers and Retail Co., Ltd. established a target to keep the percentage of sales Packaging (basic unit per ¥100 million in net sales) losses from discarding food products at 0.65% which it achieved. In addition, certain Group companies have installed scales for 50 tons measuring food waste. Revisions to the Food Waste Recycling Law of Japan have Target changed the focus from recycling to curbing the occurrence of food FY waste. As a result, we have added food waste emissions (per ¥100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 million in net sales) to our KPI starting in fiscal 2012. Going forward, we will look to ascertain food waste emissions by 55 tons 47 tons measuring actual amounts during trials conducted at model stores, * 15% reduction compared to FY2010 and based on this, we plan to establish a reduction target in fiscal 2013. 37 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 FY2011 Results and Target of KPI with low environmental impact. This is done as a matter of course Food Waste Emissions (amount per ¥100 million in sales) for office supplies, but we are also expanding the scope of green purchasing to include display cases, shelving and other fixtures New category; results to be used on sales floors as well as construction materials and the like. Ascertain volume and set reduction targets reported in FY2012 We commenced green purchasing for construction materials Target in fiscal 2001. When developing new general merchandise stores, FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 we strive to use products procured through green purchasing for construction materials and increase the range of items subject to Target green purchasing. Perform trials and take measurements at model stores Recycling Food Product Wastes Use of Returnable Containers and Reusable Hangers In May 2008 present day Aeon Retail Co.,Ltd., became the first Aeon is reducing the amount of cardboard thrown away at stores company in Japan’s retail industry to acquire recycling business by using returnable containers and agricultural product containers plan certification* under the Food Waste Recycling Law, which was that can be used repeatedly when shipping products. revised in December 2007. The company built a recycling loop that In addition, our apparel departments conduct reused hanger involves collecting food waste generated at stores, turning the delivery in which clothing is brought to the store on hangers and waste into feed, and then selling pork from pigs raised on the feed then displayed on the sales floor using the same hangers. This at Aeon stores. Pork from pigs raised on recycled feed has been sold reduces the amount of cardboard boxes used when transporting at select stores in the Kanto region since June 2008. the clothing and the amount of hangers used only for transport. In fiscal 2011 we used 69.92 million cases of returnable * Collection and shipping of recycled food resources in accordance with a certified recycling business plan does not require regular waste collection and transport containers, 22.18 million cases of agricultural product containers, licensing, which has made it possible to efficiently collect waste over a wide region and 11.72 million reusable hangers, which helped us substantially transcending municipal boundaries. reduce cardboard waste. Building A Local Recycling Loop Returnable Container, Agricultural Product Container Reusable Hanger Provide pork products, NB product manufacturer boxed lunches, etc. Products Production AEON Group processing company Site Customers Contract manufacturer FY11 Returnable Container Use AEON Portion of store (Stores in Kanto region) leftovers Cardboard 69.92 million cases Food manufacturing FY11 Agricultural byproducts Product Container Use Excess food products Local recycling 22.18 million cases AEON Pork loop Feed Group processing company Feed factory Manufacturer Pork production facility FY11 Reusable Hanger Use Cardboard 11.72 million Promoting Green Purchasing AEON We began “green purchasing” efforts in 1996. When purchasing stationery and other office supplies, we adequately consider their necessity and make purchasing decisions while prioritizing products AEON Sustainability Report 2012 38 Stores Stopping Free Plastic Shopping Bags Together with Customers Reducing Plastic Bag Use Total number of stores (2007 to 2012.02) In 1991, Aeon embarked on efforts to conserve petroleum, the raw material of plastic bags, and at the same time cut CO2 emissions 773stores from the production of plastic bags by calling on customers to use (Total for 24 Aeon Group companies) their own shopping bags. This was the beginning of the “Bring Your Own Shopping Bag” campaign. It was expanded with the “My Basket” campaign in 2000. In 2007, we became the first national retail chain to begin the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping Bags” program. By the end of February 2012, this program covered 773 stores throughout Japan, marking a 60.4% rate of customers declining plastic bags. Aeon will conclude agreements with local government and citizen groups aimed at reducing plastic bags and expand the number of stores implementing the “Stop Free Plastic Shopping Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags Bags” program as a means to increase the rate of customers declining plastic bags. 1,661.55 Reduction in the million reduction number of FY2011 Results and Target of KPI plastic bags Percentage of Customers Declining Plastic Shopping Bags 1,392.2 (nationwide store average) million reduction 1,738.9 16億 million reduction 60.4% 80.0% 6,155万枚 レジ袋削減枚数 767.14 Percentage of 13億 17 Target customers declining 億 million reduction FY 922 plastic bags 61.5 60.4% 3,890万枚 万枚 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 60.0% % 424.50 48.0% Target million reduction 61.5% 70.0% 7億 16.4% 6,714万枚 レジ袋辞退率 60.0% 61.5% TOPICS 2007 2,450 4億 2008 万枚200948.0 2010 % 2011 60.4% Environmental Consideration through Pay 16.4% Plastic Bags Developing and Selling Products that Contribute to Better Use 2007of Resources 2008 2009 2010 2011 Aeon has donated proceeds from pay plastic bags* to local government and citizen groups since 2009. Proceeds in The TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN fiscal 2011 amounted to around brand Aeon began developing ¥111 million, which was used for and marketing in 2000 is a line of local environmental preservation ecoproducts emphasizing the “4Rs” – activities. reduce, reuse, recycle, and returnable. In June 2011, we introduced pay Through this brand, we aim to bring plastic bags made mainly from plantderived material, a first for the retail customers products that are truly industry in Japan. Through this attractive combinations of high initiative, we were able to reduce the quality and reasonable prices, and amount of CO2 emission from raw show that environmentally friendly material production to incineration of products do not have to cost more. plastics bags, by over 50% compared with conventional plastic bags. TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN herbal fragrance concentrated * Proceeds from pay plastic bags = Value of sales − (consumption taxes + laundry detergent material cost) 39 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 SELF+SERVICE, a specialty shop for clothing and accessories has Reducing Waste by Collecting Resources in Stores been working to expand used clothes collection and recycling applications since 2003. In fiscal 2011, the company collected Aeon stores encourage customers to recycle by having collection around 24,000 articles of clothing, with some of it being recycled as bins for items such as paper packaging, food trays, aluminum cans, bio-ethanol. and PET bottles. Collected paper packaging and aluminum cans are recycled and some are broken down and used as raw materials for TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN brand products. Food trays and PET Amount Collected in Stores by Container Type bottles are also effectively recycled. Paper packaging Food trays approx. 123.53 million approx. 308.90 million 2011 (tons) 3,706t 2011 (tons) 2,162t Aluminum cans PET bottles approx. 207.86 million approx. 106.81 million 2011 (tons) 3,326t 2011 (tons) 6,730t Collection bins Totals for 21 Aeon Group Companies Based on the following weight estimates: Paper packaging (1,000 ml) = 30 g, Food tray = 7 g, Aluminum can (350 ml) = 16 g, SELF+SERVICE clothing PET bottle = 63 g collection Poster Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies in Japan MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. COX CO., LTD. Introducing Packaging Machines Hosting the Environmental Festival Collecting Used Clothes and to Pack Products without Trays as Part of Its Commitment to the Recycling Them as Resources Local Community MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. introduced COX CO., LTD. is undertaking a wide a packaging machine to pack products range of initiatives to protect the natural Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. sponsored without using trays at the livestock environment based on the theme of the Environmental Festival at its Yashiro production workplace of the Chikusa a better earth and ecology under the Store on June 5, 2011. This event was Wakamiya-odori store in July 2011. This “MOTTO! CIQUTO PROJECT.” co-hosted with other companies and As part of this project, the company enabled the company to provide products featured a panel display on the store’s launched a campaign, in which items of to customers packed with special paper recycling system for recycled products as clothing bought at COX are collected sheets rather than food trays. The packs well as games using recycled products. in-store and reused as resources. The are also less cumbersome to carry home The Environmental Festival first started collected items are separated, with half and take up less space in the fridge or in November 2004 at the Maxvalu sent overseas as second-hand clothing freezer, which also helps to reduce waste Higashiyama Store, with this year marking and the remainder reused as cloths as in the home. the 15th time. Going forward, Aeon well as felt and cotton work gloves for stands committed to building a positive factories. partnership with its customers in the local community and to helping build a recycling-oriented society. The Environmental Festival AEON Sustainability Report 2012 40 Key Issue❹ Dealing with Social Matters Community Involvement How Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign works Making Contributions to Local Communities Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Cumulative total of Countless volunteer organizations* throughout local communities 1,666.85 million ¥ in Japan are in need of support. At the same time, countless Aeon in goods donated as of February 2012 customers would like to support organizations devoted to their local communities. Aeon, as a local community member, launched AEON the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign to link customers and Customers Volunteer organizations volunteer organization. Customers participate in the Campaign simply by taking the yellow receipts they receive when making Place yellow receipts Stores calculate the Receive goods worth 1% of purchases on “Aeon Day,” the 11th of every month, and placing in the box for the organization they wish total value of receipts for each organization the total value of receipts contributed to the cause of them in a box labeled with the name of an organization or a to support their choice particular activity. Aeon then contributes goods or items accordingly at a value of 1% of the total amount of the receipts. Clean & Green Activities In Fiscal 2011, the Campaign had expanded to include 22 companies and 1,219 stores, and we contributed goods worth Aeon is actively involved in community landscaping projects around approximately 325 million yen to a total of around 21,700 its stores. Clean & Green Activities, conducted since 1991, consist of organizations. Of participating stores, 38.1% had a submission rate employees volunteering to clean up parks and rivers around stores of at least 20%. and areas surrounding public facilities. Since the Campaign’s inception in 2001, 150,600 organizations These activities have been conducted have received support totaling around 1.67 billion yen. every month on the 11th, Aeon Day, since We encourage our customers to participate in the Aeon Happy 2001 at all General Merchandise Stores Yellow Receipt Campaign. Among other efforts, we offer volunteer and supermarkets as well as head office organizations a chance to come into stores to talk about their and other business offices. activities. We plan to actively encourage as many of our customers as possible to submit their receipts. Cleaning up around a store * Volunteer organizations activities should fall under one of the following five categories. 1. Activities to promote welfare Promoting Local Cultures 2. Activities to promote environmental preservation and environmental education 3. Activities to promote urban development 4. Activities to advance arts and culture As a member of the local community, We respect regional cultures 5. Activities to enhance the health and safety of children and traditions and are involved in promoting local cultural life. We actively participate in local and traditional events, support the FY2011 Results and Target of KPI transmission of that local culture and history to the next generation Yellow Receipt Campaign Submission Rate and actively help in event management. In addition to supporting local cultural events and sports 38.1% of stores had submission rate of greater than 20% Greater than 30% submission festivals, we are implementing the Hometown Discovery Program (GMS: 70.3% / Supermarkets: 14.0% / Discount stores: 5.9%) rate at all stores for Supporting Local Traditional Performing Arts, in which local people can see traditional arts and performing skills passed down Target from long ago in different regions, at Aeon stores. FY In fiscal 2011, we supported the Akita 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Kanto Festival (designated as National Target Important Intangible Fork Cultural Property), which was held in August. 45% of GMS stores had Submission rate of greater than submission rate of less 20% at all stores taking part in the Aeon has participated in this festival since than 20% campaign 2008. This year we inscribed paper lanterns with the phrase “Gambaro Tohoku” (“Don’t give up, Tohoku!”) to express our hopes for recovery in the disaster-affected region. Akita Kanto Festival 41 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Concluding Comprehensive Cooperation Issuing Local WAON Cards Agreements WAON is a system of e-money pre-paid cards used at 130,000 Aeon has entered cooperation agreements with local governments participating stores throughout Japan. In the case of Aeon’s local to effectively combine respective resources for disaster WAON cards, a part of the proceeds from sales goes to local social preparedness, social welfare and environmental conservation, and, contributions.* through Local WAON cards, to stimulate commerce and tourism. The social contributions that result from local WAON cards use The first Agreement was concluded in June 2010 with the Osaka are wide-ranging, and include community environment Prefectural government. At the end of February 2012, we had conservation efforts, promotion of tourism and sports, preservation agreements with 37 prefectural governments. of cultural assets, and animal welfare. As of February 2012 there Through these agreements, we are, providing emergency were 66 different local WAON cards, and the contributions for fiscal supplies and emergency shelters for times of disaster, holding local 2011 topped 50 million yen. product fairs and promoting local tourism through our stores, and As of February 2012, a total of over 24 million cards had been working with local governments to plan and market boxed lunches issued since the start of the WAON system in April 2007, and the use made with local agricultural products. In this way, we are also of WAON cards continues to spread. Aeon can offer customers the helping to stimulate local economies and improve daily life services. convenience of an e-money pre-paid card while at the same time Agreements with Prefectural Governments, as of the end of actively contributing to the support of local communities. February Agreements 2012 with Prefectural Governments, as of the end of February 2012 * with some exceptions Hokkaido Tochigi Yamanashi Osaka Kagawa Aomori Gunma Nagano Nara Ehime Iwate Saitama Gifu Hyogo Kochi Types of Local WAON Cards Miyagi Chiba Shizuoka Tottori Kagoshima 66 Akita Yamagata Kanagawa Niigata Aichi Mie Shimane Okayama Okinawa different types of local WAON Fukushima Toyama Shiga Hiroshima Ibaraki Ishikawa Kyoto Yamaguchi Case of Hiroshima Prefecture Comprehensive Agreements with Hiroshima parenting support ‘IkuHiroshima Prefecture chan’ WAON issued following the Comprehensive Agreement. A portion of the proceeds from sales go to support activities for education of children in Hiroshima prefecture TOPICS Supporting the revitalization of local industries and preservation of traditional food culture Aeon actively contributes to local economies and the preservation of local traditions. Direct transactions with fisheries cooperatives represent one of these initiatives. Our goal here is two-fold—first, to provide super fresh fisheries products to our customers and second, to help preserve the traditional fish-related food culture of Japan. In fiscal 2011, we partnered with fishing industry officials from the Pacific Coast of the Tohoku Region damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake and began providing assistance to the reconstruction of fishing ports and to the revitalization of the industry. We are also promoting food artisan activities together with producers across the nation to continually preserve the traditional flavors of Japan. These activities, which are intended to help pass on traditional food culture to future generations, involve the dissemination of information on excellent food ingredients and traditional technologies supporting local food cultures. All fish caught by this fishing vessel is purchased by Aeon AEON Sustainability Report 2012 42 Aeon Welfare Fund Supporting Disabled Persons Introducing Balloon Shelters The Aeon Welfare Fund was established in 1977 to promote the Aeon has promoted installation of “balloon shelters”—large tents welfare of persons with disabilities and to support their for use in emergency evacuations—since 2004 to be ready in the independent participation in society. Aeon has carried out various event of an earthquake or other major natural disaster. The tents projects, focusing on donating special vehicles and contributing to have been placed at a total of 28 locations, primarily shopping volunteer activities, through matching of employee 50 yen monthly centers around the country (as of February 29, 2012). The tents are contributions. As of the end of February 2012, 52,000 Aeon lightweight and easy to carry, so those stored close by can be employees are participating in this program. brought to locations affected by disasters. In fiscal 2011, two vehicles each were donated to the welfare facilities of persons with disabilities in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures, areas all severely damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake, and one vehicle to the facility in Akita prefecture. A total of 32 vehicles have been presented so far from the Aeon Welfare fund. Volunteer activities included roughly 900 visits to welfare facilities, with events such as Christmas parties or New Year’s ‘mochitsuki’ rice cake making. A total of around 7,800 facilities have been visited so far A balloon shelter Balloon shelters can be easily inflated with a special blower and be ready for use in around 40 minutes. They come two to a set and one set has room for around 100 people to lay down Supporting Disaster Recovery Aeon stores are contributing to allowing people who have experienced extensive damage from natural disasters to return to ‘Mochitsuki’ rice cake making at an welfare facility normal life as quickly as possible. In addition, Aeon is matching funds donated by our customers and employees. In fiscal 2011, at the time of the tremendous damage caused by Signing Disaster Prevention Agreements the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon and Aeon customers additionally contributed at Aeon stores for flood damage relief in Aeon strives to ensure that employees working at our stores Cambodia and Thailand. Aeon contributed emergency funds to constantly act as members of the community. The same applies relief and reconstruction efforts following Typhoon No.12 in during natural disasters. We continue to sign disaster prevention Wakayama and Nara prefectures, the earthquake in Turkey, and the agreements with local authorities throughout Japan, pledging typhoon in the Philippines. Total funds awarded amounted to 4.04 cooperation and support in the event of an emergency in an effort billion yen, including 1.48 billion yen from customer contributions. to be of use to people in the local community. Aside from cash, Aeon also made material donations. As of February 29, 2012, 1,195 Aeon Group stores and business offices have signed disaster prevention agreements with a total of 637 local government bodies and assist with local disaster prevention activities, including providing emergency suppliers in the event of a disaster, providing car parks for use as evacuation points and organizing joint emergency drills. Donation Presentation to Support Red Cross Cambodia 43 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Community Involvement AEON Sukusuku Laboratory Develop the Human Resources of the Future Aeon has organized the AEON Sukusuku Laboratory every since 2007 as part of its commitment to helping families raising children. Aeon Cheers Club AEON Sukusuku Laboratory includes seminars on childcare led by experts in the field and folk tale concerts where children and The Aeon Cheers Club provides hands-on opportunities for first parents sing together. through ninth-grade students to learn about the environment. In fiscal 2011, AEON Sukusuku Laboratory was held in four cities Young people living near Aeon stores can come together once a across Japan. A total of 794 attended the four sessions, including month to participate in Aeon Cheers Club environmental activities 459 adults and 335 children. with the support of store employees. Each year one of six themes in 6 year cycle of annually rotating School Construction Support Project themes is taken up. The theme for 2011 was ‘refuse.’ Approximately 6000 children in 400 clubs nationwide participated, taking part in In partnership with the Japan Committee for UNICEF, Aeon is cleaning parks and beaches, visiting waste disposal and recycling supporting construction of schools in places in Asia where they are plants, and participating in arts and crafts activities using waste needed We collect donations for the School Construction Support materials. Project from customers in stores and other facilities operated by In July 2011, the Aeon Cheers Club National Meeting was held at Aeon Group companies across Japan. Through 2009, we helped Lake Toya, Hokkaido. The top winners of local club contests, 180 construction of a total of 326 schools in Cambodia, Nepal, and Laos, children from 30 clubs attended. Each club made a presentation giving around 230,000 children a chance to go to school. about its performance of the previous year using printed reports to Aeon has started to support construction of educational facilities share the information with other clubs. In addition, there were in Hue, Vietnam, in 2010. For the three-year period beginning in practical exercises to gain understanding about the environment, 2010 and extending through 2012, we are planning to support the including, for example, getting rid of the troublesome crayfish in construction of 30 schools. Within 2011, we accomplished the Lake Toya, or trying coastal dragline fishing. construction of 10 schools. Going forward, we will improve the available information on our Aeon will start a school activities and work to increase the number of participating clubs, so building support project in that more children can get involved in environmental activities. Myanmar in 2013. We plan to construct 30 schools in three years by 2015. New schoolhouse in Vietnam The AEON and UNICEF Safe Water Campaign Aeon Cheers Club National Meeting at Lake Toya Aeon is implementing a 3 year plan, started in 2010 as the Aeon UNICEF Safe Water Campaign, for setting up facilities in Laos and Presentations on the year’s activities Cambodia to provide safe water by installing water supply equipment. This initiative is also supporting the hygienic and FY2011 Results and Target of KPI educational well-being of children that cannot attend school Number of Aeon Cheers Clubs because they are required to walk long distances to fetch water. In fiscal 2011, Aeon donated 40 million yen to the Japan 382 clubs, 5730 persons Committee for UNICEF. As a Target result of this program, the FY number of people with 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 access to safe water is increased by 40,000 yearly. 600 clubs 191 clubs Implement activities undertaken by 60,000 persons annually Water supply facilities in Laos AEON Sustainability Report 2012 44 PET Bottle Cap Collection Campaign ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum Since 2008, Aeon, in collaboration with our partner Fashion Service The ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum started in NANIWA, has been collecting PET bottle caps from our customers at 2010. It provides an opportunity for university students in the our stores. The caps, as recyclable resources, are sold for cash that is ASEAN region to gather and foster mutual understanding through (in turn) contributed to three international organizations*1 that discussions and to share observations on social issues. support children in Asia´s developing countries. For the 2nd Forum, in fiscal 2011, 30 university students from In fiscal 2011, cash from 364,890,000*2 bottle caps was donated Japan, Thailand, and Vietnam gathered in Ho Chi Minh City, to these organizations. The funds provided vaccines, nutritious Vietnam. The students took a seminar titled “planting a tree in the food, and school supplies to children in Vietnam, Myanmar and heart” given by C.W. Nicol and discussed the theme “The other countries. Environment and the Economy” in the forum. The Forum for 2012 will take place in Japan with around 100 *1 The three international organizations are: participating students from Japan Committee Vaccines for the World´s Children (JCV) Save the Children Japan four countries – Japan, Plan Japan Thailand, Vietnam and * Caps collected from August 21, 2010 through August 20, 2011. 2 Indonesia. Discussing the Theme ‘The Environment and the Economy’ Vaccination of children in Myanmar, Laos, Bhutan and Vanuatu © JCV, all rights reserved Aeon Scholarship Program Nutritious food for children in Vietnam The Aeon Scholarship Program was established in 2006 to provide financial support to Asian students in Japan and in Asian countries, leaders of the next generation in Asia. In fiscal 2011, the Aeon Scholarship was awarded to university School supplies for children in Vietnam students in Vietnam. In previous years, it was awarded to university students in Japan, China, and Thailand. In September 2011, a Teenage Ambassadors Program ceremony was held to award certificates to grantees from two universities in Vietnam. A partnership was also formed with the University of Social The Teenage Ambassadors Program brings overseas students to Sciences and Humanities, Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh Japan for high school classes and workshops on the environment. City, Vietnam, to study ‘Employee Recruitment’ and ‘Joint Research By the end of 2011, 803 high school students from 15 countries of Retail Sales Development.’ Aeon is planning to promote similar have participated. partnerships with universities in China, Malaysia, Thailand and other In fiscal 2011, high school students from Jakarta, Indonesia were countries. invited for home-stays and classes at a high school in Tokyo, University students awarded the scholarship are working to Jakarta’s sister city. At the same time, high school students from build bridges between Japan and their home countries in respective Japan visited Indonesia, and had a courtesy call with the President areas of expertise following graduation. In this way, Aeon continues of Indonesia, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. to provide support for the development of human resources that The Japan-China High-school Student Exchange Program contribute to the advancement of Asia. In fiscal 2012, we will start started in response to the Teenage Ambassador program in Beijing, granting scholarships to university students in Indonesia. China in 2009. Through fiscal 2011, 217 Japanese and Chinese high school students have had a Grants 2006-2011 chance to deepen cultural ties country universities grantees through arts and sports Japan 14 197 * exchanges. China 7 1,538 In fiscal 2012, we plan to Thailand 2 16 conduct exchange for high 60 Vietnam 2 school students between Total: 1,811 Cambodia, Laos and Japan. Japanese high school students paying a courtesy visit to the President of Certification Ceremony, Vietnam * Privately funded exchange students Indonesia from Asian countries Grants 2006-2011 45 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 country universities grantees Japan 14 197 * Fundraising Activities (FY 2011) Main fundraising activities (Japan) Activity Activity period Participating Funds raised from Aeon 1% Club Total Amount Donees Companies customers and employees Contributions New Zealand Earthquake February 25, 2011 79 Aeon New Zealand Embassy –March 10, 2011 Group companies ¥40,571,337 ¥34,928,663 ¥80,000,000 Tokyo, Japan Emergency Relief Aid Great East Japan Earthquake March 12, 2011 89 Aeon Aomori, Iwate, Miyagi, Emergency Relief Collections –March 31, 2011 Group companies ¥1,097,664,974 ¥2,502,335,026 ¥3,600,000,000 Fukushima, Tochigi, Ibaraki, Chiba Prefecture “Gambarou (Go) Japan!” 89 Aeon Miyagi, Fukushima, Iwate April 1, 2011 Prefecture, Association for Aid Relief Collections –May 8, 2011 Group companies ¥359,543,993 ーー ¥359,543,993 and Relief, Japan (AAR Japan) Turkey/Cambodia Floods October 25, 2011 77 Aeon Government of Thailand / Emergency Relief Aid –November 6, 2011 Group companies ¥25,959,871 ¥26,040,129 ¥52,000,000 Cambodian Red Cross Donation to the school 30 Aeon The People’s Committee of establishment support March 11, 2011 Group companies ¥1,531,464 ーー ¥1,531,464 Vietnam´s Hue Province in Vietnam June 30, 2011 89 Aeon Nippon Television Network 24-hour television ¥266,842,059 ーー ¥266,842,059 Corporation “24-Hour –August 28, 2011 Group companies Television Charity Committee” Total Amount ¥1,792,113,698 ¥2,567,803,818 ¥4,359,917,516 Continuous Fundraising Activities Activity Activity period Funds raised from customers and employees Accumulated funds Donee Red Feather October 1, 2011 – The Central Community Community Chest ¥15,340,190 ¥207,045,287(1983-2011) October 31, 2011 Chest of Japan Emergency Disaster Relief (FY 2011) Relief recipients Donation date Aeon 1% Club Donees contribution Great East Japan Earthquake Emergency Relief Aid March 15, 2011 ¥10,000,000 NPO Japan Platform (JPF) Typhoon Talas Emergency Relief Aid (Nara Prefecture) September 7, 2011 ¥5,000,000 Nara Prefecture Typhoon Talas Emergency Relief Aid (Wakayama Prefecture) September 8, 2011 ¥5,000,000 Wakayama Prefecture Cambodia Floods Emergency Relief Aid October 21, 2011 ¥5,000,000 Cambodian Red Cross Thailand Floods Emergency Relief Aid October 17, 2011 ¥5,000,000 Government of Thailand Turkey Earthquake Emergency Relief Aid October 26, 2011 ¥5,000,000 Turkish Embassy Japan Philippine Typhoon Emergency Relief Aid December 27, 2011 ¥5,000,000 Philippine Embassy in Tokyo AEON 1% Club To Fulfill Responsibility as a Corporate Citizen Rooted in the Local Community “As an industry, what is our role in society?”, “What type Activities of industry should we strive to become?”, “What do our customers expect of us?” In response to these questions, Environment Conservation ・AEON Cheers Club, Activities ・ASEAN University Students Environmental Forum we established the AEON 1% Club in 1989 based on the concept of being a company that uses the profit we make International Culture, ・School Construction Support Project from customers in the local community for the benefit of Inter-personal Exchange and ・The Teenage Ambassadors Program that community and the future. Development program ・AEON Scholarship With the AEON 1% Club, each of AEON’s main companies contributes 1% of their pretax profit for the implementation Revitalization of ・Local traditional event support of various activities focused on environmental preservation, Local Cultures and ・Child-raising support seminar Aeon Communities Sukusuku Laboratory, etc. international cultural and human resource exchange and human resource development, and advancement of local Other ・Disaster recovery support, fundculture and society. (fund-raising activities, etc.) raising, etc. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 46 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies in Japan AEON TOWN Co., Ltd. COX CO., LTD. First Private Facility Registered Under the “Baby Supported “Gold Ribbon” Campaign for Children with Station Project” Sponsored by Tateyama City Cancer In October 2011, Aeon Town Tateyama was the first private facility The “Gold Ribbon” symbol is used to express activities that support to be registered under the “Baby Station Project” sponsored by children with cancer. Various organizations use this symbol in the Tateyama City. United States where the campaign seeks to gather economic The “Baby Station Project” is being carried out by Tateyama City assistance for activities to raise awareness of children’s cancer and with the aim of improving environments in which families with to research into treatments. In Japan, although the campaign is babies can feel safe and secure when going out. Facilities that still in its infancy, the number of organizations conducting such fulfil one of the two conditions of having a diaper changing table activities and supporting companies continues to grow steadily. or a space for breastfeeding are able to register. COX CO., LTD. has been supporting this campaign since XXXX. A total of ¥X was donated to the Gold Ribbon secretariat thanks to the hard work of everyone involved in the Gold Ribbon campaign in fiscal 2011. Looking ahead, COX will continue supporting Gold Ribbon activities for children suffering from cancer. Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Dietary Education Developed with the Community Baby Station Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. implements dietary education activities that are straightforward and that anyone can easily participate in. These include providing the opportunity for events and classes related to diet based on the idea of realizing richer, AEON Fantasy CO., LTD. healthier dietary habits among local customers. Dietary education classes have been included as regular classes Event Held on Prevention of Infectious Diseases Such in elementary schools. In these classes, children learn the as Influenza importance of food and the correct knowledge about diet In February 2012, AEON Fantasy held an event aimed at providing through shopping games at stores and actual cooking. a fun way through board games for children to learn about the A “dietary education day” is held each month in stores. A dietary importance of gargling and washing hands to prevent influenza, educator provides services in the store and describes the fun and using the kids theme character Lala-chan. importance of food so that people can drop by and participate. The dietary educator introduces recipes using seasonal cooking ingredients and distributes food samples. 47 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Promoting the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct(CoC) Fair Business Practices ● Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Aeon has been taking measures to raise the level of its quality CSR Procurement Guidelines management structure to ensure the quality of its TOPVALU brand products, which we plan and develop on our own. At the The world’s natural capital is in an alarming state, characterized by same time, we formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct for lean harvests of agricultural produce due to abnormal weather, contract manufacturers in 2003 to fulfill our responsibilities to the which has been caused by the destruction of ecosystems through society such as maintaining proper commercial transactions with overexploitation and by global warming. Also, as our supply chain manufacturers and ensuring appropriate workplace conditions expands globally, we need to step up the prevention of corruption at manufacturing sites. We demand compliance with this code of such as bribery and coercion and to consider the human rights of conduct in all our business dealings. suppliers and the labor environment. The code covers compliance with national and local laws, The products that Aeon produces and sells are made possible by respect for human rights, and safe, healthy working conditions, the bounty of nature and we conduct procurement through among other topics. Compliance pledges have been received from producers and in production areas that span the globe. Although approximately 750 manufacturing partners. There is also a system we have been practicing green procurement over the years, in in place whereby Aeon certified auditors and outside agencies which we prioritize the purchase of environmentally friendly goods, conduct audits of partner production sites to check compliance we have now started to formulate CSR Procurement Guidelines that with these requirements and promote improvements. take into account the perspectives of human rights, labor conditions and corporate ethics in order to realize more highly sustainable procurement. In fiscal 2011, we gathered information on the CSR procurement Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct activities of companies participating in the Supply Chain (Business Code of Conduct) Requirements Conform with legally Subcommittee of the Global Compact Japan Network, which Aeon stipulated social responsibility standards in countries where is a member of. manufacturing and procurement takes place In fiscal 2012, we will start a research group focused on CSR procurement guidelines that consists of managers from related Conform with national laws and regulations departments, beginning with the Procurement Division, and plan to 1. Child labor: Illegal child labor is prohibited examine challenges in CSR procurement. 2. Forced labor: Forced, prison and bonded labor are prohibited 3. Safety,hygiene and health: Provide safe, healthy workplaces 4. Freedom of association and right to group negotiations: FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Respect employee rights Compilation of CSR Procurement Guidelines (sustainable procurement and purchasing guidelines) 5.Discrimination: Discrimination on the basis of place of origin or creed is prohibited 6. Disciplinary action: Cruel punishment of employees is prohibited Gathered information Start seminar 7. Working hours: Comply with laws related to working hours 8. Wages and benefits: Comply with laws related to wages and benefits Target 9. Management responsibility: Pledge compliance with the Aeon FY Supplier Code of Conduct 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 10. Environment: Work to prevent environmental pollution and damage Target 11. Business dealings: Comply with local laws on commercial transactions Prepare formulation of CSR procurement guidelines 12. Certification, auditing and monitoring: Accept certification, auditing and monitoring under the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct 13. Ban on gift-giving: Gift-giving between Aeon and suppliers is prohibited AEON Sustainability Report 2012 48 ● Auditing Our Manufacturing Partner ● Aeon SA8000 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (CoC) audits consist of third-party After establishing the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct (2003), in audits performed by professional auditing firms and second-party 2004 we acquired SA8000 certification, an international standard, audits by Aeon auditors. As a general rule, third-party audits check becoming the first Japanese retailer to do so. 13 requisite items stipulated by the CoC as well as over 350 other The standard establishes normative guidelines for protecting the points. CoC Individual Support Sessions are held on an ongoing human rights of workers on international labor markets. It requires basis to rectify areas in need of improvement. compliance in eight areas that include protecting human rights and Once the improvements have been made and verified, Aeon nondiscriminatory employment practices as well as development auditors make regular visits to factories and conduct second-party of a related management system and ongoing improvement to audits to check the status of compliance. it. SA8000 certification applies to head office processes and Aeon Going forward, we will focus on developing local auditors brand TOPVALU supplier management performed by AEON CO., overseas and continuing with our initiatives in order to respond to LTD., Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. and AEON TOPVALU CO., LTD. SA8000 the accelerated pace of globalization. certification is renewed after receiving a renewal audit every three years and a maintenance audit every six months. Aeon will continue to pursue appropriate business processes together with suppliers on the twin basis of the Aeon Supplier Code Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct-certification procedure of Conduct and SA8000. Supplier briefing Compliance declaration Objectives of Aeon SA8000 Supplier registered 1. We will respect the basic human rights of employees at the workplace and establish comfortable working conditions by ensuring safety, security and health. Audit requested 2. Along with our suppliers, who are equal business partners, we will respect laws related to human rights and labor standards and will continue to make improvements to help build a society where universal Second-party audit Third-party audit human rights are protected and efforts are constantly made to improve (Aeon) (external body) working conditions. ･Audit conducted covering 90 items ･Audit conducted by third-party auditing firm ･Audit conducted by Aeon auditor ･Audit conducted covering 370 items Policies for Promoting Aeon SA8000 Auditor and schedule coordinated Online advance questionnaire Advance checklist sent Responses and assessment confirmed 1. We will respect international norms and laws related to human rights Aeon approved auditor Schedule confirmed with auditing body and labor standards and will make improvements on an ongoing basis. a. Child labor: We will prohibit child labor and take remedial measures. Audit conducted b. Forced labor: We will reject forced labor in all its forms. c. Health and safety: We will ensure the health and safety of employees Corrective action report Corrective action report and provide healthy work environments. Supplier Code of Sent to assessment body d. Freedom of assembly and collective bargaining rights: We will ensure Conduct Office freedom of assembly and the right to collective bargaining. Need to undergo regular auditing e. Discrimination: We will not discriminate on the basis of nationality, Certification after certification race, sex, academic background, religion, physical disability or age. f. Disciplinary action: We will not engage in corporate punishment, psychological or physical force, or verbal abuse. g. Working hours: We will observe laws and labor agreements related to Cumulative Total Number of FY 2007 471 factories working hours, breaks and days off. Code of Conduct-Certified Factories FY 2008 732 factories h. Compensation: We will observe laws related to payment of fair (the cumulative total of factories obtaining certification as a result of third-party audits) wages. FY 2009 931 factories 2. We will conduct training programs to fully educate all employees in FY 2010 1,172 factories order to make this policy a reality, conduct regular reviews of this FY 2011 1,526 factories initiative and work to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 3. We will encourage business partners (suppliers) to create and observe a code of conduct related to human rights and labor standards and to work together with Aeon to make improvements on an ongoing basis. 4. We will work to broadly disclose this policy and provide appropriate information and we will practice corporate social accountability. 49 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 ● Practicing Fair Trade Responding to customers’ desire to do something through their TOPICS purchases for the world’s underprivileged, Aeon began developing Making People More Familiar with and marketing Fairtrade* coffee, chocolate and other products in 2004. Fair Trade In fiscal 2011, we began formulating fair trade guidelines. These In May 2011, Aeon took part in the annual ‘Fairtrade Month guidelines stipulate that rather than rely on certified authorities it Campaign’ in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya, which is carried out is up to Aeon to confirm whether or not financial aid reaches the by NPO Fairtrade Label Japan (FLJ), together with students, producers of the raw materials that go into TOPVALU Fairtrade organizations and corporations to promote fair trade. products and how this aid is utilized. A Fairtrade event at AEON Mall Dainichi in Osaka, displayed In fiscal 2011, Aeon did not need to make such confirmation and offered tastings of fairtrade products, and games since nothing was procured from any new producers. In fiscal 2012, simulating trade we plan to conduct the aforementioned checks with new coffee between developing bean producers. and developed countries, as well as a * Fair trade means doing business with producers in need of support in developing variety of other events countries, etc. and setting product prices at levels appropriate to the labor involved. to help advance an The initiative helps producers attain economic and social autonomy and also understanding of supports environmental conservation. Fairtrade. Event at AEON Mall Dainichi FLO (Fairtrade Labeling TOPVALU Fairtrade Chocolate Organizations International) certification logo Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies in Japan MINISTOP CO., LTD. Kayapo by purchasing raw materials with their community as an MINISTOP Fairtrade Laboratory Established to Promote equal business partner. Fairtrade The 25th anniversary of this pioneering project is in 2012. At MINISTOP CO., LTD. has been working to spread knowledge of present, high quality ingredients and products are purchased Fairtrade since it started selling Fairtrade products in 2005. In from some 25,000 people through trade with almost 25 partners 2010, the company started handling the first Fairtrade certified in over 21 countries. Approximately one tenth of total ingredients bananas in Asia. are procured through Community Trade and nearly 70% of In October 2011, the company products found at The Body Shop have Community Trade established the MINISTOP Fairtrade ingredients. Laboratory. A Facebook® page was started at the same time to encourage AEON Eaheart Co., LTD. communication on the subject. “2nd Student Production Fair Trade Festival 2011” AEON FOREST CO., LTD. As in fiscal 2010, AEON Eaheart Co., LTD. held the “2nd Student Production Fair Trade Festival 2011” in fiscal 2011. This event is Celebrating 25 years of Community Fair Trade predominantly planned and run by volunteers from student Community Fair Trade was started by Anita Roddick, founder of groups involved in promoting fair trade. AEON Eaheart provides The Body Shop, which is managed in Japan by Aeon Forest Co., support to these student groups. On the day of the event, there Ltd., after she visited the Kayapo, the indigenous inhabitants of were talk sessions involving students, a quiz rally that was fun for the Amazon basin, whose place of living is under threat due to the whole family and panels describing fair trade. Various fair deforestation. The aim of Community Fair Trade is to support the trade products were also on sale. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 50 FY2011 Results and Target of KPI Consumer Issues Number of TOPVALU Products Removed due Safe Food and Reliable Products to Serious Incident 67 55件 30 Quality Management of TOPVALU Brand Products (apparel: 28; food: 16; living / HBC: 23) (apparel: 12; food: 8; living / HSC: 10) Target Aeon developed its own TOPVALU brand of products to improve our FY customers’ daily life. In product planning and design, selection of 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 manufacturers, finalization of product specifications, manufacturing Target management, and sales, we are creating products with our customer’s needs in mind. 55 (apparel: 22; food: 14; living / HBC: 19) During product planning and design, our development, quality control, and customer service people scrutinize potential raw material suppliers, investigate possible safety concerns, examine the use of additives, research manufacturing processes, and TOPVALU Quality Assurance consider other key issues to ensure that the final product is safe and Aeon Product Product without any health or safety risks. We select manufacturers by first development based Planning and performing Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct(CoC) audits, product Design on direct customer input safety examinations, and plant hygiene inspections. Customer monitors and Aeon employees evaluate the prototypes, considering matters such as raw materials, additives, and manufacturing processes. Following that, Aeon finalizes product specifications and Sales through Selection of then inspects production and sends only products that meet the Aeon Group TOPVALU Manufacturers stores that Meet Aeon’s criteria to stores. Thereafter, regular product quality evaluations, AEON Quality Standards plant hygiene inspections and other types of audits are conducted Assurance to make sure that the products we offer are both safe and reliable. In this way, we are implementing initiatives aimed at ensuring product safety and security from various perspectives. In case a Distribution defect or flaw is discovered in a product despite these initiatives, TOPVALU customer by Aeon Manufacturing plants service gathers meeting Aeon’s strict Aeon informs the public of the fact as quickly as possible and calls customer feedback facility, labor, back and withdraws the product in question. In fiscal 2011, Aeon environmental and other standards reported 67 serious product accidents. Aeon will strive to prevent product accidents through efforts that include identifying problem areas based on customer feedback Thorough distribution management to avoid reoccurrence of an issue, strengthening relationships between related departments and reviewing problem areas at the production and shipment phases of a product. Labelling and Disclosing Product Information Aeon labels and discloses information related to each TOPVALU brand product to make sure they can be used and consumed by customers with peace of mind. ● Labeling of Food Allergens Information on food allergens is provided on product labels. The information covers use of seven officially designated ingredients* and 18 other secondary items as well as whether any allergens are handled in the manufacturing process. Inspections are also conducted every year to confirm labeling accuracy. * The seven ingredients, which are the most common allergens, are wheat, milk, eggs, buckwheat, peanuts, prawns and crab. The Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare also recommends labeling 18 secondary items (soy beans, roe, squid, mackerel, salmon, abalone, chicken, pork, beef, kiwi fruit, bananas, peaches, apples, oranges, gelatin, yams, walnuts, and matsutake mushrooms). 51 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 ● Labeling of Genetically Modified Ingredients ● Disclosing Information Related to Radioactivity and In April 2001 the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare began Radioactive Material giving approval to genetically modified foods only if their safety Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, there were increasing could be confirmed and made it mandatory to label their use. But questions from customers about product place of origin. In even before this, in September 2000, Aeon began labeling TOPVALU response, Aeon has been publishing place of origin information onproducts in response to urging from our customers. Labeling is line for the most asked about products since April 2011. provided even for items not mandated by law. In order to confirm label accuracy, products subject to labeling (separate items) undergo testing for genetically modified DNA every year. Food Sanitation Control ● Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients for Processed Foods Under the Aeon Food Sanitation Certification System established We carry out labeling of the place of origin of ingredients as much in 1995, Aeon engages in a variety of activities to prevent the as possible, not just limiting it to the food groups for which such occurrence of food-related incidents such as food poisoning and labeling is mandated by Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS) contamination (implementing 19 companies related with GMS law*. In addition, we have established clear quality standards for Business and SM Business). ingredients irrespective of their place of origin and sign agreements with manufacturers, and carry out testing for food allergens and ● Quality Keepers DNA not to mention investigations related to ingredient standards Aeon has assigned “Quality Keepers” at stores to verify store and residual pesticides. sanitation levels and product quality. Quality Keepers check store * Act for Standardization and Proper Labeling of Agricultural and Forestry Products products and food preparation areas at stores, and if a problem is found, they order improvements. In addition, sales staff inspect a list of items related to sanitation and quality management, including a ● Disclosing Information on Agricultural Product Producers temperature management chart that is used to record temperature In 2003 we established the Producers Data Search System for management for display cases, refrigerators and freezers, and sell AEON’s TOPVALU Gurinai products to give customers online access by dates that are set for each product. to information on producers. We also added a barcode function that allows customers to access producer data by reading the QR code. ● Sanitation Training for Employees In addition to traceability information, customers are also presented Employees in the food departments of Aeon stores must undergo with tasty recipes using the scanned ingredient. In fiscal 2010 a sanitation training at least once a year. Employees review basic cumulative total of approximately 350 agricultural products were sanitation knowledge and rules for food preparation areas. Practical labeled with QR codes. skills tests are also conducted for each person based on a test booklet. Labeling of Place of Origin of Ingredients ● Audits of Food Preparation Areas Food preparation areas are audited at least twice a year. Audits are continued until certain established standards are met. ● Sanitation Contests We hold a sanitation contest once a year and honor stores recognized as excellent in audits of food preparation areas. ● Disclosing Information on Domestic Beef Aeon established the Domestic Beef Safety Confirmation System in 2002, prior to enforcement of the Beef Traceability Act*, in order to provide peace of mind to customers buying beef. The system allows customers to find out information about beef products from cattle raised in Japan, including where the cow was raised, who raised it and what feed it was raised on. The system is available via a website, or, at some stores, information terminals with touch panels have been set up. * Enforced in December 2004, the law’s formal name is the Act on Special Measures concerning the Management and Relay of Information for Individual Identification of Cattle. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 52 Chiba headquarters building that would require preparation of an Consumer Issues alternate tsunami evacuation control center and an alternate system Store Safety and Security for confirming employee safety. Aeon is committed to preparation for possible disasters in these earthquake-prone regions. Improving the Earthquake-resistance of Stores With customer safety our number one priority, we recognize that in order to provide peace of mind we need to formulate a response in terms of not only our products and services, but our store facilities as well. In fiscal 2011, we repaired stores damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake, and using data from this work we narrowed the Training in information gathering Tsunami warning and evacuation drill focus of our earthquake safety measures at our existing stores in (AEON Komaki Store, Aichi Prefecture) on the store roof (AEON Nanyo Store, Aichi Prefecture) other parts of Japan. We also initiated reinforcement work at some stores to ensure their structure will be sound in the event of a major earthquake. In fiscal 2012, we plan to complete this work at 45 stores in ● Fire Prevention Drills at Stores the Tohoku, North Kanto, South Kanto and Tokai areas that are Aeon stores check safety and disaster preparedness measures on a expected to incur damages if an earthquake greater than 6-weak on daily basis, while security staff and store managers also conduct a Japan’s seismic intensity scale were to strike in the future. final inspection after stores are closed. In addition, in fiscal 2013 and beyond we plan to initiate Fire prevention drills have been conducted twice a year and this work at stores in Western Japan, with stores expected to be earthquake response drills run once a year. Following the Great damaged in an earthquake with a seismic intensity of 5-strong or East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011, however, we have greater receiving priority. decided to increase the number of earthquake response drills to two per year. We strive to make these drills as realistic as possible FY2011 Results and Target of KPI by changing the scenario for each based on a variety of possible Safety and Security Infrastructure Development disasters. Full store employees as well as temporary, part-time and tenant employees participate in the drills. They are conducted to ・Completed repair work on stores damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake help us respond quickly and ensure the safety of customers in the ・Narrowed down earthquake safety measures ・Completed earthquake reinforcement work at some stores event of a fire or earthquake. Target ● Crime Prevention Measures FY There have been a number of incidents at supermarkets over the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 past several years involving food products with needles or other dangerous objects. Aeon has therefore installed security cameras in Complete improvement work at 45 stores in food departments and begun using needle detectors at its stores. If Steadily complete work at 270 the Kanto, North Kanto, South Kanto and applicable stores a needle were to be discovered, it would be promptly delivered to Tokai areas the police or healthcare center and customers would be informed through an in-store display or announcement in order to prevent additional injury or damage. Fire Prevention and Disaster Preparedness We are also conducting crime prevention drills to ensure the safety of customers in the event an incident or accident occurs in a Aeon, as a commercial enterprise with large numbers of customers, store. is implementing disaster prevention measures and drills to ensure quick action and the safety of our customers and employees in disaster. ● Measures to Combat New Flu Viruses Aeon formed a project team in 2006 as a measure to address ● Group-wide disaster prevention and safety drills risks from the outbreak of infectious diseases such as the global Taking lessons from the experience of the March 11, 2012 Great spread of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza in humans. We East Japan Earthquake, our Group-wide disaster prevention drills established Rules for New Flu Viruses in September 2006 and have were increased from once to twice a year, starting in fiscal 2012. since been readying infection prevention measures in order to The drill conducted on March 8, 2012 assumed simultaneous largeensure the safety of customers and employees. scale earthquakes with epicenters in three metropolitan areas in In conjunction with the global spread of the new flu virus H1N1 the Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai regions and damage at Aeon’s in 2009, we revised the rules based on the latest information and 53 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 re-distributed them to Aeon Group companies. We also distributed Creating a Convenient and Comfortable Store the New Flu Virus Handbook to store employees in order to raise Environment for Everyone awareness of new flu viruses. In 2010, we worked to strengthen measures to combat flu viruses, which included creating the Aeon developed its own building standards based on the Heartful Influenza Infection Reporting System to identify the status of flu Building Law of 1994 (revised December 2006 as the Barrier Free infections at Aeon Group stores and business locations nationwide. Law*). We use these standards when building new stores or In fiscal 2011, we were able to ascertain the situation of seasonal remodeling existing locations. As of the end of February 2012, over influenza cases within the Aeon Group using the aforementioned 650 of our facilities had been certified as compliant with the Barrier system. Using this together with information released by Japan’s Free Law. Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, we have continued to share We are also committed to incorporating universal design the latest information and raise awareness on a weekly basis within elements, to strengthen store function and design. Recognizing the Group. that the number of seniors among our customers is increasing, we aim to incorporate universal design concepts in all of our stores. * The Act for Buildings Accessible Raising Safety Levels of Store Facilities and to and Usable by the Elderly and Physically Disabled Persons, Fixtures or Heartful Building Law, was Aeon works to enhance safety for facilities and fixtures used in its stores to prevent accidents involving customers. ● Safety Measures for Escalators There has been an increase in recent Step-free entrance (AEON LakeTown) years in accidents involving children getting caught in the gap between an escalator and the wall at shopping “Care Fitters” and “Supporters for People with malls and department stores. Aeon Dementia” stores work to prevent escalatorSafety Measures for related incidents by setting up barriers Escalators We encourage Aeon employees to acquire Care-fitter*1 certification or dividers to prevent exposure to such to help ensure that seniors and people in need of assistance can gaps. shop at our stores with total confidence. Certified Care-fitters numbered 9,028 as of February 29, 2012. To allow a proper understanding of dementia, a training course ● Establishing Parking Lot is being offered to employees. As of February 2012, there are 28,201 Guardrails Supporters*2 and 661 ‘Caravan Mate’ trainers. Accidents often occur in the parking *1 Care-fitter certification is administered by the non-profit Nippon Care-Fit Service lots of retail complexes caused by Association drivers mixing up the gas and brake *2 Supporters for people with dementia are certified through a specified curriculum course to give care to people with dementia and support to their families. pedals. We have therefore established Parking Lot Guardrails parking lot guardrails in order to prevent cars from crashing into stores and ensure the safety of customers. The badge and orange band ● Installing Automated External Defibrillators (AED) worn by staff specially trained to assist customers with dementia Automated external defibrillators, or AED, administer an electric shock to people experiencing sudden cardiac arrest as a way to resuscitate them. As of the end of February 2011, Aeon has installed a total of 1,285 AED units at 796 stores and shopping centers. In addition, store management, security guards and other staff members are trained in emergency lifesaving techniques. Care-fitter Training Session Role-playing in Caravan Mate training AEON Sustainability Report 2012 54 checking with the relevant departments. In addition, for TOPVALU Consumer Issues products, we have set up a call center and collect customer System of Dialog with Customers suggestions. This information is reported to directors and executive officers, as well as shared with employees of relevant departments through System for Listening to the Opinions of Customers systems that manage customer feedback. A total of 4,838 opinions (service complaints) were received in fiscal Aeon puts the customer’s perspective at the heart of management. 2011. We strive to create conditions in which customers feel free to A total of 70,977 opinions (service complaints) were received in provide suggestions and to promptly incorporate customer fiscal 2011 from our customers, marking a 29.7% increase compared comments into product lineup and service improvements, to fiscal 2011 (16,253 opinions). This large increase was attributed environmental conservation activities and other areas. to a sharp rise in inquires received on radiation issues related to the nuclear accident following the Great East Japan Earthquake as well as an increase in the number of inquiries about our online ● Suggestion Boxes and Communication Boards supermarket services. As part of our commitment to make greater improvements in our customer service, we have established Each Aeon store has set up a box for customers to put their opinions new KPI for the number of service complaints and the number of in and a board disclosing the opinions and Aeon’s response. compliments. Going forward, we intend to listen carefully to the Comments and suggestions provided by customers are replied to opinions of each and every customer to provide them with better directly by a store representative and posted for others to see. We services and products and to help us attain our targets for the year receive many suggestions from 2020. customers about things that are difficult for stores and employees to notice. The suggestions are FY2011 Results and Target of KPI utilized to improve product lineups Number of Complaints and Complements and services and in environmental Received conservation activities and other initiatives. Number of 4,838 3,900 2,420 service complaints Suggestion Box and Target Communication Board FY ● Customer Service Department 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 The Customer Service Department at Aeon headquarters receives Target product and service related comments and requests from customers that visit our stores. Comments and requests, which come in via the Number of 1,463 1,900 1,290 service complaints phone, Internet, letters and other channels, are responded to after TOPICS Examples of Product Development and Improvements Made Based on Customer Feedback ● Topvalu Ajitsuke Ponzu Changed the size of the cap ledge We received feedback from our customers saying, “The cap is too small and it’s hard to open,” “The cap’s ledge is too small, making it a chore to open,” “The product spills out instead of going where I want it to,” and “The product gets on the cap.” Based on this, we changed the size of the container’s cap when we revamped the product in autumn 2011. ● Topvalu HeatFact and CoolishFact Attached a tag to differentiate between summer and winter items We received 100 opinions stating that the customer could not identify whether the product was for summer or winter use. Although the package or bag had the words “HeatFact” and “CoolishFact” on it, once the product was taken out, customers had a hard time telling which shirt was for which season. This is why we decided to attach a tag to the shirt to specify which season it is intended for. 55 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies in Japan AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. AEON BANK, Ltd. AEON AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. Joins TOPVALU Expanding Services that Physically Challenged In order to ensure reliable supplies of safe and fresh vegetables, Customers Can Use with Peace of Mind Aeon engages directly in farmland management through AEON Aeon Bank, Ltd. started new services for physically challenged AGRI CREATE Co., Ltd. Since its establishment in July 2009, the customers in November 2011. company has been cultivating various kinds of vegetables, and One of these is the issuance of account statements in Braille. If these have been on sale as TOPVALU requested by a customer, Aeon Bank will issue a statement in products since May 2011. Aeon emBraille that includes transaction record and outstanding balance barked on similar direct agriculture of each account. The statements are sent by mail to the person’s management ventures in Oita prefechome each month. ture in 2011 and in Shimane prefecture Also, the Bank lowered the fee for using bank tellers to the same in 2012, and will be providing fresh and price as an ATM for those that are physically challenged and find delicious vegetables to our customers it difficult to use ATMs so that they can use the Bank’s financial throughout Japan. services more easily. TOPVALU AEON Kyushu Co., Ltd. Komatsuna Kamimine Stay Well Shopping Delivery Service Launched Aeon’s Kamimine Store, which is operated by Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., introduced the “Kamimine Stay Well Shopping Delivery Service” jointly with Kamimine City, Saga Prefecture in April 2012. Kamimine City, which is faced with an aging population, is home to a large number of elderly people that find it difficult to do everyday shopping. While helping with the shopping of elderly customers, the company also aims to keep an eye on the health condition of these customers through the delivery of goods. Efforts will continue to be made to contribute to the local community through initiatives that unite the company with the region. Aeon’s direct management agriculture (Ushiku City, Ibaraki Prefecture) AEON Sustainability Report 2012 56 2012). Human Rights Moving ahead, in addition to working hard to nurture female employees in our manager development program, we will examine the status of initiatives to develop female managers as part of a review of SA8000 management being implemented at each Group Promoting Diversity company, and adopt further measures as necessary. Since its founding, Aeon has recruited and hired human resources FY2011 Results and Target of KPI under the basic policy of treating all with fairness based solely on Ratio of Female Executive Officers * their skills and performance and not on nationality, gender, age, or other personal attributes. （33persons） 5.8% Target Basic principles on personnel FY With the primary objective of management based on respect for human 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 rights, the Aeon Group’s basic principles on personnel revolve around listening to employees’ aspirations, understanding employees’ feelings and making the most of what employees have to offer, based on the guiding *Ratio of Female Executive Officers philosophy of ensuring that all Aeon people lead a full life at work, at home = Female Executive Offi cers / Total Executive Officers 30% and in the community. Basic approach to personnel ● Hiring Employees of Foreign Nationality Management Creating a corporate based on respect environment in which human for human rights To meet the goal to expand our presence in Asian countries outlined resources can continue to grow Listening to employees’ aspirations Understanding in our three-year medium-term management plan, which started in as they work over the long term employees’ feelings Making the fiscal 2011, Aeon is actively hiring young human resources, who will most of what employees have to offer Dealing with personnel based form the cornerstone of future management not only in Japan, but on ability and achievement, not nationality, age, gender or Ensuring a full life at work, at home and in the community also in China (including Hong Kong), Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia category and Vietnam. In fiscal 2011, we held explanatory sessions regarding the Aeon In particular, we believe that the female perspective is Group recruitment in the different regions of the world. The indispensable to Aeon, which operates in the retail industry that is sessions were convened in ten different cities worldwide, beginning closely related to people’s lives and families. Accordingly, we are with Tokyo in May and also including London and Los Angeles. actively promoting the recruitment and employment of women. In January 2012, welcoming ceremonies were given As Aeon will further expand business in the Asia region going simultaneously in the three countries of Malaysia, Thailand and forward, the role of foreign staff will become increasingly more Vietnam for 230 new employees hired in the ASEAN region. important, and with this in mind, Aeon is working hard to recruit Currently 12 out of 424 employees (2.8%) at Aeon Co., Ltd. are of employees of foreign nationality. 55件 4.7%（22人） foreign※連結会社含む役員472名中の女性役員数。 nationality (as of Febrary 29, 2012). This measure is one of Based on this philosophy, Aeon will include the ratio of female the objectives listed under 2011年11月20日時点 女性役員監査役3名含む。 Aeon’s KPIs. executive officers and the ratio of employees of foreign nationality Going forward, Aeon will do its utmost to hire human目標 resources in in the KPI list and implement measures in line with these ratios. Japan, China and the ASEAN region that can take active roles on the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 global stage, beyond年度 borders. ● Promoting Positive Action We are working to promote Positive Action, which seeks to FY2011 Results and Target of KPI 30% 目標 make us a company where both men and women can flourish, Ratio of Employees of Foreign Nationality ※女性役員比率＝女性役員数／役員数 基準年 through participation in a council to promote women’s workplace performance sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and 2.82% 投函率20%以上店舗の割合 38.1% 目標 全店投函率目標 Welfare. （GMS：70.3%／SM：14.0%／DS：5.9%） Target 30%以上 In fiscal 2011, we promoted workplaces that are easy to work FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 in where women in particular feel their work is valuable at every 50トン 目標 stage of their life and that provide equal opportunity employment, recruitment and placement, pursuant to the Positive Action Make ratio of non-Japanese employees to Japanese employees 1:1 Declaration formulated in April 2010. 47トン ※2010年度比で15％削減 Aeon now has 33 female executive officers out of a total of 620 executive officers, including consolidated companies. The ratio of female executive officers, listed under Aeon’s KPIs, currently sits at 5.8%, including three female corporate auditors (as of February 29, 投函率20%以上店舗の割合 38.1% 全店投函率 （GMS：70.3%／SM：14.0%／DS：5.9%） 30%以上 実施店舗全店で 57 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 225万トン 投函率20%以上 ※女性役員比率＝女性役員数／役員数 ● Employment for People with Disabilities ● Promoting Equal Opportunities for Part-time Employees Led by Aeon Retail, Aeon is working to establish conditions that We have developed various programs that allow part-time allow people with disabilities to work with a sense of purpose. As employees to thrive at the workplace. of June 2011, Aeon Co., Ltd. has an employment ratio for people For example, Aeon Retail Co has a system that makes it possible with disabilities of 1.87%*. This ratio for the total of all Aeon Group for all employees to utilize the same training and hiring programs. It consolidated subsidiaries also exceeds the legally required level. instituted the Community Employee* Program in 2004 to eliminate At Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd., a special subsidiary established in differences in roles, expectations and treatment depending on 1980, people with disabilities take on the challenge of realizing their employee classifications (full employee or part-time employee) own potential, working at 9 Scrum CD stores in the Tohoku region and to enable the continued growth of all employees depending alongside able-bodied staff (as of February29, 2012). on ability, performance and motivation. The program eliminates differences in educational and hiring opportunities. It also makes it * Aeon Co., Ltd. has received accreditation for applying the Special Subsidiary Company System to applicable Group companies. Therefore, the ratio is reported possible for anyone to take on the challenge of a higher position, based on the total for Aeon Co., Ltd. (parent company), Abilities JUSCO Co., Ltd. including willing Community Employees if they fulfill certain (special subsidiary company) and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. (affiliated company). conditions set by the company. * Community Employee is a collective designation for Aeon Retail employees working in a specific location and not subject to geographic transfer. There are both hourly wage positions and monthly salaried positions. Establishing an Education System that Supports Employee Development and Provides Equal Opportunity for Growth Employees are one of Aeon’s most important management ● Overseas Training resources. This is because each employee is a unique presence Personnel are sent to other countries to observe the latest business conditions and store setting of local chain stores in order to that concretely expresses Aeon’s principles to customers through understand up-to-the-minute circumstances in the retail industry products, services and customer interactions. Aeon has established overseas. personnel systems based on abilities and performance and ● Group Recruitment System training systems to support ongoing growth so that employees This system enables personnel to challenge the business and job engage in their work with a sense of its value. position they aspire to without being restricted by the domain or company they belong to. ● Aeon Fundamental Education In fiscal 2011, recruitment was conducted for various new businesses This is provided for the first three years following employment within AEON Retail Co,, Ltd., as well as TOPVALU Collection Co,, Ltd., with the same content Group-wide. Besides sharing Aeon’s basic AEON INSURANCE SERVICE CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD., and My philosophy and set of values, the education aims to get employees Basket CO., LTD. to completely master the corporate culture and basic skills as Aeon ● Internal Certification Systems people. Aeon has established a wide array of internal certification systems ● Aeon Group Self Declaration Form System for specific jobs. Eight of these certifications have been accredited by This system encourages transfer within the Aeon Group beyond the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and recognized for their the framework of the company amid the many different business high quality. domains covered by the Aeon Group. In fiscal 2011, a total of 1,245 forms were submitted from employees of 45 different companies. Aeon’s in-house qualifications Number of qualifications holders* (As of February 2012) ● Sending Personnel to Graduate Schools in Japan ◎Fresh fish master (grade 1) 14 Senior cycle advisor 160 Under this system, Aeon selects employees from Group companies to ◎Fresh fish master (grade 2) 1,675 Beauty advisor 483 enter graduate school in Japan (MBA course) as a means to develop human resources that will take charge of managing the Aeon Group ◎Fresh fish master (grade 3) 3,331 Handcraft advisor 227 in the future. The aims are for them to learn specialized knowledge Baby advisor 625 Senior care advisor 86 related to management and build networks outside of the company. Fashion advisor 502 Licensees delicatessen 386 ● Management Trainee System Liquor advisor 265 ◎Hot deli master 2,404 Under this system, exceptional personnel are dispatched to Group Fish advisor 257 ◎Sushi master 2,330 companies across borders in Japan, China and the ASEAN region. Digital advisor 312 ◎Farm product master 1,276 The aims are to get the employees to learn new knowledge and skills through business experience and training overseas and to develop Home appliance advisor 80 ◎Greenery master 408 candidates for management at each company through employee General appliance advisor 47 ◎Gardening master 163 exchange. ◎Cycle advisor 1,039 Checkout certification (grade 2) 1,498 ● Aeon Business School ◎ denotes qualifications accredited by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. The Aeon Business School provides courses for personnel to learn * Total for Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Corporation, SUNDAY CO., LTD., AEON KYUSHU CO., the knowledge necessary for the jobs they aspire to. The system LTD., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Maxvalu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu supports self-actualization of motivated personnel. 10 courses were Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., KOHYO CO., LTD., Maxvalu held in fiscal 2011 and up to 293 people attended. Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 58 ● Improving System for Employing the Elderly Aeon Retail raised its mandatory retirement age to 65 in 2007 in order to address Japan’s aging population. Labor Practices Five years after the new rule was adopted, there are over 1,000 employees who are over 60 years of age, who are putting their Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces experience, skills, and knowledge to full use at work. Aeon has been a strong advocate of helping employees balance their work life with their child raising needs and has made various improvements in its policies over the years. Specifically, we strive to Human Rights-related Training encourage employees raising children to take childcare leave, including fathers, to reduce their overtime work, to take annual paid Aeon respects the human rights of all people and does not leave, and to take time off to participate in parents’ days at their discriminate on the basis of nationality, race, sex, academic child’s school. background, religion, mental or physical disability, or any other In order to promote these initiatives further, in fiscal 2011 we attribute. Each and every Aeon employee strives to listen closely to established a KPI for promoting efforts for general business owner co-workers and make the company a place where people respect action plans (expand the number of companies certified to display one another as equals. the Kurumin logo) under Japan’s Act for Measures to Support the To accomplish this Aeon holds training programs to facilitate Development of the Next Generation. As of fiscal 2011, the correct understanding and deepen awareness of a variety of following nine companies have been certified to display the issues, among all employees including issues pertaining to social Kurumin logo. discrimination, people with disabilities, foreign residents, abuse of Going forward, we will continue to implement measures aimed power, diversity, and work-life balance. at this KPI. The Aeon Group as a whole trains employees on human rights issues at training for new executive officers, training for new * Aeon Group companies certified as of February 2012: AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. and AEON Mall Co., Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., KASUMI CO., employees of the Aeon Group, Aeon Business School (personnel LTD., SUNDAY CO., LTD., The Daiei, Inc., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon training course), and the like. At training for new employees of Co., Ltd. the Aeon Group, participants acquire basic knowledge related to FY2011 Results and Target of KPI human rights that is required of employees. At the individual company level as well, efforts are made to raise Creating Pleasant, Comfortable Workplaces human rights awareness through a variety of in-house training 9 companies certified to use the Kurumin logo programs. Target FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 Promote initiatives under the General Business Action Plan for Japan's Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation (expand number of companies certified to use the Kurumin logo) Initiatives Undertaken by Group Companies in Japan AEON FOREST CO., LTD. trafficking of children under 18. The governments of 14 countries are working on reforms that Submission of 7 Million Signatures to the United include the ratification of a protocol following the submission of Nations to Eliminate the Sex Trafficking of Children the signatures requiring governments around the world to Target United Kingdom cosmetics specialty store The Body Shop reinforce measures to protectFYchildren. The Body Shop 2010 and the NGO 2011 ECPAT*, 2012 the partner of The Body 2020 2013 (operated by AEON FOREST CO., LTD. in Japan) is partnering with international NGO ECPAT* in a worldwide campaign called Stop Shop for the campaign, will continue working to end the sex Sex Trafficking of Children & Young People in order to eradicate trafficking of children in conjunction with the UN Human Rights Published Aeon Natural Refrigerants Plan for installation at new stores trafficking of children under the age of 18 for the sex trade. Council andDeclaration governments. and currently preparing ・FY2012: 10%・FY2013: 15% project team In September 2011, The Body Shop delivered 7,044,278 *ECPAT: An international NGO comprised of 83 member ・FY2014: 25%・from organizations FY2015: 75 100% signatures gathered from around the world to the Chairman of countries around the world. In addition to directly assisting children victims and raising awareness among potential targets, ECPAT works together with the UN Human Rights Council urging the governments of different governments to plan and implement measures to protect children. In Japan, countries to take concrete action and swift steps to eliminate sex ECPAT/STOP Japan works to end child prostitution and pornography both in Japan and overseas. 59 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Safety and Sanitation Committees discuss employee working Securing Work-Life Balance conditions and points of improvement for workplace environments, with the involvement of both labor and management. ● Four Career Paths for Employees [AEON Retail Co., Ltd] AEON Retail Co., Ltd established four career paths in 2004. Under this system employees may choose to take on the challenge of a different career path. Also, there are no difference in opportunities Labor Union Status for acquiring qualifications or applying for new positions depending on the path, and employees are able to participate in various Aeon emphasizes dialogue between labor and management, training programs regardless of the path. and discussions are held with the labor union through Safety and Sanitation Committees and the labor-management council. The four career paths available to AEON Retail Co., Ltd. employees The labor union has encouraged part-time employees to become (As of February 29, 2012) members, and as of the end of February 2011, the labor union had 105,000 members, including 81,000 part-time employees. We ● National (N) staff: Can essentially be transferred anywhere in actively work to incorporate employee feedback through workplace Japan or overseas meetings participated in by union members. ● Regional (R) staff: Can be transferred anywhere within a specific regional block ● Community-based staff: No transfer requiring relocation. Option of daily/monthly salary or hourly wage. Helping Employees Maintain or Improve Their Health ● Contract workers: No transfer requiring relocation. Part-time only Aeon is working to ensure that all of its employees receive regular ● Childcare and Nursing Care Support Programs health exams and that it thoroughly conducts follow-up, which includes recommendations for additional medical screenings and [AEON Retail Co., Ltd] work schedule adjustments based on the results of the exams, Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. makes childcare leave available for up to in order to properly manage employees’ health in compliance April 20 of the year the child enters middle school. While the legal with the provisions of Japan’s Industrial Safety and Health Act. To requirement under Japan’s Child Care and Family Care Leave Act is help employees maintain or improve their health, we also have to attempt to make this available until the child enters elementary developed an insurance program to provide more comprehensive school, we have provided extra time because workers often want to health exams to employees over the age of 40 that are enrolled in take time off after that for other events in their child’s life. Aeon’s corporate health insurance society. For employees with families for which nursing care is deemed A counseling office is provided to support good mental health. It necessary, we have established a nursing care leave program and is one of the member services of the Aeon Good Life Club, a general a nursing care work program that provide time off or shortened foundation run by the Aeon Group. working hours. ● Welfare Programs A general Aeon Group friendly society foundation, the Aeon Good Setting Up Hotline for Employees Life Club administers support programs to help members and their families live life to the fullest. Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline for employees in 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles Health and Safety Committees a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all employees working at the Aeon Group. Health and Safety Committees are organized at the store and There are two lines in operation, one for internal consultations business office level in order to ensure the safety and health of and another to connect and consult with an outside party. employees and promote the creation of pleasant, comfortable working conditions. For example, at Aeon Retail, store managers, managers of personnel and general affairs departments, employee representatives and labor union representatives attend the committee meetings, which are held once a month. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 60 Update Report Aeon’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Aeon Continues to Support the Affected Community Great East Japan Earthquake Relief Aid and Donations Volunteer Activities and Donations Categories Recipients Amount During the Past Year Emergency Relief Aid NPO Japan Platform (JPF) 10,000,000 Aomori Prefecture 50,000,000 Iwate Prefecture 1,100,000,000 As an enterprise with stores having close community ties, Aeon Miyagi Prefecture 1,100,000,000 was immediately in position to give various kinds of assistance Emergency Relief Collections Fukushima Prefecture 1,100,000,000 to the people in the affected area just after the Great East Japan Tochigi Prefecture 50,000,000 Earthquake. Ibaraki Prefecture 100,000,000 In the space of one year, we were able to collect a total, Chiba Prefecture 100,000,000 Miyagi Prefecture 100,000,000 including donations in kind, of over 5 billion yen in contributions Fukushima Prefecture 100,000,000 from our customers and employees and from throughout the Aeon “Gambarou (Go) Japan!” Iwate Prefecture 100,000,000 Relief Collections Group companies. In addition, a total of around 320 people all Association for Aid and 59,543,993 together our employees and their families, participated in more Relief, Japan (AAR Japan) than 10 volunteer activities between July and November, 2011. In-kind Donations for the Affected Area 500,000,000 Campaign in Support of Aeon Further, in addition to activities essential to the reconstruction Employees in the Affected Area 610,000,000 of industry in the area, Aeon teamed with people connected with Total Amount ¥5,079,543,993 Tohoku coastal fisheries to actively promote and sell their marine products in Aeon stores. Volunteer Activities in the Disaster Area Aeon is supporting employee volunteer activities in the disaster Over 5 Billion Yen in Contributions and Donations in area. As it is important to respond appropriately to local needs, Kind for Disaster Areas the volunteers are carrying out information exchanges with local Within a day of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Aeon conducted authorities and NPOs. Aeon group employees are systematically disaster relief fund collecting at our combined 7000 stores and offices joining volunteer activities by taking advantage of various company in Japan and overseas. Following that, we are also conducting, on the leave systems such as paid holidays, and the Aeon 1% Club is covering 11th of every month, ‘Aeon’s Yellow Receipt Campaign’ where 1% part of the costs. Also, following the advice of our employees, their of total receipts are donated, as well as achieving contributions from family members who are above high school age are also taking part in Aeon’s ‘WAON’ points and the Aeon card ‘Tokimeki Point’ systems. the volunteer activities. Donations from our customers reached approximately 1.45 billion In fiscal 2011, in conjunction with the yen. Counting contributions from such campaigns and from Aeon and Ishinomaki City Disaster Volunteer Center, the Aeon 1% Club, and donations in kind, a total of over 5 billion yen volunteer activities were carried out on 10 was collected to give to the local governments of the tremendously occasions, by around 320 people in all. damaged areas. Message Message Encouraged by Volunteers What I Learned from the Earthquake We were at first pessimistic, but now we can accept the I participated as a volunteer in August 2011. I was horrified to reality with a positive outlook. The tragedy has allowed us to see the mud and rubble of destroyed houses, but Ms. Sakashita reconfirm the importance of family, friends and the support and the local staff, despite the damages they themselves had of organizations. The work of volunteers has been a major experienced, were working cheerfully. That gave me courage. source of strength for me personally. We are grateful for I will never forget it and I will continue to share my experience the reconstruction support we are with others. receiving from people throughout the world. Kiyoko Sakashita Nonbirimura Inn Misao Uehara (Aeon employees volunteered at the Inn) AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. 61 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 participated for the first time, along Long-term project “Taking Action for Great with 23 Aeon Group companies. 1% of East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction the total amount of customer receipts Putting Ideas into Practice” came to 121.92 million yen and that was donated to the non-profit organization Save the Children* Japan for child On the first anniversary of the March 2011 earthquake, more than support in the disaster area. 300,000 Aeon people reconfirmed their resolve to continue long*The donation was made in the name of “Aeon for Save the Children’s Fund term post-earthquake support and joined together focused on a for Children of the Great East Japan Earthquake.” It was targeted to programs range of initiatives under the banner: “Taking Action for Great East such as “Home Start,” mainly in Miyagi, Iwate, and Fukushima Prefectures the hardest hit areas in the Tohoku region. The Home Start program aims Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Putting Ideas into Practice.” to promote stable home environments to support healthy development of On March 11, tree-planting began at Shiogama City in Miyagi children by assisting in relieving the stress of child rearing. This is done through Prefecture, to restore greenery lost to the tsunami. The treehome visits by volunteers who help in various ways, including compassionate listening and also assisting with child care and with housework, etc., in planting activity is founded on the commitment of the entire group households with pre-school (under age 6) children, of Aeon companies to work together with our customers, the local government and local producers in the community to rebuild Volunteer Activities in the Disaster Area towns and local industry, and to engage in long-term volunteer and other activities for that purpose. On March 1 Aeon created the We are continuing to carry out volunteer activities in fiscal 2012. For new position of ‘Aeon Tohoku Representative’ (Senior Executive this fiscal year, together with NPOs in Tono City in Iwate Prefecture, Managing Director) to oversee the overall continuing regional we will be carrying out 21 volunteer events, mainly concentrated on reconstruction of the affected areas. Rikuzentakata City As of the end of July, 2012, a total of around 280 As a daily life ‘lifeline,’ Aeon will continue to work into the future persons have taken part in 10 events. for the reconstruction of the affected areas, in cooperation with our customers in the community and with our various stakeholders. Volunteer Activities and Participants (July 2011 – July 2012) Number of Number of Dates Participating Persons Dates Participating Persons (including operating office) (including operating office) Tree-Planting Activities in the Disaster Affected Areas 2011 2012 1 7/13-15 18 3/28-31 30 The tsunami destroyed many trees in the affected coastal areas. Aeon 2 7/22-24 35 4/11-14 37 is promoting, in conjunction with local government agencies and 3 8/3-5 60 4/25-28 37 NPOs, a plan to plant 300,000 trees along the coast of the affected 4 8/24-26 55 5/9-12 18 area, over the next 10 year period. 5 9/2-4 Cancelled by Typhoon 5/23-26 35 As a first step to implementing the tree-planting project ‘Aeon 6 9/14-16 35 6/7-10 33 Joining Hands Reforestation Program,’ we planted 1200 young 7 9/28-30 34 6/13-16 34 8 10/12-14 23 6/27-30 28 trees on March 11 at AEON Town Shiogama, Shiogama City (Miyagi 9 10/26-28 24 7/5-8 25 Prefecture), along with the community people. 10 11/9-11 14 7/11-14 From now on, Aeon plans to participate, along with government 11 11/16-18 26 agencies, in activities such as ‘forest school project’ and ‘reforestation project.’ Message Aeon People United in Reconstruction Efforts Aeon people employees and management are united in doing ‘Project Aeon Joining Hands’ to bring relief as soon as possible to the areas affected by the earthquake. We continue to dispatch people to the affected area, plant trees, give support to subsidiary companies, and cooperate with various agencies and organizations. Aeon Yellow Receipt Campaign He Shu Rong The Aeon Yellow Receipt Campaign, normally conducted one day a ‘Project Aeon Joining Hands’ Organizing month on the 11th of every month (p. XX), was expanded to three Office days for the period March 9 – 11, 2012, with the theme ‘To bring Kenji Takeuch smiles to the children in the disaster area.’ 1700 stores nationwide Social Contributions Office participated. Marunaka, Co., Inc. and Aeon Kimisawa Co., Inc. Federation of AEON Group Workers’ Unions AEON Sustainability Report 2012 62 CSR Management Corporate Governance Basic Approach Corporate Governance Framework Aeon engages in ongoing efforts that address the three core Aeon operates under the ‘Company with Committees’ system of management challenges of corporate governance reform, Group corporate governance. Supervisory and executive functions of management reform and execution of the Group’s corporate management have been clearly divided, with supervisory functions social responsibility as a means to building a foundation that will assigned to directors and executive functions fulfilled by executive continually enhance the corporate value of the entire Aeon Group. officers. Executive officers have been given wide-ranging authority to work toward the realization of our medium-term and longterm goals, which serves to facilitate timely managerial decisionmaking. At the same time, we have strengthened the supervisory role of directors to ensure the transparency and objectiveness of managerial decisions and thereby increase returns to shareholders. Corporate Governance Framework (As of March 1, 2012) Shareholders’ Meeting Propose appointment/ Appointment/ Propose appointment/ Appointment/dismissal dismissal of directors dismissal dismissal of independent auditors Supervision, Independent Auditors Appointment/ dismissal Executive Nominating Committee Officers Board of Directors President Compensation Audit Committee Outside Directors：5 Accounting and 21 other executives Inside Directors：4 audit (Three double as a director) Chairman of the Board: Audit non-executive Compensation Committee Aeon Management Committee Group Management Structure Peace G Chief Chief Business G Chief Products Officer G Chief Officer for G Chief Financial Officer G Chief G Chief Officer for Function The Customer Human Resources Strategy, Digital, IT Environmental Officer Development Officer Administration Officer People Community G: Abbreviation for Group Audit Committee Business Nomination Chief Executive Officer of General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business Companies within the General Merchandise Store (GMS) Business Raise the corporate Committee value of the Group Compensation Chief Executive Officer of Supermarket (SM) Companies within the Supermarket (SM) Business as a whole Committee and Discount Store (DS) Business Companies within the Discount Store (DS) Business General Shareholders' Meeting (Shareholders) Chief Executive Officer of Strategic Small Size Store Business Companies within the Strategic Small Size Store Business Board of Directors' Meeting President and Group CEO Vice President and Group COO Chief Executive Officer of Drugstore and Pharmacy Business Companies within the Drugstore and Pharmacy Business (1) Make faster decisions by way of a centralized Chief Executive Officer of Financial Service Business Companies within the Financial Service Business committee Chief Executive Officer of Shopping Center Development Business Companies within the Shopping Center Development Business Companies within the Service Business (2) Build foundations Chief Executive Officer of Service, Specialty for future growth Store and e-money business Companies within the Specialty Store Business Chief Executive Officer of E-commerce Business Companies within the E-commerce Business (3) Steadily implement our medium-term Chief Executive Officer of ASEAN BusinessBusiness Companies within the ASEAN Business management plan Chief Executive Officer of China Business Companies within the China Business Aeon Tohoku representative As of April 2012 63 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 CSR Management Risk Management Board of Directors’ Meeting and Corporate Committees Basic Approach Held Main Role Aeon regards risk management as an important task of ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and executive management that is the responsibility of each department. Based Board of officers Directors’ 7 times ・Determines matters that must be decided by the board of on this recognition, daily risk management is handled at the Meeting per year directors as stipulated by Article 416 of Japan’s Companies Act company and department level, while internal control divisions and matters that cannot be mandated to executive officers. monitor the status of risk management at each department. ・Oversees the execution of work duties of directors and Audit 8 times executive officers The Risk Management Committee performs reviews of and ・Determines resolutions concerning whether to appoint, dismiss Committee per year or reappoint the Company’s auditor to be submitted to the makes decisions regarding external risk factors, such as new general shareholders’ meetingxecutive officers. infectious diseases and large-scale earthquakes, that cannot be Nomination 3 times ・Determines resolutions concerning the appointment and addressed by individual dismissal of directors to be submitted to the general Committee per year shareholders’ meetingecutive officers. companies, and risks found in products, facilities and services across Compensation 3 times ・Determines compensation of individual directors and executive the entire Aeon Group, Committee per year officers We work to foresee, predict and prevent risks with particularly high impact potential by assembling interdivisional task forces. Internal Control Systems Internal control systems are being further developed by reinforcing systems for promoting corporate ethics, the foundation of internal Response to Incidents, control. We are working to disseminate and instill good corporate Accidents and Natural Disasters ethics in all employees of the Aeon Group in accordance with the Aeon’s Risk Management Rules has been established to set out the Aeon Code of Conduct, which was established in 2003. In addition, reporting route and response procedures in the case of an incident, an internal reporting channel (hotline) has been set up as a part accident or natural disaster, so that the Group General Affairs of our monitoring activities. Overall internal control design and Department can immediately set up a response headquarters, and operation is overseen by the Internal Audit Department, which the subsequent impact can be minimized. reports to the Aeon Management Committee (highest level A natural disaster response system has been established in management committee) and Audit Committee. which the situation of each Group company and store is reported over the Company’s intranet or the Internet, and information is 開催状況 promptly 主な役割 shared with each Group company and the response ・取締役及び執行役の職務執行の監督 headquarters. In addition, certain Group companies, including Aeon Group 取締役会 Management 年8回 ・会社法第416条に定められる取締役会で決定しなければならない事項及び執行役に委 Co., Ltd. and Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., have implemented an emergency Under the unchanging premise of its Customer-First 任することができない事項の決定 philosophy, call system in which information is immediately reported to the Aeon’s Group management seeks to harmonize ・取締役及び執行役の職務執行の監査 its strong operating Company’s management team and the safety of employees is 監査委員会 年13回 companies, which are located closest ・株主総会に提出する会計監査人の選任・解任・再任しないことに関する議案内容の決定 to its customers, with its confirmed whenever an earthquake measuring greater than 6 on pure holding company, 年3回 指名委員会 which can respond ・株主総会に提出する取締役の選任及び解任に関する議案内容の決定 agilely to a myriad of Japan’s seismic intensity scale occurs. changes 報酬委員会 in operating environment, 年3回 in order to maximize ・取締役及び執行役が受ける個人別の報酬等の内容の決定 the value it provides to its customers. This also represents the key to unlocking the Group’s continuous development. By transitioning to a pure holding company structure as part of our group management reform, we will be able to (1) make faster decisions by way of a centralized committee, (2) build foundations for future growth, and (3) steadily implement our medium-term management plan. This structure will also enable us to seek even greater corporate value for the entire Aeon Group through Groupwide strategic planning, optimum allocation of management resources, generation of Group-wide synergies and adherence to basic principles. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 64 CSR Management Compliance and Corporate Ethics Basic Rules Promotion Framework —Aeon Code of Conduct The Corporate Ethics Team was established to promote compliance Aeon established the Aeon Code of Conduct in 2003 in order and the code of conduct throughout the Aeon Group, and is under to express the Aeon Basic Principles in terms of a specific set of the direct control of the chief officer for Group human resources at guidelines. Education and training on the code, establishment of Aeon Co., Ltd. The Corporate Ethics Team develops and executes a hotline, and monitoring activities were all also started in 2003 in policies for the overall Aeon Group based on an annual plan and conjunction with establishment of the code. proposes and recommends specific measures to address various The Aeon Code of Conduct makes explicit to Group employees problems and issues facing the company. The status of compliance criteria for action, consideration and judgment in order to serve issues and initiatives as well as the promotion of the code of customers. It is intended as a shared set of values for the Aeon conduct pertaining to the overall Group are reported to the Aeon Group. Executive Meeting, which is Aeon Co., Ltd.’s executive organ, and to Training on the Aeon Code of Conduct for Group companies in the Audit Committee (outside directors). Japan began on a full-fledged basis in 2004. The same training has Companies in the Aeon Group have appointed managers in been provided by Group companies overseas since 2006. charge of promoting the code of conduct and have established Since fiscal 2011, we have been working to create a system administrative offices for the same purpose. These managers to disseminate and instill the Aeon Code of Conduct at Group conduct training at their respective companies, conduct fact-finding companies in China and ASEAN nations in line with the ‘shift to investigations for matters reported through the hotline, respond to Asian markets,’ one of the strategies outlined in our medium-term questions, and report to Aeon Co., Ltd. management plan. Additionally, each store and business office selects one to three employees to serve as leaders in charge of promoting the code of conduct. They work as instructors to disseminate and instill corporate ethics at the workplace level. Our Commitment Code of Conduct Hotline 1. Aeon people are always grateful to the many Aeon set up the Aeon Code of Conduct Hotline for employees in other individuals who provide support and 2004. The hotline can be used not only to report non-compliance help, never forgetting to act with humanity. and improprieties, but also to speak to someone about various workplace issues, such as not being able to speak with a boss or 2. Aeon people value the trust of others more than encountering something that is troubling. The hotline handles anything else, always acting with integrity and a wide variety of reports and consultations. It is available to all sincerity in all situations. employees working at the Aeon Group. There are two lines in operation, one for internal consultations and another to connect 3. Aeon people actively seek out ways to exceed and consult with an outside party. customer expectations. Reports and consultations are passed on to Group companies concerned as feedback through managers appointed in charge 4. Aeon people continually challenge themselves of promoting the code of conduct. Within two weeks time, an to find new ways to accomplish the Aeon ideas. investigation is conducted to ascertain the facts behind each report or consultation, with the results reported directly to Aeon Co., Ltd. 5. Aeon people support local community growth, In addition, all consultation matters are conveyed to the executive acting as good corporate citizens in serving management team of Aeon Co., Ltd. and the presidents of all Group companies in a weekly and monthly report. society. 65 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Implementing the Aeon Code of Conduct Survey Education and Training Once a year since 2003 we have conducted an anonymous survey Aeon conducts training to disseminate and instill corporate of employee awareness to ascertain the extent to which the ethics, primarily through four programs: training for executive Aeon Code of Conduct has penetrated the organization as well management, training for code of conduct promotion leaders, as to gather information on workplace issues, employee working general training, and training for new employees. A code of conduct formats, motivation levels and the like. This survey is used as a basis curriculum is also incorporated into problems asked on hiring for assessing employee awareness and corporate culture across examinations and in recruitment training. the entire Aeon Group, including its overseas locations, through evaluation of the visibility of promotional activities, the personal ● Training for Executive Management (since 2003) commitment of employees and the situation of each workplace. Its Executive management from Group companies learns about findings are also compiled, analyzed as well as shared with Aeon and shares the situation surrounding corporate ethics and risk Group companies, and are used in the review of more effective management both within and outside their own respective employee training methods. companies. The curriculum aims to empower participants with In 2011, we received 19,889 responses to this survey from 60 the ability to make their own decisions based on the Aeon Code Group companies in Japan, representing an increase of 305.9% of Conduct and to lead as well as set a precedent for general in response rate compared with the previous year, and 21,336 employees. responses from 19 Group companies from China and ASEAN nations, representing an increase of 108.8% in response rate in year● Training for Code of Conduct Promotion Leaders (since 2003) on-year terms. The increase in Japan can be attributed to the use of Participants learn about corporate ethics and how to proceed with an online survey system. related practices. They also acquire skills for conducting study We are working to improve communication in the workplace in sessions at their own workplaces on the material covered. 2012 based on the keyword ‘teamwork.’ ● General Training (since 2006) All employees of the Aeon Group participate in general training once a year to review the Aeon Code of Conduct. Reconfirming the Promoting Corporate Ethics necessity of corporate ethics helps create a shared set of values at Group Companies Overseas among employees. Aeon has been conducting compliance training, establishing hotlines and instituting monitoring systems at Aeon Group ● Training for New Employees (since 2004) companies overseas since 2006. New employees of Group companies receive training as a part of In 2011, 28 Group companies from China and ASEAN nations new employee orientation. Through the Aeon Code of Conduct, newly participated in executive management training in order to employees learn about acting and making decisions while putting further share and boost mutual understanding of Aeon’s strategies customers front and center. and policies. In 2012, we are providing training for employees in newly developed business areas overseas. Creating Support and Awareness-Raising Tools In addition to training programs, Aeon also creates a variety of tools to disseminate and instill its code of conduct. For example, the monthly Aeon Code of Conduct Newsletter presents issues reported or consulted on via the Aeon Code of Conduct hotline. Every month 200,000 copies are created and TOPICS distributed to employees of Aeon Group companies. The newsletter Utilizing a Picture Book to Share the has been very well received by employees, promoting some to Aeon Basic Principles revisit to code of conduct and raising awareness of the hotline. Aeon makes use of the picture book Arigatou no Yakusoku (“The Promise of Thank You,” Text by Masato Ochi with pictures by Soya Nagashima) as a tool to share and encourage mutual understanding of the Aeon Basic Principles among employees overseas whose native language is not Japanese. By providing the picture book, which introduces the importance of being grateful and saying ‘thank you’ in any situation, we aim to boost understanding of the essence of our principles in an intuitive manner. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 66 CSR Management Environmental Management New Environmental Policy System the Prevention of Global Warming were achieved ahead of time in fiscal 2011. Accordingly, the particular initiatives aimed at achieving these goals and objectives Aeon established the Aeon Sustainability Principle in line with the were concluded in fiscal 2011. Aeon Basic Principles as the fundamental policy that governs the environmental and social contribution activities that all Aeon Group companies should take part in. In addition, the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming* and the Aeon Biodiversity Principle also represent environmental goals and policies for the Environmental Policy System entire Group. Effective measures are conducted following the environmental Peace guidelines and environmental management systems developed by Aeon Basic each Group company based on their own unique characteristics. Principles The Customer This is because the Aeon Group encompasses a multitude of People Community business areas and the challenges that each Group company faces may differ depending on their operating format and sector. Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of As an example, Aeon Co., Ltd. undertakes environmental Group-wide Aeon Global Warming Sustainability protection activities based on the Aeon Environmental Principles, Policy Principle Aeon Biodiversity Principle which sets targets and objectives for such activities pursuant to the key issues defined in the Aeon Sustainability Principle. Targets for the following fiscal year are determined by sharing environmental activities undertaken across the entire Group under Policy of Environmental Environmental Environmental Individual Guideline of Policy of Policy of the guidance of the Group Chief Environmental Officer as well as by Companies Aeon Co., Ltd. Company B Company C an evaluation of the progress toward meeting previous targets. * The goals and objectives for fiscal 2012 as stated in the Aeon Manifesto on Environmental Guideline* We strive to balance enriching lifestyles with environmental conservation by providing safe and comfortable stores, products and services to our customers. We also operate an environmental management system to execute measures, perform regular reviews, and promote continual improvements. 1. We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases in 3.We will strive to implement resource conservation and all of our business activities in order to realize a low-carbon resource recycling initiatives in order to use resources in a society. sustainable manner. (1)We will continually improve the energy efficiency of our (1)We will promote “reduce, reuse and recycle” for all the stores. resources we use. (2)We will strive to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases (2)We will strive to select raw and general materials that have in all phase of our products’ supply chain. less of an impact on the environment. 2. We will promote conservation activities and ascertain the 4.We will comply with environmental related laws, ordinances benefits and impact of our business activities on natural and regulations, and strive to prevent pollution. In addition, ecosystems. we will widely make public and spread awareness of this (1)We will strive to develop and procure products that policy to our employees and all stakeholders who support our use properly managed resources in consideration of business activities. sustainability. (2)We will promote tree planting and raising activities as well 5.We will develop partnerships with many stakeholders, as undertake activities that safeguard the ecosystems of including our customers, and widen the reach of our local communities. initiatives. Enacted March 1, 2011 Motoya Okada President Aeon Co., Ltd. *Environmental Guideline of AEON CO., LTD. is applied in the following group companies. AEON CO., LTD., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd., My Basket CO., LTD. 67 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 ISO Certification Environmental Education As of February 29, 2012, 32 companies in the Aeon Group have Aeon provides time in its various training sessions for learning about acquired ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for Aeon’s environmental principles and policies in order to raise the environmental management systems awareness of employees regarding the environment. Since fiscal 2008 we have encouraged employees to take the List of ISO-Certified Companies Certification Test for Environmental Specialists® (Eco Test)*. Department (As of February 29, 2012) managers at the head office and higher ranked personnel as well as ISO9001 ISO14001 store managers and others take the test. To date, a total of 5,797 out of AEON CO., LTD. AEON Mall Co., Ltd. 8,595 Aeon personnel who took the test have passed. AEON Retail Co., Ltd. AEON KYUSHU CO., LTD. Companies that have acquired ISO 14001 certification provide AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. AEON CREDIT SERVICE CO., LTD. training for their employees. For example, Aeon Retail has established MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD. AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD. a web-based training tool and requires employees to keep an MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD. Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd. ISO 14001 handbook with them. Training seminars for internal MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD. Maxvalu Hokkaido Co, Ltd. environmental auditors led by outside instructors are also held every MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD. AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. year to facilitate smooth operation MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD. LAURA ASHLEY JAPAN CO., LTD. of the environmental management MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. Mega Sports Co., Ltd. system. As of February 2011, a total of Aeon Integrated Business Service Co., Ltd. COX CO., LTD. approximately 1,640 employees have AEON BIG CO., LTD. Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd. attended the seminars since 2000, My Basket CO., LTD. Research Institute For Quality Living Co., Ltd. when ISO certification was acquired. Environmental Specialist Certification Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd. AEON Hokkaido Corporation AEON FOOD SUPPLY Co., Ltd. AEON GLOBAL SCM CO., LTD. * The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is a certification program Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Guangdong JUSCO Teem Stores Co., Ltd. sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was started in 2006 in order to develop human resources who possess broad-reaching basic Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd. Qingdao AEON Dongtai Co., Ltd. knowledge of environmental issues and who can utilize their awareness of these issues in everyday activities, and to help build a sustainable society with a healthy balance between the environment and the economy. Environmental Accounting ●The following 18 Group companies are subject to environmental accounting. Aeon Group Total Aeon Retail Co., Ltd., Aeon Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Aeon Kyushu Co., Ltd., AEON RYUKYU CO., LTD., Aeon Supercenter Co., Ltd., MaxEconomic valu Hokkaido Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tohoku Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Tokai Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Chubu Co., Ltd., Maxvalu Nishinihon Co., Ltd., Item Environmental Environmental Maxvalu Kyushu Co., Ltd., MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., benefits of conservation conservation MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., AEON BIG CO., LTD. environmental costs benefits conservation ●The report compiles the costs (monetary) and benefits (monetary and CO2 reduction) of environmental mea(Thousand yen) (t-CO2) (Thousand yen) sures and energy conservation measures conducted by the companies at their stores. Costs associated with new and upgraded facilities are tabulated based on annual depreciation expense, not total investment. Eco Store 521,334 16,498 576 The report covers facilities that were built or upgraded in fiscal 2011. Facilities built or upgraded prior to fiscal 2011 are not included in the figures. New Stores 981,046 396,250 10,740 ●The following represent specific costs recognized for each item. Existing Stores 2,611,652 790,844 277,666 Eco Stores: Costs are compiled for investments in environmental equipment and facilities, and photovoltaic power systems (at both new and existing stores) Operations 190,070 67,992 1,409 New Stores: Costs are compiled for installation of various facilities and equipment in a standard format with ecological specifications. Existing Stores: Costs are compiled for installation of various facilities and equipment associated with energy efficiency repairs at existing stores. Total 4,290,122 1,269,720 290,390 Operations: Costs are compiled for operational improvements, including installation of system and programs for energy use transparency. SM GMS (includes some SM and SuC) Companies covered: MV Hokkaido, MV Tohoku, DS Companies covered: Aeon Retail, Aeon Hokkaido, MV Tokai, MV Chubu, MV Nishinihon, MV Kyushu, Companies covered: AEON BIG Aeon Kyushu, AEON RYUKYU, Aeon Supercenter MV KITA TOHOKU, MV KANTO, MV CHUKYO, MV Item HOKURIKU, MV NAGANO, MV MINAMI TOHOKU Economic Economic Economic Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental benefits of benefits of benefits of conservation conservation conservation conservation conservation conservation environmental environmental environmental costs benefits costs benefits costs benefits conservation conservation conservation (Thousand yen) (t-CO2) (Thousand yen) (t-CO2) (Thousand yen) (t-CO2) (Thousand yen) (Thousand yen) (Thousand yen) Eco Store 518,559 13,758 487 2,776 2,740 89 0 0 0 New Stores 804,888 158,316 3,395 176,158 237,934 7,345 0 0 0 Existing Stores 2,474,418 642,112 272,536 137,234 148,733 5,129 0 0 0 Operations 170,505 23,090 503 5,585 43,038 905 13,980 1,863 1 Total 3,968,371 837,275 276,921 321,752 432,445 13,469 13,980 1,863 1 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 68 CSR Management Environmental Management FY2011 ISO 14001 Targets and Performance AEON Retail Co., Ltd., Maxvalu six companies*, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., AEON BIG CO., LTD. ◎＝ Achieved △・× ＝ Did not achieve, but will continue to make efforts Percentage over Environmental Policies Category Targets Performance Evaluation Department responsible target Reduce electricity usage by more than 5% Target: 2,358,732,515kwh ●Construction compared to fiscal 2010 Results: 2,135,237,586kwh Department General The target for locations within the Tohoku and 90.5% ◎ Affairs Division Tokyo electric power company service areas *Total for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Ltd., 6 was a 20% reduction in electricity usage for the companies, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and AEON BIG (Facility Management July to September period CO., LTD. Group) ・AEON Itamikoya Shopping Center opened (March 2011) Stores (Reduced CO2 emissions by 30% compared to existing ●Construction Promote Eco Store transition at new and stores / Acquired CASBEE S ranking (BEE4.1) Department existing stores, increase the installation ・Lake Town Outlet opened (April 2011) ●Construction of energy efficient devices, plan new Eco (Reduced CO2 emissions by 20% compared to existing ‐ ◎ Department General Stores that reduce CO2 emissions by 50% stores / Acquired CASBEE A ranking) Affairs Division compared to existing stores, and aim for ・AEON Yamato Shopping Center opened (May 2011) (Facility Management new store openings in 2012 (Reduced CO2 emissions by 20% compared to existing Group) stores / target to acquire CASBEE A ranking) ●CoolishFact, Heatfact 100% ◎ Realization of a LowSales results: 42 million units, 160% of previous year carbon Society ●TOPVALU KYOKAN SENNGEN 119.8% of Sales results: 119.8% of previous year previous year Develop low-carbon products and (AEON Retail, MV 6 companies,SUC,BIG ) promote further CO2 reductions through products ●TOPVALU Gurinai 110.1% of Sales results: 110.1% of previous year ●Corresponding product previous year ・Expand sales of environmental (AEON Retail, MV 6 companies,SUC,BIG ) divisions Products preservation products as well as cool biz ●SELF+SERVICE and warm biz related products ●SELF＋SERVICE Department ・Promote development of carbon Sales due to the expansion of sales of environmentally 92.5% △ footprint labeling (TOPVALU) and friendly products, 98.0% of previous year actively sell to customers Obtain new system accreditation for carbon footprint labeling Took part in METI grant project ‐ ◎ Results: Received and passed screening performed by national third-party government organization Item: TOPVALU Gurinai bell peppers Target: 8,346,085kg ●General Affairs Division Results: 7,797,530kg ●Department of Reduce use of materials by more than 5% 93.4% ◎ *Total for AEON Retail Co., Ltd., ＭV 6 companies, AEON Environment and Social SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd.,, and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Contribution Implement new trial scheme for the collection of recyclables Stores Purpose: AEON DELIGHT CO., LTD. will start Currently, yet to implement new trial scheme in-store recycling collection work in order to ●General Affairs Division reduce operating costs through improved Problems: (1) Logistics cost reduction; (2) Review AD sales ●Department of efficiency of stores with a recycling system price with vendors; (3) Reduce business outsourcing costs; ‐ × Environment and Social Better Use of and logistics, to reduce cost of recycling (4) Re-examine merits of AEON DELIGHT's scheme (reduce through more efficient collection, and to Contribution Resources in-store collection work, etc.) effectively utilize resources through the use of recycled products collected in store at Group companies. Target: 0.65% *AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd. had a target of less than 0.55%. ●Store Operations Maintain food waste-to-sales ratio at Stores Results: 0.6% 92.7% ◎ Department below 0.65% *Average of AEON Retail Co., Ltd., MaxValu Co., Ltd., ●Food Products Division 6 companies, AEON SUPERCENTER Co., Ltd., and AEON BIG CO., LTD. Cumulative number of trees planted: 7,827,276 trees at ●Construction 765 locations (until Feb. 20, 2012) Department Conservation of Continue the Aeon Hometown Forests With Customers Held on-site lectures at three locations using the planted ‐ ◎ ●Department of Biodiversity Program, planting and nurturing trees zone management manual. Create monitoring ledger for Environment and Social each store and establish management system. Contribution Target: Ratio of stores violating voluntary water quality ●General Affairs Division Reduce the number of stores violating Pollution standards: less than 15% ●Department of Stores voluntary water quality standards to less 266.7% × Prevention Results: Ratio of stores violating voluntary water quality Environment and Social than 15% standards: 40% Contribution *MAXVALU KITA TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU MINAMI TOHOKU CO., LTD., MAXVALU KANTO CO., LTD., MAXVALU CHUKYO CO., LTD., MAXVALU NAGANO CO., LTD., MAXVALU HOKURIKU CO., LTD. 69 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental load in business activities Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. (including head office building) Output Customers Packaging Disposal Input Output CO2 absorption through tree planting*3 3,195t-CO2 Electricity:2,069,912,942kWh Products CO2 CO2 （Private power generation94,597,784kWh） In-store CO2 CO2 emissions*1 Energy 753,429t-CO2 CO2 Utility gas ： 52,066,221m3 CO2 CO2 collection boxes LPG ： 6,211,597kg Packaging Discharge 218,445t Discharged into air Heavy oil ： 7,542kℓ Plastic bags ： 5,177t Light oil ： 26kℓ Wrapping paper, paper bags： Gasoline ： 135kℓ 6,405t Kerosene ： 244kℓ Gift boxes ： 1,248t Stores Recycling Separated Food scraps CO2 reduction collection Styrofoam volume reduction through collection boxes Waste oil of recyclable items Cardboard 22,445t-CO2 Other materials Waste products Recycled Water Flyers ：9,946t Products 82,657t 10,947,400m3 OA, photocopy paper： 974t Disposal Recycling manufacturers Input Output Recyclable items collected CO2 emissions*2 Suppliers Aluminum cans： 122,056t-CO2 Energy 1,228t Light oil：46,586kℓ Food trays ： 744t Waste products Products Paper cartons：1,601t Distribution center Cardboard PET bottles： 2,733t *1 Calculations based on energy consumption of equipment at stores and business places. *2 Aeon Retail Co., Ltd. CO2 emissions are calculated from the transit and delivery of CO2 emissions managed by Aeon Global SCM Co., Ltd. *3 Calculated based on the group-wide total number of trees planted under the “Aeon Hometown Forest” program. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 70 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Primary environmental conservation and social contribution activities 1965 Donation of 1,000 cherry trees to the city of Okazaki at the opening of the Okazaki Okadaya Store 1977 Established of the JUSCO Company Welfare Fund (now known as the Aeon Welfare Fund) 1979 Established Cultural Foundation of Okada 1989 JUSCO Group is renamed Aeon Group, and the Aeon Group 1% Club (now known as the Aeon 1% Club) is established Launched the JUSCO Earth-Friendly Committee 1990 The Aeon 1% Club started the Small Ambassadors (now known as Teenage Ambassadors ) Program as a part of its international cultural and personnel exchange activities 1991 Launched the Aeon Hometown Forests Program, with Jaya JUSCO Stores Malacca Store (Malaysia) as its first store Yukiyo Komatsu Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation (now known as the Aeon Environment Foundation) Group Chief Environmental Officer Started Clean & Green activities Commenced the Bring Your Own Shopping Bag campaign on a trial basis AEON CO., LTD. Began trial operation of the food tray collection and recycling campaign 1992 Planted trees at JUSCO Shin Hisai Store (now known as Hisai store) – the first store in Japan under the Aeon Hometown Forests Program One year has passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake. We 1993 Started development of organic and other agricultural produce as the Green Eye (now known as TOPVALU Green Eye) private label extend our condolences to the people of the affected area and 1994 Formulated the independent Aeon Heart Building Design Standards based on the Heart Building Law ( the Barrier Free New Law from December 2006). Opened JUSCO Minamikata pray that reconstruction be achieved as quickly as possible. Store as the first building in Japan certified under the Heart Building Low As the Group Chief Environmental Officer, I would like to take 1995 Introduced returnable food container and reusable hanger systems 1996 Launched the Environment Committee this opportunity to report on Aeon’s environmental and social Founded the JUSCO Children's Eco Club (now known as the Aeon Cheers Club) 1998 Established the Aeon Group Environment Foundation and conducted the 1st tree planting in initiatives for fiscal 2011 and directions for the future. the Great Wall Forest Rejuvenation Project 2000 Launched the My Basket and My Bag campaigns Started sales of TOPVALU Kyokan Sengen products The Great East Japan Earthquake and Aeon’s Social Commenced development of SELF + SERVICE ecology shops Acquired ISO 14001 certification across the entire company Responsibilities 2001 Changed company name to Aeon Co., Ltd. and started the Aeon Day Reconstruction following the Great East Japan Earthquake is an Started the Aeon Happy Yellow Receipt Campaign Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Cambodia (total of 149 important part of Aeon’s corporate responsibility efforts and schools from 2001 to 2003) is based on the company’s core principles of ‘peace,’ ‘people,’ 2002 Started Aeon Clean Road Activities in partnership with the Volunteer Support Program of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism ‘community.’ 2003 Began use of biomass packaging materials Formulated the Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Following these principles, 300,000 Aeon Group people are 2004 Formulated the Basic Policy for the Prevention of Global Warming committed to working Announced participation in the Global Compact advocated by the United Nations Achieved SA8000 certification for Aeon Co., Ltd. TOPVALU supplier management systems together for long-term support activities. The announcement and Aeon corporate operations Commenced sales of TOPVALU Fair Trade Coffee under the TOPVALU label in March 2012 of a ‘Taking Action for Great East Japan Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Nepal (total of 57 schools Earthquake Reconstruction” initiative confirmed this resolve. from 2004 to 2005) 2005 First eco store, Aeon Chikusa SC, opens In the same spirit, Aeon employees and management are now 2006 Second eco store, Aeon Kashiwa SC, Third eco store, Aeon Dainichi SC, opens Stores and shopping centers acquire chain of custody certification for processing and carrying out ‘Project Aeon Joining Hands,’ planting trees in the distribution of MSC certified products (MSC-CoC), the first such certification by a general affected area, and doing volunteer work individually and with merchandiser in Japan Aeon 1% Club starts support for the construction of schools in Laos (Total of 120 schools their families. Aeon people are working together to realize ‘a from 2006 to 2009) future with hope.’ 2007 Review of the process of issuing plastic shopping bags (discontinuing the free provision of plastic shopping bags in food departments) begins with the JUSCO Higashiyamanijou Store Aeon Co., Ltd. becomes the first company in the general retailing industry to sign an agreement on initiatives towards the establishment of a recycling-oriented society with the Sustainable Management Japanese Ministry of the Environment Aeon believes that corporate growth has to go along with the Forth eco store, Aeon Kagoshima SC, open 2008 Aeon formulates the Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming, becoming the development of practices that promote a sustainable society first retailer in Japan to name a specific goal for reducing output of CO2 Aeon Clean Japan campaign started as an initiative to mark Aeon’s 250th anniversary and conserve the environment. Ran a carbon offsetting campaign for the CO2 produced when delivering year-end gifts In light of this, in March 2011 we instituted the “Aeon Fifth eco store, Taki Crystal Town CS, Sixth eco store, Aeon Tomakomai SC, Seventh eco store, Aeon Laketown, Eighth eco store, Aeon Hiezu, Eco shopping mall (ninth eco store), Aeon Sustainability Principle” with four priorities: 1) realization of Mall Kusatsu, opens low carbon society, 2) conservation of biodiversity, 3) better 2009 Trial sales of Carbon Footprint product labeling for nine varieties across seven TOPVALU products use of resources, 4) dealing with social matters. To ensure a Tenth eco store, Aeon Tsuchiura SC, opens Aeon Environmental Foundation establishes Japan Awards for Biodiversity sustainable society, all of these objectives must be achieved. Participated in Japan Climate Leaders' Partnership as a founding member Aeon is committed to taking on even greater responsibility for 2010 Established Aeon Biodiversity Policy The “Great Wall Forest Rejuvenation Project” by the Aeon Environmental Foundation, the achieving these objectives. number of seedlings planted had reached one million MIDORI Prize for Biodiversity Established by the Aeon Environmental Foundation A system has been established to quantitatively assess the 2011 Established the Aeon Sustainability Principle degree of achievement on each priority issue. For the current Eleventh eco store, The Aeon Itamikoya Shopping Center opens 2012 Developed the Aeon Sustainability Principle fiscal year, we are planning to show the progress in each area Developed KPI System on our website, starting from September 2012. Developed Aeon China CSR Principles Established the Sustainable Management Committee Aeon will continue to address the social and environmental issues related with our operations, and to meet the needs of our diverse community. AEON Sustainability Report 2012 72 GRI Guidelines Indicators Section Index Aeon Environmental and Social Report (2012) 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, 1.1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization p.3 President's Commitment and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2 Organization Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services p.49-50 TOPVALU Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 p.9-10 Aeon Group's Business companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organization s headquarters Back cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries that 2.5 either have major operations or are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues p.9-10 Aeon Group's Business covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) Scale of the reporting organization, including: • Number of employees • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 2.8 organizations) p.9 Settlement Report • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alterationoperations (for private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided p.2 Report period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) May 7, 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biannual, etc.) p.2 Report period 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Back cover Report scope and parameters Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality p.2 Editorial Policy 3.5 p.2 Scope of report • Prioritizing topics within the report p.2 Target audience • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report Parameters of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint p.2 Editorial Policy 3.6 ventures, suppliers) p.2 Scope of report p.2 Editorial Policy 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or parameters of the report p.2 Scope of report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions p.20 Environmental Accounting 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators p.21 ISO14001 Targets and Performance and other information in the report p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of p.23 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, parameters, or 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report p.67-72 GRI Guidelines Indicators Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain 3.13 p.65 Independent Review the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 73 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governing body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational p.15-16 Corporate Governance oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governing body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for p. 3 President's Commitment this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 p.15-16 Corporate Governance the highest governing body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or p.15-16 Corporate Governance 4.4 direction to the highest governing body. p.63 Part-time employees also join the labor union Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governing body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governing body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 p.15-16 Corporate Governance avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governing body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles p.12 Aeon Sustainability Principle 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct implementation. p.19 Aeon Environmental Principles Procedures of the highest governing body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, p.11 Joining the Global Compact 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with p.55 SA8000 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governing body's own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed p.16 Risk Management 4.11 by the organization p.17-18 Compliance Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other p.11 Joining the Global Compact 4.12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses p.55 SA8000 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governing bodies 4.13 • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16 and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 5 Management Approach and Performance Index Economic Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance Policy Additional Contextual Information Economic Performance Index Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities EC2 due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Aspect: Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at EC5 significant locations of operation AEON Sustainability Report 2012 74 GRI Guidelines Indicators Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant EC6 p. 55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 community at locations of significant operation Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts p.11 Aeon Environmental Foundation p.11 Aeon 1% Club p.40-43 Giving Back to the Community Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EC8 p.43-44 Assistance for Recovery from Disaster for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement p.45 Assistance to Developing Countries p.51-53 Store Safety and Security p.57 Fair Trade Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 extent of impacts Environmental p.12 Aeon Sustainability Principle Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.19 Aeon Environment Principles p.13 Formulation of KPI Goals and Performance p.18 ISO14001 Targets and Results p.19 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming p.12 Aeon Sustainability Principle p.19 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming Policy p.21 ISO14001 Targets and Performance p.30 Aeon Biodiversity Principle p.19-22 Environmental Management Organizational Responsibility p.65 Group Chief Environmental Officer's Commitment Training and Awareness p.20 Environmental Education Monitoring and Follow-up p.20 Environmental Accounting Additional Contextual Information p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements p.21 ISO14001 Targets and Performance Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 p.24 Eco Stores and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved p.24 Eco Stores Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Aspect: Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 p29-34 Preserving Biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity p30 Aeon Biodiversity Principle Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities p.22 Flow of Environmental Impact in Business Activities EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved p.23 Aeon Manifesto on the Prevention of Global Warming p.24 Eco Stores EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 75 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under EN24 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services p.24 Eco Stores p.26 Carbon footprint initiatives p.27 Carbon offsets Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of EN26 p.33 TOPVALU Gurinai impact mitigation p.33 MSC certification (marine eco-label)/FSC certification p.37 Plastic bag Reduction p.38 TOPVALU KYOKAN SENGEN Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by EN27 category Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the p.27 Logistics Initiatives workforce Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type p.20 Environmental Accounting Social Performance Index Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance p.13 Formulation of KPI p.12 Aeon Sustainability Principle Policy p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct p.59 Basic Principales on Personnel p.17-18 Compliance Organizational Responsibility p.59-63 Responsibilities to Employees p.17-18 Compliance Training and Awareness p.59-63 Responsibilities to Employees Monitoring and Follow-up p.17-18 Compliance Additional Contextual Information Labor Practices and Decent Work (Fair Employment Conditions) Performance Index Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 time employees, by major operations Aspect: Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is LA5 specified in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management worker health LA6 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workLA7 related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Aspect: Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 p.61-62 Support for Human Resources Growth employability of employees and assist them in planning the end of their careers Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews AEON Sustainability Report 2012 76 GRI Guidelines Indicators Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governing bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Human Rights Disclosure(s) on Management Approach p.11 Joining the Global Compact p.13 Formulation of KPI Goals and Performance p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.55 SA8000 p.11 Joining the Global Compact p.13 Formulation of KPI Policy p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.55 SA8000 p.11 Joining the Global Compact p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.55 SA8000 p.63 Respecting Human Rights p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct Training and Awareness p.55 SA8000 p.63 Respecting Human Rights p.11 Joining the Global Compact Monitoring and Follow-up p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct p.55 SA8000 Additional Contextual Information Human Rights Index Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on HR2 human rights and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Aspect: Freedom of Association Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and p.11 Joining the Global Compact HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct rights p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Child Labor p.11 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR6 p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor p.11 Joining the Global Compact Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory HR7 p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Security Practices p.11 Joining the Global Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures HR8 p.55 Aeon Supplier Code of Conduct concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations p.55 SA8000 Aspect: Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9 actions taken Society Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance p.13 Formulation of KPI p.12 Aeon Sustainability Principle Policy p.17-18 Compliance p.17-18 Compliance Organizational Responsibility p.40-48 Responsibilities to Local Communities Training and Awareness p.17-18 Compliance Monitoring and Follow-up p.17-18 Compliance Additional Contextual Information 77 AEON Sustainability Report 2012 Social Performance Index Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3 p.17-18 Compliance procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 related institutions by country Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 noncompliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure(s) on Management Approach Goals and Performance Policy p.17 Aeon Code of Conduct Organizational Responsibility p.49-51 Product Safety and Security Training and Awareness p.49-51 Product Safety and Security Monitoring and Follow-up p.49-51 Product Safety and Security Additional Contextual Information Product Responsibility Performance Index Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services p.54 System for Addressing Customer Feedback categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 p.54 System for Addressing Customer Feedback customer satisfaction Aspect: Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services AEON Sustainability Report 2012 78 Everyday Eco. Now in Progress. Everyday Aeon is wholly committed to protecting the environment-from encouraging use of My Bag and My Basket, to selling fresh ﬁsh unpackaged, recycling and tree planting. Together with our customers we want to create a pleasant, promising day, every day. The momentum of Everyday Eco continues to build. http://www.aeon.info/environment/maieco/ For any inquiries or comments concerning this report or our environmental and social activities, please contact: AEON CO.,LTD. Corporate Citizenship Department 1-5-1 Nakase, Mihama-ku, Chiba-shi, Chiba, 261-8515 Japan Tel: +81-43-212-6037 Fax: +81-43-212-6790 URL: http://www.aeon.info/
