Statement of continued support by the Director General Dear Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that The Speakers Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-­‐ Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Liang Meng, Director General The Speakers Group As a small young NGO, The Speakers Group (TSG) is encouraging the UN development goals by implementing the ten principles of UNGC in our daily organization activities. Human Rights Assessment, policy and Goals TSG adhere to the UN declaration of Human Rights. Implementation TSG value its team members, it has a culture of openness, transparency and helping each other. Staff is encouraged to discuss issues encountered in the work place, and the adequate solutions or suggestions would be provided by other co-­‐works immediately. Measurement of outcomes TSG frequently reassessing its policies and ensuring that the requirements are continuously lived up to. Labor Assessment, policy and Goals TSG recognize the importance to provide an organizational culture based on respect and trust, to ensure the best possible work environment and conditions for its stuffs. Implementation TSG operates within the Chinese Labour Law. And we encourage stuffs work flexible up to his schedule. Besides, TSG has its team building activities weekly. Measurement of outcomes TSG will periodically have a talk with its stuffs of their comments or suggestions for better improvements regarding the work environment, conditions, policy and culture. It is a way to measure TSG’s implementation on labor principle. All stuffs feel TSG team is a dynamic group and enjoy working in it. Environment Assessment, policy and Goals TSG emphasizes on the importance of harmonious coexistence between man and the environment. Implementation Environment protection promoting via our environment speakers is part of TSG’s business. Environment area top speakers are more influential on Chinese Enterprises and medias. In addition to business activities, TSG requests its stuffs reduce energy consumption in the work place and encourages its stuffs use public transport for work. Measurement of outcomes In the office, stuffs apply the energy saving policy and continuously seek new measures to limit the environmental footprint. Anti-­‐Corruption Assessment, policy and Goals TSG holds a strict anti-­‐corruption policy. Implementation To ensure this value is constantly met, all stuffs are educated. Measurement of outcomes All stuffs are aware of this principle and TSG would never stand any case of corruption.
