OUR ENERGY AT WORK 2011 Activity and Sustainable Development Report MEET TECHNIP We are a world leader in project management, engineering and construction for the energy industry. 02 TECHNIP From the deepest subsea oil and gas developments to the largest and most complex offshore and 24 onshore infrastructures, our 30,000 people work together to offer the best solutions and most 44 innovative technologies to meet the world’s energy challenges. AT A 82 GLANCE Present in 48 countries, Technip has state-of-the-art industrial assets on all continents and operates a ﬂeet of specialized vessels for pipeline installation and subsea construction. What we accomplish, together with our partners, is nothing short of amazing. Because taking it further is what we do. TECHNIP TODAY ACTIVITIES IN REVENUE IN 2011: €6.8 BILLION SUBSEA, OFFSHORE AND ONSHORE € 710 MILLION ONE TECHNIP OPERATING INCOME FROM RECURRING ACTIVITIES IN 2011 WITH ENGINEERING, TECHNOLOGIES AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT CAPABILITIES, ON LAND AND AT SEA, WE SAFELY AND SUCCESSFULLY DELIVER THE BEST 02 SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CLIENTS IN THE ENERGY BUSINESS. BACKLOG AT THE END OF 2011 € 10.4 BILLION 24 44 82 TECHNIP WORLDWIDE A UNIQUE FLEET To undertake our offshore operations, wwe operate perate a specialized ﬂeet comprised of 34 vessels (of which four are under construction) which w h is unique uniq in the industry. A MULTI-LOCAL COMPANY 4 RIGID REEL-LAY & J-LAY J Y 5 RIGID S-LAY AND HEAVY LIF LIFT FT WHEREVER IN THE WORLD OUR CLIENTS OPERATE, OPERATE WE HAVE THE RESOURCES TO MAKE THEIR PROJECTS A SUCCESS. 9 FLEXIBLE-LAY FLEXIBLE LAY & 16 DIVING & MULTI SUPPORT SU UPPORT CONSTRUCTION 02 24 Orkan Orkanger 44 Calgary Evanton Aberdeen Stavange Evanton Stavanger Oslo Pori St. Petersburg 82 T Aberdeen The Hague Newcastle Newcastle Warsaw London London St. John’s Le Trait Le Trait Düsseldorf Paris Paris Lyon Marseille Rome Seoul Marseille Baku Ashgabat Los Angeles Houston Lisbon Barce Lisbon Shanghai Carlyss Barcelona Athens Bagdad Mobile Monterrey Cairo Doha Dubaï New Delhi Mexico City Al Khobar Mumbai Ciudad Bangkok del Carmen Abu Dhabi Ho Chi Minh City La Lagos Chennai Rayong Miri Caracas OPERATING Bogota Port Harcourt CENTERS Accra Kuala Lumpur Tanjung Langsat Accra Singapore Dande Batam Balikpapan Luanda CONSTRUCTION YARD Vitória ria Jakarta Açu (under under Lobito construction) Macaé truction) 30,000 PEOPLE SERVICES BASES Rio de Janeiro neiro Angra Perth MANUFACTURING PLANTS PRESENCE (FLEXIBLE PIPELINES AND/OR UMBILICALS) IN 48 COUNTRIES SPOOLBASES INDUSTRIAL ASSETS ON ALL CONTINENTS OUR VALUES CONTRIBUTING TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Thanks to the expertise and know-how of our teams, we make WHAT an important contribution to the development of technologies and sustainable solutions to enhance the world’s energy resources. We assume our responsibilities and the impact of our decisions DRIVES US and activities within our sphere of inﬂuence in all three areas of sustainable development: social, environmental and economic. Our commitment to the safety and health of all our people is particularly unconditional. WE LIVE AND WORK ACCORDING TO OUR VA VALUES. THEY ARE AT THE ROOT OF OUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND WILL BE THE FOUNDATION OF OUR GROWTH IN THE FUTURE. 02 24 DOING ENCOURAGING 44 THE RIGHT A FAIR RETURN THING FOR ALL 82 Our conduct speaks louder than word words. That is whyy We believe in proﬁtable projects based on we strive to always do the right thing wherever sustainable relationships. We seek to enhance business takes us. That means not only acting our performance and share the beneﬁts of every transparently and keeping commitments, but also achievement with our stakeholders, clients, ensuring the safety of people and sustainable employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers and practices within the community and across local communities. Fair returns take us all further. the planet. Safety, ethics, quality, security and respect always take us further. TRUSTING BUILDING THE TEAM THE FUTURE You already know the feeling that co comes from At Technip, we are building the future thro through joining together to successfully solve a major today’s most ambitious energy infrastructure challenge. Our ability to combine talents and projects. We are also creating the conditions deliver success makes us unique. We value diversity, sity, that will generate tomorrow’s game-changing and have passion and true belief in each person’ss innovations by developing our people. contribution. It is the trust and conﬁdence between Entrepreneurial attitude, investment and team members and between teams that take us anticipation are at the very heart of how we are further. taking it further. INNOVATION & TECHNOLOGIES RECENT TECHNOLOGICAL ACHIEVEMENTS AN EXPERT IN HIGH 2011 ADDED VALUE Signature of an engineering, procurement and construction contract for Prelude, the world’s ﬁrst Floating LNG unit, which Shell will operate TECHNOLOGIES 2010 off the shores of North West Australia. INNOVATION PLAYS AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN ALL Qualiﬁcation of the ﬁrst OUR ACTIVITIES. IT HELPS US MEET OUR CLIENTS’ 20,000 pound-force per square inch ﬂexible 2010 NEEDS EFFECTIVELY AND PROVIDE TAILORED, HIGH-PERFORMANCE SOLUTIONS. AS AN INNOVATIVE jumper at a water depth of 3,000 meters. Signature of the contract for the world’s 02 COMPANY, WE HAVE UNRIVALLED RECORDS IN DELIVERING PIONEERING SOLUTIONS AND PROJECTS. ﬁrst subsea implementation of our reelable, electrically trace-heated pipe-in-pipe (ETH-PIP) 24 technology (for Total). 44 2009 82 World’s ﬁrst full-scale ﬂoating wind turbine (for Statoil). 200 + PATENT FAMILIES REGISTERED SINCE 2003 2008 Technological world ﬁrst with a riser and lifting system contract for a subsea OVER €50 MILLION mining project. R&D INVESTMENT PER YEAR 2007 World’s ﬁrst open sea catamaran 8 R&D CENTERS ﬂoatover topside installations on the deepwater Kikeh Spar (Murphy Sabah Oil Co. Ltd.). 2006 World’s ﬁrst deployment of the Integrated GLOBAL NETWORK OF MORE Production Bundle (IPB) on Dalia ﬁeld; an innovative technology developed by Technip R&D THAN 500 EXPERTS teams, for high-level ﬂow assurance (for Total). CONTENTS The Group in 2011 02 Our activity 24 Sustainable development 44 Glossary 82 THE 03 GROUP IN 2011 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 04 2011 IN PICTURES 06 2011 IN FIGURES 10 GOVERNANCE & ORGANIZATION 14 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE 18 MARKETS & STRATEGY 22 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER IN 2011 WE FOCUSED ON THE ACCELERATION OF OUR PROFITABLE GROWTH Thierry Pilenko Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 WHAT KIND OF YEAR WAS 2011? The ﬁnancial crisis remained in the background throughout 2011 and it will certainly continue to affect and reshape our world in the years to come. The year was also affected by events such as the Arab Spring and the Fukushima disaster, which both had a strong impact on the energy industry. For Technip, 2011 was a year of signiﬁcant achievements in all of our business segments. In the Subsea segment, we completed pioneer projects such as Pazﬂor and Jubilee. We continued to invest strongly in our assets and delivered our second Brazilian-ﬂagged construction vessel. Our Malaysian plant delivered its ﬁrst ﬂexible pipeline and we announced the construction of a new manufacturing plant in Açu, Brazil. 05 The offshore business began to grow rapidly. The 10-year agreement with BP in the Gulf of Mexico and the Lucius Spar awarded to us by Anadarko demonstrate a rebirth of the Spar business. We were also awarded the engineering, procurement and construction phase of the Prelude Floating LNG project by Shell, which will be the largest ﬂoating unit in the world. This project is a real breakthrough for the energy industry and a true game-changer for offshore natural gas developments. Onshore, we successfully delivered several installations, such as the Yansab ethylene plant in Saudi Arabia, and we continued to focus on the execution of our ongoing projects. We also increased the geographic diversiﬁcation in our backlog with projects like the RPBC (Brazil) and Burgas (Bulgaria) reﬁneries. CAN YOU COMMENT ON TECHNIP’S FINANCIAL RESULTS? Our ﬁnancial results reﬂect our proﬁtable growth strategy. In 2011, our revenue grew 12% compared to 2010. We conﬁrmed our future development potential by increasing our backlog by nearly € 1.2 billion, to €10.4 billion. We also launched new investments and completed several strategic acquisitions, including Global Industries, the largest transaction completed by Technip in the last 10 years. This provides us with additional talent in the subsea area as well as state-of-the art assets. We continue to see We delivered strong proﬁtability, beyond our initial expectations, with a record net income of opportunities in nearly €507 million and a Group operating margin from recurring activities of 10.4%, which reﬂects all the markets in which the efﬁcient execution of our projects. This is the third year in a row that we deliver operating we operate margins above 10%. Given this performance and the outlook for 2012, we have recommended that the shareholders approve a dividend increase of 9%, to €1.58 per share. COULD YOU TELL US ABOUT THE GROUP’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT? More than ever, we will pay particular attention to achieving the best performance in terms of both safety and quality. A good example of this is the acquisition of Cybernétix, an expert in subsea robotic technologies. It enabled us to expand our offer in asset integrity management. Our corporate social responsibilities, which include the environment and local communities, will also continue to be a priority. It is the duty of a large international company such as Technip to be at the forefront of these important areas. In renewable energy, for example, we bought Subocean, a company recognized for its expertise in subsea cable installation in the offshore renewable energies sector, a business that we want to develop. WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR 2012? While economic and political uncertainties should not be ignored, we continue to see opportunities in nearly all the markets in which we operate. Our clients are conﬁdent about oil and gas prices and continue to invest to meet challenging production targets. Successful exploration programs, notably in mature ﬁelds such as the North Sea, are stimulating fast-track offshore developments and requirements for new technology solutions. One of our main objectives for 2012 is the integration of Global Industries into our organization. We are already making good progress on this. Our ﬁrst project wins involving Global Industries’ assets conﬁrm the logic of the acquisition, as does the positive reaction of both our clients and our teams to the combination of our businesses. In 2012, using our strong balance sheet, we will maintain our investments in key assets and local content to meet growing demand. Our Subsea and Onshore/Offshore segments are both expected to deliver revenue growth. We are aiming for operating margins of around 15% for Subsea and between 6% and 7% for Onshore/Offshore. Thanks to our people, technology, assets and market positions, we enter 2012 well positioned to take Technip further. We are conﬁdent we can continue to successfully deliver projects to our customers and that we will see another year of proﬁtable and sustainable growth, delivering value to our shareholders. 2011 IN PICTURES THE YEAR IN REVIEW ➌ ➊ Major milestones for our projects ➋ ➐ ➍ ➎ ➏ ➊ Performance guarantees were successfully achieved in the Yansab ethylene plant in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. ➋ Technip completed the design and construction of a small-scaled LNG unit for Ningxia Hanas in China. ➌ Technip successfully completed the Pazflor project for Total in Angola, which is our biggest subsea project to date. ➍ Total’s Islay project involved the first implementation of Technip’s electrically trace heated pipe-in-pipe technology. ➎ Technip is at the forefront of pre-salt developments, as illustrated by the Tupi project for Petrobras in Brazil. ➏ Technip carried out the first offshore development in Ghana: the Jubilee project for Tullow Oil. ➐ The Brazilian Petrobras P-56 semi-submersible platform, one of the largest worldwide, started production. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 07 ➊ ➋ ➌ ➍ ➎ An array of ➏ new contract awards ➊ Technip increased its brownfield activity by securing a contract with ZADCO for the Satah Full Field Development project in Abu Dhabi. ➋ Petrobras appointed Technip to add five new units at the RPBC refinery in Brazil, enabling us to develop our onshore business in the country. ➌ Technip’s 10-year frame agreement with BP, and the award of the Anadarko Lucius Spar contract confirm the renewal of the Spar business in the Gulf of Mexico and our leadership in the sector. ➍ Technip and Odebrecht Oil and Gas signed a contract with Petrobras to provide twin flexible pipeline installation vessels for the booming offshore Brazilian market. ➎ A good example of our technological know-how that can be used to protect the environment is the well containment system that we have been working on to prevent another oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. ➏ Technip was awarded a major contract from Shell for the construction of Prelude, the first FLNG facility and also the largest floating unit ever built. 2011 IN PICTURES Key acquisitions ➊ ➋ to reinforce our leadership ➍ ➌ ➏ Leading-edge assets ➐ ➎ ➊ Technip completed the acquisition of Global Industries, the largest in 10 years, enabling us to combine our complementary know-how and assets in the subsea business. ➋ Technip benefits from the unique robotic expertise of Cybernétix, acquired at the end of the year. ➌ Technip reinforced its leading position in the asset integrity management by acquiring AETech, specialized in acoustic technology. ➍ Technip acquired Subocean, confirming its commitment to the renewable energies market. ➎ The Skandi Niterói, a new Brazilian vessel specialized in flexible pipe installation in deepwater, joined the Technip fleet. ➏ Strategically positioned in the Asia Pacific market, Technip’s Asiaflex Products flexible pipe plant started making its first deliveries. ➐ Technip has decided on the construction of a new flexible manufacturing plant in Brazil. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 09 ➊ ➋ A strong commitment to sustainable development ➍ ➎ ➌ ➎ ➊ Technip was awarded the Top Employers label in France, Spain and Brazil, underlining the quality of its human resources. At the beginning of 2012, Technip won the Top Employers Europe label as well. ➋ Jubail, Asab3, PMP and Connect are some of the many projects that received an award for their HSE performance. ➌ With the creation of our Relief and Development Fund, Technip supports a wide range of humanitarian causes, focusing on health and education. ➍ Technip celebrated HSE through three main Group events: World Environment Day, Pulse Communication Week and Health Day. ➎ Technip has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for ten years, confirming its reputable performance in sustainable development. 2011 IN FIGURES KEY FIGURES Technip’s 2011 revenue surpassed our initial expectations, coming in at €6.8 billion. Driven by strong execution and successful delivery of projects worldwide, Technip’s operating margin from recurring activities was above 10% for the third year running. Our backlog at the end of the year stood at €10.4 billion, our highest since the end of 2006. The solidity of our ﬁnancial results as well as the quality of our people, technology, assets and market positions allows us to enter 2012 with good perspectives. 6,813 710 6,456 677 6,082 620 2009 2010 2011 2009* 2010 2011 REVENUE (€ MILLION) OPERATING INCOME FROM RECURRING ACTIVITIES (€ MILLION) Subsea revenue in 2011 (€ 2,972 million) mainly reﬂect a pick-up of activity in the North Sea, completion of several large African projects and robust activity in Brazil. Onshore/Offshore 2011 revenue (€ 3,841 million) reﬂect the delivery of several projects, including a biodiesel plant in Rotterdam, The Netherlands and the P-56 semi-submersible platform in Brazil. As well, it includes the ramp-up of construction phases on Middle East projects, notably on the Jubail reﬁnery in Saudi Arabia. We delivered strong proﬁtability, beyond our initial expectations, with an operating margin from recurring activities reaching 10.4%. * Excluding the exceptional € 245 million provision related to TSKJ matter in 2009 TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 507 1,784 418 1,332 11 721 170 2009** 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 NET INCOME (€ MILLION) NET CASH (€ MILLION) Net income in 2011 was € 507 million, On December 15, 2011, Technip issued bonds up by 21.5% compared with 2010. (OCEANE) convertible into and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares with a ﬁnal maturity of January 1, 2017 in an aggregate amount of € 498 million representing 5,178,455 bonds. Capital expenditures for full year 2011 were 10,416 € 357 million, compared with € 389 million in 2010. Technip’s investment in key differentiating assets 9,228 during the year included delivery of the new-built Skandi Niterói and the upgrade of 8,018 Sunrise 2000, both for long-term charters with Petrobras. Ongoing investments included the upgrade of our manufacturing plant in Newcastle, United Kingdom for steel tube umbilicals, early works on a new ﬂexible pipe plant in Brazil, ﬁnalization of the construction of G1201 vessel, and the construction of four new vessels: Deep Orient for the Asia Paciﬁc market, Deep Energy and two 550-ton Flexible-Lay vessels for Brazil. 2009 2010 2011 BACKLOG (€ MILLION) 2011 was a year of signiﬁcant achievement for Technip. We conﬁrmed our growth potential, increasing our backlog by nearly € 1.2 billion to € 10.4 billion. ** Including the exceptional € 245 million provision related to TSKJ matter in 2009 2011 IN FIGURES TECHNIP ON THE STOCK MARKET Technip’s shares are listed on the NYSE Euronext Paris exchange and the USA over-the-counter (OTC) market as an American Depositary Receipt. 04/02/11 07/31/11 15% 05/02/11 07/01/11 02/01/11 06/01/11 01/02/11 03/03/11 12/28/11 10/29/11 10% 11/28/11 08/30/11 5% Technip 09/29/11 0% -5% -10% -15% CAC 40 -20% -25% -30% SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE ON EURONEXT PARIS – COMPARTMENT A (FROM JANUARY 2, 2011 TO DECEMBER 28, 2011) As of December 31, 2011, Technip’s shares ranked 24th on the CAC 40 by weighted capitalization, compared to 36th, when Technip joined the index. Despite uncertainty in relation to the worldwide economic recovery and European sovereign debt crisis, in 2011 Technip’s share price rose by 5.09% which outperformed the STOXX® 600 Oil & Gas Index* by 3.7% and the CAC 40 Index by over 20%. On August 1, 2011, Technip’s share price reached a historic high of € 78.14 per share. In 2011, Technip continued to implement its strategy focused on proﬁtability, based on successful project execution, technological excellence and proﬁtable order intake. At the start of 2011, Technip’s share price was € 69.10 and ended the year at € 72.62. * STOXX® 600 Oil & Gas Index includes European companies that are involved in the energy sector TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 1.58 IFP ÉNERGIES NOUVELLES 13 1.45 2.6% 1.35 INDIVIDUAL FONDS STRATÉGIQUE SHAREHOLDERS D’INVESTISSEMENT 6.6% 5.4% OTHERS 4.5% FRENCH TREASURY SHARES INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 2.1% 19.5% EMPLOYEES 2.0% INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 2009 2010 2011 82.2% NORTH AMERICA 29.4% REST OF WORLD DIVIDEND FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 17.6% (€ PER SHARE) Our 2011 performance enables the Board of Directors to recommend a dividend increase by 9% to € 1.58 UK & IRELAND per share. 10.3% SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE, NOVEMBER 2011 SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT INDEXES AND INVESTORS CONTACTS Sustainable development concerns are integrated into the Technip’s ﬁnancial communications team is available Group’s approach to project execution and in deﬁning and to answer questions and provide information to applying its values. Thanks to our achievements in sustainable individual shareholders, institutional investors and development, our stock has been reselected for 2011-2012 as ﬁnancial analysts in French and English: part of both the European and World Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, for the 10th consecutive year. Technip is also part Individual shareholders relations of SAM's list of best performing companies in sustainable Tel: +33 (0)1 47 78 66 75 development and ASPI Eurozone's index of socially responsible E-mail: actionnaires@technip.com groups. Investors and analysts relations Tel: +33 (0)1 47 78 69 77 E-mail: investor-relations@technip.com GOVERNANCE THE GROUP IN 2011 AND ORGANIZATION ➎ ➏ ➐ Intergenerational human resources management In the offshore business we continue to expand our With three acquisitions, investment in key industrial is at the heart of our social responsibility: it is position from frontier zones to technology projects and marine assets and major projects completed CLEAR crucial to foster Junior’s employment and to in deep and shallow waters. and awarded, 2011 was a very active year for the capitalize on the knowledge of Seniors. Subsea segment. TECHNIP Philippe Barril EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Thierry Parmentier Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Frédéric Delormel AND ACCOUNTABLE Human Resources Director Officer Onshore/Offshore Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Subsea 15 LEADERSHIP Technip is committed to implementing the highest ➊ ➎ ➍ standards of corporate governance, notably by complying ➋ with the French AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code for listed companies. ➌ AN EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM REPRESENTING BOTH OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT FUNCTIONS ➊ The Chairman and Chief Executive In 2011, we endeavored to live our values on a daily Officer (CEO) is responsible for the general basis – doing the right thing , trusting the team , management of Technip, with the assistance encouraging a fair return for all and building of the Executive Committee. Three special the future – in all that we do. committees report to the Chairman and CEO: John Harrison the Sustainable Development Committee, General Counsel the Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Disclosure Committee. ➋ The Onshore segment had a solid performance The Executive Committee prepares decisions in 2011 with very good technical and economical for submission to the Board of Directors; results. The prospects for 2012 are positive and well diversiﬁed in the traditional oil and gas market and specifically those relating to the approval of also in the energy industry in general. accounts, the setting of objectives, budgets and strategic orientation, as well as the Nello Uccelletti Senior Vice President, Onshore acquisition and sale of assets and companies. It supervises the monitoring of major contracts and evaluates key investment decisions. It also ➌ examines the plans and recommendations put To ensure that our core business is well covered, we have adapted our corporate structure with forward regarding internal audits, information the appointment of two Chief Operating Officers systems and telecommunications, human for the Subsea and Onshore/Offshore segments. resources and asset management. Thierry Pilenko Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Since 2011, the Executive Committee has been comprised of the Chairman and CEO, two Chief Operating Officers from Technip’s ➍ business segments (Subsea and Onshore/ Our 2011 proﬁts were ahead of our initial goals Offshore) and one other senior executive from and in addition, we grew our backlog in line with the operational business. Three senior managers our risk parameters. also represent key corporate functions: the Julian Waldron Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Human Chief Financial Officer Resources and the General Counsel. ➏ ➐ TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT GOVERNANCE THE GROUP IN 2011 AND ORGANIZATION ➌ ➍ ➎ 17 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD A BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF DIRECTORS AT FEBRUARY 29, 2012 REFLECTING OUR DIVERSITY The Board of Directors determines the The activities of the Board of Directors are ➊ ➏ ➐ ➑ strategic business directions of Technip and governed by a set of internal regulations, supervises their implementation. It is assisted and a Directors Charter defines their rules of in its duties by recommendations made by four conduct and duties. committees. Technip’s Board of Directors consists of The Audit Committee’s role is to enable the 11 members, including eight independent Board to ensure the quality of internal controls directors, bringing an in-depth understanding of as well as the integrity of the information the Group’s major clients and markets such as disclosed to shareholders and financial markets. North America, the North Sea and Brazil. With three women and six nationalities represented, The Nominations and Remunerations it also reflects the diversity of the Group. Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and AN ORGANIZATION FOSTERING examines the policy regarding compensation of PROXIMITY TO OUR CLIENTS Executive Committee members and proposes IN HIGH-GROWTH MARKETS ➋ ➒ ➓ those of the Chairman and CEO of the Group. Technip’s organizational structure consists The Strategic Committee assesses Technip’s of seven Regions that are responsible for their overall strategy (strategic orientations, plans own client interface, operations and financial and budgets, investments, acquisition and results: Asia Pacific, Brazil, Middle East, North disposal of assets) as proposed by the Chairman America, North Sea-Canada, Region A (Western and CEO. Europe, Africa, India and Pakistan) and Region B (Italy, Greece, Eastern Europe/Russia/CIS and Finally, the Ethics and Governance Committee South America). promotes best practices regarding governance and ethics within the Group. The head office, which is comprised of the Group’s senior management and corporate teams, supports the Regions with advice and expertise in transversal areas such as quality, health, safety and environment, security, finance, legal affairs, human resources, product ➊ Thierry Pilenko / Technip’s Chairman and CEO ➋ Olivier Appert / Chairman of IFP Énergies nouvelles ➌ Pascal Colombani* / Chairman of the lines, communications and information Board of Directors of Valeo ➍ Leticia Costa* / Associate of Prada Assessoria ➎ Marie-Ange Debon / Corporate Secretary of Suez Environnement systems. ➏ C. Maury Devine* / Member of the Boards of Directors of FMC Technologies and John Bean Technologies ➐ Gérard Hauser* / Member of the Boards of Directors of Alstom and Ipsen ➑ Marwan Lahoud* / Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer of EADS ➒ Daniel Lebègue* / Chairman of the Institut Français des Administrateurs ➓ John O’Leary* / Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Strand Energy Joseph Rinaldi* / Partner in Davis Polk & Wardwell * Independent Director TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PUTTING ETHICS 3 QUESTIONS FOR FRONT Alan Marriott AND CENTER Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, Subsea Business Unit, Technip in North America As a multinational company, Technip must Why is it particularly important to refer to strong ethics principles when you hold conduct business ethically and in strict an operational position? compliance with the law. Ethical behavior In all organizations, leaders set an example for the behavior of the employees working is expected by our employees, demanded for them. Therefore, they must be committed by our clients and is the basis of the trust to the highest standards. Leaders holding an operational position are constantly balancing of our shareholders. For us, it is the only risks and opportunities within the business acceptable way of doing business. process. Decisions made according to ethical principles allow us to provide the best return to all stakeholders. Would you tell us more about the implementation of the Ethics & Compliance campaign in the North America Region in 2011? Ethics and Compliance have been a regular part of the discussions within the North America management team, so the roll out of the program was welcomed by all. We decided A CLEAR STRATEGY ACCOUNTABLE MANAGEMENT to broaden the Ethics and Compliance reach FOR A STRONG POLICY beyond the minimum level expected, by Technip has a comprehensive providing as much training depth as possible to all employees who may become exposed In addition to being contrary to our compliance structure in place that stretches to compliance situations. By constantly values, unethical behavior poses criminal and from the Board of Directors right through discussing and prompting them, we were able financial risks to both our employees and to day-to-day business, to guarantee that to complete the training in due time, capturing the Company. Our objective, therefore, is to everyone in the Group applies and respects a larger population than originally intended. conduct business everywhere in the world with our principles. the highest standards of honesty, integrity and What are your comments and suggestions fairness, and in compliance with the principles Created in December 2008, the Ethics on the Ethics e-learning program? set out in the United Nations Global Compact. and Governance Committee is composed 41 senior leaders, including myself, and over of members of the Board of Directors. 1,240 North America Region employees completed the program. The training was To this end, we continue to implement a best It assists the Board in promoting best comprehensive and in most part very in class compliance program with three main practices regarding governance and ethics interesting. Even if e-learning programs do priorities: within the Group. One of the Committee’s not always lead to the best retention of 1. Comply with the laws and regulations in main duties is to monitor compliance with information, they are easier to set up and force in the countries where we operate, ethics principles and discuss all matters that allow completion by more learners. To further 2. Conduct due diligence of our business the Board of Directors (or its Chairman) may improve future trainings, I would recommend partners globally to ensure our operations send to it for examination. The Committee to split the material over modules and space are performed in strict accordance with the meets at least twice a year. Each year it them out, to start each session with a recap laws in force, presents an evaluation of its operating of the last one and a test but also to provide 3. Train our employees to foster ethical policies and proposes measures to improve individuals with a reference guide. behavior. its practices. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 19 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ARE CORE VALUES OF TECHNIP Good A second committee, the Ethics and the Technip Board of Directors through the ethics is Compliance Committee is composed of senior managers from across the Group and reports Ethics and Governance Committee. The Group Compliance Officer is responsible for ensuring good business directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive the application of the Ethics Charter and the Officer (CEO). It ensures that the Group’s effective implementation and enforcement Ethics Charter and all internal regulations of applicable anti-corruption and compliance derived from it are properly adhered to. policies. Regional Compliance Officers The Ethics and Compliance Committee oversee everyday operations in the Regions. makes proposals to the Chairman and CEO They are responsible for providing support and the Board of Directors of the Company for the effective implementation of the concerning ethics and compliance. It also Company’s anti-corruption and compliance organizes reports from the managers of policies. the Regions on how the Charter is being applied. Any employee can refer an issue CLEAR RULES FOR EVERYONE to the Ethics and Compliance Committee on any subject related to the principles set Technip regularly reviews its ethics forth in the Ethics Charter. The Ethics and and compliance policies and procedures Compliance Committee is chaired by the to make sure they are compliant with the Group Compliance Officer. most stringent international practices. Our rules and systems provide a clear and Technip’s ethics and compliance programs are comprehensive operational framework for supervised by the Group Compliance Officer, conducting business in all of the countries who reports to the General Counsel and to where we operate. ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS Fighting corruption is one part of Technip’s commitment to ethics; protecting human rights is another. Technip is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. This means that we are committed to a continual process of applying and supporting the 10 principles of the Global Compact, which cover human rights, working and environmental standards and ﬁghting corruption. In the ﬁeld of human rights, we respect the letter and spirit of all applicable legislation. We have added a clause to our general GOOD ETHICS IS GOOD BUSINESS AND ESTABLISHES THE BASIS OF SUSTAINABLE PARTNERSHIPS purchasing terms and conditions informing suppliers that we uphold the Global Compact. We verify that our suppliers contribute to the implementation of these values through regular inspection and audits. We also encourage our subsidiaries and afﬁliates to undertake local initiatives to demonstrate their commitment to doing Our Ethics Charter defines our objectives in STRICT OPERATIONAL STANDARDS business in a way that upholds human terms of integrity and the corresponding rules rights. In Italy for example, Technip is proud of good conduct: Technip has implemented several to have received Social Accountability • Respect the spirit and letter of the law, ethics-related operational standards. 8000 certiﬁcation for the eighth year • Never make personal use of insider information, in a row. SA 8000 is an international • Always protect the confidentiality of The anti-corruption policy provides a clear standardized code of conduct for improving sensitive information, and comprehensive Group-wide framework working conditions around the world. • Avoid conflicts of interest, that helps employees operate with honesty and • Never offer any inducements to secure integrity. These rules are of vital importance commercial favors, for those whose jobs include negotiating • Always inform the Ethics and Compliance with third parties and making decisions about Committee of any behavior that violates contracts to sign. these rules. Fighting corruption is one part With respect to this last The know your partner principle requires potential commercial and industrial partners of Technip's commitment to issue, a whistle-blowing of Technip to complete a questionnaire and ethics; protecting human rights procedure was introduced sign a declaration of compliance. We check is another in June 2010, pursuant to which employees of the the information provided and pay particular attention to any indicators that could Group can inform the Ethics and Compliance cast doubt on the honesty and integrity Committee of any behavior violating the of the potential partner. If any such issues ethical rules governing finance, accounting and cannot be resolved in a satisfactory manner, corruption. the commercial relationship is terminated. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 21 THE ETHICS CHARTER IS ONE OF TECHNIP’S SIX CHARTERS OUTLINING ITS CORE COMMITMENTS, ALONG WITH SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, HEALTH AND SAFETY, QUALITY AND SECURITY A third standard sets out the rules governing PROMOTING ETHICS the acceptance of gifts and hospitality to avoid AND COMPLIANCE any corrupt practices. 2011 saw the launch of a worldwide ethics and compliance campaign. Kicked off with TRAINING AND AWARENESS a message from the Chairman and CEO, this unprecedented initiative was aimed Finally, ethics training courses are at raising awareness and understanding of the topic, while providing a clear insight conducted for employees across the Group into ethical and responsible behaviors. and online training has been available to all employees. In addition, a major awareness An ambitious poster campaign was rolled campaign was launched in the first quarter of out across the Group, followed by the 2011 (see box on the right). distribution of an Ethics in Business booklet that provided simple and practical guidelines In 2012, we will carry on training our employees for handling business situations ethically, and performing due diligence of our business fairly and in compliance with the law. partners. Due to the heightened enforcement The booklet was produced in our three main EVERY EMPLOYEE OF TECHNIP RECEIVED AN environment and fast developing legislation AWARNESS-RAISING BOOKLET ABOUT ETHICS languages (English, French and Portuguese) IN 2011 around the world, Technip will continue to and distributed to all employees. review its policies and procedures. This will ensure full compliance with stringent This campaign was supported by targeted learning comprised of an Open University international practices and, therefore, provide informative program focused on anti-corruption and an interactive e-learning module the maximum protection of our employees, called Ethics throughout Technip that was tailored for the activities of the Group. the Company, our clients and shareholders. MARKETS AND STRATEGY 30,000 PEOPLE SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS Through our technological expertise and management skills, our human energy enables us to help our customers meet their main objective: satisfy the growing worldwide demand for energy while minimizing the environmental impact of their activities and responsibly managing the planet’s reserves. HYDROCARBONS STILL SUPPLY MORE THAN 50% OF ALL ENERGY FOR THE EARTH’S 7 BILLION INHABITANTS MARKETS: STEADY Oil and gas today account for more than revamp of existing gas terminals into liquefied PERSPECTIVES IN OIL AND GAS half of the energy consumed by the world’s natural gas plants. These evolutions, on two 7 billion people. Despite alternative energies highly active markets, open door to revamping The improvement seen in our market initiatives and their growing importance, fossil and adjustment of current production units environment since the second half of 2009 energy remains the main source of support for in order to cope with future markets needs. continued throughout 2011. The annual the development of emerging economies. Meeting these challenges requires the kind of economic growth rate remained over 3% in capabilities that Technip possesses. 2011*, mainly driven by non OECD countries. In 2011, a favorable business environment After a significant growth of 2.7 million encouraged oil producers to pursue a more STRATEGY: IMPLEMENTING barrels per day (Mb/d) in 2010**, the world dynamic investment policy. Looking ahead, OUR FRAMEWORK oil consumption continues to increase with an our customers continue to invest in projects, additional 0.7 Mb/d in 2011 to reach 88 Mb/d. through front-end engineering works and We concentrated in 2011 on the five key The crude oil market sustained high price levels larger final investment decisions. We therefore areas of our strategy: in 2011, the Brent spot price averaging more see growth opportunities in nearly all our 1. Focus on energy, especially oil and gas, where than USD110 per barrel for the first time in its markets. Moreover, oil and gas producers are our past achievements and the strength of history. being held to higher-than-ever operational our research and development activities standards. As a result, they are faced with enable us to offer high quality solutions in OPPORTUNITIES: INVESTMENTS new challenges in terms of safety, local response to customer requirements, CONTINUE TO INCREASE content and efficient resource management. 2. Improve our operational performance with The Fukushima disaster had led to a resources an on-going commitment to health, safety, Despite current volatility and economic shifting for Japan, which would be more focus environment and quality, and focus on crisis in many countries, the industrial on natural gas on a long-term basis than on excellence in execution, environment is expected to remain favorable nuclear power. On the other hand, shale gas 3. Invest in expertise, technologies and for Technip in 2012, with demand for oil development in the United States may lead industrial assets, forecast to rise by more than 1 Mb/d. the country to export its gas surplus through 4. Improve profitability through top-line * International Monetary Fund figures – September 2011 ** International Energy Agency figures – January 2012 TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT THE GROUP IN 2011 growth in each segment while maintaining potential – West Africa, the Gulf of Mexico, superior operating profit margins, Brazil and Asia Pacific – by not only managing 5. Develop our human resources and empower a diversified portfolio of projects, but also the organization. by establishing a long-term industrial footprint. 23 This global strategy is applied throughout our business segments. OFFSHORE: FOCUSING ON FRONTIER PROJECTS SUBSEA: CONSOLIDATING GLOBAL LEADERSHIP Oil and gas developments have gone beyond the traditional frontiers of the Our comprehensive expertise covers the offshore industry in terms of complexity entire value chain for subsea infrastructures, and execution requirements. Thanks to our from pipeline and umbilical design through mix of capabilities and broad experience, to manufacturing and installation vessels we provide world-class standards (deep to shore projects). Our subsea strategy, and advanced technologies to deliver WE STAYED ON COURSE IN 2011, which aims to extend our market leadership, fit-for-purpose solutions, designed to FOCUSING ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES is illustrated by our recent acquisition overcome the challenges of ultra-deepwater, of Global Industries. First, we intend to harsh environments and Arctic conditions. capitalize on vertical integration by increasing Our ability to mix cross-segment capabilities the production capacities of our flexible has enabled us to win the contract for the pipe and umbilical production plants and first floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) by modernizing and improving the capabilities unit. We are also focused on responding of our fleet. Second, we aim to set the industry to our customers’ needs with technologies ONSHORE: CAPITALIZING benchmark for meeting the challenges of that ensure respect of the environment and ON OUR EXPERTISE deepwater developments. Third, we are execution models that maximize the use of focused on growth in our subsea activities local human resources. Technip is a world leader in the onshore in regions that offer high development market, and has a solid track record of delivering major projects with high technological content. Our strategy is focused primarily on building on our strengths: technological expertise (through proprietary technologies and partnerships with licensors), engineering and project management capabilities, and project delivery skills (in procurement and construction, for example). Technip is also strongly committed to the development of renewable energies. By leveraging our know-how and track record in offshore operations and project management, we intend to play a major role in the offshore wind business in Europe. In parallel, we are committed to controlling our risk profile by diversifying our contract portfolio and by working with customers from the earliest stages of a project to gain the best-possible understanding of the risks. Finally, we are increasing our local presence in markets such as the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Latin America, to better meet the needs of INVESTING IN OUR ASSETS IS A STRONG AXIS OF OUR STRATEGY our customers. 25 OUR ACTIVITY SUBSEA 26 OFFSHORE 32 ONSHORE 38 OUR ACTIVITY SUBSEA 2011 operating margin Order intake at end 2011 €2,972 M 16.8% €4,380 M €4,097 M 27 2011 revenues Backlog at end 2011 SUBSEA UNDERWATER In the Subsea segment, we are a vertically-integrated technology leader committed to being at the forefront of frontier developments such as INFRASTRUCTURE, ultra-deepwater, high-pressure/temperature ﬂexible pipe and asset integrity technologies. This is illustrated by our strong internal research FROM DEEP TO SHORE and development (R&D) programs and by the recent acquisitions of state-of-the-art technology companies such as AETech and Cybernétix. This commitment to technologies – combined with our leading-edge ﬂeet, international assets and the integration of Global Industries in 2011 – enables us to make Technip a global leader from deep to shore. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUBSEA REACHING SUBSEA RESOURCES AND BRINGING THEM SAFELY TO SHORE THE SKANDI NITERÓI JOINED HER SISTER SHIP SKANDI VITÓRIA WITHIN TECHNIP’S FLEET DIFFERENTIATION EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES The corrosion of fluids is a key element to take THROUGH TECHNOLOGY into consideration when ensuring the integrity 2011 was a milestone for carbon fiber and life expectancy of the pipes. That is why we Our clients continue to pursue deepwater armor, an innovation in the composition have fully qualified a mechanically lined rigid and ultra deepwater projects, where of flexible pipe. Thanks to this exclusive pipe, which is a steel pipe hosting a thin they face ﬂow management issues, high technology, Technip can provide flexible corrosion resistant material. It is a very pressure and temperature, corrosives ﬂuids risers for use in deepwater that weigh 50% less cost-effective alternative to traditional alloy and even greater safety requirements. than traditional flexible pipes while offering pipes and metallurgically bonded clad pipes. We support them by combining innovation excellent corrosion and fatigue resistance. For flexible pipe technology, we have patented with continuous improvement of existing an anti-hydrogen sulfide (H2S) layer for highly technologies. Avoiding hydrates or wax formation which corrosive fluids. It is based on a polymer with can block a pipe is a major challenge of an oxide composite which neutralizes H2S that ULTRA DEEPWATER our industry. In the field of flow assurance, has permeated through the bore. This new layer we have designed reeled, electrically heated provides significant weight and cost reduction. Technip’s R&D center in Le Trait, France, pipe-in-pipe for both shallow and deepwater completed its flexible pipe qualification environments. This innovation provides an REMOTE INTERVENTION, programs for 3,000 meters of water depth. energy efficient solution for active insulation. ASSET INTEGRITY AND IN-SITU These kinds of products are critical for the We are providing Petrobras with new flexible MONITORING pre-salt development in Brazil, as well as integrated production bundles (IPB) with the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa. In 2011, built-in electrical heating and monitoring Since the Macondo incident in 2010, our we opened an R&D center in Vitória, Brazil, system. IPBs were developed in our R&D clients have become even more demanding specializing in flexible pipe technology, centers, and the first series were manufactured concerning safety enhancements and demonstrating our commitment to developing in our Le Trait plant. production optimization solutions. In 2011, innovations closer to key markets. Technip acquired AETech and its acoustic TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OUR ACTIVITY A YEAR OF ACQUISITIONS 29 OUR FLEXIBLE PIPE PLANT IN MALAYSIA BEGAN MAKING ITS FIRST DELIVERIES IN 2011 TECHNIP FINALIZED THE ACQUISITION OF GLOBAL INDUSTRIES AT THE END OF 2011 In December 2011, we ﬁnalized our most important deal in the past 10 years: the acquisition of Global Industries. This US-based company brings complementary subsea know-how, assets and experience to Technip. This includes two state-of-the-art newly built S-Lay vessels as well as strong positions in the Gulf of Mexico (US and Mexican waters), Asia Paciﬁc, Brazil and the Middle East. The acquisition of Global Industries reinforces Technip’s leadership DEVELOPMENT We support our OF ASSETS BASE in the fast-growing subsea market. Strong revenue synergies are expected as the clients by combining acquisition will substantially increase innovation Continuous investment is a condition to maintain our leadership in the subsea our current capabilities and expand our addressable market by approximately 30% with continous business. In 2011, Technip pursued to invest in deep-to-shore subsea infrastructure. improvement of in land-based and ﬂeet assets in key regions, existing technologies such as Brazil, Asia Paciﬁc and the Gulf of Technip also announced in 2011 the acquisition of the French company Mexico. Cybernétix. This strategic deal gives us access to the ﬁrm’s expertise and VERSATILE FLEET capabilities in designing, manufacturing sensors technology for monitoring pipe and deploying robotic systems in harsh integrity. We also acquired Cybernétix, a leader For subsea developments, the fleet is an environments. in robotics of complex systems in hostile important key to success. Technip has a highly environment with a strong portfolio of in-situ versatile fleet, capable of using different pipelay AETech was the third acquisition of the monitoring, inspection and maintenance methods in a variety of regions and water depths. year in the subsea business. The company technology. We provide the three main installation methods uses acoustic non-destructive technology for rigid pipe (Reel-Lay, J-Lay and S-Lay), as well to monitor underwater structures, such These moves, combined with our own as heavy lift, flexible and umbilical installation, as subsea risers. This technology is based expertise and existing frame agreements construction and diving. on leading-edge research into the use with organizations such as Schlumberger and The Skandi Niterói, a Brazilian-flagged vessel of acoustic emissions for measuring France’s CEA (Alternative Energies and Atomic specialized in flexible pipe installation at depths the health of industrial materials and Energy Commission), make Technip a leader in exceeding 2,000 meters, joined the Technip structures. this technologically demanding market. fleet in 2011 and started its four-year charter SUBSEA to Petrobras. The building of the Deep Orient, SUPERIOR OPERATIONAL a construction support vessel, which will be PERFORMANCE dedicated to the Asia Pacific market, and that of the Deep Energy, a state-of-the-art pipelay In 2011, Technip made important strides vessel, has made progress in 2011. Finally, in towards even greater excellence in project partnership with Odebrecht Oil and Gas, we execution. The operational margin is one are building two very high tension flexible major indicator of our performance, but pipelay vessels that will be dedicated to the we also measure our success using project Brazilian pre-salt market. health, safety and environmental indicators, the quality of the products, and the MANUFACTURING PLANTS AND BASES adaptability of our organization. Being close to the clients and the EXCELLENCE IN HEALTH, SAFETY development areas is an advantage for Technip. AND ENVIRONMENT In 2011, our Asiaflex Products plant in Malaysia Technip is committed began making its first deliveries, confirming our flexible pipe strategy for emerging markets. Our to reaching the Technip is committed to reaching the highest standards of health, safety and presence in the Asia Pacific market continued highest standards environment (HSE) during production and to grow with the acquisition of Global of quality and HSE operations at sea, as illustrated by several Industries offshore base in Batam, Indonesia, strategically positioned to become the hub during production initiatives taken in 2011. of our Asia Pacific fleet. and operations at sea The mobile training unit (MTU) has been developed by Technip in Aberdeen to deliver On the other side of the globe, in Brazil, cost-effective, practical training for vessel we have completed our logistics base in personnel and for onshore work sites. The Vitória. It is a key stepping stone for us and concept is to bring training to the trainee, our client, Petrobras, as we move forward with thanks to the design of a comprehensive pre-salt developments. Our 78,000 square training package focused on working at heights meters Angra offshore base, with its 359 meters or in confined spaces and also on advanced long quay side, is ideally positioned to serve rescue techniques. The project won Technip’s the latest offshore developments in Brazil. Finally, Technip has moved forward to the implementation of a new high-end flexible pipe manufacturing plant in Açu, Brazil. ENGINEER ON THE PAZFLOR PROJECT (ANGOLA) TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OUR ACTIVITY 3 QUESTIONS FOR Alain Poincheval Technip Pazﬂor 31 Project Director (Angola) Could you brieﬂy describe the Pazﬂor What were the project challenges and how What is Technip’s subsea experience project and Technip’s role in it? did you overcome them? in West Africa and the potential Technip was the consortium leader and There were many challenges, but managing of the region? acted as a contractor to Total, the project two different oil characteristics was one of Technip is very familiar with Gulf of Guinea operator. In water depths ranging from 600 to the main ones. We had to use two distinct subsea projects, whether in Nigeria, Ghana, 1,200 meters, we provided design and subsea subsea architectures. In particular, the Congo or Angola. Coming after the Dalia installation of more than 180 kilometers of large footprint of one of the ﬁelds made project in 2005, Pazﬂor conﬁrms our position pipeline, 40 kilometers of ﬂexible lines and thermal efﬁciency an issue and required us as a major subsea contractor in the region. risers, and 85 kilometers of umbilicals. Pazﬂor to use pipe-in-pipe ﬂowlines and integrated Angola has huge potential for future oil ﬁeld was a challenging oil ﬁeld development production bundle (IPB) ﬂexible risers. We development and is a key country for Technip. and we delivered a complex project while also demonstrated the efﬁciency of using That is why we have a strong strategy of providing world-class HSE performance and a consortium for managing simultaneous promoting local content and sustainable pushing the frontier of subsea technologies. offshore operations. Finally, Pazﬂor was an development, aimed at enhancing our We were able to do this thanks to the support opportunity to implement our automatic FPSO capacities in the region to be ready for future of our two Angolan facilities, the Dande spool hook-up system, which is based on patented projects. base and the Lobito umbilical manufacturing diver-less risers. This leading-edge technology plant. enabled a safer and faster hand-over of the ﬁrst oil to the beneﬁt of the client. Jacques Franquelin award in 2010, enabling its common traits: quality of execution and We also completed the Tupi export line for designers to drive their innovative concept the safety and integrity of people and the Petrobras in partnership with Allseas. forward in 2011 and implement it in the field. environment. INTERNATIONAL AND FLEXIBLE To build HSE awareness on the Hibernia At the start of 2011, we completed operations ORGANIZATION project, Technip carried out a communication of Jubilee for Tullow Oil, the first subsea project campaign in Canada, praised by the client in Ghana, which was a success in terms of Our unique, vertically integrated subsea ExxonMobil, starring employees’ children safety performance, technical achievement business was reinforced by the acquisition of outfitted for various sports with full protection and budget. Global Industries in 2011 (see box p.29). We also equipment. The aim was to demonstrate that enjoyed a record backlog and a peak year in there is no age to learn safety rules. Technip led the subsea part of the Pazflor terms of order intake, with € 4,097 million, project for Total in Angola, which is to date which will translate into greater activity in EXECUTION CAPABILITY the biggest subsea project we have ever the coming years. This increase in business executed (see interview above). Total’s Islay represents a sizeable challenge in terms of Our portfolio of projects reflects a project is a North Sea development that uses human resources. We have anticipated this diverse and balanced customer base. The our innovative rigid reeled electrically heated situation, maintaining our headcount during following projects are among the most pipe-in-pipe. The installation was finished the recent economic crisis, and are continuing notable of 2011, due to their size, location in 2011 and is a new technology reference to hire and train the specialists who will work or technological scope. They all share two for Technip. on the delivery of the coming projects. OUR ACTIVITY OFFSHORE 2011 operating margin Order intake at end 2011 €914 M 5.8% €2,534 M €2,371 M 33 2011 revenues Backlog at end 2011 OFFSHO RE FIT-FOR-PURPOSE Our offshore activities include engineering, procurement, construction and installation of ﬁxed and ﬂoating platforms for the energy industry. PLATFORMS AT SEA Technip has developed world-class standards and advanced technologies to deliver ﬁt-for-purpose solutions, designed to overcome the challenges of shallow and ultra-deepwater and harsh environments. We are positioned in the design and construction of complex installations which include ﬂoating production, storage and ofﬂoading (FPSO) units that are among the world’s largest, and are a leading contractor in ﬂoating liqueﬁed natural gas (FLNG) projects. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OFFSHORE GOING BEYOND THE TRADITIONAL FRONTIERS OF COMPLEXITY AND EXECUTION REQUIREMENTS THE P-56 IS THE THIRD SEMI-SUBMERSIBLE PLATFORM DELIVERED BY TECHNIP TO PETROBRAS IN BRAZIL MAJOR OPERATIONAL After successfully completing the front-end DEVELOPMENTS IN 2011 engineering and design (FEED) for the offshore 2011 has been the processing platform for Chevron’s Wheatstone year of renewal for In 2011, Technip worked on projects in both shallow waters and at great depths. The project in 2011, Technip continued to provide engineering services through DSME (see the Spar business in Offshore segment increased its contribution interview p.36). The platform topside will be the Gulf of Mexico to the company’s backlog with the signature one of the world’s largest ever installed with a of several major contracts. single integrated floatover method. SUSTAINED ACTIVITY IN THE In the Middle East, Technip continued work CONVENTIONAL OFFSHORE SECTOR on the FEED of the Upper Zakum 750K project, WORLDWIDE which aims at increasing output to 750,000 barrels of oil per day from one of the world’s During 2011, Technip started engineering largest oil fields. We performed engineering on Statoil’s Valemon project in the Norwegian of four artificial islands and interconnecting sector of the North Sea. It is one of Statoil’s pipelines. large field developments, with estimated recoverable reserves of about 200 million FLOATING PLATFORMS FOR barrels of oil. Samsung Heavy Industries DEEPWATER PROJECTS awarded us the engineering services contract for detailed design, procurement, engineering 2011 has been the year of renewal for the and follow-up engineering support for the Spar business in the Gulf of Mexico, a trend that platform topsides. The contract is scheduled benefited Technip, reinforcing our leadership for completion in the second half of 2012. in Spars and ultra-deepwater production. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OUR ACTIVITY 35 IMPROVING SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION OF TECHNIP’S ENGINEERING TEAMS IN AUSTRALIA ARE DESIGNING THE WHEATSTONE PLATFORM OFFSHORE OPERATIONS In addition to constantly improving the safety of our operations to prevent environmental accidents, we design systems to mitigate such accidents. One such development is a well containment system for use in the Gulf of Mexico (see Environment chapter). Another is being developed as part of an agreement, signed in 2011, with the owners of the Dalian Developer drillship. They have tasked Technip with the conceptual design of a topside BP awarded Technip a 10-year master We continued to engineer a Spar platform, production system that would allow agreement for Spar platforms. The agreement within a design competition, for Statoil’s the vessel to operate as an oil spill covers the design, procurement and Luva gas condensate field development response unit to receive, process and construction of hulls and mooring systems for in the Norwegian North Sea. The unit will stabilize the spilled crude for storage. Spar platforms in the Gulf of Mexico, as well store condensate in its hull and offload to Technip is involved in promoting the as the design of top tension risers for dry tree shuttle tankers rather than using a pipeline. Dalian Developer as an oil spill response/ units. The Spars will be fabricated at our yard When completed, it will be the first Spar extended well test unit to oil companies. in Pori, Finland, where most of the previous platform with onboard product storage, Technip is also targeting a role in the Technip Spars have been manufactured. a technology with applications for other subsea components of the oil spill response system. Engineering design work for the first Spar remote gas condensate field developments. under this agreement, Mad Dog Phase II, has The Dalian Developer production system already begun. In Brazil, production of the Petrobras P-56 can safely handle 100,000 barrels of semi-submersible platform began in 2011. liquids per day, almost 6 million cubic In parallel, Anadarko awarded Technip the It was the third in a series of semi-submersible meters of gas and can store 1 million engineering, construction and transportation platforms with topsides in excess of barrels of captured oil per day in a single of a 23,000-ton Truss Spar hull for its Lucius 30,000 tons, delivered to Petrobras by Technip vessel. It can also store bulk methanol and field development in the Gulf of Mexico. This in consortium with Keppel-Fels. Furthermore, dispersant chemicals. When operating field sits at a depth of 2,165 meters and will we continued engineering work on the first as an extended well testing unit, it would have a daily capacity of more than 80,000 two Brazilian FPSOs: P-58 and P-62. be capable of processing 30,000 barrels barrels of oil and 12 million cubic meters of per day of heavy crude. natural gas. This Spar, whose construction has already started in Pori, will be the fifteenth The Dalian Developer should enter service delivered by Technip (out of 18 worldwide). in 2013. OFFSHORE 3 QUESTIONS FOR Nick Palmer Technip Wheatstone Project Manager (Australia) Could you brieﬂy describe the Wheatstone project and Technip’s role in it? The Wheatstone project is operated by Chevron. It is a green-ﬁeld LNG development supplied from gas ﬁelds on the Northwest Shelf offshore Western Australia. Subsea wells and systems will produce gas to an offshore processing platform, where it will be sent down a 220 kilometers trunkline to the onshore LNG and domestic gas plant. The main execution contractor, DSME, selected Technip as the detailed design subcontractor. The platform consists of a 37,000-ton topside on a steel gravity base structure in 80 meters of water. We are designing the complete platform facility and providing TECHNIP'S YARD IN FINLAND IS SPECIALIZED IN SPAR FABRICATION equipment procurement assistance. AND IS CURRENTLY EXECUTING THE LUCIUS PROJECT Would you tell us more about the importance of safety in the project design? Safety is a core value shared by Technip, DSME and Chevron. To ensure the safety of the staff that will build and operate the facility, the GROWTH DRIVEN In the emerging market of FLNG (see box p.37) engineering teams worked together to make BY TECHNOLOGY, we have designed cryogenic flexible pipes facilities safety a key driver in design. ADDED-VALUE ENGINEERING and continued to work on the qualification of This was especially useful during the AND PROXIMITY a floating offloading line for use on standard FEED phase when the design was being liquefied natural gas tankers. We are also optimized, and continues now through We are active in all types of offshore working on technologies to optimize the the detailed design. The core improvement projects and are honing our ability to operating costs and safety aspects of these units. was the development of easy-to-understand deliver ﬁt-for-purpose designs that provide performance indicators. They were used to improve the inherent safety and to the best solutions for high-growth and Two new designs have been brought to validate design decisions. high-technology markets. Another driver is maturity. One was for a novel semi-submersible our global footprint that allows proximity platform that minimizes vessel motion and This detailed design contract follows the with our clients. improves riser performance. The other was FEED. How important is it to build on the for a new shallow water platform for use in continuous relationship with the client? TECHNOLOGIES FOR ice-bound waters. We also continued the Our ability to develop an effective FEED and FRONTIER PROJECTS design of a deepwater tension leg platform use the same team for the detailed design (TLP) with wellheads on the platform instead meant we delivered an impressive design As with subsea, the offshore market is faced of the seabed. schedule and supported a cost-effective and safe outcome. Wheatstone is a tremendous with the challenge of exploiting new hydrocarbon opportunity for us to demonstrate our ability fields in increasingly extreme conditions, such To better answer our clients' needs, we are to deliver the design from beginning to end. as water depths approaching 3,000 meters and pushing back the limits of floatover installations Chevron sees Technip as a solid partner for Arctic environments. In 2011, we continued with our floatover high air gap concept. future developments. to invest in new technologies and tools for It allows heavier topsides to be installed at production in these frontier environments. greater heights above the surface of the water. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OUR ACTIVITY STRONGLY POSITIONED IN THE FLNG MARKET 37 It is ideal for installing platforms in regions with high waves and/or cyclonic weather conditions, such as Southeast Asia and Northwest Australia. The concept can be used ENGINEERING STARTED with monohull and catamaran configurations, ON STATOIL’S VALEMON PROJECT (NORWAY) depending on a project’s needs. In Brazil, for example, a catamaran solution has been CONSTRUCTION PHASE HAS BEGUN ON SHELL proposed for the installation of several PRELUDE FLNG’S BREAKTHROUGH PROJECT fixed platforms. It minimizes the effect on the jacket design and builds on our In May 2011, the Technip Samsung catamaran installation that was used on Malaysia’s Consortium was given the green light to Murphy Kikeh project. begin construction of Shell Prelude, under its 15-year frame agreement with Shell. In a large FPSO or FLNG, the turret that Prelude will be the ﬁrst FLNG facility in allows the unit to rotate with the swell while the world and the largest ﬂoating facility continuously producing is a strategic element. ever built, with 488 meters from bow to In 2011, Technip and Bluewater entered into an stern longer than four soccer ﬁelds laid exclusive global agreement to jointly market the end to end. The unit will operate about spiral stacked turret (SST), a flexible-hose-based 200 kilometers off the Northwest coast of alternative to the traditional mechanical swivel Australia and liquefaction of the produced stack to be used in floating units. Suited for high gas will occur directly onboard by cooling. pressure and large-capacity flow transfer systems, In 2011, we continued the SST allows each flexible pipe to wind and This represents a technological breakthrough for the energy industry to invest in new unwind from a conical tray, giving significant given that until now, all gas liquefaction technologies and tools rotational freedom and extended service life. This agreement is a significant sales channel operations took place onshore, requiring for production in frontier for the fluid transfer hoses manufactured in our long subsea pipelines and major onshore infrastructures. FLNG will therefore help environments flexible pipe plants. to open up new offshore natural gas ﬁelds that are currently too costly or difﬁcult to STRONGER PRESENCE CLOSE TO develop. FAST-GROWING MARKETS Technip is ideally placed to play a leading Technip’s multi-local presence through role in this new market, which combines our own assets, as well as strategic partnerships, the expertise of each of its three business is a core strength of our offshore business, segments, and will generate new business providing early involvement with local in the short and medium terms. customers and excellent coverage of growth markets. In the Asia Pacific region, as an extension of our long-term strategic agreements with MISC Berhad, Malaysia Marine and Heavy Engineering Holdings Berhad (MHB), we set up in 2010 a joint company called TMH to perform hull engineering. OUR ACTIVITY ONSHORE 2011 operating margin Order intake at end 2011 € 2,927 M 7.6% € 3,502 M € 1,507 M 39 2011 revenues Backlog at end 2011 ONSHO RE LAND-BASED OIL, In the Onshore segment, Technip’s activity covers the full range of onshore installations required to meet the production, processing GAS, PETROCHEMICAL, and transportation needs of the oil and gas, petrochemical and other industries, in particular renewable energies and mining and metals. RENEWABLE ENERGIES In 2011, growth in our onshore business remained healthy, thanks to FACILITIES AND OTHER a strong focus on strategic priorities. We continued to balance our portfolio of contracts in terms of client and contract types, as well INDUSTRIES PROJECTS as geographically, to reﬂect the market’s move towards the South and the East. We also maintained investment in our differentiating assets: people, technologies, project management expertise and construction supervision capability. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT ONSHORE LEADERSHIP BUILT ON PROJECT MANAGEMENT CAPABILITIES AND TECHNOLOGICAL EXPERTISE TECHNIP IS INVOLVED IN SEVERAL REFINING PROJECTS SUSTAINED ACTIVITY Hanas was substantially completed at the end FOR OUR OIL AND GAS of 2011. Work on a similar contract for a second PRODUCT LINES LNG unit has already begun with a third expected to start at the beginning of 2012. Technip is involved in major onshore Many study contracts with potential for future SMALL-SCALED LNG UNITS, LIKE THE NINGXIA HANAS PROJECT, oil and gas projects with a high level of work were secured in 2011. These included ARE ONE OF THE RECENT TENDENCIES OF THE LNG MARKET technological input. 2011 was an active year pre-front-end engineering design, front-end in all areas of this business. engineering design (FEED) and feasibility studies for projects in Mozambique and Abu Dhabi NATURAL GAS: (LNG), Malaysia (boil off gas reliquefaction) RE-EMERGENCE OF MAJOR PROJECTS and Uzbekistan (gas-to-liquids [GTL] – see IN THE SHORT TERM interview p.41). In Qatar, following the three mega Our onshore teams also contributed substantially liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects delivered to floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) projects, in 2010, Technip leading a joint venture with and Shell’s Prelude project in particular. Chiyoda progressed with the execution of the engineering, procurement and construction REFINING: CONFIRMED LEADERSHIP (EPC) contract for gas treatment units and POSITION AND NEW PROSPECTS utilities awarded by Qatargas in 2010 for the Plateau Maintenance Project. In 2011, we successfully started-up the Paraxilene (intermediate used in the fabrication In China, the design and construction of of polyesters) complex at the Plock refinery in a small-scaled LNG unit at Yinchuan for Ningxia Poland for PKN Orlen. Construction progressed TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OUR ACTIVITY 3 QUESTIONS FOR Cosimo Cannalire Vice President Alliances, 41 Technip in Italy Could you describe the GTL Uzbekistan project and Technip’s scope? The Uzbekistan GTL project is led by a joint venture between Petronas, Sasol and UNG. It is the latest application of Sasol’s world leading GTL technology. The plant will have a capacity of 1.4 million tons per year and will produce GTL diesel, kerosene, naphtha and liquid petroleum gas. Our scope of work covers preliminary activities and traditional FEED activities that have ramped up at the beginning of 2012. on the Jubail refinery for SATORP in Saudi Arabia. Can you explain the strategic value of Site preparation activities started in Algeria for this project? the Sonatrach Algiers refinery expansion project. Although the amount of this project is A residue hydrocracker project for Lukoil in modest for Technip, it brings together Bulgaria entered the detailed EPC phase. The three strategically important factors: high hydrocracker expansion project at the Total technological content, strong relationship refinery in Normandy, France, for which we with a top-tier client, and development in provide EPC services, is progressing smoothly. an emerging geographical market. It enables The FEED works for the Cienfuegos refinery in us to leverage our technological edge in the Cuba, for CNPC, are close to completion. GTL ﬁeld and also opens up a number of prospects in the GTL market; Sasol alone has plans in Canada, the United States and Qatar. To maintain leadership in the refining To maintain leadership field and gain notable knowledge in the refining field and gain notable knowledge Could you tell us more about Technip’s relationship with Sasol and successful of the high-potential projects from of the high-potential projects carried out together? very early stages, we secured several projects from very early This recent award comes on the heels of conceptual and feasibility studies in 2011 stages, we secured several conceptual and the successful completion by Technip of the ORYX facility in Qatar for the same client. feasibility studies in 2011, in Egypt, Azerbaijan, On the ORYX project, we worked with Kazakhstan, Estonia, Russia and The Netherlands. the client rather than for the client. Today, their technology is mature and proven, and the plant fully delivers its expected HYDROGEN: results in terms of both product quality STILL GOING STRONG and plant capacity. The lessons learned are really helpful for the Uzbekistan job and Two new hydrogen production units for other projects. This successful project is came on stream in 2011: one for Air Products also creating business for Technip. We were in The Netherlands, and one for DOW-Solvay recently awarded a contract for support in Thailand. Our alliance partner, Air Products, services for the expansion of ORYX. Globally, awarded us a contract for a new plant in the GTL market appears prosperous and Louisiana. We were also awarded contracts for should provide real opportunities for Technip in the future. three plants in China, one in Thailand and one in Russia. ONSHORE The steam reformer in this last plant has a and cooperation with best-in-class technology capacity of 238,000 cubic meters per hour – partners, Technip is well positioned in ammonia one of the largest in our hydrogen portfolio and urea. of close to 300 units worldwide. Our research and development (R&D) produced FEED contracts in Gabon and Brazil, as well as several new advances, including novel the successful outcome of a public bid in India configurations for reforming catalyst and in 2011, could generate important EPC contracts the corresponding tube assemblies. We also in 2012. Similarly, the unprecedented level of continued to look for incremental improvements awards in polyethylene and polypropylene that are directly applicable to existing products. made by our alliance technological partner One example is a new design for a process gas INEOS (with the support of Technip as licensing waste heat boiler, which will be deployed in one of our current projects. New and renewed collaboration agreements ETHYLENE: in 2011 illustrated the capacity of Technip to MARKET UPTURN AND innovate through tight and long-term relationships NEW TECHNOLOGIES FOR 2012 with key technology-oriented companies In 2011, performance guarantees were successfully achieved in both Yansab ethylene support contractor) resulted in nine process plant in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, and RLOC project design packages in Russia, Brazil, India and China. in Ras Laffan, Qatar, triggering the official There are also sound prospects for several close-out of these major projects. Braskem and downstream FEED and EPC projects in 2012. Idesa selected Technip for a new 1 million ton ethylene plant in Mexico. In addition to our work in traditional petrochemicals, Technip is also developing The ethylene market showed signs of recovery activities and strategies in the field of green that should yield new projects in 2012 and 2013, chemicals (see Environment chapter). notably in South America, India and Russia, driven by new gas and shale gas fields coming on line in the US. Our innovative swirl flow tubes technology (Heliswirl tubes), developed in 2010, has been under testing since the end of 2011 and has confirmed that it allows higher performance of the cracking furnaces. It is now ready to be marketed. PETROCHEMICALS AND FERTILIZERS: A NEW WAVE OF PROJECTS Strong demand for fertilizers and petrochemicals in Latin America, Russia, India and Africa is feeding investments in new production facilities. Thanks to our alliance TECHNIP HAS A LONG-TERM EXPERTISE IN THE BIOFUEL BUSINESS (PICTURE ROTTERDAM PROJECT FOR NESTE OIL) TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT OUR ACTIVITY A FOCUSED INTEREST IN MINING AND NUCLEAR ENERGY 43 IN THE MINING AND METAL SECTOR, TECHNIP IS PARTICIPATING IN THE EXECUTION OF THE KONIAMBO PROJECT IN NEW CALEDONIA Technip is involved in several stages of the nuclear industry chain from front-end mining Technip is active in two wind farms projects activities to the back-end decommissioning in the United Kingdom: Aberdeen Bay for and waste storage facilities. In 2011, Vattenfall and a project offshore Glasgow for TSU Projects, a jointly owned subsidiary SSE. In France, Technip partnered with Iberdrola, of Technip and SGN (Areva Group), continued Areva, Eole Res and Neoen to bid for two of to work on the vast Imouraren mining project the five offshore wind areas that the French in Niger. Technip, in partnership with Ingérop, CONSTRUCTION HAS BEGUN FOR THE PLATEAU MAINTENANCE PROJECT IN QATAR government put up for tender. was awarded by ANDRA, the French national radioactive waste management agency, a contract to design the overall architecture These recent achievements, following the and the operation principles of the future TAKING OUR COMMITMENT successful delivery of the world’s first floating industrial geological storage center for TO RENEWABLE ENERGIES wind turbine for Statoil in 2009, along with high-activity and medium-activity, long-life FURTHER our vast experience in offshore operations, are radioactive waste. Through its newly acquired milestones towards achieving our goal of subsidiary Cybernétix, Technip is also active In 2011, Technip reinforced its footprint in becoming a leading player in this market. in nuclear facilities decommissioning projects renewable energies. in France and Japan. STRENGTHENING RENEWABLE ENERGY MAJOR PROJECTS IN BIOFUELS TECHNOLOGIES Technip is present in the two world major nickel mining projects. For Xstrata, Koniambo Following the Singapore unit, in 2011 New and renewed collaboration in New Caledonia reached in 2011 the peak we delivered the second largest renewable agreements in 2011 illustrated the capacity of of its construction phase and we delivered diesel production unit in the world to Neste Technip to innovate through tight and long-term a ﬁrst step bankable feasibility study for Oil in Rotterdam, The Netherlands. This unit relationship with key technology-oriented Eramet Weda Bay project in Indonesia. will produce biofuels for civil aviation for the companies. In May, Technip and Oski Energy Technip was also awarded, with its partner first time. signed a license purchase agreement with Kalex Egis, the prefeasibility study for the Xstrata managed Zanaga Iron Ore project in Republic to jointly license and market Kalex Geothermal of Congo. FAIR WINDS FOR THE OFFSHORE Systems Technology worldwide. This advanced WIND INDUSTRY power plant technology is an ammoniaThe subsea mining emerging business calls water binary cycle process that can generate upon the broad industrial and offshore In 2011, Technip confirmed the launch 15 to 30% more electric power than traditional assets developed by Technip over the last of a dedicated offshore wind business unit, binary systems over a wide range of geothermal 30 years for deepwater oil and gas ﬁelds. highlighting our commitment to the sector. resource temperatures. This agreement Therefore, Technip has been conﬁrmed as Other progress included the launch of the strengthens our position in the geothermal a key player in providing riser technologies Vertiwind vertical axis wind turbine R&D project market, where we have already executed several to Nautilus Minerals and in delivering and the acquisition of Subocean, a United studies. Other agreements bond Technip with prefeasibility studies to Neptune Minerals Kingdom based subsea cable-installation CIMV, a green chemistry start-up and with or Trans-Tasman Resources. company. Nenuphar, a floating offshore wind specialist. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABLE 45 DEVELOPMENT MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 46 OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE STAKEHOLDERS 48 HSE 62 INDICATORS 72 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE WHAT IS GOOD FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS GOOD FOR OUR BUSINESS Amran Ahmad Chairman of the Sustainable Development Committee TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT WHICH CHALLENGES ARE FACING TECHNIP IN TERMS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT? Our clients are working to satisfy the world’s energy needs in a sustainable way. As it is our role to support them in their projects, we must focus on addressing important issues like managing energy resources, delivering projects proﬁtably and safely, and minimizing the environmental impact. But sustainable development is not possible without the right people. That is why at Technip our goal is to enable each of our employees to achieve his or her maximum potential. Our commitment to our people of course covers their protection through an active health, safety and security policy. When it comes to the environment, the challenge is to reduce the footprint of our business and that of our clients and suppliers. 47 We are able to achieve this by providing them with technological solutions that minimize greenhouse gas emissions and by promoting renewable energies. There is also the challenge of contributing to the economic and social balance of local communities. In particular, we are focused on creating sustainable local employment. Lastly, our economic priority is to improve our ﬁnancial and operational performance, by accurately anticipating the future needs of our industry and associating our business partners with our own development. By ﬁnding ways to meet all of these challenges, we will be able to provide sustainable progress for all our stakeholders. This will also give us a competitive edge by helping to drive innovation. What is good for sustainable development is good for our business! WHAT IS TECHNIP’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY? Our sustainable development strategy is one of integration. The planet and people are an integral part of everything we do and the way we grow our business. Our goal is to increasingly integrate all dimensions of sustainable development into each of our projects. IS THERE AN ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT? Our commitment to corporate social responsibility dates back over a decade. In 2003, Technip signed the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, working standards, environmental standards Our goal is to increasingly and anti-corruption. We apply the ten principles of the Global Compact to every integrate all dimensions of aspect of our business. sustainable development into I chair the Sustainable Development Committee, which monitors all actions undertaken by Technip in this area and is the body responsible for the preparation each of our projects of this Report. The Committee’s eight members represent the various Group divisions and met eight times in 2011. It coordinates our global sustainable development strategy and submits its recommendations to the Group Executive Committee. A regional structure supported by a network of around 100 local entities’ representatives deploys initiatives at the local level and contributes to team involvement. HOW DO YOU MEASURE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PERFORMANCE? We use a worldwide IT system to gather sustainable development data. All of our local representatives contribute to this reporting process, which is consolidated at the Group level. The resulting indicators are published in our Reference Document and in this Report, which is prepared in accordance with the standards set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3). Our sustainable development policy and performance have also received external recognition. For the tenth consecutive year, the Technip share was included in the European and global Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. WHAT PROGRESS WAS MADE DURING 2011 ON THE TWO PRIORITY AREAS: ENVIRONMENT AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES? For the environment, for example, we have reinforced our commitment to offshore wind by creating a dedicated business unit. In terms of local communities, we launched the Technip Relief and Development Fund to collect donations from Technip and our employees. This endowment fund supported its ﬁrst projects in 2011 and will improve over time the way we coordinate our charitable initiatives. We also progressed in other subjects related to sustainable development. Momentum continued in both the Pulse and Human Resources Without Borders programs. In quality assurance, we launched the Business Excellence program. Concerning corporate performance, the acquisition of Global Industries allowed us to reinforce our leadership in the subsea business. Last but not least, the Ethics and Compliance program was a key step in helping people to understand the importance of Ethics in our business environment. WHAT ARE YOUR OBJECTIVES FOR 2012? Our objectives for 2012 continue to be the Communities and the Environment. We will also upgrade our level of Global Reporting Initiative compliance. Other objectives include continuing to grow proﬁtably while maintaining competitiveness, investing in human capital development, and empowering staff to encourage and promote innovation and new technology. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STAKEHOLDERS 49 STAKEHOLD ERS Technip is deeply engaged with all its stakeholders, including employees, UNDERSTANDING local communities and business partners. Our strategy and future EXPECTATIONS, MAINTAINING success rely on them being actively involved in our projects. By working closely together, we can reap the rewards as one, for the sustainable A HEALTHY DIALOGUE development of all. AND OFFERING PRACTICAL As part of taking our dialogue with stakeholders further, we invite you to share your views on this Report by contacting us at: SOLUTIONS sustainabledevelopment@technip.com TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT HUMAN RESOURCES A WORLD OF TALENT During the last three years, with the Human Resources Without Borders (HRWB) program, we focused on our HR processes and network. 2012 will see the launch of a new 3-year plan. It will allow us to strengthen the way we support business globally and to further reinforce the quality of HR practices. TRUSTING THE TEAM IS ONE OF OUR VALUES DEVELOPING AND KEEPING TALENT leaders. Together with business executives, I would like to be the last Chief Executive they used this information to build the Ofﬁcer (CEO) recruited from outside, says succession plans of more than 400 leaders Thierry Pilenko, Technip Chairman and CEO. throughout the Group, with solid candidates To make this happen, Technip’s HR strategy up to the very top. strives to recruit and develop future leaders from within the organization, regardless of their origins. With our business increasingly moving PLANNING SUCCESSION South and East, our HR strategy is Leadership succession management to support growth and get even closer is a priority. In 2011, we conducted our first to our clients worldwide succession planning campaign, where the performance of more than 3,000 employees was reviewed. Their profiles ENCOURAGING MOBILITY have been described in a common language across all entities thanks to the new Group job Mobility, in any shape or form, helps to classification, which translates more than 70% build leaders. We frequently propose new of Technip positions to about 440 pivotal jobs. career opportunities and non-obvious moves across businesses, functions and Regions to Thanks to these inputs, HR managers gained support and accelerate the development of a deeper knowledge of our potential future employees’ careers. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 51 30,000 people WE RECENTLY WELCOMED THE TEAMS OF GLOBAL INDUSTRIES AND CYBERNÉTIX IN THE TECHNIP FAMILY. THEY ARE ADDING THEIR COMPLEMENTARY SKILLS AND EXPERTISE TO OUR HUMAN RESOURCES in 48 countries Our new Policies on International Assignments collaboration. These traits are used to focus For example, we consider career talks to be an provide a balanced approach that allows us career-related discussions on what really opportunity for quality discussions about career to develop talents under the best conditions, matters when developing our people. and development and a right for our employees. whatever their country of origin. We want our employees to grow in both In 2012, an initiative on employee engagement technological and leadership roles. Special will aim at further reinforcing the level of trust Our job portal is now used by all entities across focus has been put on the College of between Technip and its employees. Technip to publish both internal and external Experts, Technip’s technological reference Technip continued in 2011 to offer long-term vacancies. With consistently more than body, with regards to the definition and incentive plans consisting of stock options, 1,000 job postings listed, we are progressively review of expertise-related objectives during performance shares and cash. They are designed meeting our commitment to ensure total performance appraisals. To support leadership to build loyalty and improve retention. transparency of employment opportunities. roles, the Technip Leading Edge program puts the high-potential employees with sufficient Additionally, an alert system allows managers FORMING LEADERS experience within Technip on the track to and HR teams to act quickly at the earliest sign become leaders. of discontent or a change of attitude in a key The qualities that we want in future employee. With more than 150 alerts raised leaders are clearly defined and summarized in IMPROVING ENGAGEMENT since the system went live, we have been the six Technip leadership traits: enterprising; AND RETENTION able to retain about 70% of the employees driving profitable execution; role modeling, concerned. HSE compliance and diversity; leading Losing an employee is always a failure. people courageously and effectively; making Our career management practices contribute to strategy happen; and fostering cross-border retention by improving employee engagement. HUMAN RESOURCES ENHANCING KNOWLEDGE EMBRACING OUR SOCIAL AND SKILLS RESPONSIBILITY In 2011, the HR organization continued to We are fully aware of our social duties and align itself closely with business imperatives moral obligations, which is why Technip and structure. HR managers have been is committed to a responsible human nominated at the head of each business resources policy. Multiple actions have been segment, and the Talent Management taken to promote health and cultural issues network has further developed within as well as good working conditions within the Regions. Competency development is 9 entities with the Group. In 2011, we received several supported by Technip University and the more than distinctions underlining the quality of our Project Management Academy. 20 nationalities human resources policies and working conditions. These included Top Employers TECHNIP UNIVERSITY awards (from CFR Institute) in France, Spain and Brazil, and the Healthy Working Lives As a cornerstone for sharing knowledge Gold standard status in Scotland. across entities, Technip University works with local and regional training teams to ensure STRENGTHENING SOCIAL DIALOGUE learning and development programs meet the needs of its employees and those of the Group. In 2011, 81 new collective bargaining agreements were signed, covering issues such Technip University plays an essential part as working hours, training, working conditions, in every employees’ career path. It focuses equal opportunities, health, hygiene and on a few, carefully targeted subjects that safety. The 174 agreements now in force reflect closely match the Group’s functions and the importance and effectiveness of social business objectives, such as ethics, diversity or dialogue within the Group. The European knowledge of the oil and gas industry. It also works as a tool to inform employees about WITH 105 NATIONALITIES IN 48 COUNTRIES, DIVERSITY IS OUR STRENGTH Group priorities. In 2011, about 600 employees took part in classroom sessions and more than 3,500 e-learning modules were delivered. PROJECT MANAGEMENT ACADEMY Tailored initiatives have been launched to further align and integrate the project management population, which is key for Technip. These are being handed over to the newly-created Project Management Academy. Project managers worldwide are given the opportunity to assess their competencies and development areas against a unique framework. In 2012, a Competency to Development matrix will enable them to identify concrete development actions. We are also developing consistent project management guidelines and lessons learned systems. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 105 nationalities 1,173 expatriates ATTRACTING TALENTS 3 QUESTIONS FOR Technip offers international careers, with 53 assets and highly technological projects all over the world. In their every day jobs, Julie Cranga Vice President, Human our engineers contribute to meet the world Resources, Communications energy challenges. These factors, combined and Security Technip with our strong commitment to develop in the Middle East our people, make Technip an attractive employer. This is conﬁrmed by the average Could you draw us a picture of Technip’s 10,000 resumes that we receive each month. diversity in your Region? Diversity is the main trait of our workforce, with 49 nationalities from all continents. To further reinforce our attractiveness, we are The main nationality is Indian with more than carrying out initiatives to promote sciences at 55% of the workforce, while Arab nationals school and maintain strong relationship with represent only 7%. Females represent 13% engineering schools. In 2011, we also launched of our workforce, with only a few in senior an employer branding initiative to deﬁne roles, top positions being mainly occupied and harmonize our recruitment messages by Western males. This reﬂects the labor IN 2011 TECHNIP PUBLISHED THE PEOPLE MANAGEMENT throughout all Group entities. market of the Middle East where the majority BOOKLET SUMMARIZING ITS COMMITMENTS TOWARDS ITS PEOPLE of the workforce comes from abroad. When I joined Technip six years ago, I was a Project Control Engineer on the liqueﬁed natural gas construction sites in Qatar. I was the ﬁrst woman to be hired by Technip there, but then around 20 other women have worked on this Works Council, established in 2005, meets An effort is made to promote recruitment of site, proving that this is an area where we are twice a year and brings together 15 employee young people, who tend to suffer from a higher progressing! representatives from 10 European countries. unemployment rate than the average in the Western countries. In 2011, hires of fresh-out What are the challenges of diversity? PROMOTING DIVERSITY graduates increased by 34% at Technip and The main challenge is to create and maintain the average number of interns and apprentices a work environment based on common Since our markets are international and our increased by 58% compared to 2010. At the understanding and respect of each culture – clients multinational, diversity is our strength. other end of the age pyramid, it is also essential a place where everybody feels comfortable for us to value and capitalize on the expertise and in a position to reach their full potential. Gender diversity objectives have been defined of our senior employees. It is also about respecting religious practices and offering menus for all diets at the for the top 130 positions in the Group, as well canteen. For managers, it is about adjusting as in all succession plans across the Regions. CHANGING HOW DISABLED our managerial style and being able to Non-Western diversity is also a strong focus PEOPLE ARE SEEN communicate efﬁciently with our whole team. for all key successions at Group level. Diversity You also need to be careful not to give more Committees will be set up in 2012 to challenge Several initiatives were conducted credit to someone because they come from and monitor progress. This increased push in 2011 in the field of disability. In Italy, a culture close to your own. for diversity is also illustrated at the highest disabled employees were given special leave level of the Group, with the renewal in 2011 of to participate in extracurricular activities, Is it a strength for the company? the Board of Directors to now include three such as sportive competitions. In France, Promoting diversity in the Middle East Region women and six nationalities. Technip participated in the Week for the is a must. We recruit from all talent pools. It keeps us competitive and allows us to staff Employment of Persons with Disabilities with our projects and increase our competencies. All talent pools are considered when recruiting. an art exhibition held at La Défense to convey Having a diverse workforce allows us to In Abu Dhabi for example, International and a positive vision of disabled people. In China, better serve our clients’ needs because their National Internship programs are offered to Indonesia, Finland, Greece and the US, Technip workforce is like ours: diverse. engineering students from local universities and participated in fund raising and volunteer young professionals from national oil companies. activities in favor of disabled people. LOCAL COMMUNITIES A LONG-TERM PARTNER OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES Undertaking initiatives to support and ensure that local communities gain economic and social beneﬁts from our projects are part of Technip’s commitment to encouraging a fair return for all. LOCAL CONTENT: For example, the engineering contract started GOING BEYOND in 2011 on the first two Brazilian-built FPSOs, A PROJECT’S LIFESPAN P-58 and P-62, for Petrobras will be executed with over 90% local content. In the subsea Local content is a reality at Technip. Our business, our strategy of locating plants policy is to establish a sustainable presence in dynamic markets like Brazil or Malaysia helps wherever we conduct business and stay strengthen the manufacturing base of the IN THAILAND TECHNIP PRESENTED A CHEQUE for the long-term. Moreover, Technip is countries we operate in. TO HELP ITS EMPLOYEES WHO WERE AFFECTED BY THE FLOODING a multi-local company. We need to be close to our customers, ensure that their projects contribute to local development and have a keen understanding of all strategic markets. Local content is therefore the key 64% of Technip recruitment to delivering these beneﬁts. is in non OECD countries CONTRIBUTING TO ECONOMIC ACTIVITY Through technical or commercial partnerships Our presence in 48 countries, with local companies, such as Crestech in our production assets on every continent and Nigeria or MHB in Malaysia, Technip is further our extensive network of suppliers give us the enhancing the local content of its offering. capability to undertake projects involving a very high level of local content. This in turn, links Lastly, we work with our customers to source host country economies with our own growth. materials and equipment from local industries. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3 QUESTIONS FOR 55 Tereza Cristina Batista Corporate Social Responsibility Coordinator, Technip in Brazil What is your policy when it comes to relationships with the local communities? Our policy consists of understanding their needs and contributing to their sustainable development. We never give money to the communities; we prefer to provide workshops, lectures and speciﬁc social actions. All our actions aim to improve local development and expand opportunities for communities and for our employees. Many of our facilities are in cities of rural areas, where there are lots of people in need and where communities have WHEREVER WE CONDUCT BUSINESS WE ENSURE THAT LOCAL COMMUNITIES REAP ECONOMIC to learn to develop for themselves. We cannot AND SOCIAL BENEFITS FROM OUR PROJECTS close our eyes to this reality. How are you organized to carry out these actions? We have a Social Management team inside the This was one of the drivers, along with reducing In 2011, Technip launched the Growing Human Resources department that works in procurement costs, behind a program launched Together program at our logistic base in Angra two areas: social service, which is directed at in 2010 to qualify more suppliers from emerging dos Reis, Brazil. 90 people from the city were getting employees and their families support countries. selected for training in welding, industrial with social issues, while social responsibility electrical installations and mechanical is more about helping external communities. PROMOTING EMPLOYMENT assembling. Lectures were held to raise Although the team is small, our actions are AND SKILLS TRANSFER awareness of other job opportunities in Angra. successful thanks to the generous involvement of our staff. We reward voluntary work and, The initiative will be renewed in 2012. during campaigns, we can count on the Technip plays a key role as a local involvement of all the employees. employer by giving priority to on-site hiring. In almost every region of the world, Technip For example, 100% of the staff at our Dande is working to encourage the emergence of Can you give us some examples? spoolbase in Angola is Angolan. This act local a new generation of oil and gas professionals We conducted over 30 social actions in 2011. policy strengthens the multicultural identity by introducing its business and activities One was the Technip Citizen Movement, of Technip and contributes to building an to students and sponsoring their studies. which consisted of a day dedicated to a wide international company with a strong local Our Ghanaian operating center, for instance, range of community assistance activities. presence. Our projects and activities also signed a three-part agreement with About 500 people participated. There was create indirect jobs in the housing, medical, the University of Kumasi, Ghana. In addition also a drama program called Plays at Schools, which involved children, families and teachers. transportation and catering sectors. to providing scholarships to attend a masters Over 4,000 people beneﬁted from this action. program and internships in France, Technip We plan to go further in 2012, notably with Recruiting locally is an opportunity to is holding regular workshops and lectures a more structured social responsibility area. access local talent pools and widen the at the university to inform students about All actions will be built around one major expertise of the Group. This policy relies on the oil and gas industry. Technip is also program for all sites in Brazil. the transfer of skills between our operating supporting the Kumasi business incubator centers and the training of local talents. for entrepreneurship. LOCAL COMMUNITIES SUPPORTING LOCAL of heritage management and to encourage COMMUNITIES an appreciation for the Thalanyji’s history in the area. We also communicate regularly Obtaining the support of local people and transparently with the local community is an integral part of a project’s success regarding the project’s progress. for us and our clients. Technip is strongly committed to respecting local cultures and IMPROVING THE WELLBEING works continually to improve the wellbeing OF COMMUNITIES of communities. Historically, actions in favor of local communities have been The health checks provided to Technip mainly driven at project level, where the link between Technip and the population employees working on our construction sites have been extended to include local Initiatives in favor is the closest. In 2011, we created a Relief sub-contractor personnel. This allows of local communities and Development Fund to be able to launch improved access to healthcare and enables the in 32 countries in 2011 Group-level actions (see box p.57). identification of any medical issues that could potentially cause accidents. UNDERSTANDING AND RESPECTING LOCAL CULTURES When working with local communities, our approach is one of dialog and consideration. The Macedon Gas project that we are building for BHP Billiton in Western Australia involves the construction of an onshore gas pipeline and a gas plant in a region where Aboriginal people, the Thalanyji, have lived for more than 30,000 years. The area is rich in rock art and has places of cultural significance. Therefore, the management of cultural heritage issues has naturally become a key focus of the project. Local people have been engaged by BHP Billiton to assist with the project’s indigenous cultural heritage surveys. Prior to any ground disturbance associated with construction, Thalanyji heritage monitors survey the land to identify significant sites. The Macedon project team has also developed several initiatives and resources to promote the importance TECHNIP WON AN AWARD IN 2011 IN GHANA FOR ITS PARTNERSHIP WITH THE KUMASI UNIVERISTY TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Technip in Colombia, Brazil and Ghana recognized for 57 actions towards local communities in 2011 TECHNIP RELIEF AND DEVELOPMENT FUND At the end of 2011, Technip established THALANYJI HERITAGE MONITORS IN A SURVEY MISSION FOR THE MACEDON PROJECT IN AUSTRALIA the Technip Relief and Development Fund. This endowment fund reﬂects our willingness to strengthen our social corporate responsibility and is consistent with our strategy of enhancing our local presence in the countries where we In and around project sites and operating and charities to promote their work on the operate. centers, Technip conducts preventive health company’s premises. Also, a Social Initiatives initiatives and awareness campaigns to alert Committee organizes and encourages employee The purpose of the Fund is to support employees and local communities of public contributions to social programs. non-proﬁt social and general interest health issues (see Health, Safety and Security projects, particularly those that focus chapter). We also regularly carry out other Around the globe, Technip backs a wide range of on health and education and that beneﬁt healthcare initiatives, including supporting social causes, with particular emphasis on issues underprivileged communities. In the event medical research or hosting blood drives. related to children, education and scholarships, of natural disasters, emergency missions are disabled persons and humanitarian projects. Our also considered on a case-by-case basis. In some projects, health, safety and policy is to encourage long-term engagement environment (HSE) and local communities rather than one-shot initiatives. This is illustrated, The Fund’s goals are entirely consistent are even more closely linked. An initiative for instance, by the sponsorship of 50 needy with Technip’s values. It was built on was developed in 2011 on the main sites of families from Pasir Gudang, Malaysia, who are the principles of transparency and ethics, the Pazflor project in Angola to provide receiving regular income support from Technip which are guaranteed by operational and funding for social programs if our staff over a two-year period. Technip in Scotland is governance rules. It is guided by a Board reached HSE targets. Our teams successfully also committed to a long-standing partnership of Directors composed of Executive met the challenge, allowing the funding to with the Cornerstone charity, providing services Committee members and representatives provide for furniture and school supplies for for people with learning disabilities. from Human Resources and HSE. the Musseque Cabele School, near Barra do Every employee in the Group can make Dande. When the situation calls for it, Technip is also a personal contribution to the Fund’s capable of rallying significant resources quickly. activities by submitting project proposals. FOSTERING SOLIDARITY INITIATIVES In 2011, we donated € 280,000 to help our staff In 2011, the Fund had already supported affected by the flooding that was devastating two projects initiated by our teams in Technip employees are passionate about Thailand at the time. Our Thai operating center, Ghana: one related to a library and another their jobs and generous in their charitable as well as regional and corporate crisis teams, one with a local association that helps actions, and the Group encourages and supports were fully mobilized during this crisis to limit orphans and vulnerable children. this sense of solidarity. For example, Technip in the impact on the quality of life of the victims Italy allows non-governmental organizations and the activity of the center. BUSINESS STAKEHOLDERS OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITIES: BEING PROFITABLE AND SHARING VALUE Completing projects proﬁtably and having a strong balance sheet are among Technip’s main responsibilities. This contributes to sustainable development just as much as environmental protection and social actions, by ensuring growth and employment over the long-term, while creating a stable business environment for our various economic partners. TRAINING OF OUR SUB-CONTRACTORS PRIMARILY FOCUSES ON SAFETY AND ETHICS CUSTOMERS: DELIVERING potential improvements. Over 180 surveys projects to our clients while meeting their EFFICIENT OPERATIONS were conducted in 2011. The results showed objectives to increase local content (see Local a high level of satisfaction, on par with 2010, Communities chapter). Technip is committed to creating value especially in HSE, client relations, engineering for its clients by providing high-quality and installation performance. To capitalize on SUB-CONTRACTORS: services and delivering high-performance the lessons learned, we have begun deploying PARTNERS IN SUSTAINABLE installations that include signiﬁcant local a new knowledge management system in DEVELOPMENT content. Region A, Brazil, North America as well as for construction activities. Technip rarely works alone when FOCUS ON QUALITY TO IMPROVE delivering a project. We rely on suppliers CUSTOMER SATISFACTION We have maintained our focus on costs and to provide certain kinds of equipment, scheduling to further improve competitiveness. and on construction sub-contractors for Our commitment to customer satisfaction Following the 2010 introduction of Lean the manpower employed on our onshore is demonstrated by the way we ensure quality. operations principles and Six Sigma quality project sites. An integrated approach and The quality management systems of all our improvement, more than 80 Lean-Six Sigma close working relationships are therefore operating centers are ISO 9001 certified. leaders were trained in 2011 to pass on the necessities that beneﬁt all stakeholders. To gauge customer satisfaction in projects, programs. Also, more than 50 quality initiatives we measure nine indicators: health, safety and were launched across all our business areas. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT environment (HSE); project delivery; client relationships; documentation; scheduling; INCREASING THE LOCAL CONTENT At Technip, we want our suppliers to share costs; resources; contract management OF OUR CLIENTS’ PROJECTS our values and standards and recognize the and installation performance. Evaluation is strategic importance of HSE in the quality of our conducted over the duration of the project With a presence in 48 countries, our suppliers' operations and our relationship with by using questionnaires. These help us to organization is both international and very them. When selecting equipment suppliers, we understand client expectations and identify local. This allows us to deliver world-class take into account sustainable development TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TRAINING OUR SUB-CONTRACTORS Technip is constantly increasing 59 training programs for business partners concerning ethics and safety. These programs are disseminated on each and every construction site in a consistent manner to ensure that all project stakeholders understand Technip’s values and implement measures to promote TECHNIP STRIVES TO PROVIDE A FAIR RETURN FOR ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS, them. Regional and corporate training BOTH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL organizations have been established to ensure the training programs meet the highest possible standards. The HSE portion of the training for sub-contractors is based on the Technip Pulse program, which contains several courses. The objective is to promote an HSE climate in which both employees and business partners behave positively and proactively. Ethics training for sub-contractors consists primarily of an induction program suppliers are compliant with these values and an introduction to Technip’s Code through inspections and audits. In Italy, Technip of Ethics. For example, in Region B, An operating income carries out regular audits among its suppliers the Social Accountability department from recurring as part of ensuring SA 8000 compliance. First introduced in 2009, the SA 8000 certification has worked with the Construction department to produce a single training activities of focused initially on human rights and working program to be disseminated during site €710 million in 2011 conditions and was extended in 2010 to cover visits for both Technip personnel and communities and environmental issues. It has sub-contractors. This gives all parties been renewed in 2011. a common foundation upon which any changes or improvements in the course criteria along with economic and technical To sustain the long-term, profitable of the project’s execution can be built. performance data. For example, starting in performance of Technip, two new information 2011, greenhouse gas emissions produced by technologies tools were deployed during the equipment transportation are considered when course of the year. The first embeds a thorough making technical and commercial comparisons. design-to-cost culture among our engineers, In 2011, 99 suppliers have also been evaluated while the second provides our buyers with on their capability and resources to manage the most competitive best practices for the HSE risk during the execution phase of the procurement. Shell Prelude FLNG project. In 2011, we also continued to work with Since 2006, we have incorporated references customers to develop procurement policies to Technip’s values and added a clause to aimed at increasing the local content of our general purchasing terms and conditions projects, both in terms of industrial capacity informing suppliers that we uphold the United and human resources. Following the 2010 Nations Global Compact. We verify that our launch of a program to qualify more suppliers BUSINESS STAKEHOLDERS from emerging countries, we held a series of sub-contractors to mitigate the impact of our meetings in Shanghai that brought together projects on the environment and help local Chinese, Indian and Korean suppliers, as well as communities (see Local Communities and representatives of international oil companies Environment chapters). to discuss best practices in HSE. Finally, Technip buyers are trained on ethical standards and recognition of the risks of More than 180 client satisfaction corruption that they may face. They were surveys conducted in 2011 among the first to receive training in 2011 as part of the major ethics awareness campaign (see Ethics & Compliance chapter). The Group Construction Development Center in Abu Dhabi is working on the harmonization MAKING CONSTRUCTION of best practices across Technip as well as SUB-CONTRACTORS ACCOUNTABLE on the implementation of a more vertically integrated engineering, procurement and As for equipment suppliers, the construction execution model from the early selection and evaluation of our construction stages of projects. This contributes to better sub-contractors integrates criteria related accountability in construction. to ethics and sustainable development. Following our know your partner ethics principle, an investigation is carried out to verify the integrity of each sub-contractor. Their quality and HSE policies are monitored through performance check-lists and reviews of applicable procedures and standards. This is done by initial inquiries down to detailed project reviews during the course of the execution. On a project level, we are committed to hiring local staff, at all levels of responsibility. We then help them to develop their potential through post-graduate education programs. In addition, we contribute to their wellbeing by giving them access to regular health check-ups. We also work closely with our customers and WE ORGANIZE REGULAR TOPIC-SPECIFIC CONFERENCES FOR OUR INDIVIDUAL SHAREHOLDERS TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3 QUESTIONS FOR Steve Kelly Managing Director, 61 Extel In 2011 Technip received the Extel award of Best Investor Relations (IR) by a CEO, Best IR Team and Best IR Professional. Why did Technip win? These awards are based on the votes from fund managers and analysts, recognizing all-round excellence in IR. Trust is the most important quality that investors look for with company’s IR, and Technip is clearly providing such trust. Proposal of a €1.58 Alongside the votes, we collect detailed dividend per share data from fund managers. The two critical to be paid in May 2012 IR practices they look for are transparent, interactive one-on-ones with CEO or CFO ON PROJECT SITES, TECHNIP PEOPLE WORK CLOSELY WITH and deep knowledge and excellent service CONSTRUCTION SUB-CONTRACTORS from the IR team. Technip is ahead of its peers in both these regards. Why is it important for a publicly traded company to have good relations with the ﬁnancial community? SHAREHOLDERS: SHARING also met with its shareholders in Lille, France, Very simply, it will increase the stock value. The price of any company’s stock is a simple THE BENEFITS OF GROWTH and invited them to visit its flexible pipe matter of earnings multiplied by the multiple manufacturing plant in Le Trait, France. that the investment market calculates. Technip encourages a fair return for all of Virtually all employees in a company are its stakeholders and therefore takes care During 2011, we have also continued to provide focused on earnings, and it is only those in IR to share the beneﬁts of its growth with its the institutional investment community with who can really inﬂuence this multiple. Open shareholders. On this basis, Technip’s Board in-depth information regarding our strategy, relations with investors generate a greater of Directors proposed that the Annual operations, technologies and financial results. level of belief and consequently a higher General Meeting of shareholders of April 26, This is done notably through our dedicated multiple. 2012 approve a dividend of €1,58 per share, Investor website where all press releases, a 9% increase over 2011. presentations, audio webcasts and transcripts What could Technip do to continue to improve? are freely available. Group and individual Investors have the desire for more Our relationship with our shareholders is built meetings were also held with investors at discussions with operational managers, on transparency and proximity. various occasions, including roadshows in to really understand the value drivers and 23 cities worldwide, broker hosted conferences, the corporate story . They are also much In 2011, Technip continued to promote an visits to Technip’s corporate headquarters and more receptive to IR teams and companies active and ongoing dialog with individual energy industry conferences. In July, we also that work more intelligently to properly shareholders. Two topic-specific conferences hosted a technical workshop on floating understand individual portfolio managers’ were hosted in 2011 at Technip’s corporate liquefied natural gas (FLNG) via an audio focus and requirements, and treat each as headquarters and were very well received by webcast. Lastly, in October, we successfully a speciﬁc client. Matching up to these two the shareholders. One was dedicated to subsea organized an investor and press day in Brazil, trends will go a long way towards Technip operations and the other was on polymers and which included a tour of our Vitória flexible continuing to enhance its IR program, and to being an Extel winner again in 2012. petrochemicals. Another conference on plant manufacturing plant. construction was held in early 2012. Technip SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT HSE 63 HSE PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE, At Technip, we believe that business success and health, safety and environment (HSE) go hand in hand. You cannot have the former PRESERVING THE PLANET if you do not ensure the highest standards of the latter. This philosophy is shared across our organization and sponsored at the highest level by our Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Thierry Pilenko, as illustrated by the objective he has set to see Technip becoming the reference company in terms of HSE. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY, SECURITY PROTECTING PEOPLE, OUR PRIORITY From project sites to ofﬁces, from manufacturing facilities to vessels, we strive to protect all of our employees, clients and sub-contractors. We do this by deﬁning and strictly applying an ambitious health, safety and environment (HSE) policy, as well as an uncompromising security strategy. SAFETY: A CORE VALUE In 2011, a total of 142 million man-hours were worked at our facilities and project sites worldwide. During each of these hours, for each person, our commitment is SAFETY IS A PRIORITY IN OUR ASSETS AND PROJECT SITES to create a safe working environment. during operations related to Technip, but not THE PULSE PROGRAM MEASURING AND ANALYZING directly under our control. In all cases, full CONTINUES TO SPREAD OUR PERFORMANCE investigations were performed and reviewed by senior management, and appropriate measures The implementation of Pulse, our Technip’s Total Recordable Incident were implemented. leadership program aimed at developing Frequency Rate (TRCF), which measures the a positive HSE culture, moved forward recordable events per 200,000 hours worked, The TRCF indicator does not fully take in 2011. The program is structured around a had fallen substantially in recent years and into account the severity of the incidents. series of components designed to change reached a threshold at 0.22 in 2010. The reporting Consequently, we have turned our focus perceptions and behavior. It aims to create culture has also developed in a very satisfying to analyzing incidents of all types through awareness of the challenges posed by safety manner within the company. In 2011 however, the Serious Injury and Fatality Frequence and the human, material and financial costs our TRCF rose slightly to 0.26, reminding us (SIFF). Near misses are also included in this of accidents. So far, 10,000 people have taken all that vigilance in safety is necessary at all analysis, as they are often an early sign of part in Pulse sessions, ranging from senior times. When reviewing these figures, we have unsafe behavior that could produce more managers and managers/supervisors to the identified a number of areas for improvement. serious incidents if left uncorrected. general workforce and engineers. In 2012, we will undertake a global HSE culture survey to We were also saddened by two fatal accidents Another area of focus in 2011 was tracking measure progress made through the program. directly related to our operations that happened the leading indicators that enable us to gauge in 2011. One occurred at our manufacturing the effectiveness of the proactive actions We have pursued our policy of including facility in Vitória, Brazil, following the collapse taken to improve safety performance, such sub-contractors in developing a robust of a section of a building. The other took place as training, management site visits and audits. HSE approach on worksites. Our safety during elevator maintenance in our office The frequency of these activities can be requirements and expectations are made clear in Delhi, India. Two other fatalities occurred increased when the indicators fall behind. from the contract stage. As part of Pulse and TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3 QUESTIONS FOR Martin Lawson Offshore Construction Manager, Technip 65 in North Sea-Canada You recently won an HSE award. Could you tell paramount and the newly developed communication Several initiatives also helped make the project a us more about it? skills and designated people on equipment had success: a major incentive scheme for the Maadia In February 2012, I received the T-MOS (Technip a massive impact on the project. Some of the Yard (Alexandria) personnel and a successful dropped Marine Operations Services) Individual Safety Award procedures were even taken up by the client and used objects prevention campaign, amongst others. for my contribution to safety in 2011. on all the vessels involved in the project. Technip had been awarded a contract for the West What is speciﬁc about safety on board vessels, Delta Deep Marine (WDDM) project, offshore Egypt. Could you describe us the HSE plan that was put and why is it particularly important? While I was working on this project onboard the in place for the WDDM project? Safety is what gets you back home at the end of Fugro Saltire third party vessel as the Offshore For this project, a complete HSE and security a project! It is the key priority onboard any vessel. Construction Manager, an incident happened. management system was implemented to meet the The personnel safety is paramount and is everyone's During the investigation and safety reviews that requirements of both Technip and our client Burullus. responsibility. I believe 75 to 95% of offshore were immediately carried out, we identiﬁed a Several reference documents were developed in accidents are due to human mistakes. That is why number of improvements. I introduced a new a joint approach. The success of the project was a massive emphasis is put on communicating, method of toolbox talks and new engineering achieved through a very efﬁcient emergency response understanding one's responsibility and anticipating procedures. I believe my strength was to make the system, supported by several onshore trainings any difﬁculty. most of individuals' knowledge and experience, team and offshore exercises, as well as daily operational effort being the key to safety. The innovations were meetings focusing on HSE operations. other training programs, we provide training to TECHNIP SAFETY PERFORMANCE all personnel working on our construction sites and ensure that all stakeholders – Technip, 8 0.40 clients and sub-contractors – are fully engaged 7 in this process. 7 0.35 6 FOSTERING 6 0.30 0.25 0.26 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT 5 0.22 0.22 0.25 0.27 We continue to challenge and improve 4 0.20 our approach to HSE management and look 4 for innovative ways to improve performance 3 0.15 and set the benchmark for our industry. 2 2 The reporting and analysis of incident data, 2 0.10 plus the review of our processes, enable us to identify areas for improvement. These areas 1 0.05 are part of an HSE Accelerator program, which 0 0 focuses on key risk conditions and associated actions, behavior-based safety and an HSE 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 portal for enhanced communication across the Group. All these measures will be implemented Fatalities Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) in 2012. HEALTH AND SAFETY, SECURITY HEALTH: RISK PREVENTION HELPING VICTIMS AND INFORMATION OF TRAUMA Protecting the health of our employees In addition, medical risk alerts are issued when is one of our key commitments. Because necessary. In 2011, 17 were issued, some of them we are present in nearly 50 countries, concerning outbreaks of illnesses that can our employees travel and work in areas be prevented through vaccinations, such as with different health proﬁles. Preventive measles and polio. healthcare starts with accurate information and regular training. ENCOURAGING WELLNESS IN ALL ENTITIES PROTECTING TRAVELERS AND EXPATRIATES All of Technip’s entities organized a sleep awareness day in 2011, completed with posters, OUR EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAMS ARE TRAINED Detailed leaflets about destination information leaflets and workshops. Across TO COMMUNICATE WITH VICTIMS OF TRAUMA countries are available to travelers and the Regions, employees also participated expatriates on the Intranet. in awareness activities to prevent health issues The psychological impact of such as heart disease, smoking and diabetes. experiencing a major incident, and the Specific training for antimalarial treatments post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD) and other health risks is provided for projects How to evaluate workplace risks, including that victims can suffer from, is difﬁcult in areas prone to epidemics (malaria, dengue social and psychological risks, was at the center for non-professionals to evaluate and are fever...). We evaluate local medical resources of our healthcare strategy in 2011 and will often underestimated. Consequently, after and their ability to handle emergency situations continue in 2012. A new health management signiﬁcant work was done on the processes such as accidents and epidemics. This was process was drafted in 2011, featuring a more and operational management of a crisis, carried out in Cameroon, Gabon, Angola and practical approach to prevention and includes the Medical Department and Security Niger in 2011. health risk assessments, emergency planning, Division of Technip worked together in first aid training, medical checkups, prevention 2011 to develop an approach to prepare of workplace risks and public health. In 2012, emergency response teams to take care of guidelines will be provided to assist in the victims of traumatic events. implementation of this new process. In December 2011, a psychologist provided a one-and-a-half day pilot training session at the corporate level. It focused on three important factors when managing a PTSD situation: how to judge one’s own ability to control emotional response, how to detect when a victim’s level of stress is impacting his or her cognitive capabilities, and how to manage the emotional response of those receiving information about a traumatic situation. This training will be customized for each of Technip’s Regions to take into account cultural differences and will be deployed in the entities. A PTSD ﬁrst response unit will also be set up to ensure that Technip is able to respond quickly and appropriately to a traumatic event affecting its employees THE PULSE PROGRAM LEVERAGES LEADERSHIP and their families. AND COMMUNICATIONS TO IMPROVE THE HSE CULTURE AND BEHAVIOURS WITHIN THE GROUP TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 67 SECURITY: ANTICIPATING AND PREVENTING ALL TYPES A MONITORING AND ALERT TOOL ALLOWING US TO LOCATE THE POSITION OF OUR FLEET IS THE LATEST ADDITION TO OUR ARSENAL OF MALEVOLENT ACTS OF ANTI-PIRACY MEASURES Ensuring that Technip is able to keep its people and crews out of harm’s way while operating in challenging environments is our priority. PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE, INSTALLATIONS, whenever a security situation changes, and environment and can continue to operate VESSELS AND TECHNOLOGICAL ASSETS the whereabouts of all traveling personnel in volatile countries. By forming closer ties with are monitored. Technip is independent in its the local communities, clients and partners, The Technip Security Division monitors security assessments and decision making, the Group is able to anticipate risks and work security issues affecting the working conditions thanks to dedicated internal resources. on sustainable actions. and environments of our people, regardless of whether they are traveling, working in offices, 2011 was a challenging year for the security The Information Security© handbook on data on construction sites or onboard vessels teams worldwide, with major and sudden protection and the confidentiality of sensitive operated by the Group. changes occurring in several countries where information will be distributed in 2012. Technip operates. Technip’s robust Emergency A permanent independent auditing system Our strategy is to increase our ability Response System proved highly effective, is also in place to anticipate the evolution to anticipate and manage crises, while ensuring managing the Arab Spring, the tsunami in Japan of potential threats to information systems. business continuity in the event of an incident. and the flooding in Thailand. The continuous The effectiveness of this strategy is backed Emergency Response training program (with Lastly, the Security Division internally by our culture of security, which is shared by all regular live exercises) ensures that Technip developed a customized monitoring and alert the internal and external stakeholders of any has the recognized capacity to respond to tool that allows Technip to locate the position given project. any incident. We also continue to strengthen of the fleet in real time and identify areas of our emergency communications capabilities potential risk. This is the latest addition to 2011: TAKING SECURITY FURTHER WITH to keep in touch with employees, families, Technip's arsenal of anti-piracy measures, INNOVATIVE AND PRACTICAL TOOLS partners, subcontractors and the media in the which also include awareness campaigns event of a major incident. and anti-piracy exercises for vessels and We keep our employees informed their crews. of security issues at all times. Security To manage changing political situations, booklets are available for all countries where Technip launched several initiatives to ensure Technip operates. Security alerts are issued that projects are well integrated into the local ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE RESPONSES TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES The energy industry must respond effectively to worldwide environmental challenges, especially those related to global warming and prevention of accidental pollution. We face these challenges in our own activities and those of our clients. Technip is committed to limit greenhouse gas emissions in its assets and those of its clients CONTROLLING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT The main focus of Technip’s environmental to improved environmental performance policies is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and compliance, increased energy efficiency, as well as waste and water consumption in its and lower consumption, emissions and waste. operating centers, ﬂeet and facilities to the lowest practical levels. Also, our Environmental Working Group continually assesses, scrutinizes and challenges A GLOBAL COMMITMENT Technip’s environmental performance TO IMPROVING ENVIRONMENTAL and operations. It has overseen the PERFORMANCE development of a number of activities and processes such as global environmental Our environmental strategy is an important reporting and environmental awareness part of Technip’s overall health, safety and and improvement programs. One of its key environment (HSE) policy. Our commitment objectives in 2011 was the development to create an incident-free workplace has of a global Environmental Management contributed to reduce the number of Performance standard. This standard spells environmental incidents and unplanned events out the minimum environmental requirements (such as spills or releases of hydrocarbons and for Technip entities, projects, vessels and chemicals) in the past few years. construction yards. These include the full Technip is steadily working to improve its development and implementation of ISO 14001 ON THE MACEDON PROJECT IN AUSTRALIA, WE TOOK NUMEROUS HSE management systems. This will lead environmental management systems. INITIATIVES TO PROTECT THE TURTLES TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3 QUESTIONS FOR Fabien Garnier Planète Urgence Reforestation Project Manager in Indonesia Could you present Planète Urgence, your non-governmental organization (NGO)? 69 Planète Urgence, founded in 2000 around the idea of Congé Solidaire® (Solidarity Leave), is a French International Solidarity organization. In 2009, it was declared of public interest, thus allowing companies, communities and citizens to support projects created and managed by local actors throughout the world. Could you tell us more about the reforestation campaign Technip participated in? The Mangrove Reforestation and Community Development program in Indonesia started in 2007, with our local partner NGO Yagasu, in the provinces of North Sumatra and Aceh. This program is pursuing a double target: the rehabilitation of degraded mangrove areas and the support to the socio-economic development of local communities through OUR ENTITIES ARE SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES, SUCH AS THIS REFORESTATION PROGRAM IN INDONESIA micro credit, a sustainable aquaculture model and awareness campaigns about the importance of the mangrove ecosystem. Since 2007, over 3 million trees have been planted, covering almost 750 hectares. They beneﬁt to more than 3,000 people, mainly from poor areas. What was the outcome of the actions The standard also defines the responsibilities implementing the standard. For example, implemented? of each level of our organization, and those of Technip in Italy has launched a Paperless In 2011, Technip supported the program our sub-contractors. Technip’s environmental Company initiative that includes a web-based through a partnership with Planète Urgence, challenges for 2012 will be to assess and audit tool for consulting vendor documentation, ﬁnancing the plantation of 62,700 mangrove these processes and look for innovations and which typically represents 40 to 50% of trees in the village of Pangkalan Susu. efficiencies in its operations. the paper used during a project. This action contributed to restore the mangrove ecosystem on 9.5 hectares, to enhance the local biodiversity and protect the MINIMIZING The same care for the environment is taken local communities against erosion, tsunamis, OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT in our industrial assets. For example, our winds and climate change impacts. Angra dos Reis facility in Brazil has developed Beyond those actions, Technip's support has Technip is committed to reducing the a mobile wastewater treatment system that is been crucial to the organization of village and environmental footprint of its offices and used to clean painting equipment and tools. school meetings during which Planète Urgence fostering responsible behavior. To this end, The system was constructed with re-used and Yagasu highlighted the importance Technip launched the Green Office program materials that would otherwise be discarded as of the mangrove ecosystem and fostered in 2010. It began with a survey of all operating landfill. The idea came from the maintenance socio-economic development: 58 micro centers to identify environmental best workers themselves and will soon be used projects were ﬁnanced in Pantai Labu in a year practices. In 2011, a Green Office guideline was at other Technip sites in Brazil thanks to its and a half, and a sustainable aquaculture model published, focusing on our commitments and efficiency, low cost and easy operation. was developed in Percut (also implemented in two projects early in 2012). Those actions are defining the Technip Green Office standard. of outmost importance to alleviate poverty This is a global set of green actions, from and ensure the long-term restoration of the energy saving to transport plan or recycling, mangrove. to be spread all over the Group’s offices in 2012. Some entities have already begun ENVIRONMENT INVESTING IN GREEN CHEMICALS In addition to our ongoing work in traditional petrochemicals, we are developing our activities in green chemicals, which are derived from IMPLEMENTING biomass. It is currently a niche market, ENVIRONMENTALLYbut the growth perspectives are promising. FRIENDLY SOLUTIONS FOR Several projects are currently underway OUR CLIENTS and there is increasing demand from end customers for green products. As the energy demands of emerging economies continue to rise, we are In 2011, we began working on our ﬁrst helping our clients tackle the challenges green chemical project in China for Solvay. of greenhouse gas reduction and other The plant will convert glycerine derived from vegetable oil into epichlorhydrin environmental issues. (a basic chemical for various applications, notably in the electronics, automotive RESPECTING THE ENVIRONMENT and aeronotics industries). Not only does OVER A PROJECT’S LIFESPAN this innovative process use a renewable feedstock, it also requires less energy At every stage of a project, we take and produces less environmental impact into account the environmental challenges than traditional technologies that employ and offer innovative solutions tailored to the propylene and chlorine: carbon dioxide client’s technical and geographic needs. emissions are expected to be 20% lower while water consumption should be In the design phase, environmental and noise PREVENTING 90% lower. engineers ensure that any plant designed ACCIDENTAL POLLUTION by Technip is compliant with all applicable Technological alliances are also in discussion environmental laws, regulations and standards. The Macondo accident in the Gulf of concerning upstream (bioreﬁneries) and Studies and modeling are used to develop Mexico in 2010 was a sharp reminder to the downstream applications. the most suitable environmentally compliant whole oil and gas industry of the importance design. During 2011, the Environmental and of safety and prevention, but also of having Noise team based in Paris, France, worked systems ready to mitigate the impact of any more than 20,000 man-hours on 15 different accidents, should they occur. projects. Soon after this accident, international operators During the construction phase, we work with led by ExxonMobil joined together to create the our clients to minimize the impact on the flora Marine Well Containment Company. Technip is and fauna. One example is the BHP Billiton proud to have been awarded an engineering Macedon Gas Project in Western Australia. The contract, followed in March 2011 by a design, site for the shore crossing, where the umbilical procurement and fabrication contract, to and pipeline meet the ocean, was selected at a develop a well containment system. It will fit far distance from sea turtle breeding grounds. the requirements for a broad range of water During construction, various strategies were depths, well types and weather conditions. used to avoid disturbing the turtle population, It can be mobilized within 24 hours of an including 24-hour monitoring during the accident and be fully deployed within a matter installation of the pipeline shore crossing. The of weeks. Technip also signed an agreement to monitoring has shown that the turtles continue design the conversion of a drillship, the Dalian to breed normally in the area and no adverse Developer, into an oil spill response unit (see effect on the population has been observed. Offshore chapter). TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Technip reinforced its activities in renewable energies in 2011 71 THE HSE TEAM OF THE JUBAIL PROJECT (SAUDI ARABIA) RECEIVING AN AWARD FOR EXCELLENT ENVIRONMENTAL RESULTS TECHNIP'S COMMITMENT TO RENEWABLE ENERGIES IS MAINLY ILLUSTRATED BY BIOFUELS AND OFFSHORE WIND PROJECTS (HYWIND PROJECT) CONTRIBUTING TO RENEWABLE ENERGIES 2011 was a record year for investment in renewable energy, with over USD200 billion WORLD spent worldwide in the industry. Technip ENVIRONMENT DAY believes this long-term trend will continue, AT TECHNIP as environmental protection becomes a driver World Environment Day (WED) is a global for economic development. initiative sponsored by the United Nations each year on June 5. The WED celebration began in 1972 Historically, our activities in the field of and has grown to become one of the main vectors renewable energy have been focused mainly on for stimulating worldwide awareness of the environment and encouraging political biofuels. While this continued to be the case attention and action. in 2011, we also expanded in the offshore wind market, most notably in Europe. Offshore wind In June 2011, Technip took part for the fourth consecutive year in WED. This year’s will open up business opportunities, as it is a theme was Forest Nature at Your Service. We marked this day with environmental precursor for other marine energy technologies, activities throughout our entities. The event was an opportunity to raise such as tidal and wave energy. Marine energy environmental awareness, participate in environmental actions and demonstrate our is a natural fit for the project management, commitment to reducing the impact of our activities. offshore operations and technological skills present in our core activities. Technip also has In Brazil, for example, WED was promoted on all Technip sites and included all the capabilities to be a leader in the whole the participation of employees, their families and the local communities. A variety chain of carbon capture and storage (CCS). It is of initiatives were organized, including an ecology awareness walk at the Rio botanical for this reason that we decided in 2011 to join garden, forums and talks about the Forests and People in Vitória, environmental games at the Macaé Base and ﬁlms at the Angra Porto site. the Global CCS Institute, the leading authority in this promising sector. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS 73 INDICATORS A COMMITMENT Financial ﬁgures, social indicators, environmental indicators... all of this data reﬂects the Group’s commitment to achieving excellence. Presented FOR TRANSPARENCY in a transparent manner, they highlight the enhancements already made and areas for further improvement. In preparing this Report, Technip has applied the standards required by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3), the most widely-used benchmark for non-ﬁnancial reporting. Again this year, Technip has requested GRI approval of its reporting policy and procedure. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS REPORTING SCOPE 75 The main 2011 social, environmental Orkanger Kstovo and ﬁnancial data are listed in the following Stavanger Duco Pori St. Petersburg pages of this Report. More information is also Calgary Evanton Oslo Aberdeen The Hague available in the 2011 Reference Document. Newcastle NExBTL plant Novograd London Warsaw St. John’s Le Trait Düsseldorf Paris Lyon Seoul Marseille Rome Baku Ashgabat Nanjing Los Angeles Houston Lisbon Barcelona Shanghai Duco Carlyss Athens Bagdad New Delhi Mobile Cairo QCS Monterrey Al Jubail Doha Dubaï Mexico City Arlit Al Khobar Abu DhabiMumbai Vizag Bangkok Ciudad Surat Chonburi Ho Chi Minh City SOCIAL DATA ENVIRONMENTAL DATA del Carmen Chennai Rayong Miri Lagos Caracas Port Harcourt The 2011 social reporting perimeter Environmental data is collected annually Bogota Kuala Lumpur Asiaflex Products includes 76 entities at end December 2011 by means of Technip's worldwide data Accra Singapore Raiu taking into account: management system. HSE and Administration Dande Batam Balikpapan • The integration of several companies during staff members from all Regions, including Luanda 2011: Subocean in the United Kingdom, project sites participate in data collection. Barra do Riacho Angoflex Jakarta Cybernétix and AETech in France, Global Vitória Lobito Industries mainly in the United States, Technip Group entities and main projects report Macaé CWLH • The creation of a subsidiary in Portugal. data related to these various environmental Rio de Janeiro performance indicators. This reliable data thus Angra Social indicators cover 100% of the Group’s enables changes to be measured at each site. Perth international scope unless otherwise mentioned. Social data of companies NKW Refinery integrated in December 2011 (Global Industries, AETech and Cybernétix) are not consolidated when sections cover the whole year. The input, collection and consolidation of social data have been conducted using a common software tool across the Group. Users dispose of an indicator definition protocol that is reviewed and improved each year based upon feedback from the entities and the problems observed. Data consolidation Ofﬁces and assets reporting their social and/or is centralized by the Group Human Resources environmental data Countries in which Technip has carried out Division. Project and installation sites reporting their social initiatives in favor of local communities in 2011 and/or environmental data TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT INDICATORS SOCIAL DATA (WORLD SCOPE, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED) BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BREAKDOWN BY GENDER BY GEOGRAPHIC ZONE 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 Executive Committee 7 8 Europe 11,491 10,026 Women 0% 0% Americas 7,491 5,406 Men 100% 100% Asia Pacific 6,528 5,501 Managers (4) 2,810 2,588 Middle East 1,833 1,569 Women 17% 18% Africa 675 581 Men 83% 82% Russia & Central Asia 201 194 Others 22,900 18,541 Regular workforce (1) 28,219 23,277 Women 25% 26% Other contracted workforce 2,873 2,515 Men 75% 74% Total 31,092 25,792 Total 25,717 21,137 (1) Employees on payroll and contracted workers in Technip fleet, plants and yard Women 24% 25% Men 76% 75% (4) Employees playing towards subordinates a hierarchical role, in accordance with the Human PAYROLL EMPLOYEE Resources Without Borders program ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES 2011 2010 ORGANIZATION OF WORKING HOURS Arrivals 5,862 4,077 Permanent contracts 3,717 2,643 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 Temporary contracts (fixed-term) 2,145 1,434 Full-time employees > 25,000 > 20,000 Departures 3,277 3,094 Part-time employees < 600 < 500 Permanent contracts 2,261 2,077 Employees working in teams < 2,500 < 1,500 Temporary contracts (fixed-term) 1,016 1,017 Overtime 773,394 750,966 (France and regional headquarters) Economic lay-offs (2) 0 0 Renewal rate of permanent positions (3) 1.64 1.27 (2) According to article L. 1233-3 of French Labor Code (3) Start/termination of permanent positions ABSENTEEISM 2011 2010 BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY Total rate of absenteeism 2.11% 2.13% (sickness/accident) 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 Number of days lost due to strikes 165 403 Employees on payroll 25,717 21,137 Permanent contracts 22,390 18,981 Temporary contracts (fixed-term) 3,327 2,156 Contracted workforce 5,375 4,655 Contracted workers in fleet, plants and yard 2,502 2,140 Other contracted workforce 2,873 2,515 Total 31,092 25,792 TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 77 BREAKDOWN OF EXPATRIATES BY GEOGRAPHIC ORIGIN ANNUAL PERFORMANCE REVIEWS 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 2011 2010 Europe 591 603 Percent of payroll employees assessed 92% 92% Asia Pacific 278 303 Middle East 166 127 Americas 136 114 PROFITS SHARING (IN € THOUSANDS) Africa 1 4 12/31/2011 12/31/2010 Russia & Central Asia 1 0 Total 1,173 1,151 Amounts allocated to incentive profit sharing 8,052 12,127 (France, Spain, Italy) Amounts allocated to mandatory profit sharing 6,052 14,655 (France) TRAINING OF EMPLOYEES ON PAYROLL 2011 2010 GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN Hours of training 842,879 591,564 OF REGULAR WORKFORCE (5) Technical training 360,043 199,993 Non technical including management, AFRICA cross disciplines 295,084 195,065 2% RUSSIA & CENTRAL ASIA Health/safety/security 84,376 131,025 MIDDLE EAST 1% Languages 68,794 52,206 6% Human rights, ethics and Technip's 34,582 13,275 values awareness training Number of employees on payroll EUROPE who benefited from at least one training 19,495 16,362 41% course during the year ASIA PACIFIC Female 4,514 4,010 23% Male 14,981 12,352 Average hours of training 35 25 per employee on payroll AMERICAS 27% (5) Employees on payroll and contracted workers in Technip fleet, plants and yard INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2011 Breakdown Consumption 2011 2010 Construction Fabrication Fleet Offices Paper Paper (tonnes) 1,053 571 56 45 0 953 Energy Direct energy consumption (MWh) Gas (MWh) 16,545 1,367 0 9,638 0 6,907 Fuel-oil, diesel (MWh) 1,354,272 1,549,867 261,241 114,028 976,560 2,443 Indirect energy consumption (MWh) Electricity (MWh) 90,761 69,004 2,019 32,841 0 55,901 Water Total water consumption (m3) 2,480,785 2,946,805 1,728,138 230,594 98,798 423,255 Waste water (1) Industrial & domestic effluents (tonnes) 350,311 1,329,308 214,071 56,454 79,786 0 Waste Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 55,871 23,005 43,160 8,331 1,803 2,577 Hazardous waste (tonnes) 4,513 2,368 1,507 442 2,527 37 Total waste (tonnes) 60,384 25,373 44,667 8,773 4,330 2,614 Atmospheric emissions CO2 Direct emissions (t CO2 equiv) 342,075 373,256 69,401 9,462 261,143 2,069 Indirect emissions (t CO2 equiv) 36,085 28,652 2,110 11,846 0 22,129 Total 378,160 401,908 71,511 21,308 261,143 24,198 Annual expenditure on environmental protection (k€) Total environmental expenditure (k€) 405 710 Total capital expenditure committed 1,846 2,632 Provisions and guarantees to cover environmental risks (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Decontamination costs (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of fines and compensation awards (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Amount of fines and compensation awards (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total man-hours worked (millions) 142 188 69 18 9 56 Performance indicators Energy consumption (kWh/h) 10.3 8.6 3.8 8.2 112.1 1 Water consumption (l/h) 17.47 16 25.11 12.83 11.34 7.59 Waste (kg/h) 0.43 0.13 0.65 0.49 0.5 0.05 Greenhouse gas emissions (kg eq CO2/h) 2.66 2.14 1.04 1.19 26.98 0.43 (1) Effluents treated in water treatment plants and discharged directly into the natural environment TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 79 TECHNIP'S MAIN ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Despite improvements of overall environmental performance, most of the main indicators have shown an increase between 2010 and 2011. This can be attributed to the increased pipe manufacturing, size of pipe, improvement and enlargment of the environmental data reporting and a larger number of entities. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2011 2.66 (KG EQUIVALENT CO2 PER HOUR) The increase in greenhouse gas emissions can be 2010 2.14 attributed to a widder emissions reporting, particularly from fabrication sites. In 2011, greenhouse gas emissions 2009 2.94 were 378,160 metric tonnes equivalent CO2. 2008 1.64 2007 1.73 WASTE 2011 0.43 (KG PER HOUR) In 2011, 60,384 tonnes of waste were produced, 2010 0.13 of which 7% were hazardous waste. Again, the widder fabrication site reporting 2009 0.18 can explain this increase. 2008 0.26 2007 0.16 WATER CONSUMPTION 2011 17.47 (LITERS PER HOUR) In 2011, water consumption was 2,480,785 cubic metres. 2010 16 The increase compared to 2010 ﬁgures is largely due to a higher level of entity reporting. 2009 12.29 2008 17.89 2007 5.04 INDICATORS SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME € million (except diluted earnings per share, and diluted number of shares) 2011 2010 Revenue 6,813.0 6,081.9 Gross margin 1,286.6 1,184.9 Research & development expenses (65.3) (56.6) SG&A and other (511.8) (508.0) Operating income from recurring activities 709.5 620.3 Non-current operating result (15.7) (5.6) Operating income 693.8 614.7 Financial result 17.4 (20.1) Share of income / (loss) of equity affiliates Income / (loss) before tax 711.2 594.6 Income tax expense (208.7) (179.4) Non-controlling interests 4.8 2.4 Net income / (loss) 507.3 417.6 Diluted number of shares 117,498,889 109,839,190 Diluted earnings per share (€) 4.41 3.81 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2010 € million (audited) (audited) Fixed assets 5,317.2 4,146.0 Deferred tax assets 306.3 324.6 Non-current assets 5,623.5 4,470.6 Construction contracts – amounts in assets 588.0 378.6 Inventories, trade receivables and other 2,411.8 2,267.1 Cash & cash equivalents 2,808.7 3,105.7 Current assets 5,808.5 5,751.4 Total assets 11,432.0 10,222.0 Shareholders’ equity (parent company) 3,651.6 3,179.8 Non-controlling interests 21.7 22.3 Shareholders’ equity 3,673.3 3,202.1 Non-current financial debts 1,543.5 1,092.1 Non-current provisions 139.2 110.2 Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current liabilities 265.0 144.7 Non-current liabilities 1,947.7 1,347.0 Current financial debts 544.4 681.3 Current provisions 344.6 236.7 Construction contracts – amounts in liabilities 644.5 694.9 Trade payables & other 4,277.5 4,060.0 Current liabilities 5,811.0 5,672.9 Total shareholders’ equity & liabilities 11,432.0 10,222.0 Net cash position 720.8 1,332.3 TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Full year € million 2011 2010 Net income / (loss) 507.3 417.6 81 Depreciation & amortization of fixed assets 174.0 145.6 Stock options and performance share charges 46.0 27.0 Non-current provisions (including employee benefits) 18.4 (0.3) Deferred income tax 27.5 (50.8) Net (gains) / losses on disposal of assets and investments 0.8 2.5 Non-controlling interests and other 8.5 (2.4) Cash generated from / (used in) operations 782.5 539.2 Change in working capital requirements (130.9) (500.9) Net cash generated from / (used in) operating activities 651.6 38.3 Capital expenditures (357.2) (388.9) Proceeds from non-current asset disposals 3.8 22.3 Acquisitions of financial assets (13.3) (114.7) Change of scope of consolidation (1) (591.0) (26.5) Net cash generated from / (used in) investing activities (957.7) (507.8) Net increase / (decrease) in borrowings 132.9 894.2 Capital increase 34.4 40.4 Dividends paid (156.1) (143.6) Share buy-back 0.4 (2.2) Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities 11.6 788.8 Net effects of foreign exchange rate changes (2.5) 131.2 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (297.0) 450.5 Bank overdrafts at period beginning (0.1) (1.2) Cash and cash equivalents at period beginning 3,105.7 2,656.3 Bank overdrafts at period end (0.1) (0.1) Cash and cash equivalents at period end 2,808.7 3,105.7 (297.0) 450.5 (1) Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired BREAKDOWN OF 2011 BACKLOG BACKLOG AT YEAR-END 2011 BY ACTIVITY BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA AFRICA EUROPE 12% RUSSIA & CENTRAL ASIA 18% ONSHORE 34% SUBSEA MIDDLE EAST 42% 17% AMERICAS 37% ASIA PACIFIC 16% OFFSHORE 24% GLOSSARY CARBON FIBER ARMOR FEED GLOBAL COMPACT (FRONT-END ENGINEERING DESIGN) An exclusive technology for the International initiative of the United composition of flexible risers, for use in Engineering studies whose detail allows Nations, launched in 2000. It unites deepwater, allowing them to weight 50% less the client to launch the bidding process for businesses, United Nations bodies, labor than traditional flexible pipes while offering the execution of the project. groups and civil society around ten universal excellent corrosion and fatigue resistance. principles relating to human rights, labor and the environment. Technip has been an official FLNG member of the Global Compact since 2003. CCS (FLOATING LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS) (CARBON CAPTURE AND STORAGE) In a FLNG solution, the gas liquefaction GRI The CCS is a solution for reducing installations are situated directly above (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) greenhouse gas emissions from industrial the offshore gas field, thus making the installations in response to global warming. construction of long subsea pipelines and A network-based organization that has large onshore infrastructure unnecessary. pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting DEVELOPMENT framework and is committed to its continuous (OF A GAS OR OIL FIELD) FLOATOVER improvement and application worldwide. In order to ensure the highest degree of All operations associated with the Installation method of an integrated technical quality, credibility, and relevance, exploitation of an oil or gas field. production deck (topsides) on a fixed or the reporting framework is developed through floating offshore structure without heavy lift a consensus-seeking process with participants operations. drawn globally from business, civil society, DJSI labor, and professional institutions. (DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX) FLOWLINE Launched in 1999, this index was the first GTL to track the financial performances of leading Flexible or rigid pipe laid on the seabed (GAS-TO-LIQUIDS) sustainability-driven companies worldwide. for the transport of production or injection Technip’s share has been part of the index fluids. Transformation of natural gas into liquid for 10 years. fuels (Fischer Tropsch technology). FPSO EPC (FLOATING, PRODUCTION, STORAGE HSE (ENGINEERING, PROCUREMENT, AND OFFLOADING) (HEALTH, SAFETY AND CONSTRUCTION) ENVIRONMENT) A converted ship or custom-built vessel Type of contract comprising used to process oil and gas and for temporary Defines all measures taken by Technip management and engineering services, storage of the oil prior to transport. to guarantee the occupational health and procurement of equipment and materials, safety of individuals and the protection construction. of the environment during the performance of its business activities, whether in offices or on construction sites. TECHNIP 2011 ACTIVITY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT IPB PIP SA 8000 83 (INTEGRATED PRODUCTION BUNDLE) (PIPE-IN-PIPE) (SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY 8000) A flexible pipe with an incorporated Steel pipes assembly consisting of a An international standardized code of electrical heating system aimed to increase standard production pipe surrounded by a conduct for improving working conditions internal fluid temperature, thus increasing oil so-called carrier pipe. The gap between the around the world. flow. carrier and production pipes is filled with an insulation material. As the insulation is protected from the external pressure by the SEMI-SUBMERSIBLE ISO 9001 carrier pipe, a high thermal performance PLATFORM material can be used. A standard dealing with quality Offshore platform that is stabilized management systems. by pontoons whose degree of immersion can PIPELINE INSTALLATION be changed through ballasting and de-ballasting. ISO 14001 Technip’s fleet masters the three installation methods for rigid pipes: J-Lay SPAR A standard dealing with environmental (a vertical lay system, in deepwater), S-Lay management systems. (the most common installation method A cylindrical, partially submerged for steel pipe in medium to shallow offshore drilling and production platform that water. A horizontal lay from the back of a is particularly well-adapted to deepwater. LEAN & SIX SIGMA vessel, under tension, which gives it an S configuration) and Reel-Lay (an onshore To improve competitiveness, Lean assembly of rigid steel pipeline, made of long SST focuses on cost and schedule improvement sections welded together as they are spooled (SPIRAL STACKET TURRET) and Six Sigma on quality by reducing defect onto a vessel-mounted reel for transit and rate. Technip integrated a quality program subsequent cost-effective unreeling onto the A flexible hose-based alternative to the based on these methods at the end of 2010. seabed. Minimum welding is done at sea), as traditional mechanical swivel stack to be used well as Flexible-Lay (including the Vertical Lay in floating units. System – VLS, a proprietary technology for LNG installation of flexible pipes in deepwater). TLP (LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS) (TENSION LEG PLATFORM) Natural gas, liquefied by cooling its RISER Floating production platform temperature to 162°C, thus reducing its anchored by tensioned cables, thus limiting volume 600 times, allowing its transport by Pipe or assembly of flexible or rigid vertical movement caused by heavy swells. LNG tank. pipes used to transfer produced fluids from This platform design allows for the well-heads the seabed to surface facilities, and transfer to be located at the surface, on the platform. injection or control fluids from the surface PETROCHEMICALS facilities to the seabed. UMBILICAL Industry relating to chemical compounds derived from hydrocarbons. An assembly of steel tubes and/ or hydraulic hoses which can also include electrical cables or optic fibres used to control subsea structures from a platform or a vessel. A PHOTO CONTEST TO CAPTURE OUR BRAND In 2011, we embarked on a Group-wide branding initiative. The revitalization of our brand has taken the form of a unified and more consistent approach to communication by, and about, Technip. The redefinition of our vision, mission and business purpose, as well as key messages (summarized by the Take it Further tagline) and values now crystallizes and embodies this new identity. A new tone of voice and look and feel, which will over time become symbolic of Technip, have been adopted. Following the launch of our new brand, Technip held an internal Capture Our Brand photo contest for all employees. The contest gave them the opportunity to be involved by expressing the essence of our brand in photos. They were asked to illustrate our new tagline and to show how our Group values are expressed in Technip’s day-to-day activities. Pictures of this Report marked with the pictogram are some of the photos of this successful contest. Through this contest, our employees have put a personal mark on our international brand and have shown their passion in pictures, taking our brand further! This document is published by the Technip Group Communications Department. E-accessible version for visually impaired e-accessibility publication To obtain copies, please contact: Group Communications Technip 89, avenue de la Grande Armée 75116 Paris – France Phone: +33 (0)1 47 78 24 00 e-mail: press@technip.com www.technip.com Photos: Technip photo library, Jean Gaumy/Magnum, Harry Gruyaert/Magnum, Patrick Zachmann/Magnum, Øyvind Hagen/Statoil, all rights reserved. This document is printed on Heaven 42. April 2012. Design and production: Société anonyme with a share capital of 84,866,591.60 euros 89, avenue de la Grande Armée 75116 Paris – France Tel. : +33 (0)1 47 78 24 00 589 803 261 RCS Paris SIRET 589 803 261 00223 www.technip.com
