SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 02 04 12 18 Message Profile Management Sustainability from the President 25 29 37 Innovation People Value and energy chain efficiency 41 68 GRI Credits content Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 2 President efficiency The Embraco Sustainability Report 2011 also shows our internal policies for valuing Introduction people. We present several initiatives to Through the pages of this report, the readprovide greater safety for employees and er is invited to know us better, understand to recognize the good work they perform, what we do and, above all, how we do it. in addition to actions outside the comThis publication is a very important company, such as support for environmental munication tool, which shows our vision education. Our management and goverof the world and describes how we act nance structure is part of the report, as to become a leading player on relevant well as the commitments made globally Embraco seeks issues, such as reducing the use of natural by the signing of protocols. innovation to resources and social issues. create products We have prepared the report based on the that respect the Therefore, the report was written for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a nonenvironment everyone, be they laymen or technicians. governmental organization that develops For all our managers, all our employees, global reporting guidelines. On adopting all our partners, all our shareholders, all GRI, we are committed to international communities where we operate and for concepts, along with other prominent anyone interested in sustainability issues. companies, who share the same concerns as we do. GRI indicators are highlighted Here, you’ll understand how innovation in this report and can be easily consulted is able to build and create products with by the reader. respect for the environment. Our compressors are designed ​​to consume less With this report, we are disclosing our energy and use the minimum amount of actions and improving our transparent raw materials. relationship with our public. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 3 President President efficiency Message from the President In 2011, Embraco celebrated 40 years of a Brilliant trajectory recognized by its intense dedication to future research and development. We are walking with strong steps along emphasize the importance of having peoWe have a work and expansion plan in all culture of seeking excellence in what we a very promising path. Embraco has a ple who develop employees and challenge regions, with emphasis on Asia, due to the do, the established values ​​and pillars that brilliant future ahead. Our plans are very our partners. They are leaders who make all increasing number of opportunities that guide us are ingrained in every corner. clear, and we know where we are headed the difference in the day to day and in our will emerge in coming years in that region. Our company has very strong governance, to. We want to be a company increasingly strategic plans. Rounding off the scenario But we must also point out that we have concerned with creating value for the global, more innovative and more relevant of our commitment to social-environmental investment in all factories. In 2011, we entire chain involved. Our work has a to a sustainable planet. We will continue issues is our adhesion to the Global Combegan operation of our new factory in clear objective: to impact all our publics focusing our attention on developing peopact, since 2005. Mexico and expanded production capacpositively. ple and teams that provide technological ity in Slovakia, where Embraco included development as intense as it has always In 2011, Embraco celebrated its 40th year a new production line for the high energy Embraco is a unique company, solid and been in our company. anniversary. A trajectory that will continue efficient EM compressors. Thus, EM is now visionary. We are market leaders but above to be recognized by the intense dedication the only compressor manufactured in all this, we want to be leaders of people. We We offer training, workshops, exchange to innovation. I am particularly passionate our factories. want to inspire them and motivate them opportunities and vacancies for people to for technology, for research and developto build a brilliant future, an innovative work outside their countries of origin. It is ment. Innovation is the reason for EmbraI am pleased to have participated in this future, a sustainable future. an environment that values ​​differences co’s existence. It is our strength. Innovation history. I say this not only because I have among people, among cultures and among moves us, and it is its fruit that sets us apart been the company’s president since April Roberto H. Campos professional backgounds. Here, the differfrom competitors around the world: for 2012, but with the experience of someone President of Embraco ences are complementary. Only commitexample, we applied for ​​69 patents in 2011, who entered Embraco as an intern 25 ted teams, aware of their importance can 62 of those on inventions. We will continue years ago. Since then, I have held various prepare the company to face the market’s researching hard to get to products that are positions, participated in several projects challenges, balanced with social and enmore efficient, with lower energy consumpand worked in different areas. I have met vironmental demands. I would also like to tion and that use fewer raw materials. many people and I can confirm that our Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 4 President efficiency Profile voltage and automatically adjusts the Who voltage feeding the equipment. In a pioneering manner, the company developed a compact, complete and commercially we are viable solution. The new model pleased manufacturers, retailers and consumers. Consumers no longer need to worry about buying household We, from Embraco, lead the world market appliances that only work with one voltage in manufacturing hermetic refrigeration type. And manufacturers and retailers compressors. The products are used in can measure better inventories and more household appliances such as refrigeraaccurately plan distribution logistics (read tors, freezers and air-conditioners along more on page20). with industrial machines such as refrigerated counters. Our biggest differential is Embraco was founded in 1971, in JoTechnology technology. Technological development inville, Santa Catarina (Brazil), where it is Embraco’s is what enables us to launch competitive, maintains its headquarters. The company differential to modern and high energy efficiency modunderwent a corporate reorganization in ensure leadership els a trend of a market in which we are a 2006 and joined the household appliance in its sector global benchmark. manufacturer Multibrás, forming, in Brazil, Whirlpool SA, controlled by the North In 2011, we highlight the launch of American Whirlpool Corporation, which the world’s first Bivolt compressor, an until this time had been a shareholder of immense challenge for the sector. produce both organizations. Embraco focuses on Bivolt refrigeration equipment, it was the production of compressors, while Mulnecessary to couple voltage transformtibrás manufactures household appliances. ers. But these transformers are very large, Since Embraco provides refrigeration soluwhich reduces the free space inside the tions to the entire market, it maintains its final product and also increases manufacmanagement independently, with a strong turing costs. Our solution to circumvent shielding policy which ensures the conthe problem was to develop a special elecfidentiality of information, protecting its tronic board. It recognizes the network’s business and its customers. Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 5 President efficiency Embraco stronger in Mexico One of the most noteworthy events for The entire construction was designed to Embraco in 2011 was the start of operavalue natural light and ventilation and adtions of our new plant, in August, in the opted the use of thermal-insulated walls. city of Apodaca, in Greater Monterrey This set helps the factory reduce energy (Mexico). The factory employs about 700 consumption for lighting and cooling inpeople and has production capacity of 2.5 ternal facilities. million compressors per year. But these numbers should increase even more with With the new unit, Embraco will increase new investments. The expectation is that, EM compressor production, a compressor as of 2013, capacity will reach 5 million that caters to the high energy efficiency units per year, with a total of 1,000 emniche. Production will attend consumer ployees, in addition to 500 indirect jobs demand from Mexico and the United generated in the local supply chain. States. The factory in Mexico was established within the concept of sustainability and “green building”. The elevators, ramps and accesses were built larger than usual, to facilitate access for people with disabilities. Embraco Mexico also has temperaFactory in Mexico was ture control systems for water and energy designed as a “green consumption. Moreover, it uses energyefficient equipment and has natural gas as building” to meet various its main energy source. sustainability criteria. Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 6 President efficiency Mission Global 5 Offer innovative solutions for a better quality of life reach 1 6 4 Values Diversity with inclusion Spirit of Winning 2 Integrity Embraco has interconnected and compleRespect mentary units in six countries across three Teamwork continents. In addition to Brazil, where we began our work, we have staked flags in Pillars China, Slovakia, Italy, United States and Mexico. The Mexican factory, together with the expansion of Slovakia’s facilities, 3 will increase our production capacity of Technology leadership and 32 million compressors / year to nearly innovation 35 million compressors / year. In total, we have five compressor factories, three component factories for compressors and Revenue growth one foundry. Our products are sold in over Operational excellence and value creation Sustainability 80 countries. 01 Embraco United States 04 Embraco China People Suwanne, Georgia Beijing Warehouse and commercial office Office and compressor factory Employees by country 02 Embraco Mexico Qingdao (data from December 2011) Apodaca, Monterrey, Nuevo Léon Electronic component factory Brazil 6,901 Compressor factory and office 05 Embraco Slovakia Italy 624 03 Embraco Brazil Spisská Nová Ves Joinville, Santa Catarina Office and compressor factory Slovakia 2,351 Headquarters, office, compressor factory, electronic 06 Embraco Italy China 2,176 component factory and foundry Riva Presso Chieri United States 59 Itaiópolis, Santa Catarina Office and compressor factory Component and cooling system factory Total 12,108 Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 7 President efficiency New Embraco brand New brand’s design emphasizes movement and renewal In 2011, we renewed our brand Delivering Intelligent Shaping the Global Scenario positioning, accompanying our business’ Performance evolution. The cornerstone of this new We are in constant contact with different positioning was the change in the logo, Delivering Intelligent Performance regions, countries and cultures, which which brings the concepts of movement involves understanding what users of gives us a good competitive advantage. and renewal through its design while at our products consider as intelligence and At the same time, it reminds us of our the same time being simple and modern. meeting this expectation. Every day we responsibility as leaders, brings us the must be more and more connected to possibility of helping other people, other The new positioning reflects our underthe market, offering unique and useful companies and our customers, showing standing of how Embraco’s leadership solutions. them what is happening around the world. should be in the market and in relationships with all our publics. It is expressed Cultivating Passion Transcending the Future in four values, which are the base of our attitude. To form talented teams is to unite people After 40 years, we continue being a very passionate about what they do and with modern company, thanks to actions In each of them, there is a double the desire to seek more challenges. It’s and efforts in pursuit of innovation and meaning, which converses between to develop innovative professionals who technology. Transcending the future is to potential and challenge, between present know how to work through the diversity of look to the future, act in the future and and future. In this report, the four values ​​ people and cultures. Cultivating Passion be the future, investing in research and permeate all topics, and the reader is is to encourage employees to recognize development, anticipating trends and invited to better understand how the new their leadership role within the company expanding knowledge. brand is intrinsic to each step taken by and society. Embraco, from the daily routine in the factories to the strategic decisions. Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 8 President efficiency New Presidente Roberto Campos leadership Vice President of R&D Marcio Todescat Vice President of Finance, IT and Planning Arthur Azevedo Vice President of Operations, Management and Sustainability Vice President of Business, Marketing and EECON Vice President of HR Ursula Angeli Lainor Driessen Reinaldo Maykot Throughout 2011, we prepared for imporCorporate Legal Corporate Materials Director Director tant changes in our management. ChangBernardo Gallina Andre Vincent es that started being implemented in the first semester of 2012 and that value the exchange of best practices, enhance the company’s global nature and accelerate the progress of cultural diversity. Assuming the Vice Presidency of Business to assume a vice president position. She Another change in management was the and Marketing is Reinaldo Maykot. Since took over the Human Resources area, dismemberment of Procurement from the The main highlight of Embraco’s new 2009, he had been responsible for the which was also previously run by Henrique R&D Vice Presidency. The Procurement area phase is the change of Presidency. Directorship of the Domestic Refrigeration Haddad (now the board is composed of now reports directly to Embraco’s president, João Carlos Brega, who took over as Business, through which he participated in five vice-presidencies). Ursula has worked under the leadership of André Vincent. president about three years ago, received conducting global business for this sector. in the area for over 16 years and seven another mission. Brega is now president For this position, Embraco promoted the of these years with Whirlpool. In the comof Whirlpool Latin America. In his place Italian Pierluigi Zampese. pany, she occupied the position of Organiis Roberto Campos, Vice President of zational Development Director. The year 2011 marked the Business and Marketing as well as EECON. Henrique Haddad (who served as Embrabeginning of management Campos joined Embraco in 1987, having co’s CFO and Human Resources VP) went In relation to cultural diversity, it is worth had management positions in various to Whirlpool Latin America. In Haddad’s mentioning that, once again, Embraco’s changes that were consolidated in areas and also served as vice president of place, Embraco appointed Arthur Azevedo, unit in Italy will be led by an Italian, Gi2012, intensifying the company’s R&D and Procurement. It’s a move that in the role of Vice President of Finance, IT useppe Daresta. He takes over from global nature and strengthening strengthens our technology leadership and Strategic Planning. Brazilian Emerson Zappone, appointed its cultural diversity. expansion strategy allied with market to be the new director of Embraco Brazil. demands, leveraging our expertise The structure also counts on something Luis Felipe Dau, previously director of the in innovation and further valuing the new that strengthens Embraco’s cultural Brazilian factory, now serves as director of relationship with customers. diversity. Ursula Angeli is the first woman Embraco China as of May 2012. Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 9 President efficiency Intense relationship One of the tools that help us maintain a Dialogue with good relationship with employees is the employees helps communication channel network that maintain the good Embraco makes available in its units. Each relationship country has a specific policy. In Brazil, the company has the tool Open Channel, a network of computers that allow people to send questions and suggestions directly to the board of directors. In Italy, the employee Internal can make suggestions and inquiries directly, assessments with the factory’s communication team. In Slovakia, the strategy was to put suggestion The Executive Committee, known in Embraco as the boxes and a hotline to receive reports on President’s Staff, takes care of Embraco’s economic, any environmental issue that may have environmental and social planning and oversees that the occurred due to the company’s operations. company properly follows adopted international standards, in addition to internal conduct codes and principles. The Chinese have opted, along with the Another committee function is to assess the performance suggestion box, for an e-mail that goes of the organization and the executives through quarterly directly to the general manager. In North reviews. Annually, the company maps and monitors the America, the intranet also allows employkey business risks using the Enterprise Risk Management ees to express their opinions. process, as well as perform mitigation actions. Another relationship channel is the Ethics Committee. Employees can contact the Working for ethics committee, with anonymity guaranteed, Hotline 4 through a hotline or e-mail, if they perceive Others 9 that concepts of ethics and conduct are Total 13 not being followed in some way in the company. In 2011, Embraco concluded 11 conConcluded 11 tacts, with seven in Brazil, three in Slovakia Pending 2 (Brazil) and one in Italy. Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 10 President efficiency Time strates its concern for the environment by to eliminate harmful substances from the participating in the UN’s Montreal Protocol environment. In 2007, Embraco Snowflake and commits itself to creating alternatives is certified by ISO 14.001. Another notable Line to eliminate the use of CFC gas. event was the inauguration, in 2003, of our electronics unit, Embraco Electronic Controls (EECON), focused on manufacturing 1990 the compressor’s electronic components. At the end of the decade, Embraco begins Today, EECON also has a factory in China. producing 21.7 million compressors per 1970 year, a figure achieved thanks to internaEmpresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A. tional expansion. In 1994, we acquire a 2010 (Embraco) is founded in 1971 in Joinville, factory in Italy. We then create an indusIn 2010, we launch another revolutionary Santa Catarina, Brazil. Operations begin in trial joint venture in China (the first Brazilproduct, the microcompressor, which will 1974, with the production of the first comian company in the country). In 1998, it allow the development of portable cold. In pressors. Exports begin shortly thereafter. is time for Slovakia to receive Embraco’s 2011, we begin the operation of our plant The compressors begin to be sold to Peru operations. The decade is also rich in susin Mexico within the most demanding Technology in 1977 and then to the United States tainability issues. We receive ISO 9.001 standards of sustainability and eco-effiand innovation and Canada. It is the first step in the comcertification, begin producing compresciency, as well as the expansion of Slovahave marked pany’s journey to becoming global. sors for alternative gases to CFC, launch kia’s plant. We also define Embraco’s new our operation the Embraco VCC, today a high energy brand with four values. The new identity since 1971 efficiency model, and also create the Emmakes our desire and challenge to be an 1980 braco Ecology Award in Brazil. increasingly more global company even The decade is marked by the developmore evident. ment of a technology and innovation culture within Embraco. The company signs, 2000 in 1982, the first technical cooperation In 2006, we begin operating in Brazil unagreement with the Federal University of der the corporate name Whirlpool SA and Santa Catarina. The following year, estabdeveloped ourselves within the concept lishes the Research & Development area. of sustainability and continuous improveThe practical result was evident in 1987 ment. We sign the UN’s Global Compact with the arrival of the first compressor to in 2005 and in the following year, the the market with 100% Embraco technoloplants from Brazil, Italy and Slovakia regy. In the same year, the company demonceive QC 80.000 certification which aims Message from the PROFILE Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 11 President efficiency Awards 2011 →→China Home Appliances Exposition ↳↳EMT (R290) Series: Low Carbon Emission Pioneer Award ↳↳Embraco VCC: Technology Innovation Award ↳↳EMD Series: Golden Heart Award →→Embraco was among the 10 most We were voted innovative companies of Brazil one of 20 ↳↳Época Negócios magazine, in model-companies partnership with ATKearney consulting by Exame →→International Exhibition and Conference Sustainability Guide for Power Electronics, Intelligent Motion and Power Quality (PCIM) – Invitation to participate in the board →→Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade (Sustainability Guide):one of 20 sustainability model-companies of Brazil →→Via Bona National Award, from Pontis Foundation, in Slovakia: ↳↳Main prize for long term partnership with local hospital. ↳↳Honorable recognition for responsability towards employees. Message from the Profile MANAGEMENT Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 12 President efficiency Management Our way of working How can we remain leaders in such a process improvement and use of methcompetitive market? How can we become ods and management tools. In practice, increasingly connected with the demands EWM increases the internal synergy and of our customers, consumers and society defines how the areas should act together, as a whole? These questions need to be seeking to enhance efficiency and improve asked daily by all our employees. The customer service. importance of this reflection is such that EWM increases it was inserted into the new brand, under In 2011, we went through an important the synergy the phrase Delivering Intelligent Perforexperience to consolidate management necessary to offer mance. It is a value that expresses our by process. An example is the Demand intelligent solutions desire to discover and offer intelligent and Management process, implemented in innovative solutions for all our publics. But 2011, which is part of the Supply Chain how to do this? Management macroprocess (see list of macroprocesses below). Demand ManageThe path we have adopted to put this ment allows long-term demand (which thought into practice is applying the varies from four to 18 months) to be Embraco Way of Management (EWM), planned with more precision, thanks to the Embraco Management Model. EWM integrated collaboration between differdemonstrates our way to manage the ent areas. Sales, market and statistical company. It is a concept that directs the analysis sectors provide information company to become each day more intewhich, analyzed interconnectedly and in grated with different areas that interact a contextualized manner, create a more with each other. The goal is to act in a appropriate and efficient planning. united and cohesive manner through Message from the Profile MANAGEMENT Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 13 President efficiency Throughout the year, we also conduct trainIdentifying improvement ing as part of the integration portfolio in all opportunities through the In the 2011 assessment, the corporate sector our units. They are trainings to further constood out for the following items: solidate the EWM concept among our emunits’ assessments helps →→awareness of risk management; ployees and managers. Another highlight is Embraco make decisions →→succession plan; the development of Routine Management to develop the team of →→management by processes and standardization; in Manufacturing (read more on page 34). directors and work focused →→refinement and standardization of indicator management; →→Embraco brand repositioning and application of values​​; To maintain EWM always alive and dyon its process management. →→ cause and effect relationship between actions and namic, it is necessary to assess, from results obtained. time to time, how we are evolving in relation to our management practices. This reflection occurs annually and is a great learning opportunity. In 2011, the assessment was conducted in two stages and us to understand how management can The assessment’s second stage is called was based on the criteria of the National help improve our day to day, what are the “Results”. At this time, we analyze the Quality Award (NQA) and on internal restrengths and where are the opportunities behavior of indicators that encompass the quirements, established by Embraco itself. for improvement. entire company. One example is the finanThe first step assessed our “Processes”, to cial information, such as revenue, costs understand the evolution of management One of the highlights pointed out by the and cash flow. With the survey in hand, practices. Together with an external conunits’ assessment in 2011 is Social Develwe compare the results achieved with the sultant, we conducted several workshops opment, which evolved 25% over the prestipulated targets and the results obtained and interviews with various employees vious year. On the other hand, cooperation by other companies in the world market. from different areas of the company. between the areas appeared as one item to improve. Identification of this improveIn 2011, the assessment’s results in the In conversations, we asked their opinion ment opportunity helped Embraco make two steps (Processes and Results) placed on the practical application of seven crithe decision to develop the team of direcEmbraco at maturity level 6. This is the teria (leadership, strategies and plans, tors and work more focused on managescore range of companies considered customers, society, information and ment by process. Thereby, we disseminate leaders in their field of operation. For EWM is assessed knowledge, people, processes). The anthe culture that the professionals work for 2012, our goal is to climb one more step frequently to swers, jointly with the analysis of other the whole company, not just one departand reach level 7, being at the same level keep itself alive external sources, such as awards and recment, and encourage areas to act and of companies honored by national awards and dynamic ognitions received by the company, help speak more intensely. such as NQA Message from the Profile MANAGEMENT Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 14 President efficiency Integrated company In EECON Qingdao, the team gathers To further enhance our management and Until 2011, 249 process models were dein kaizen to address prepare ourselves for global challenges, signed and validated. Another 498 are in work safety we are developing management by prothe design or assessment stage. The mapcess through the Evolution Project. The pings are developed according to Embraidea is to identify and redesign internal co’s strategic priorities. In 2012, we have processes, to bring us more agility and approximately 18 projects in progress for speed. We now see the company as someprocess review and creation. thing more integrated, removing the barriers which divide its areas. Lean In this way, information and knowledge circulate more quickly, greatly increasing But how can we detect these small details our efficiency. A marketing process, for that make the difference? Our answer to Thinking example, counts on the participation and this question lies in the Value Stream Map, work of employees from various sectors, a semi-annual planning that describes units and countries, such as Innovation, improvement opportunities in units, prioriHuman Resources and Supply Chain. tizing the execution of each one of them. Everyone contributes in some way to help With map in hand, managers convene the process. Lean Thinking is the philosophy that guides meetings to take care of each opportunity. our efforts to be an increasingly more efficient company. Lean means light, streamThey are improvements in several areas: lined. Our idea is to make Embraco exactly safety, standardized work and supply sysKaizen Until 2011, the following like this: no fat, no waste. In practice, this tem. These meetings or groups that fight in numbers processes have been worked: means an obsession for details, which against waste are called gemba kaizen →→Supply Chain Management; together result in great achievements. We (continuous improvement, in Japanese). China: 69 kaizens (34% related to standardized →→Innovation Management; seek to avoid unnecessary transport, alThe kaizens also need to be light and lean. work to increase productivity) →→Marketing & Customer ways maintain production adjusted to conThey receive a single mission and take, on Slovakia: 79 kaizens Management; sumption and take care of equipment so it average, one week to find a solution to the Italy: 63 kaizens (39% related to TPM to increase →→People Management; operates in the best way possible. opportunity raised. equipment efficiency) →→Finance Management. Brazil: 227 kaizens Message from the Profile MANAGEMENT Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 15 President efficiency Productivity increase (compressors produced per hour) (comparison of % Factory evolution 2010 and 2011) Brazil 3.8% China* 7.1% Italy 10.7% Slovakia** 7.2% Standardization * We did not consider the EM 3.4 line module. ** We did not consider the EM line, implemented in 2011. of operations Kaizens had an important year in sors’ management tools and formalization The results of the various measures we our strategy of consolidating our position of critical analysis process forums. have taken throughout the year can also as a global company. In 2011, an extenbe expressed in improved efficiency. We sive project was carried out, aiming to Thanks to the standardization strategy, recorded an increase of more than 3.5% standardize the operating procedures in we can optimize the preventive inspecof our productivity rate, when compared all production lines. An example is tion control, detect problems early and to 2010. the inspection checklist of basic condiact quickly to correct the deviations in the tions (operator’s procedure to ensure process. Simplification of standards also correct work). increases synergy and alignment among the factories, making our manufacturing By following a list of pre-established aceven more efficient. The project is in the tions, employees confirm if the correct phase of certifying the pilot areas which material is available and if the equipment serve as models for expansion into other Kaizens are a is functioning properly. The result is greatareas but we’ve already noticed great fundamental er safety and accuracy. In addition, stanbenefits in the day to day, such as waste part of our global dardization perfected other mechanisms, reduction, increased reliability and better strategy such as workstation documents, supervirisk control. Message from the Profile MANAGEMENT Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 16 President efficiency Improvement circles Efficient Continuous improvement within Emin the process used in the Midis compresbraco also has the support of volunteers sors’ paint booths. In this process, every who make up the Quality Control Circles 15 minutes the used water is changed, routine (QCC). The groups concentrate on findwhich leads to a very high consumption ing opportunities to improve the routine of the liquid. of factories and cut waste. These can be simple details, such as reducing water consumption when washing hands, or 3,862 Throughout 2011, we began the manuassist the operation team in the impleeven develop equipment that make the facturing routine management process. mentation and correct use of standards. work more efficient. It is a process that seeks to standardize the manufacturing management activiIn 2011, we were able to integrate the To encourage employee participation, improvement projects were created ties in all plants to reduce the number of routine management standardization to Embraco offers gifts, awards, recognitions through Quality Control Circles, involving failures during production. Consequently, other existing initiatives in Embraco, such and even trips to events to exchange 2,612 volunteers. we have improved our efficiency and as autonomous maintenance, help chain, information and experiences with QCCs have gained more predictability in the labor certification and BBS (read more from other cities, states and companies. results. Through routine management, on page34). Another important example Until publication of this report 427 QCC we have reduced the number of failures is the integration of routine manageteams have been created in Brazil, involvby 30% in the production processes. ment to our quality control program. We ing 2,612 people. With great dedication, The project was put into practice with developed an inspection checklist of 5S, the volunteers were able to develop 3,862 the creation of committees in each of safety, quality, production and mainteprojects throughout the year. the plants. The committees are internance aspects which indicate correct disciplinary, composed of professionals conditions for operation. Ensuring these One of the highlights among the projects from various areas, who map, identify conditions bring greater efficiency and developed by the QCC in Brazil, in 2011, improvement opportunities, guide and better results. was the reduction of water consumption Message from the Profile MANAGEMENT Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 17 President efficiency Quality Control Circles (QCC) encourage professionals Solution is to find solutions, from in the detail the simplest to the most In our factory in China, we faced complex, with the goal to a problem of refrigerant leakage improve factory routines, in one of our machines. Each leak represented more than 14 liters of increase efficiency and the fluid, causing environmental cut wastes. and financial cost. The QCC team discovered that the problem was in the fragility of one of the parts: a small pin that broke easily. So, the circle redesigned the pin so that its replacement is faster and more agile. The idea is simple, but The team realized that one reason for uswith excellent results. Now, the ing so much water was the rinse pressure maintenance time was reduced, nozzles, the last step before the product and the leaks have been eliminated, goes to the drying oven. Therefore, the goal increasing production efficiency. was to reduce the number of nozzles. After many tests, they realized that the painting process continues to work well if only two nozzles were used, and not six, as originally. Furthermore, the team installed a float in one of the painting process’ tanks and changed the drain system. The initiative reduced water consumption from 326.69 cubic meters to 141.3 cubic meters per Employees’ month, a 57% savings. The amount of wacontribution ter saved in one year is sufficient to supply ensures quality in 185 houses in Joinville for one month. our processes Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 18 President efficiency Sustainability Our vision When we talk about sustainability in is responsible for 15% of total energy Embraco, we immediately think about consumption in the world. More efficient our high energy-efficiency compressors. compressors, refrigerators, freezers With technology and innovation, we and refrigerated counters collaborate develop products that help reduce energy to the planet’s health and avoid consumption. Besides the reduction in unnecessary energy use. This efficiency the electric bill’s value, which can be seen can be expressed in numbers: if all the Efficiency every month, our products have significant refrigerators in Brazil were equipped contributed to impact in environmental terms. with Fullmotion technology, the energy reducing energy savings would be enough to supply every consumption Today, one of the planet’s biggest household in the city of São Paulo for challenges is to find new energy sources almost six months. to meet the demand of a population of 7 billion people. In June 2012, for example, the UN launched the Sustainable Energy for All pact, signed by Embraco, which through the efforts of various organizations, businesses and governments seek to ensure access to reduced impact energy for all. The world will only succeed in this endeavor if we can use energy rationally and intelligently. This is where Embraco’s work is even more valued. The refrigeration sector Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 19 President efficiency Reducing energy Green factories Another reason for not having reached Value chain consumption is one of the goal is that in the first years of and communities Sustainability is one of the five pillars implementing processes to reduce water the greatest challenges that shape the way we work, since it is and energy consumption we achieved We also advanced greatly in the mission facing humanity. Embraco inherent to our internal manufacturgreat success with simple actions such as to bring sustainability practices to our operates in this area, offering ing processes. Day by day, we seek to solving small leaks in hoses or orientating entire value chain. We conducted workcompressors with high reshape the procedures in our units to employees to use some equipment shops, lectures and actions with pedagogisave water, energy and other raw materiappropriately. After this initial phase cal features for our employees, customers energy efficiency, resulting als. To combat any wasted droplet, we of minor adjustments, great results and suppliers. In 2011, 2,028 people in less CO2 emissions and qualify and train people to identify these are only achieved with large structural participated in educational activities, with savings on the electricity bill. small opportunities for improvement and modifications, like changing equipment in 1,103 in China alone. quickly forward a solution. factories. These major investments will be made only in the next years. Another of Embraco’s area of activity is In 2011, however, we were not able to social investments initiatives together achieve our goal of reducing water and On the other hand, we can mention an with communities to promote education, energy, which was set at 10%. In contrast, interesting initiative. Our unit in Italy health and environment. An example is the rate increased by 3%. There are some implemented a system for heating water the Embraco Global Volunteer Day (read reasons that explain this performance. using solar energy. The installation allows more on page 33). In 2011, our social The first cause is connected to the the use of hot water in the new dining hall investment reached more than 28,000 measurement criterion. In Embraco, and administration area’s bathrooms. This people around the world. water and energy consumption are way, we reinforce our goal of developing measured by manufactured compressor. renewable energy sources. With the 2011 crisis, there was a slowdown in production. The problem is Energy consumption per compressor that, to keep the plant operating, there Brazil 9.4 kwh/compressor is a minimum energy consumption. China 7.4 kwh/compressor In practice, this means that the more Italy 12.4 kwh/compressor we produce, the lower our energy consumption per compressor. However, Slovakia 18.4 kwh/compressor when production falls, consumption per manufactured unit rises. Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 20 President efficiency Improvements Gas emission in processes transparency At the end of 2011, we studied the inclusion of sustainability criteria in the Lean Manufacturing actions, a program based more carefully consider and report issues such as water reuse, reduction of energy consumption, rational use of raw materion the kaizen concept (actions that search als or even CO2 emission. for continuous improvement in the company’s internal processes). In this way, we The benefit to people also integrates Lean awaken the concern of teams to importhinking. There are kaizens, for example, The fight against global warming has been In 2012, the inventory will be performed tant elements in the environmental and that seek to develop improvements in gaining significance in Embraco’s work. In again. The big news is that Embraco has social spheres. The teams get together to workplace safety procedures and analyze 2011, we conducted an inventory of our already committed to disseminate the reimprove the productivity of any process, the possibilities of disabled people to ocgas emissions relative to 2010. The units sults in a public database, the Brazil GHG cupy work posts in the factories. Planning in Brazil and Italy participated in the pilot Protocol. As a result, anyone interested Kaizens are actions to include sustainability items on the Lean survey. In Brazil, the studies covered the can easily access them. developed with the goal worksheet occurred in 2011. The impleso-called scope 1 (direct emissions such mentation began shortly thereafter, in as fuel and gas consumption used in the Inventory total amount (t CO2 eq) of continually improving February 2012. factories’ air-conditioning, for example) Brazil Italy Embraco’s internal and scope 2 (indirect emissions, which are Scope 1 13,305 3,784 processes. Aspects such the energy and heat purchased from a Scope 2 9,444 6,217 as the reduction of water utility or another company). Total 22,749 10,001 and energy consumption, In Italy, the inventory went beyond these two rational use of raw materials items and also addressed scope 3. This field and CO2 emissions began refers to gas emissions that occur during to be observed by these the work on logistics, such as raw material transport, travel and product distribution. teams in 2011. Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 21 President efficiency Less waste, New raw material less discard In 2011, we perfected a very important initiative, which helps us reduce dependence on rare metals or those with few natural resources. We are producing more compressors using aluminum wires, instead of copper. In China, for example, aluminum reserves are estimated at 3.75 billion tons, while copper reserves are only 0.08 billion. Aluminum is also ideal for recycling. About 75% of this material used in the world is reused in various stages of the production cycle. Recycling of aluminum, moreover, requires only 5% of the energy consumed in the first stage of metal production. In the case of copper, the index is 15%. Check out the percentages of compressors with aluminum Operators wire that will be sold in our factories in 2012: are trained to identify leaks Consolidated 35% Within the sustainability actions, we can In 2011, we began to train our operators, Mexico 100% also cite the identification of oil leaks transforming them into leak identifiers, so in our factories. It is common that the they can report them quickly. After identifiBrazil 45% machines, over time, have little problems cation, the operators themselves are able China 30% that result in oil leakage. Until 2010, this to make simpler repairs. If the problem liquid was collected and discarded in a persists or is technically complicated, the Italy 40% proper and environmentally responsible employee is instructed to communicate Slovakia 20% manner. Now we are taking a step further. the improvement opportunity to the speOur objective is to avoid, to the maximum, cialized maintenance team, through the these leaks and, consequently, the discard. tag system (see more on page 19). Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 22 President efficiency Priority Packaging themes reuses in EECON A very important initiative and integrated 2C ustomer purchases Embraco In 2011, we formulated the Relevance objectives in mind. The expectation is into our work in 2011 is the reuse of compressors removes product from Matrix in the electronics unit, EECON. It is that, among other benefits, Relevance packaging (wooden pallet) that protects packaging contacts Embraco, who a study that identifies what are the most Matrix development will provide reduction the compressors manufactured in goes to the customer and picks up the important themes for the business unit in electrical energy consumption Brazil. We developed a project so that pallets Embraco selects the material and what are the essential themes for and increase scrap reuse (plastic, screw the material is not wasted or discarded for reuse. society. By crossing this information, we and cable). improperly. For this, we work together with managed to list the major priorities for three Brazilian customers. They return 3C ustomer purchases Embraco EECON, in other words, the issues relevant the packaging to us, and we become compressors removes product from to both our business as well as to society. responsible for reusing them in the best packaging forwards wooden pallets The themes chosen are eco-efficiency in possible manner. For the idea to be put to one of our suppliers the supplier manufacturing, sustainability education into practice, we created different ways so selects material and forwards for reuse. (internal), new business with sustainability that each customer can participate, as in and communication for sustainability. the following methods. With this initiative, we have achieved excellent environmental gains. In three The Relevance Matrix was developed Relevant issues study 1 Customer purchases Embraco months, we have reduced by 19% the during a training in EECON, which was identified items related to compressors removes product from need for new pallets. attended by all managers. As a result packaging forwards wooden pallets of the training, we were able to appoint the operations’ sustainability back to Embraco Embraco selects the some people to take special care of as priorities for EECON’s material for reuse. each issue. In another step, the priority operation. themes were broken down into several specific actions, having more specific Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 23 President efficiency Sonho de Criança (Child’s Dream) Early Childhood Education Center “Since 2009 we have implemented the organic vegetable garden project. The idea led to the development of several Children other environmental projects, such as the worm farm, composting, capturing rain water, garden and orchard, which involved the entire school community. We can notice committed to the change in the children’s eating habits, participation Embraco Ecology and appreciation of the school community in relation to Award reached projects. In addition, we highlight the many opportunities ecology its 19th edition in to participate in events involving children, teachers and Brazil in 2011 directors, who feel welcomed by the program.” Plácido Olímpio de Oliveira Basic Education School “We believe that all motivation in relation to ecology, such as the preservation of the environment is of paramount We promote every year the Embraco The most outstanding award winner was In Brazil, the award celebrates 20 years in importance in the lives of our students and our planet. Ecology Award. In 2011, the event the ZŠ Povýšenia sv. kríža school, for 2012, and in these decades, has sowed With the award, teachers and students effectively engage celebrated its 19th edition in Brazil, and the project “Our natural garden.” With and reaped excellent results. Check out themselves. We notice that there have already been has already held three editions in Slovakia. lots of creativity, the children created a the following testimonials from some some changes in posture and, especially, a greater search In Europe, last year alone, over 2000 garden with paths, trees and nursery of participants. for information leading to scientific knowledge and school children who received the award plants. Not to mention the stable and the ecological awareness.” were benefited. ecosystem, enriched by the lake, little river, field, and shrubbery. Message from the Profile Management sUSTAINABILITY Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 24 President efficiency How Embraco seeks to contribute to slowing global warming →→Using less gas in the compressors’ operation also collaborates with the environment. Embraco can reduce Natural the amount of refrigerant by innovating and developing models without lubricant oil. Besides avoiding the use A practical example was propane adoption of gases, the oil-free model generates less waste in refrigerants in the 26-cubic-foot so-called Glass Door the environment. Merchandiser, equivalent to about 736 liters. The devices are those refrigerators →→We develop the highest energy efficiency products. with a transparent glass door, widely The more efficient our products, the less indirect CO2 used in markets and convenience stores. emissions generated by the production of energy to Embraco sees the use of natural refrigerthe United States also. However, the new We used propane in place of R134a and operate the refrigeration systems. According to the ants as an important way to reduce greenNorth American legislation poses some obtained good results. We reduced energy Total Equivalent Warming Impact (TEWI) index, 80% house gas emissions that impact global challenges. Isobutane refrigerators, for use by almost a quarter, decreasing CO2 of the sector’s impact on global warming comes from warming. To disseminate the use of these example, can only have up to 57 grams emissions. Over 10 years, each device will the generation of energy used in the operation of refrigerants, the company discloses the of the gas, slightly more than one third avoind emitting 1,709 tons of gas into refrigeration equipment. benefits in major events such as business of the maximum amount approved in the atmosphere. The same concept was trade shows and scientific conferences, Europe. With regard to propane, the applied to other equipment, such as the and in customer visits, answering quesUnited States also limited the amount 10-cubic-foot Glass Door Merchandiser, tions and responding to inquiries on the in vending machines one of the most about 283 liters, and Ice Cream Chest subject. The great advantage of natural important applications in the country’s Freezers. In both cases, we emitted less refrigerants is low Greenhouse Warming commercial refrigeration market. CO2 and improved energy efficiency. Potential (GWP), measurement to express the contribution to global warming Despite the limitations, Embraco already Embraco, for being one of the pioneers in of gases such as R600a (isobutane), in offers solutions to meet the North Amerithe use of natural refrigerants, and also household equipment, and R290 (procan market’s specificities. Even before the one of the forerunners in the elimination pane), in commercial systems. law was passed, the company had signed of CFC use, is a world reference in the partnerships with two major players in sector and aligns this strategy with the These gases are already greatly adopted the market and developed products with development policy for high energy in Europe and China, and since the end propane according to the new rules. efficiency products. of last year, had their use regulated in Message from the Profile Management Sustainability INNOVATION AND ENERGY People Value chain GRI content 25 President EFFICIENCY Innovation and energy efficiency that will soon be converted into even more Our vocation is efficient and sustainable products than those offered today. to innovate To achieve our goals in innovation, we have invested, every year, about 3% of the company’s net revenue in funding research and development. In addition, we have a team of 500 professionals When we stamp on our new brand the in different countries, integrating value Shaping the Global Scenario, we the Research & Development area. are expressing that we understand what Another way to stimulate innovation in our mission is as leaders in the hermetic the company is called the Y career. In compressor segment for refrigeration this career model, the company offers and we know that we influence the differentiated salary opportunities for market’s development worldwide. The researchers remuneration compared to great differential for having achieved this management positions. The goal in these position is the dedication to technology cases is to encourage the good researcher and innovation, which together form one to continue working within his expertise, Embraco invests, of Embraco’s pillars. Each year, we launch rather than opt for an administrative annually, 3% of models with high efficiency and with lower career in search of better compensation. its revenues in energy consumption. research The importance of innovation for Embraco has direct impact on economic Our R&D team results. In 2011, close to 50% of the is distributed in five countries company’s revenues came from the Brazil 290 commercialization of products launched Slovakia 95 since 2007. The innovation cycle has China 77 already shown that it has vigor for the Mexico 10 next years. Last year alone, we registered Italy 28 69 patent applications, including 62 invention applications. These are ideas Total 500 Message from the Profile Management Sustainability INNOVATION AND ENERGY People Value chain GRI content 26 President EFFICIENCY Revolution in the compressor market In 2011, we launched a revolutionary Embraco researched, innovated and found product, capable of solving a problem a very practical solution. Innovation brings that seemed unsolvable until then. It’s benefits to users, the Bivolt compressor, the world’s first We developed a compressor containing salespeople and hermetic compressor for household an electronic board that recognizes the manufacturers refrigeration with single-phase induction voltage which feeds the product and motor for use in 127V or 220V without automatically adjusts the voltage, without need of applying a voltage transformer. risks for the system. The first Bivolt Although the market is full of products compressors reached the Brazilian market that work in more than one voltage, like in December 2011. In Brazil, the power televisions and stereo equipment, there grid has two voltages: 127v and 220v. was nothing like it in the refrigeration industry. The difficulty occurred because The innovation brings great benefits to Bivolt compressor launched it was necessary to couple large users, manufacturers and salespeople. by Embraco is the first transformers in refrigerators, freezers Users can choose the equipment without or refrigerated counters. Except that bothering to check the voltage. And, in the world to operate attempts were thwarted by the increase in the new model allows manufacturers with two different voltages, manufacturing costs and space that the and retailers to more easily manage eliminating the need for transformer occupied in the final product, inventories and distribution logistics for the transformer. making the concept unfeasible. But regions with different voltages. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability INNOVATION AND ENERGY People Value chain GRI content 27 President EFFICIENCY Beyond Oil Free value Transcending the Future. Although represented by the NPP area, this initiative includes the participation and involvement our of all Embraco employees, in the conception and/or implementation of new value creation sources for the business. One of Embraco’s most innovative projmarket ects enters its final stages and is about The most practical and emblematic case to reach the consumer market. In 2011, to explain the idea was the microcompreswe began in Brazil pilot-manufacturing sor. A small portable model, which has the the Linear Oil Free, the first compressor potential to be used in various applicain the world that eliminates the use of Leadership in the hermetic comprestions, such as cooling race car drivers’ or lubricant oil. This new feature brings direct sor market for refrigeration brings us an firefighters’ clothes. The product takes our benefits to customers. The absence of enormous challenge: how can we further expertise beyond the market for refrigeraoil, combined with the model’s compact expand our business, if we already have tors, freezers and refrigerated counters. size, means the compressor takes up less a significant market share in the world? NPP’s objective is to identify other opspace in refrigerators and freezers and The question stimulated us to strengthen portunities for products and services, with can also be placed in any position, either the team and processes of the New Profit applications different from the ones we horizontally or vertically. Today, to prevent Pools (NPP) area in 2011. This area’s misalready know. oil leakage, the compressor must always sion is to discover which paths Embraco Linear Oil Free is be placed vertically. The novelty will encould use their expertise (making cold) The new area is under the umbrella of the one of Embraco’s able our customers to make better use of and further expand the market segment, Vice Presidency of Business and Marketmost innovative equipment space and create new funcwith differentiated business opportunities. ing. Thus, it is in contact with the market projects tionalities, besides, of course, lower energy In general, it means breaking new niches demands while at the same time acting consumption. that go beyond the traditional. For this, in strong partnership with the R&D staff. NPP works with the dimensions called exAfter all, technology and innovation are Developed in partnership with Fisher & tend the core, beyond the core and expand great allies for the success of this process. Paykel, from New Zealand, and North beyond the core. American Whirlpool Corporation, the project totals five years of research, with They are concepts that lead us to expand 82 registered patents and investments of knowledge and develop business segR$ 20 million. ments still nonexistent an initiative vigorously expressed in our new brand: it is the Message from the Profile Management Sustainability INNOVATION AND ENERGY People Value chain GRI content 28 President EFFICIENCY Fullmotion To bring Embraco closer to our final conEM Platform sumers, we launched our new brand for the variable speed technology. From now on, Models developed in the Embraco Mini (EM) platform are the Embraco VCC will now be called Emquiet, compact and efficient. It is the company’s bestbraco Fullmotion, with its own name and -selling line worldwide and the only one present in all proidentity, further highlighting our technolduction units (Brazil, Italy, Slovakia, China and Mexico). Its ogy. The Embraco Fullmotion technology newest version, the EM3 family, launched in 2011, allows was launched in 1998 and remains the the development of models up to 5% more efficient than company’s main energy efficiency product. their predecessors. The EM platform arrived in the market On average, the cooling system’s energy in 1987, being a milestone in our history. It was the first consumption can drop by up to 40%, compressor with 100% Embraco technology, representing compared to equipment which adopts the company’s achievement of technology autonomy. traditional compressors. The differential of Fullmotion technology is that the compressor stays on all the time. But how can it use less energy, if it’s never turned off? The dilemma is easy to explain. The moment that the compressor consumes the most Microcompressor 40% energy is when it is turned on. The concept behind the Embraco Fullmotion technology After six years of research, Embraco began, in 2011, pilot is to create an intelligent system, in which production of the microcompressor. There are two models, the compressor automatically increases is the reduction in energy 2.7 cm and 5.0 cm in diameter. The compact size and aband decreases the work intensity, accordconsumption by using the Embraco sence of oil created a new market, still to be exploited and ing to the refrigeration need. Thus, it never Fullmotion Compressor compared to developed. The microcompressor can be used, for example turns off and avoids the energy use on retraditional products. in cooling portable equipment, such as special firefighter starting, which occurs several times a day uniforms, when subjected to high temperatures, small in conventional models. The Embraco Fullrefrigerators, refrigerated compartments for the medical motion technology also allows better food area (such as organ transport) and in automobiles. preservation due to minimum temperature variation in the cabinet. Additionally, its use reduces the compressor’s overall noise and vibration by approximately 30%. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 29 President efficiency People kians to Mexico. It means seeing people Global from different backgrounds enrich our day to day with particular behaviors and knowledge. values One of the tools to deepen our global DNA is the Trainee Program. In 2011, we had in Brazil almost 13,000 applications for the 2012 program, double the forecasted We are consolidating ourselves as a global target. Eight trainees were selected. Those company. Not only for being present in six chosen receive the mission to lead stracountries or for our products being martegic projects and are closely monitored keted in over 80 countries. We also want by managers. An interview with one of our to be a company with global culture. A trainees can be found on page 35. place where people from various nationalities work side by side, where cultural difImprovements in Embraco ferences are respected and valued. In our social initiatives consolidates itself, brand, we designed the value Cultivating each time more, as Passion to make it clear how much people In 2011, we completed the Assessment a global company are important to us and to illustrate our of Embraco’s Social Initiatives in the Comemphasis on building talented teams that munity. The study was conducted in five are passionate about what they do. countries and six cities where we promote social action. The goal was to discover We are building a broad concept about dithe opinions of communities and employversity. We have set strategies and actions ees about our initiatives. The comments so that this idea takes root in our offices, were very positive and helped us further corridors and laboratories. In practice, this improve our social investment policy. In means being a company that is inclusive, China, for example, the donation of more that welcomes people with some type of efficient refrigerators to hospitals was not disability, whether physical or intellectual, so valued by the community. The priority to participate in our routine. It means is to welcome and qualify people that arencouraging Brazilians to work in China, rive from the field to work in the industry, bringing Italians to Brazil or taking Slovaand therefore we prioritized the Dandelion Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 30 President efficiency migrant school in joining Global Volunteer Day (see more on page 33). Talents In the survey, the growing demand for environmental issues also became clear, which motivated us to make some of diversity Women valued adjustments in our programs. The idea In 2011, we conducted, in Embraco Brazil, is to launch new projects and strengthen two Roundtables about Genders. These existing ones. This is the case of the events are encounters with male and Ecology Network, an initiative, in Brazil, female leadership which aims to debate through which adolescents are encourthe role of men and women in society, aged to create blogs to debate and reflecting on how the differences between exchange information about the environthem could be better addressed in the ment. After the survey, we are intensifyworkplace. Roundtable participants had ing the implementation of workshops the opportunity to better understand the and courses to teach participants to Talents of genders’ peculiarities and leave old prejuuse blog publishing tools and also how Diversity program dices aside. We were able to understand to write and approach topics relating to values people the specificities of men and women and the environment, as well as expand the with disabilities also perceive that there is much in comnumber of participating youths. mon between the two. Our City Project The inclusion of people with disabilities Each participant is hired by the company is an important work (and very gratifyfor a period of 12 months, in an eightIn Slovakia, we participated in a volunteer project called ing) in Embraco. We created, in Brazil, the hour workday. However, they only work Our City Project. There were 60 people from Embraco Talents of Diversity Program. It is an excelfour hours. During the remaining hours, dedicated to working in communities for two days, along lent employment opportunity for people they attend a career improvement course. with other local businesses and organizations. During those with disabilities who do not have suitable Since the program was implemented, 108 days, we cleaned the local zoo, planted trees, promoted professional qualifications. Every year we people have been selected. About 68% of activities for children, offered workshops for people with make 30 vacancies available. In 2011, 25 them have been hired permanently. disabilities and hosted a blood donation booth at Embraco. people were benefited from the program. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 31 President efficiency Extra care with mothers To take better care of our employees, in 180 days. After this period, there are ad2011, we entered into a partnership with ditional advantages available. In Joinville, the Itaiópolis Municipal Health Secretariat, there is a nursery at their disposal within in Santa Catarina. The objective was to the factory, and in Itaiópolis, they are conduct a campaign to disseminate good given day-care assistance. In addition, the practices to contribute to women’s health. mothers receive special attention from During some days, the company promotthe company’s bus driver. The line follows ed lectures with professionals in the area a special route, passing in front of the In Joinville, to clarify doubts among participants. nursery. This provides greater comfort to professionals have the families’ routine. a nursery available Another way to collaborate with women’s in the factory health is by offering a number of maternity benefits. Before the baby’s birth, expectant mothers have access to our group Embraco offers special of pregnant women, with whom they care for mothers, through can talk and express their feelings about motherhood. partnerships with local government agencies, When the child is born, the mother conadherence to the federal tinues to have special attention. She can program Citizen Company stay home without working for up to six months. This is because Embraco adand the provision of benefits hered to the Brazilian federal government like daycare assistance. program Citizen Company. The program offers tax incentives to companies that extend the maternity leave from 120 to Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 32 President efficiency Turning For the first time in 2011, we held Embraco Global Volunteer Day. It’s a date on In the Itaiópolis unit, 70 people worked together with five schools. There, they built dreams which employees from the units in Brazil, a solar heating system and a doll house, USA, Slovakia and China work, with their prepared a garden to plant strawberries families, community leaders, NGOs and and set up a drainage system to reduce into reality school teachers, to improve some aspect humidity in the garden. The volunteers of the community in which they live. In also created covers for sandboxes and total, we recorded more than 4,200 hours painted walls, sidewalks and squares. of volunteer work. In the United States there were donations of more than 500 food and hygiene items. 4,200 In Slovakia, the employees participated in the cleanup of Podlesok Slovak Paradise (a national park), collecting the region’s trash. hours were invested in volunteer work Embraco’s Global In Joinville, 120 volunteers rolled up their performed by company employees. Volunteer Day was sleeves for almost 2,000 hours of intense held for the 1st time community work. The location chosen in 2011 was Jardim Paraíso. They delivered to residents of the subdivision Los Angeles two new leisure options: a sand court for soccer and another for volleyball. The Early Childhood Center Paraíso da Criança also underwent improvements: it received a beautiful painting on the walls and changes in the bicycle rack area. The volunteers furthermore revitalized the walls and the flower beds of the square and the police station and gave a new face to the cemetery’s walls, located at the neighborhood’s entrance. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 33 President efficiency Migrants in China Methodology in In China, 130 million people, close to 10% of the country’s population, are migrants or children of migrants. It is a volunteering huge social problem, especially considering that, among them 20% are school age. These children have difficulties in adapting and often receive poor quality education. Many of our employees in Embraco migrated from other regions. Therefore, 50 volunteers were mobilized to work Embraco Global Volunteer Day adopted 3D ream: build the image of what you on improvements in the Dandelion high school, which is the Oasis methodology to develop the want to have or do. Go beyond simply located in the community around our factory. Thus, we project. In 2010, Oasis entered with a identifying problems, but connect the make a small contribution related to this social problem. pilot proposal in Joinville, and in 2011 the people’s individual dreams. The hands of our employees painted stairs, gates and even idea was brought to the other units. The ping-pong tables in the school. methodology is consolidated in several 4 Care: organize, plan and seek resources countries and stipulates all conditions for to transform the dream into reality. It is People benefited by the community to make the intervention the beginning of the mobilization and of our social investments according to their needs. According to the changes in practice. Country people benefited Safety umbrella the Oasis methodology, participants pass Brazil 18,345 through seven steps, which encompass 5M iracle: is time to work, join forces, to China 1,360 How to get to Joinville? Follow the road and take the first all the work’s phases, from creation to the act collectively and explore what is best Italy 2,300 rain on the right. The humorous and entertaining directions beginning of a new cycle. See below the in the community towards a common reflect Joinville’s reputation in Brazil. The city is known Slovakia 6,568 seven steps. dream. for wet weather and rain that doesn’t let up. The weather, North America 300 however, can bring some safety risks when certain pre1 Gaze: observe the community, people 6C elebration: time when participants Total 28,873 cautions are neglected. To escape the rain, many people and site’s characteristics. Know the situgather to observe the results and celusually run for cover. A practice that breaks our Safety ation well and what can be improved. ebrate the good work. Golden Rule number 4. This rule raises the danger of a “sprint” inside Embraco’s premises. Haste increases the risk 2 Affection: live with people, listen, dis7 Re-evolution: is the time to think about of concussions and fractures, besides exposing the person cuss and establish a relationship of trust the future, to reap the learnings and ento accidents with forklifts and other cargo vehicles that and affection with the community. courage the community to participate in transit in the units. new projects. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 34 President efficiency and recognition of good results. In 2011, 1,600 people were trained as observers, BBS seen by who gave 140,000 positive feedbacks on our employees safety, totaling 19,180 hours of conversaSafety tions, and another 5,870 hours invested in Before BBS, we thought about safety the wrong way. With training observer teams. BBS, we understand that to encourage people to act the right way is better than just reprimand them. This is first The program begins by identifying bechanging our relationship with employees and with the haviors which are the most present in people who work in Embraco.” people’s routines in each area. Through Wilson Vicente, observer and safety specialist continuous observations of his fellow employees, the next step is to recognize and “We allow people to speak freely, speak of their fears and To ensure employees’ safety and health in and cleaning). In 2011, the Brazil, Mexico congratulate people for behaviors that are all the things they have in mind. We listen and change any the workplace, in 2011, Embraco focused and Slovakia factories implemented this being carried out safely and talk to them obstruction to safety or problems that occur during work. I on the continued implementation of the rule in 100% of the activities. The other about those that can be improved in order believe we will have many more positive stories on BBS in Safety Golden Rules and behavior change. units will complete the project in 2012. to avoid an accident. The idea is that emthe coming years.” ployees take care of colleagues, a relationJuliano Tonon, quality specialist Our factories have OHSAS 18.001 certiLet’s take care of each other ship that combines friendship, respect and fication international standard of occuprofessionalism. pational health and safety management In 2011, we implemented the global projand implementation of the Golden ect Behavior-Based Safety, which aims to From May to December 2011, there were Rules is part of the continuous improvehelp people choose a safe behavior, rather 76,728 observations in all Embraco units. ment process of our internal procedures. than a risk, while performing their daily These rules are a set of basic procedures activities. The idea here is not reprimand. and standards designed to guide behaIt is only guidance. BBS foresees stimulatvior in the day to day and in all activities ing conversations, highlighting positive performed by employees, contractors aspects of work, praise what is being done and visitors. correctly and explanations about the benefits of safety measures for everyone. Within the eight rules, number 7 deals with Lockout/Tagout of Hazardous Energy The program has three basic elements: and focuses on prevention in all intervenmaking observations and feedback about tion activities (preparation, maintenance safety, action plans to remove barriers Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 35 President efficiency In which units have you worked during the Trainee Program? During the program, I went to China, Slovakia, Italy, ENA (Embraco unit in the Rich experience United States) and also to Whirlpool in Embraco’s Trainee program Benton Harbor, United States. I conducted values the professional and Anne Gomes Jacobson, 24 years old, was training courses related to the deployone of eight participants in Embraco’s ment of goals and implementation of stimulates them to improve Trainee Program 2010 and was chosen development plans, I worked on the corthemselves in their position as leader of a global project, which led porate tools’ alignment process. I also and seek leadership within her to know our units, as well as Whirlpool worked with Aiesec’s Trainee Program and the company. Corporation. Anne traveled, knew several Exchange Program, making a diagnosis factories and lived with people of diverse and seeking improvement opportunities. cultures as part of a training and alignment project of HR tools. In the following How have you experienced the global What are your goals in the company? interview, Anne details her experience. business concept? Were you surprised to receive Embraco’s recognition? Why did you choose Embraco to get a job It was a unique experience. We realized as a trainee? that, indeed, a certain group of individuals I intend to improve myself each time tend to exhibit characteristics and behavmore in my position, becoming a referFrom the moment I knew about Embraiors very similar to each other, depending ence in human resources. In this way, I’m co’s program structure and the projects to on the culture and the environment in preparing myself to occupy a leadership be undertaken by the trainees, which were which they live. I found it interesting and position in Embraco. I saw the recognition Anne: “I intend presented by the organization’s managers challenging to adapt verbal and nonverbal that I received as an opportunity to know to improve myself, themselves, I decided that Embraco was a language to all publics. Another curious realities very different from ours, putting becoming a company in which I would definitely point is to observe the different forms of into practice much of the knowledge acreference” like to work. relationship. quired during the Trainee Program. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy PEople Value chain GRI content 36 President efficiency Cultural diversity Johari Gregorio’s story expresses well Embraco’s way to improve global culture. At 28, he is one of the participants in the exchange program promoted through a partnership between the company and the Aiesec organization, but his international bloodline is even older. Johari is an Italian who was born in Malaysia. He How was your routine during the tion, finding varied solutions for similar graduated in mechanical engineering and program? problems. This proximity is very useful has already worked professionally in Ethioand helps improve our performance at pia and Italy. Now, he’s in Brazil, doing an I am part of the Asia Pacific, Africa and work. For example: I work with a Chinese internship in sales at Embraco’s headquarMiddle East (Apame) sales team for the colleague in the office. With her, I learned ters in Joinville. He arrived in the country domestic market. In the first six months of interesting things about the Chinese corin June 2011 and stayed here for twelve the program, in the morning, I helped the porate culture, such as answering e-mails months. In this interview, he tells a little sales team and learned about the tools in less than three minutes and to comabout his routine and how the internaused in the company and how to relate municate in a simple, clear and effective tional experience helps in his professional with customers and colleagues. In the manner, focusing on results. qualification. afternoon, I went to trainings in different areas with which the sales sector relates, What are your main professional goals such as logistics and research laboratories. from now on? In the following months, I took care of tests in the laboratories tests to meaMy idea is to continue developing compesure the compressors’ performance and, tences in sales and negotiation and also in parallel, focused on negotiations with in research and development for the next customers. three years. I intend to also know more Exchange programs about the market and reality of China, among employees Do you think that cultural diversity in Emwhich will always be relevant to the comis one way to braco is a positive aspect of the company? pany’s future. Then, I will dedicate myself improve to deepen my knowledge in finance. I the company’s Diversity means understanding other want to do an MBA and prepare myself to global culture realities, it means improving communicaassume new responsibilities. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 37 President efficiency Value chain Committed suppliers In the process of consolidating ourselves One of the mechanisms to encouras a company that looks to include susage sustainable vocation in the chain is tainability in its business and alignment self-assessment. Periodically we send to environmental concerns, we must use a questionnaire to partners. Questions our market leadership so that our entire cover a very broad range of topics. supplier chain also develops these global When answered, we have an X-ray of the values. Embraco has worked several years company’s situation. Thus, our suppliers to spread awareness about sustainability can clearly measure if they are acting in More than 90% to its partners through various actions. accordance with our Code of Conduct. At of suppliers have These are initiatives that improve labor the same time, Embraco can also anasigned our relations, recycling policies, reuse of malyze case by case. With the data in hand, Code of Conduct terials and environmental management. we guide each supplier in a distinct and All this, executed in a coordinated manner, individualized manner, so that each one will build a better future for our planet. enhances the sustainability concept in accordance with their own reality. We are evolving a great deal in our strategy, and most of our partners are already committed to deepen sustainability guidelines. Over 90% of direct suppliers, distributed in the Americas, Europe and Asia, have signed the Code of Conduct, a document with guidelines on the correct posture of companies regarding socialenvironmental issues. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 38 President efficiency Self-assessment is also an important recognition tool. In China, we developed an annual award for suppliers who have excelled in the year. It is an important way for us to get closer to the partners, interact and stimulate best practices. Among the awards, is the sustainability item. In 2011, to decide who were those highlighted in this item, we used the selfassessment results, analyzing companies that are more advanced in this process. And the following suppliers were awarded: Foundry Roshow Technology, Zhejiang Sunho Science & Technology and Hangzhou Qianjiang Spring. partners’ assessment In 2011, we further improved our suppartners responded to the questionnaire plier assessment policy. For the first (representing close to 70% of the Foundtime, we applied the questionnaire to the ry’s purchases in the direct, intermediate Foundry’s partners. The questions were materials and direct services categories). sent to direct materials suppliers, such as The index shows our chain’s great concern oil and iron, and to intermediate materiwith the sustainability theme. Based on Assessment als suppliers, those who do not make up information gathered from the questionallows Embraco the final product, only participate in the naire, we drew up an orientation plan toto orientate its manufacturing process, such as sand. The gether with those who most need support, foundry partners result was very good. Over 95% of the which are considered most critical. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 39 President efficiency Green On sight products Evolution 2010 housings collected (received): In China, we conducted a pilot project to Our concern for sustainability accompacasted iron are used directly by the Em415,574 take an important step in the process of nies the products’ entire useful life, even braco Foundry. Copper and aluminum are social-environmental risk management. when they are no longer being used by sold for reprocessing. Not even oil escapes 2011 The quality team went beyond the selfour customers about 95% of compresour eyes. housings collected (received): assessment analysis and visited five of our sor waste is recycled. The big challenge 601,600 suppliers on sight. The audit’s perception is to collect used products in order to reis that there is good supplier adhesion in cycle the raw materials and discard them 45% relation to social-environmental issues properly. For this reason, we created Top and there is no resistance to access inforGreen. The program counts on a very large mation. Based on this pilot, Embraco is participation of different Embraco publics. studying to extend the work, which could Customers, suppliers and employees colClose to 95% of the increase in the volume of housings reach more suppliers and more countries. laborate. In 2011 alone, 601,600 discardcompressors’ residuals removed from the market. It is worth mentioning that the initiative ed compressors returned to the company is a pioneer in Embraco and originated through the program, about 45% more are recycled. Embraco’s from China’s own quality team, which than in the previous year. great challenge is to collect sought to qualify itself to develop and used products, reason for carry out the project. When a used compressor reaches the which the Top Green program hands of the Top Green team, besides avoiding the inappropriate disposal, we was created, that counts help the environment by recycling the on the participation of non-renewable raw materials, such as various publics. steel, copper and aluminum. Steel and Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 40 President efficiency Business Leader Forum Embraco seeks, In Slovakia, we have a good example of market, customers, community and entogether with action together with suppliers. Embraco vironment. After the audit, the Business suppliers, participates in the Business Leader FoLeader Forum delivered a report to the management rum (an initiative that brings together supplier, with some recommendations and solutions 25 companies, in order to disseminate a strategy to conduct business in a susbest management practices). The forum tainable manner. has different work groups, and Embraco participates in several of them, including Another objective of the forum is to enthe one that works with suppliers in terms courage companies and their suppliers of sustainability. We indicated one of our to jointly develop a project to meet a partners to participate in the program. community need. We decided to create a hotline to give support on psychological The Business Leader Forum, then, conissues, such as depression, for example. A ducted an audit to check the status of our very relevant service, since unemployment supplier following the EFQM methodology, is growing in the region. which evaluates the criteria: employees, Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 41 President efficiency GRI Content Application Level nies), plus conducted interviews with our This report is based on GRI guidelines, former president João Carlos Brega, with methodology in which the publication is specialists and with community represeninserted in the application level B, selftatives. declared. This application level determines the reporting of all profile items, information on the form of management and no less than 20 performance indicators, including, at least, one indicator of the Material theme Page following areas: economic, environmental, Eco-efficiency human rights, labor practices, society and Sustainable energy solutions product responsibility. The company rePeople development and Report Profile ports, here, 26 indicators. training Ethics in business Materiality Minimizing environmental Reporting period Contact data for questions regarding the Embraco uses a materiality matrix to give impact We seek to focus the report on the period report’s content focus to its sustainability strategy. The Respect and valuing diversity January 1 to December 31, 2011, in the If you have doubts, suggestions or commatrix also defined this report’s content. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) performents, send them to: Product quality and customer satisfaction indexes mance indicators as well as other actions accs@embraco.com.br In 2012, we carried out a consultation relevant to the company. However, the Corporate Communication and Sustainprocess with some of our stakeholdreport also addressed some information ability Office ers in order to verify if the issues raised or events of 2012, to provide the reader a Rua Rui Barbosa, 1020 in the previous materiality matrix were more contextualized approach. Caixa Postal 91 still current for these publics. As a result, CEP 89219-901 – Joinville-SC – Brazil there were no major changes in the main Date of the most recent previous report themes, but, with the new query, a few 2010 Report’s scope and boundary items stood out (see below). This report’s content cover the activities of Reporting cycle Embraco’s units in the six countries where For this process, we analyzed documents Annual it has operations. Changes in the data’s and internal surveys, we performed an presentation were presented together with online consultation with our internal pubthe text, when necessary and appropriate. lic (participation of 70 employees) and a customer survey (answered by 26 compaMessage from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 42 President efficiency GRI Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ G3 Profile Respond to items: Respond to all criteria listed Same as requirement for Level B 1.1, for Level C plus: 2.1 to 2.10, 1.2, 3.1 to 3.8, 3.9, 3.13, 3.10 to 3.12; 4.5 to 4.13, 4.1 to 4.4, 4.16 and 4.17. 4.14 to 4.15. With External Verification With External Verification With External Verification G3 management Report Content Not required. Information on the Management Approach approach Management Approach for disclosed for each indicator each indicator category. category. G3 Performance Respond to a minimum Respond to a minimum of Respond to each core G3 and Indicators & of 10 Performance 20 performance Indicators, Sectorial Supplement Indicator Sector Supplement Indicators, including at including at least one of (whenever there is a final Performance least one of each of the each of the following areas: approved version) with due Indicators following performance economic, environmental, regard to the materiality areas: social, economic human rights, labor practices, principle of one of the following and environmental. society and product forms: (a) responding to the responsibility. indicator or (b) explaining the reason for the omission. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 43 President efficiency GRI Content GRI Items Completely Strategy and analysis Partially 1.1 Message from the President → Consult page 3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities → Consult pages 18 and 19. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization → Consult pages 18 and 19. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services → Consult page 4. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization → Consult page 6. 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters Joinville, in Santa Catarina (Brazil). 2.5 Countries where the organization operates and where its main operations are located → Consult page 6. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form → Consult page 4. 2.7 Markets served → Consult page 4. 2.8 Company’s size → Data on the total number of employees are on page xx. In Brazil, as we are a business unit of Whirlpool SA, our financial information is not disclosed separately. To know the consolidated data of Whirlpool SA, see the electronic address http://www.whirlpool.com.br/investidor.aspx. 2.9 Main changes during the period covered by the report → Consult page 5. 2.10 Awards received during the period covered by the report → Consult page 11. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 44 President efficiency Completely Report Parameters Partially 3.1 Period covered by report for information provided → Page 41. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report → Page 41. 3.3 Reporting cycle → Page 41. 3.4 Contact data for questions regarding the report or its contents → Page 41. 3.5 Process for defining report content → Page 41. 3.6 Boundary of the report → Page 41. 3.7 Statement of any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report → Page 41. 3.8 Base for report elaboration → Page 41. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations → Described in the footnotes of tables and graphs. 3.10 Reformulations of information provided in earlier reports → None. 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report → None. 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report → Page 43 onwards. 3.13 Current policy and practice with regards to seeking external verification for the report → The disclosed information was not audited. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body → Consult page 8. 4.2 Presidency of the highest governance body → Consult page 88. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 45 President efficiency Completely 4.3 Independent or non-executive members of the highest governance body → There are no independent or non-executive members. Partially 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations → Whirlpool S.A., which includes the business of Embraco compressors, holds an annual meeting with shareholders and provides a telephone channel and an e-mail address to receive recommendations. For more information, visit the site http://www.whirlpool.com.br/investidor.aspx. Employees can also send suggestions via the ombudsman, the Open Channel. We also hold a large annual meeting (Leadership Meeting), which brings together all corporate leadership and managers of operating units worldwide. In addition, each area of ​​ the company conducts alignment meetings, with varied frequencies. 4.5 Link between compensation and organizational performance (including social and environmental) → We have the Profit Sharing Program (PPR), which rewards performance against the targets. The idea is to value who acts according to the company’s values​​, culture and pillars. To further clarify the individual responsibilities in the company’s results, leadership regularly converses with teams and discusses the application of goals in the day to day work. 4.6 Processes to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided → The Letter of Organizational Values​​, the Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics are known and have the commitment of all Embraco professionals. To ensure the company’s entire alignment, we receive under the scope of the Ethics Committees, complaints, doubts and denouncements from any employee regarding irregularities in Embraco. Directors of factories, legal sector, Human Resources area and vice-presidencies may also be triggered directly in these cases. Denouncements may be made ​​by electronic mail or even through calls to a specific line, ensuring the employee’s anonymity. 4.7 Qualifications of members of the highest governance body → The assessed competences of the members that compose the highest governance body are associated to the knowledge that the executive has of Embraco’s business and their particular area of operation. 4.8 Statements of mission and values, codes of conduct and internal relevant principles → Consult page 6. 4.9 Responsibilities for implementation of economic, environmental and social policies → Monitoring: the execution of Embraco’s economic, environmental and social planning, as well as the executives’ performance, is supervised by the president’s staff. Formal assessments are conducted quarterly, guided by our five strategic pillars: revenue growth, technology leadership, operational excellence, sustainability and people. Risks and opportunities: to manage and minimize potential risks to Embraco’s interests, we review the risk spreadsheet semiannually, according to Enterprise Risk Management methodology. This spreadsheet contains not only the possible impacts resulting from occurrence of that risk, but also ways to combat it. 4.10 Processes for performance self-assessment of the highest governance body → We do not fully adopt the precautionary principle, but we seek to act with environmental responsibility by eliminating from products and processes substances proven harmful to the environment. 4.11 Explanation of if and how the organization applies the precautionary principle → We do not fully adopt the precautionary principle, but we seek to act with environmental responsibility, eliminating from products and processes substances proven harmful to the environment. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 46 President efficiency Completely 4.12 Charters, principles or other initiatives developed externally → Since 2005, Embraco Brazil has been a signatory to the Global Compact of the United Nations Organization. In 2008, Embraco Slovakia also adhered to the initiative. Partially 4.13 Participation in associations and / or national / international organisms → Among the main entities in which we participate or with which we interact, are: American Chamber of Commerce in Slovakia; Joinville Architect and Engineer Center (Ceaj); Brazilian Electrical and Electronic Industry Association (Abinee); Joinville – Spisská Nová Vês Sister City Committee; Brazilian Association of Advertisers (ABA); National Confederation of Industry / Brazilian Business Coalition (CNI/CEB) Brazilian Business Communication Association (Aberje) São Francisco do Sul Port Authority (CAP); Brazilian Foundry Association (Abifa); State Council for Foreign Trade Advancement (Ceacex); Brazilian Human Resources Association (ABRH); Honorary Consulate of the Slovak Republic in Southern Brazil; Brazilian Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation and Heating Association Itaiópolis Volunteer Fire Brigade; (Abrava); Federation of Industries of the State of Santa Catarina (Fiesc); Itaiópolis Commercial and Industrial Association (ACII); Forum of Business Leaders; Slovakia Electrical Equipment Industry Association; Forum of Social Leaders; Brazilian Foreign Trade Association (AEB); Certi Foundation Reference Centers in Innovative Technologies; Occupational Health and Safety Professionals Association of Joinville and Region Global Compact – Slovakia Chapter; (APSSOJ); Ethos Institute; Joinville Business Association (ACIJ); Santa Catarina Movement for Excellence (MCE); Latin American Electrical and Electronic Industrial Association (Alainee); Global Compact; National Association of Manufacturers of Electro-electronic Products (Eletros); Inter-municipal Union of Workers in Metallurgical, Mechanical, and Electrical National Research, Development and Engineering Association of Innovative Material Industries of Santa Catarina (Sintimesc); Companies (Anpei) Sinditherme Employers’ Federation; Human Resource Development Association Slovakia; Slovak Business and Industrial Chamber (SOPK); Business Leaders Forum – Slovakia; Joinville Volunteer Fire Brigade; American Chamber of Commerce Slovakia; Information Technology and Telecommunications Users Society (Sucesu/SC); Electricity Utility Company of Santa Catarina (Celesc); Santa Catarina Educational Society (Sociesc); Center of Industries of the State of Santa Catarina (Ciesc); 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization → Our main stakeholders are customers, suppliers, employees and communities surrounding our operations. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to be engaged → The strategic importance to our business is the main selection criterion of stakeholders. 4.16 Approaches for stakeholder engagement → Consult page 41. 4.17 Main themes and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement → Consult page 41. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 47 President efficiency Completely Partially Performance indicators Management Approach: consult pages 3, 37 and 28. Economic performance EC3 Coverage of pension plan obligations → Taking into account the different locations where Embraco has operations, there are different structures of retirement plans offered. In China, as well as in Slovakia, there is no private pension plan. In Brazil there is a plan with voluntary participation and open to all positions. Embraco contributes with values ranging ​​ from 1% to 5.5% of the employee`s salary according to the salary range. Contributions also follow a table linked to the employee’s age. In the case of the smaller proportion, Embraco contributes with half, increasing its participation until it is doubled. Participation rises progressively with age. The plan foresees normal type retirement (age 60), early (age 55) and by disability, as well as death benefits, paid to the spouse and children. In Italy, there is a retirement plan provided for in the collective bargaining agreement, but participation is voluntary. For employees, the minimum participation is 1.2%, the same percentage by which the employer participates. As for executives, the minimum contribution is 4%. In the United States, a structured plan is offered by the government, in which participation is voluntary and the employee participates with the amount he desires, and optional participation by Embraco. The company’s share is 50% of the amount invested by the employee, up to a maximum of US$ 17,000. Market Presence EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community in important operational units → There are no specific policies aimed at hiring locally. However, whenever possible, this practice is adopted. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 48 President efficiency Indirect Economic Impacts Completely EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services offered for public benefit Partially → Embraco develops and invests in activities for the public benefit in all countries, especially through volunteerism of its employees. In all locations surveys are performed to identify the main demands of the communities. The total amount invested in the community reached US $ 170,500, with volunteer programs and others targeted to health, environment, sport and education, in addition to socialization in communities. Value Unit Invested (US$) United States 8,495 Brazil 120,192 Slovakia 36,200 China 5,642 Total 170,529 Social Investment Carried Out by Embraco in 2011 EECON Volunteer Program Brazil 829 people benefited. Investment of US$ 266 Embraco Ecology Award Brazil 2,130 teachers and students benefited. Investment of US$ 52,658 Volunteer Program Brazil 9,492 people benefited, 7,400 hours of community service, 302 volunteers in 2011. Investment of US$ 7,763 Digital Knowledge Space Brazil Digital inclusion program aimed at employees, their families and communities. 671 beneficiaries. Investment of US$ 6,183 Sports School Brazil Inclusion of children and adolescents through sports. 486 beneficiaries. Investment of US$ 13,974 Support to Rescue Project Brazil 240 beneficiaries. Investment of US$ 25,636 Embraco Theatre Group Brazil 1,030 beneficiaries. 160 hours of community service. 8 volunteers. Investment of US$ 5,306 Itaiópolis Environmental Games Brazil 3290 beneficiaries. Investment of US$ 5,995 Embraco ChoirBrazil 750 beneficiaries. 76 hours of community service. 16 volunteers. Investments of US$ 2,410 Volunteer Program Slovakia Investments of US$ 3,206 Embraco Ecology Award Slovakia Investments of US$ 9,100 ↓ continues People with disabilities Slovakia Investments of US$ 7,020 Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 49 President efficiency Completely EC8 continuation Social Investment Carried Out by Embraco in 2011 Partially Support for nurseries Slovakia Investments of US$ 8,333 Supplier development Slovakia Investments of US$ 3,900 Investment in health Slovakia Investments of US$ 4,641 Volunteer Program EECON China Investments of US$ 1,194 International Volunteer Day China Investments of US$ 746 Donations to NGOs China Investments of US$ 1,493 Volunteer actions and projects China Investments of US$ 2,209 March of Dimes – United States Allocates resources to programs aimed at health of pregnant women and babies. Investments of US$ 6,424 International Volunteer Day – United States Investments of US$ 1,420 Donations and sponsorship for the community Investments of US$ 650 United States → In total, actions in the USA benefited 300 people, with 239 hours of volunteering. In Slovakia, there were 6,568 people benefited and 1,262 hours and, in China, 1,360 people and 726 hours. In Brazil, there were 18,345 people benefited with 5,833 hours. EECON Brazil and China do not have this information. Environmental performance Management Approach: consult pages 19, 23 and 24. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption → Consult the response from EN4 indicator Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 50 President efficiency Completely EN4 Indirect energy consumption → In 2011, there was an average energy consumption reduction of about 5% in each plant. In global consumption, the reduction was 3% (even considering EECON, as of 2011). Partially Despite the reduction in the absolute values, ​​in relation to compressor production there was an increase of approximately 7% in consumption with the exception of the Italy unit, which recorded a reduction of 8%. In global consumption, there was an increase of 4% in the amount of energy consumed per compressor produced (also considering EECON only in 2011). Brazil China Slovakia 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Direct Energy (MJ) 189,878,442 242,392,744 245,107,876 65,072,470 71,215,002 66,609,331 86,505,392 111,551,302 105,029,836 Natural gas 175,133,910 224,060,655 227,436,650 64,949,635 69,893,635 65,047,745 83,917,486 108,406,072 101,694,683 Methanol 372,842 411,840 386,496 7,603 0 0 0 0 0 Propane 3,716,471 3,032,424 2,554,042 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kerosene 0 0 0 115,232 0 0 0 0 0 LPG 9,099,830 12,978,919 12,927,071 0 0 0 0 0 0 Diesel oil 1,477,594 1,786,200 1,702,397 0 205,442 237,666 1,210,519 1,974,861 2,005,964 Gasoline 77,795 122,706 101,220 0 1,115,925 1,323,920 1,377,387 1,170,369 1,329,189 Indirect energy (MJ) 568,752,462 666,968,951 644,202,396 91,260,000 107,927,640 107,682,840 98,256,294 119,348,590 110,256,444 Electric energy 568,752,462 666,968,951 644,202,396 91,260,000 107,927,640 107,682,840 98,256,294 119,348,590 110,256,444 Total energy 758,630,904 909,361,695 889,310,272 156,332,470 179,142,642 174,292,171 184,761,686 230,899,892 215,286,280 Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Direct energy (MJ) 64,595,895 67,008,830 60,161,220 406,052,169 492,167,878 476,908,263 Natural gas 64,595,895 67,008,830 60,161,220 388,596,896 469,369,192 454,340,298 Methanol 0 0 0 380,445 411,840 386,496 Propane 0 0 0 3,716,471 3,032,424 2,554,042 Kerosene 0 0 0 115,232 0 LPG 0 0 0 9,099,830 12,978,919 12,927,071 Diesel oil 0 0 0 2,688,113 3,966,503 3,946,027 Gasoline 0 0 0 1,455,182 2,409,000 2,754,329 Indirect energy (MJ) 51,674,386 51,679,717 50,902,729 809,943,142 945,924,898 913,044,409 Electric energy 51,674,386 51,679,717 50,902,729 809,943,142 945,924,898 913,044,409 Total energy 116,270,281 118,688,547 111,063,949 1,215,995,311 1,438,092,776 1,389,952,672 1 2011 data include the manufacture of electronic components (EECON). ↓ continues Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 51 President efficiency Completely EN4 Partially continuation Energy consumption per unit Itaiópolis Joinville Foundry EECON – Beijing – EECON – Spisska Nova Riva di 2011 (MJ) Total 2010 – BR – BR – BR BR CH CH Ves – SK Chieri – IT Direct energy 6,818,076 224,751,073 13,538,726 0 66,609,331 0 105,029,836 60,161,220 476,908,262 600,013 Natural gas 217,655,620 9,781,030 65,047,745 101,694,683 60,161,220 454,340,298 1,612,128 Environmental recycling1 80,236 128,891 0 0 1,381,570 1,840,796 55,986 381,022 1,517,792 2,350,709 Methanol 386,496 386,496 235,549 Propane 2,554,042 2,554,042 0 Kerosene 0 4,798,399 LPG 3,877,539 5,291,836 3,757,696 12,927,071 35,330 Diesel oil 1,702,397 237,666 2,005,964 3,946,027 19,094,598 Gasoline 101,220 1,323,920 1,329,189 2,754,329 35,330 Indirect energy 12,931,837 392,608,944 232,456,392 6,205,223 103,326,120 4,356,720 110,256,444 50,902,729 913,044,409 101,658,877 Electric energy 12,931,837 392,608,944 232,456,392 6,205,223 103,326,120 4,356,720 110,256,444 50,902,729 913,044,409 140,110 Total energy 19,749,914 617,360,017 245,995,118 6,205,223 169,935,451 4,356,720 215,286,280 111,063,949 1,389,952,672 125,727,314 EN5 Energia economizada por meio de melhorias em conservação e eficiência → Embraco implemented a series of initiatives aimed at energy conservation and increased efficiency, such as redesign of processes, lighting control, installation of compensation capacitors, reducing cycle times and elimination of process steps. There were also initiatives related to employees’ behavioral habits, such as adjusting the air conditioning and ambience lighting. From 2011, electronic components manufacturing unit (EECON) became part of this indicator. In total, these initiatives led to a reduction of 14,763,910 MJ. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 52 President efficiency Completely EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Partially Brazil China Slovakia Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Wells 205,210 264,925 255,140 0 0 0 0 0 0 125,786 78,062 37,443 330,996 342,987 292,583 Water supply 98,820 89,586 70,854 127,855 136,482 133,571 75,209 90,796 88,027 15,519 18,675 16,784 317,403 335,539 309,236 networks Total 304,030 354,511 325,993 127,855 136,482 133,571 75,209 90,796 88,027 141,305 96,737 54,227 648,399 678,526 601,818 1 2011 data include the manufacturing of electronic components (EECON). Water consumption per unit 2011 (m³) Itaiópolis – BR Joinville – BR Foundry – BR EECON – BR Beijing – CH EECON – CH Spisska Nova Ves – SK Riva di Chieri – IT Total Wells 12,015 147,692 93,003 2,430 37,443 292,583 Water supply 2,662 67,061 1,131 131,465 2,106 88,027 16,784 309,236 networks Total 14,677 214,753 94,133 2,430 131,465 2,106 88,027 54,227 601,818 1 2011 data include the manufacturing of electronic components (EECON). → Despite the change in scope and consideration of the electronic components manufacturing units, the water consumption’s absolute value decreased by 11%. However, if we consider the year’s compressor production, the reduction was 5% in liters per compressor produced. ↓ continues Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 53 President efficiency Completely EN8 Water consumption by source – 2011 (m3) continuation Partially EECON – CH 2,106 Spisska Nova Ves – SK 88,027 Riva di Chieri – IT 37,443 16,784 Beijing – CH 131,465 EECON – BR 2,430 Itaiopolis – BR 12,015 2,662 Foundry – BR 93,003 1,131 Joinville – BR 147,692 67,061 Wells Water Supply Networks Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 54 President efficiency Completely EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Partially Recycled water (m³) 2009 2010 2011 China 35,698 30,026 22,546 Compressors (Brazil) 137,323 128,443 118,007 Foundry (Brazil) 60,312 34,103 35,771 TOTAL 233,333 192,572 176,323 → Similar to results presented in 2010, only compressor plants from China and Brazil, in addition to the Foundry have water recycling systems. Results for the year 2011 indicate that there was a reduction in the absolute consumption of recycled water in Compressor plants (approximately 17%) and an increase in the order of 5% at the Foundry. For efficiency results, i.e. liters of recycled water per compressor produced, the same results were observed (a reduction of approximately 10% for compressor plants and 14% increase for the Foundry). Consumption target for the year 2012 is to maintain the best results achieved in 2011, respecting the seasonal variations, considering the relative water consumption (liters/compressor) each plant will develop specific actions so that the quantity of recycled water be maintained. Use of recycled water (%) (%) 70% 55% 55% 61% 38% 32% 28% 17% Foundry (Brazil) 22% Compressors (Brazil) China 2009 2010 2010 1 Percentage of water recycled compared to the total water consumed in the unit. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 55 President efficiency Completely Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Partially EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. → In 2011, there was an average reduction of 14% in the absolute amount of water discharged by plants in relation to 2010. This decrease was due to efficiency improvement or internal reuse projects, such as greater utilization of reused water in the toilets and in the cooling towers and optimization of production processes. Embraco’s production can also be seen by comparing the years 2010 to 2011, which was, on average, 6% lower. Another important point is that the electronics unit (EECON) now incorporate this indicator as of 2011. Brazil China Slovakia Discard of water (m³) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Return to collection point 115,550 136,114 125,734 89,243 103,726 69,854 0 69,325 82,964 Public Sewage System 0 0 0 0 0 2,430 75,209 0 0 Evaporation 66,725 45,086 40,218 1,279 0 0 0 0 0 Irrigation 0 0 0 1,662 3,139 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 182,275 181,200 165,952 92,184 106,865 72,284 75,209 69,325 82,964 1 2011 data include the manufacturing of electronic components (EECON). 2 ”Recycling” data were excluded, as the water returns to the process and is then discarded, being counted twice. Waste disposal by unit (m³) 2011 Itaiópolis – BR Joinville – BR Foundry – BR EECON – BR Beijing – CH EECON – CH Return to collection point 7,164 66,573 49,891 2,106 69,854 Public Sewage System 2,430 Evaporation 1,680 30,065 8,472 Total 8,844 96,639 58,363 2,106 69,854 2,430 Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 56 President efficiency Completely EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method → Between the last two years, there was a 7% decrease in waste generation in Embraco, a drop linked to the reduction in the year’s compressor production. Partially → Embraco’s main goal for 2012 is the development of projects focused on improving waste management, considering technical and legal aspects of each country. This initiative seeks to improve the segregation, packaging, disposal and transportation, with focus on increasing the destination of materials for recycling, thus reducing the waste sent to landfills. Total waste Brazil China Slovakia Italy generation (t) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Hazardous wastes 1,005,539 2,261,853 1,536,454 98,370 74,178 71,736 1,522,590 2,081,346 1,959,293 55,986 69,325 82,964 Landfill 200,464 400,863 433,644 0 0 0 141,020 199,150 147,400 0 0 0 Incineration 464,500 1,537,950 829,460 98,210 74,178 50,856 0 0 0 0 0 0 Internal recycling 80,236 128,891 70,904 0 0 0 1,381,570 1,840,796 1,780,233 55,986 0 0 External recycling 260,339 194,149 202,446 0 0 20,880 0 41,400 31,660 0 69,325 82,964 Others 0 0 0 160 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Non-hazardous waste 57,218,189 81,508,718 79,649,370 11,324,598 13,264,077 10,900,778 13,197,440 19,891,550 17,240,670 5,608,828 0 0 Landfill 12,838,368 17,146,051 15,211,973 795,070 771,157 928,350 681,700 821,980 671,780 0 69,325 82,964 Internal recycling 26,550 24,910 16,140 1,080 0 0 0 0 0 5,608,828 0 0 External recycling 44,236,671 64,197,647 64,254,647 10,528,448 12,492,920 9,972,428 12,515,740 19,069,570 16,568,890 0 0 0 Remediation of 116,600 140,110 166,610 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 building waste Total 58,223,728 83,770,571 81,185,823 11,422,968 13,338,255 10,972,514 14,720,030 21,972,896 19,199,963 5,664,814 69,325 82,964 1 2011 data include the manufacture of electronic components (EECON). ↓ continues Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 57 President efficiency Completely EN22 continuation Partially Spisska Nova Waste generation (t) Itaiópolis – BR Joinville – BR Foundry – BR EECON – BR Beijing – CH EECON – CH Riva di Chieri – IT Total Ves – SK Hazardous wastes 16,293 1,464,771 53,348 2,042 71,016 720 1,959,293 133,465 3,700,947 Landfill 5,064 400,983 27,597 147,400 581,044 Incineration 808,390 21,070 50,136 720 880,316 Internal recycling 5,902 62,095 865 2,042 1,780,233 133,465 1,984,601 External recycling 5,327 193,303 3,816 20,880 31,660 254,986 Non-hazardous waste 569,380 64,719,488 14,282,594 77,908 10,871,478 29,300 17,240,670 6,057,828 113,848,646 Landfill 35,330 1,092,480 14,084,163 926,310 2,040 671,780 140,360 16,952,463 Internal recycling 15,854 286 60,660 76,800 External recycling 534,050 63,460,398 182,577 77,622 9,945,168 27,260 16,568,890 5,856,808 96,652,773 Remediation of 166,610 166,610 building waste Total 585,673 66,184,259 14,335,942 79,949 10,942,494 30,020 19,199,963 6,191,293 117,549,592 0% 15% 1% 2% Landfill Incineration Internal Recycling 82% External Recycling Remediation of building waste Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 58 President efficiency Completely Social performance – Labor practices Partially Management approach: consult pages 29, 30, 31 and 34. Employment LA1 Total number of employees by employment type, employment contract and region Brazil China Slovakia USA Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Employed for an indefinite 4,820 5,735 5,427 1,303 1,588 1,915 1,685 1,617 1,933 59 59 58 621 617 599 8,494 9,622 9,932 period Temporaries 854 582 831 589 23 94 152 176 289 10 4 1 4 1 1,606 789 1,216 Total 5,674 6,317 6,258 1,892 1,611 2,009 1,837 1,793 2,222 69 63 59 621 621 600 10,100 10,411 11,148 Outsourced 300 570 643 621 167 309 129 28 24 300 1,528 960 Total employees 5,974 6,887 6,901 1,892 2,232 2,176 1,837 2,102 2,351 69 63 59 621 649 624 10,400 11,939 12,108 Employees by work relation Employees by Location 1% 5% 8% 19% Brazil China 57% Slovakia 18% 92% Direct Employees Italy Indirect Employees USA Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 59 President efficiency Completely LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Partially Brazil China Slovakia USA Italy Total Embraco Dismissed 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Men 818 1,883 1,078 696 1,281 399 123 161 58 9 4 6 50 15 21 1,696 3,344 1,562 Women 206 551 253 81 140 91 72 83 26 6 7 2 24 7 3 389 788 375 Age group < 30 544 1,576 697 688 1,317 425 83 127 28 n/d 2 1 0 2 0 1,315 3,024 1,151 From 30 to 50 425 776 560 61 104 65 87 96 40 n/d 8 6 52 15 24 625 999 695 > 50 55 82 74 28 0 0 25 21 16 n/d 1 1 22 5 0 130 109 91 Total 1,024 2,434 1,331 777 1,421 490 195 244 84 11 8 74 22 24 2,070 4,132 1,937 Hired in 2011 Brazil China Slovakia USA Men 939 334 150 2 Women 334 113 71 Age group < 30 863 354 85 From 30 to 50 394 93 136 2 > 50 16 TOTAL 1,273 447 221 2 Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 60 President efficiency Completely LA4 Relationship between workers and governance → Slovakia: there was a change in existing law, which will be changed again in 2013, with the new government. Partially China: in the past 14 years there have been no collective bargaining agreements with employees. Currently, most employees are union members. U.S.: doesn’t have this type of agreement. Collective bargaining agreements Brazil China Italy Slovakia EECON China Percentage of employees affiliated with unions 100% 89% 33% 8% 100% Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreement 98% NA 100% 100% NA LA7 Rates of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and work-related fatalities by region → Embraco has shown improvements in its rates, although in 2011, didn’t reach the internal goal set for the frequency rate of time away accidents. Global project initiatives related to safe behavior, Loto (blocking dangerous energies) and routine management in manufacturing contributed to this improvement. Maintaining the global audit program of health, safety and environment, in Brazil, Component units, Foundry and Electronic Component units (EECON) have been audited in addition to the Compressor plant in Italy. Identified non-compliances are addressed through an action plan and monitored every quarter. In order to share information, any accident with time away from work that occurs in the organization is shared across all units, as a way to call attention and to take preventive actions to prevent new recurrences. To prevent such accidents remains a challenge for the organization. Establishment of the Health, Safety and Environment Forum in 2010, with the monthly participation of Health, Safety and Environment leaders from all plants, coordinated by the Corporate EHS Management, provided, in 2011, improved communication, increased exchange of best practices and information, alignment of approaches and critical analysis of the results and projects. Forecasted for 2012, is the global implementation of a comprehensive project on the evaluation and adaptation of machinery and equipment, as well as the stabilization phase of the Safe Behavior and Routine Management project, in order to maintain and further improve the results. The OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14.001 certification project, in EECON China, and Global EHS Audit, in the Slovakia plant, are also part of the plan for 2012. Health and safety rates Brazil China EECON China Italy Slovakia USA Global TL: injury rate 1.07 0.79 0.50 2.99 0.40 0.00 0.94 DO: Occupational disease rate 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 TDP: total days lost 5.77 4.68 0.00 35.09 13.77 0.00 7.53 * The rates are calculated for every 100 employees. Contractors’ employees are not included in the calculated rates. First aid nor minor injuries that do not generate temporary restriction to work are not included. For lost days, running calendar days beginning on the day following the accident are considered. They meet ILO standards, as well as local legal requirements in each country. ↓ continues Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 61 President efficiency Completely LA7 continuation Absenteeism rate Partially Brazil China Slovakia Italy 2011 2.13 2011 0.66 2011 2.24 2011 2.92 2010 1.31 2010 0.63 2010 1.88 2010 3.61 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year, per employee, broken down by employee category Average training (h) Brazil1 Italy Slovakia USA China2 38 8 21 89 38 40 78 18 32 65 10 3 11 2 2 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 1 Brazil data include the manufacturer of components, compressors, foundry and EECON. 2 In the China data EECON’s training hours are not included, which had in 2011 an average of 24 hours per employee. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 62 President efficiency Completely Diversity and equal opportunity Partially LA13 Total workforce, by employment type, employment contract and region EECON Participation of women in the Brazil China* Italy Slovakia USA China workforce (%) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Vice-presidency, 9.2 6 7 30 41 29 0 0 0 0 12 12 13 ND 1 0 board and management Supervision and leadership 9.2 9 9 41 26 32 33 15 14 17 12 12 28 ND 9 0 Teams 19.7 23 24 14 10 19 87 30 32 32 24 35 34 ND 36 43 * EECON data are not included. Participation of people with Brazil China Italy Slovakia USA disabilities in the workforce (%) 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Vice-presidency, board and management 0 2 2.3 10 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Supervision and leadership 0 2 1.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Teams 5 5 5.2 1 1 0.3* 0 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 * This percentage refers only to people who have an exam proving disability. There are more people with disabilities working in Embraco China. WORKFORCE AGE DISTRIBUTION (%) More than 50 years 30 to 50 years Up to 30 years Brazil1 China Italy Slovakia USA EECON China (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) 100 100 100 100 100 100 80 80 80 80 80 80 60 60 60 60 60 60 40 40 40 40 40 40 20 20 20 20 20 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 63 President efficiency Completely LA14 Proportion of base-salary between men and women by employee category → In Embraco Brazil, the total difference between men and women’s salaries is 51%. In Slovakia, the difference is 1%, but the unit does not have data broken down by categories. Partially In Embraco China, salary information is confidential. Salary men / women (%) Brazil Italy USA Vice-presidency, board and management 8% 25% NA* Supervision and leadership 6% 17% 14% Teams 25% 8% 5% Teams * In Embraco U.S. there are no women among executives. Social performance Society Management approach: consult pages 9, 64 and 65. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units submitted to risks assessments related to corruption → Embraco, as a subsidiary of Whirlpool Corporation, meets the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) law, maintaining documentation of all significant internal controls regarding financial reporting. The company has established an Internal Audit, responsible for testing the SOX internal controls on performance and effectiveness, which are validated by an External Audit. A total of 189 controls were tested in 36% (4 units of 11) of Embraco plants. In addition, 100% of Embraco units are subject to periodic review of processes, through the work of Operational Auditing. Brazil Slovakia United States Italy Units 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Process evaluated (absolute number) 10 12 8 9 5 6 8 9 Processes evaluated (% of total current processes in the unit) 32 33 26 25 16 25 26 17 Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 64 President efficiency Completely SO3 Percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures of the organization Partially Percentage of employees trained in procedures against corruption in 2011 Brazil* China** Italy Slovakia USA Total 20.96% 9.43% 26.05% 13.03% 80% 17% * Considering all Embraco Brazil units, including EECON. ** Considering Beijing Embraco Snowflake Compressor Company Ltd. and EECON Qingdao. → Embraco’s positioning about corruption, money laundering and antitrust actions can be found in the company’s Code of Ethics, distributed to all employees and covered in the new employee integration training, and specific global internal policies on the theme. Administrative and managerial positions undergo training in relation to these issues. In 2011, training involved 2,092 employees from all units, including 1,305 from Brazil, reaching almost 100% of employees in this group. SO4 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption → There were no recorded cases of corruption in 2010 and 2011 in the organization. To avoid this type of conduct, we have made available to the internal public the company’s Code of Ethics, as well as the guideline that all can report any violation of the principles contained in the document. For this to happen, employees can make a complaint directly to their supervisor or through the Hotline, a completely free phone line, with attendants in Portuguese, English and Spanish. The complainant is kept confidential, and verification of the complaint occurs confidentially. Public policies SO5 Positions relative to public policy and participation in public policy development and lobbying. → For considering public policies a vector driver instrumental in the company’s strategy, Embraco actively participates in the movements that affect the company directly or indirectly. Typically represented by senior management, expression of the company’s strategic objectives is achieved through trade associations and formal representation, primarily of entities that are mainly focused on innovation, such as the National Association of Research and Development of Innovative Companies (Anpei) and the Brazilian Association of Electrical and Electronic Industry (Abinee), among others. In order to express themselves publicly and participate in building a national public policy that aims for sustainability and energy efficiency through innovation, Embraco is also present in associations such as ABNT, IEC, Fiesc, Fiesp and CNPQ, among others. Standing out internationally, in 2011, was Embraco’s Innovation Award, in China, which had as one of its aims, interest in sensitizing public figures and opinion makers on the relevance and impact of the refrigeration segment. The organization has positioned itself formally regarding a number of public policies with emphasis on the following topics: innovation, taxation of goods and raw materials, among others. ↓ continues Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 65 President efficiency Completely SO5 continuation Main company requests Partially Themes Actions Through Anpei, Embraco has led a large group of innovative companies to discuss and request a favorable environment for innovation, addressing Innovation environment issues such as an incentive law to encourage innovation and interaction between universities and companies, among others. Through Anpei, Embraco expressed its interest in reducing the legal uncertainty caused by inconsistencies in the law. This goal was partially Revision of the Good Law achieved with the launch of the revision of the Good Law, which regulates several obscure questions. Embraco’s participation in discussions on the topic of innovation. The rounds of discussions concerning the patent system, which was attended by Patent system Whirlpool SA’s vice president of Institutional Relations and Sustainability, Armando Ennes Valle, resulted in an article that addresses some difficulties encountered by the company regarding filing and maintaining patents in Brazil and in the world and will be published in a book. → Beyond these fronts, the company has established contacts with electric utility companies, in order to develop research and development projects focused on energy efficiency. Besides these projects, initiatives that strive for end-user energy efficiency are being developed in partnership with these companies so as to insert high efficiency products in the market. Both actions are supported by the Law No. 9991 of Aneel, and its changes are accompanied by the institutional relations team. In 2012, Embraco intends to continue participating in discussions about matters of interest through the actions of the entities that it is already a part of. Also, it intends to start or increase its participation in matters related to research and development, solid waste policy formulation, compressor technical requirements, environmental education, etc. Social performance product responsibility Management approach: consult pages 66 and 67. Customer’s health and safetye PR1 Products and services life cycle phases whereby health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement, and the percentage of products and services subject to these procedures → In developing new products we take into account the health and safety of employees and customers. In the phases ranging from idealization to customer delivery, for example, we seek to identify and reduce the risk of toxicity based on a list of 546 hazardous substances that must be avoided in our processes and products. Some have already been banned and others are being progressively eliminated. The process is certified by the QC 80.000 standard and involves testing carried out internally and by external partners, providing greater transparency and quality. Throughout product design and manufacture, we apply simulation tools to test performance under extreme conditions, with safety factors that reproduce the time of use for more than 10 years. The goal is to eliminate safety fault risks even after the end of the life cycle planned for the product. These procedures are complemented by a fault detection process, which follows the customers’ perspective and evaluates field products (those that were on the market and were returned to the company for evaluation). The goal is to identify faults and to act preventively; reducing impacts on customers. This assessment is performed in 100% of the compressor families produced by Embraco, following statistical sampling representative of each compressor model and family, and contributes with information that enhance the product development cycle. We have also created a series of manuals and catalogs that guide customers on how to properly and safely use the compressors and refrigerant gases. With a focus on responsible disposal, the manuals and packaging contain information on the optimal disposal procedure and the chemical compatibility of waste. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 66 President efficiency Completely Products and Services Labeling Partially PR3 Type of information about products and services required by labeling procedures, and the percentage of products and services subject to such requirements → All products sold by Embraco follow international laws governing the presence of substances harmful to health and the environment in electro-electronic products. In order to ensure compliance with legislations and the fulfillment of customer requirements for products free of substances that can cause social or environmental impact, production units are annually audited and evaluated according to criteria of the QC 80.000 standard. Thinking about the impact that its products may cause at the end of the life cycle, Embraco provides its customers with information on proper disposal and the materials used in its products. Furthermore, since 2000, the company has developed the Top Green Program, which consists of collecting compressors, which are disassembled in special equipment and their components are sent for recycling. The program has already withdrawn from the market more than 1.35 million used compressors. In order to ensure continuous improvement, Embraco has a work group focused on increasing the reliability of electrical components. There are also several ongoing projects in the company to improve the identification of components regarding recyclability and disposal. The care with harmful substances, especially the work carried out to identify them throughout the supply chain, is also present in the actions. Embraco also includes in its manuals, references to safety in the use of its products and also on the products’ disposal. Social performance Human rights Management Approach: refer to pages 37 and 38. Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that were subjected to human rights screening → The best way to evaluate the investment contracts that consider assessments of human rights is by departments. For the Corporate Procurement Department, in 2011, there were 19 existing significant investment agreements considering the agreements above R$ 10 million -, with 68% of these containing human rights clauses. In the Research and Development Department, none of the 19 significant investment agreements made between the organization and universities contain human rights clauses. EECON Brazil has 17 strategic suppliers (80% of total purchases), with two having human rights clause. The Environment, Health and Safety Department has a significant investment contract – of relevant value and global coverage which includes human rights clauses. HR2 Percentage and total number of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and the measures taken → Between October and November 2011, 51 suppliers of Embraco Foundry were assessed on issues regarding the Code of Conduct, which contains aspects of human rights, among others. These suppliers are representatives of more than 70% of the volume of purchases. Actions for the most critical group will be implemented in 2012. Embraco’s other units had already undergone such an assessment in 2010, as previously reported. There was no case of refusal in contracting by Embraco. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 67 President efficiency Completely Child Labor Partially HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the abolition of child labor → No operation has been identified with significant risk for incidents of child labor. However, Embraco understands that there may be risk of occurrence in the suppliers of their suppliers. In order to avoid the occurrence of child labor, Embraco is attentive in complying with local legislations, corporate requirements, and all internal procedures and, furthermore, takes several measures, such as: signing contracts with human rights clauses, using a checklist that includes social and environmental issues to certify new suppliers, in addition to requesting that they all sign its Code of Conduct which contains provisions relating to child labor. To ensure compliance with the code, Embraco performs periodic self-assessments and regular visits to their suppliers. Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor → No operation has been identified with significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor in Embraco’s operations. However, Embraco understands that there may be risk of occurrence in the operations of the suppliers of their suppliers. To avoid this risk, in addition to following all legal requirements, Embraco performs a careful selection of its suppliers. All of them must sign its Code of Conduct, which has provisions relating to forced or compulsory labor, and to ensure compliance, Embraco performs periodic self-assessments and regular visits to their suppliers. Message from the Profile Management Sustainability Innovation and energy People Value chain GRI content 68 President efficiency Credits General coordination Embraco Corporate Communication and Sustainability Office GRI consultancy, materiality, writing and editing Report Sustentabilidade Revision Assertiva Produções Editoriais English version Spin Traduções Graphic Design and Layout Report Sustentabilidade Typeface family Embraco Beau Sans, Panos Vassiliou, 2006 Minion Pro, Robert Slimbach, 1990
