SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 www.akbank.com CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 03 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 05 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE 08 01 ABOUT AKBANK 11 02 ABOUT THE REPORT 22 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 25 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK 39 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE 43 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS 49 07 OUR EMPLOYEES 66 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 81 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 91 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX 97 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX 104 CONTACTS AND CREDITS 105 Message from the Chairman SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Dear Stakeholders, We, as Akbank, are proud to issue our third Akbank is an important actor in the banking sector, Sustainability Report in accordance with Global which is one of the driving forces behind economic and Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, initially presented social development. Being aware of this role, while the in 2010 as the first of its kind among deposit banks in global financial turmoil persisted in 2011, our Bank Turkey. Similar to the previous years Sustainability continued to follow a clear and consistent strategy, Report in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, focusing on creating values for the Turkish economy by this year’s Report also covers our achievements realized preserving sustainable profitability, without sacrificing within the framework of our environmental, social and asset quality and financial performance. economic performance and sustainability vision. Within the scope of this focus, Akbank closed the year As Akbank, we consider sustainability as an integral 2011 in a position better than the sectoral average in part of our fundamental business strategies. Our terms of all core indicators, including return on assets, sustainability strategy is based on a number of capital adequacy ratio, leverage ratio, return on equity, pillars: producing long-term, stable, and forwardoperational income/expense ratio, and ratio of nonlooking solutions and long-lasting values for all of our performing loans to total loans and continued to support stakeholders and -founded on our principle of ethical our real economy with its strength. and reliable bankingto be a bank with strong financial foundations, showing respect for the environment, We have reflected our sustainability vision on our investing in local communities and attaching importance banking products and services and adopted it in all to stakeholder relations and transparency. areas -mainly in our loan policiesthat we devised With such awareness, we aim to create sustainable by considering Turkey’s needs, and turned its values through all of our activities and operations from implementation into a corporate reflex by internalizing it our community investment to our environmental efforts, successfully in all business procedures. from product responsibility in developing financial We also continue to support entrepreneurs that play an products to our human resources policy. We follow the important role in sustainable growth and SMEs that are latest trends in the world and in Turkey with the aim of vital to the economy through our various products and continuing to make the best use of opportunities and services as well as to provide them with resources that help challenges in terms of sustainability. them realize their innovative ideas. Within the framework Thanks to outstanding efforts of all employees in 2011, of these efforts, we signed a cooperation agreement with Akbank continued to create sustainable values for the Endeavour – a non-profit organization operating in 12 Turkish economy. countries with a focus on supporting entrepreneurs. 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Another continuing effort of our Bank is the support In addition, this year we were the only Turkish bank provided to global activities aimed at protecting the to sign the Durban Communiqué, building on the Bali, environment. Poznan, Copenhagen and Cancun Communiqués initiated by The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders As one of the leading corporations of the Turkish Group on Climate Change (CLG). economy, Akbank continues to support global initiatives. We know that it is very important for both our country Akbank attaches great importance to sustainable and the world to take an active role in supporting competitive capacity in its permanent leadership the increase in environmental awareness, reducing objective. environmental effects resulting from our operations, and minimizing effects caused by climate change. As emphasized in the Vision 2050 activities of the Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD), of We believe that individual efforts are very important which we are also a member, sustainable development for the environment but we think it is the corporate is a holistic approach that aims to achieve a planning activities that are needed to create a significant process in line with the vision of future in economic, difference. Corporate initiatives play an important role environmental and social dimensions by creating a in getting faster results and contribute to encouraging balance between human needs and sustainability of and mobilizing individual efforts. Starting out with natural resources. this awareness and understanding, we, as the Akbank family, chose environmental issues as one of our We, as Akbank, will continue to support TÜSİAD’s vision corporate social responsibility priorities and became by participating in the activities that act as a roadmap one of the first corporations in Turkey to act in this area. showing us how to attain the Turkey we would like to live in 2050, because we do know that sustainable With such responsibility, we pioneered the Turkish development process not only offers numerous business community by participating in the Carbon opportunities to the businesses, but also contains a Disclosure Project (CDP), which is the world’s most number of risks that may interrupt the process. What prestigious and extensive environmental initiative. is important to us is to be aware of these issues and to develop and implement business processes to improve In addition, with the purpose of laying strong our sustainable competitive advantage with the aim of foundations for ensuring awareness of our employees achieving our permanent leadership objective. in sustainability and climate change, we support the internalization of these issues throughout the Bank, In the coming period, Akbank will continue to contribute including branches, via specially designed trainings. to creating a sustainable future for our country, to We continue our commitment to the United Nations pioneer changes in the industry and in our country, and Global Compact (UNGC) that we signed in 2007. During to build collaborations with the aim of creating common the 2011 reporting period of the UNGC, we continued benefits. to base our policies and operations on 10 principles in labor, human rights, environment, and anti-corruption Suzan Sabancı Dinçer areas and we will continue to do so in the coming period Chairman, Board of Directors as well. We are also implementing the “No Time to Waste” Project in cooperation with the Regional Environment Center (REC) in order to draw attention to environmental and climate change issues. Within the scope of the Project, Akbank volunteers visited 93 elementary schools in 11 cities and made presentations about the environment and climate change to approximately 7,500 students. “No Time to Waste” Project was selected the “Best Corporate Social Responsibility Project” at the Best Business Awards event – a prestigious award organization in the UK and thus drew attention in the international arena. 04 Message from the CEO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Dear Stakeholders, Today, Akbank is one of the most valuable companies continuing to follow their needs, expectations, and in Turkey. According to the Top 500 Global Banking problems more closely than before. With our innovative Brands 2012” by Brand Finance, an international products and services, various practices and projects, brand valuation consultancy, we are Turkey’s we focused on offering our customers not only financial most valuable banking brand with a brand value of services, but also solutions that improve their quality of approximately USD 1.6 billion. While this strength and life and create value. such resources make us proud, they also assign us responsibility to do more for our society and for the “Pay Mobile” -the first of its kind in Europeand “Send world. With this strength, we continue to implement Money” operations and functions were enriched. Our projects that create a difference for our country. Internet branch was renewed for ease of use in order to facilitate our customers’ access to financial services. This year we share with you our third Sustainability With our innovative operations in Alternative Delivery Report -to which we attach great importanceprepared Channels, we ensure that customers benefit from our in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) services in a fast and reliable way. Principles. In 2011 we also created the “For Us” philosophy for In our 2011 Sustainability Report, we aimed at our employees so as to contribute to our objective communicating our approaches to issues that are material to our bank and to our stakeholders as well of improving employee satisfaction. In line with this as communicating the performance we achieved as a philosophy, we performed important activities for our result. This Report covers seven main subject areas; employees’ personal development. Through a unique namely, Our Approach to Sustainability, Corporate and long-lasting training campaign that covers all our Governance, Risk Management and Compliance, branches and includes sustainability training as well, Value Added to Our Customers, Our Employees, Our we took a giant step in ensuring that all employees Operations and the Environment, and Our Community internalize sustainability and integrate it into business Investment. processes. In addition, we initiated Sustainability Approach trainings via in-class trainings and e-learning. In 2010, we had combined all efforts aimed at both The reason we encourage our employees at all levels customer and employee satisfaction under a single -from branch managers to security staffto follow these umbrella philosophy called “For You”. In 2011 we trainings is that we believe sustainability requires a improved our relations with customers even better, collective effort. 05 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 We continue to successfully implement the Environmental and Social Management System that we had created in 2010 for loans within the scope of International Finance Corporation (IFC). This year we increased the number of colleagues in our branches who are experienced in loans and risk analysis, including environmental risks. Climate change is at the top of our list of material environmental issues. The efforts that we initiated in 2009 to reduce our carbon emissions continue to increase. Just like in the year 2010, in 2011 we were again committed to measuring and reducing our carbon footprint in accordance with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We attach even greater importance to the environmental impact of our activities, our energy efficiency, saving paper, and recycling of electronic wastes. Another effort that generated great excitement in our Bank in 2011 was the implementation of Akbank Volunteers system. With a feeling of social responsibility, Akbank Volunteers share their time and sympathy with people and institutions that are in need. The mission of the Akbank Volunteers system is to be a part of the solutions to societal problems. On the other hand, just as we did every year, in 2011 we again continued to contribute to our society via pioneering projects we implement in various areas, including culture and arts, education, youth, entrepreneurship, and environment. I would like to emphasize that, as the first Bank in Turkey to sign the UN Global Compact, our commitment to these principles will continue and these principles will shape our activities. With its deep-rooted belief in sustainability, our Bank will proceed with creating lasting values together with its stakeholders, while continuing its activities with a focus on customer satisfaction and support for the national economy. Hakan Binbaşgil CEO 06 00 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Continuous Development of Akbank January 1948 Established in the city of Adana to finance cotton producers in the region. 1950 First branch in İstanbul opened in Sirkeci. 1954 Akbank Head Office moved to İstanbul. 1963 Automation of all banking operations. 1964 First representative office opened in Frankfurt, Germany for bank transfers of Turkish workers. 1981 All banking operations computerized and online transactions started. 1990 Akbank shares offered to public. 1996 AkSecurities established. 1996 Investor Relations Group established to manage relations with shareholders. 1998 With a secondary public offering, Akbank shares started trading in international markets as an American Depository Receipt (ADR). 1998 Akbank Representative Office in Frankfurt transformed into a branch. 1998 Ak Type B Investment Trust established. 1999 Akbank Internet Banking started. 2000 Ak-Portfolio Management and Private Banking Business Units established. 2000 Akbank Malta branch opened. 2001 Akbank N.V. established in the Netherlands. 2001 Akbank Call Center started operations. 2005 Akbank became the first bank to repurchase its founders shares. 2005 AkLease incorporated. 2009 Akbank International Advisory Board established. 2009 Akbank (Dubai) Limited as the first Turkish bank established in Dubai International Finance Center. 2010 Akbank Banking Center started operations with a capacity of approximately 5,000 people. 2011 Send Money and Pay Mobile –the first of its kind in Europeoperations facilitated customers’ access to financial services. 08 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Akbank and Sustainability 2000 Akbank Information Technologies obtained ISO 9001 Quality Certificate. 2003 Became the first bank to publicly declare its dividend policy. 2003 Became the first bank to announce Corporate Governance Principles in the annual report. 2004 Became the first bank to publish Corporate Governance Principles in its website. 2005 Became the sponsor of the “Make a Wish” foundation, established to fulfill the wishes of children aged 2-18, fighting against life-threatening diseases. 2007 Became the first Turkish bank to sign the UN Global Compact. 2007 Started cooperation with Endeavor – an international non-governmental organization aimed to contribute to economic development by supporting active entrepreneurs in developing countries. 2007 Akbank Customer Complaint Management System obtained ISO 10002 Quality Certificate. 2007 Supported entrepreneurs with its “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” program. 2008 Established “Akbank Thinking Club” with the aim of thinking together with the young and co-creating values for the future of Turkey. 2009 Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC) established under the Board of Directors. 2009 Women’s Development Center “BİZ”, established by KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) with the aim of helping women improve their individual productivities, opened with Akbank as the main sponsor. 2010 Became the first Turkish bank to publish UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report. 2010 Drew attention to environmental transparency by supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey. 2010 Became the first Turkish deposit bank to publish a Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI standards. 2010 Became the first and only Turkish institution to take place in the CDP 2010 Global 500 reporting and received scores that carry the Bank to the World Sector Leaders category. 2010 “Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan” put into effect. 2010 A loan pool of TL 20 million with favorable terms launched for entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey. 2010 and 2011 Signed the Cancun and Durban Communiqués prepared prior to the United Nations 2010 and 2011 Climate Change Summits. 2010 Supported the “Before They Disappear” Project implemented in Turkey in coordination with the Regional Environment Center (REC) with the aim of drawing attention to regions at risk due to climate change. 2011 Akbank Volunteers System put into effect. 2011 Akbank supported Global Student Entrepreneurs Awards. 2011 Akbank employees started to attend Sustainability training. 09 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY A TIMELINE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Akbank and Arts 1972 Akbank Children’s Theatre started performances. 1991 Akbank Jazz Festival started with the aim of creating a well-established musical culture in Turkey, by bringing world’s most famous jazz performers to large audiences. 1993 Akbank Art Center established. 1998-2000 Ottoman Calligraphy Exhibition “Golden Letters”, containing numerous valuable works, exhibited in New York Metropolitan, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and Paris Louvre with the sponsorship of Akbank. 2003 Akbank Art Center restructured itself towards modern arts and accelerated artistic dynamics of our country by drawing attention to the local and international qualities of globalizing tendency of arts with its exhibitions. 2003-2007 Became the sponsor of Rock’n Coke Festival where world-famous rock stars meet the youth. 2004 Akbank Short Film Festival was initiated. 2004 Akbank started to support the International İstanbul Film Festival and later became the main supporter. 2006 Rodin’s works were exhibited at Sakıp Sabancı Museum with support from Akbank. 2007 Sponsoring the modern and contemporary arts event “Contemporary İstanbul”, Akbank contributed to the realization of Turkey's most important contemporary arts fair. 2008 With the sponsorship of Akbank, art fans had the opportunity to see the works of Salvador Dali -one of the most important artists of the surrealistic movementat the Sakıp Sabancı Museum. The exhibition has been the largest Salvador Dali exhibition outside Spain. 2008 Akbank Children’s Theatre got on Hürriyet Newspaper’s “Human Rights Train” to once again carry the excitement, gloom, and beauties of theatre to 45 cities in Turkey. 2008 Rock legend Metallica came to Turkey with the sponsorship of Akbank and 37,000 fans had the opportunity to watch the band live on stage. 2009 Latin Rock legend Carlos Santana gave a concert in İstanbul with the sponsorship of the Wings. 2010 Around 75,000 people participated in the Sonisphere Festival that brought world-famous heavy metal bands with the sponsorship of our brand exi26. 2011 Akbank became the prominent supporter of Turkish National Youth Philharmonic Orchestra. 2011 Akbank sponsored the “Cirque Du Soleil – Saltimbanco” show. 10 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Akbank in Brief Akbank has succeeded in being one of the most notable, Through a strong and widespread domestic delivery reliable and valuable brands of Turkey since 1948. Our network with a total of 926 branches, over 15,000 Bank’s corporate culture includes finding fast and longemployees and more than 3,600 ATMs, Akbank lasting solutions to ever-changing needs, continuously operates via its Head Office in İstanbul and 20 regional renewing itself, creating sustainable values for directorates throughout Turkey. Our Bank offers employees, customers, country and itself. banking services to over 8 million consumer, more than 490,000 commercial and SME, and approximately 4,500 Our Bank offers consumer banking, commercial and corporate customers via the Internet branch and call SME banking, corporate banking, private banking, center in addition to its branches. foreign exchange, money markets and securities transactions (treasury transactions), and international As of the end of 2011, our Bank’s consolidated net profit banking services. Non-bank financial services as well as is TL 2,535 billion (approximately USD 1,342 billion) capital markets and investment services are provided by and total consolidated current assets are TL 140 billion Akbank's subsidiaries. (approximately USD 74 billion). The Bank’s consolidated capital adequacy ratio is 16.8% one of the highest in Our Bank preserved its leading position in the Turkish the Turkish banking sector. banking sector with its robust capital, consistent deposit structure, ability to acquire cost-efficient foreign exchange funding, and strong asset structure. Number of Branches* Number of Employees* 926 Number of ATMs 15,339 3,695 Number of Credit Cards 5.4 million Number of Debit Cards 5.9 million Number of POS 288,000 * Excluding the Malta branch. 12 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Main Brands Our Bank’s Vision, Mission and Values Vision: To become the most admired Turkish company, with the best people, constantly delivering outstanding results. Mission: To provide the best banking experience in Turkey, offering outstanding value for its stakeholders. Values: Integrity, Credibility, Non-Discrimination, Compliance, Confidentiality, Transparency, and Sustainability. Our Strategic Goals and Strong Foundations Strategic Goals Strong Foundations • To achieve a long-term sustainable return on equity • Turkey’s most valuable Banking Brand of at least 16-18% • One of Turkey’s most valuable companies • To be the leading bank in Turkey in terms of critical • The highest individual and financial strength ratings market shares to be assigned in Turkey1 • To be the best bank in Turkey in terms of customer • 926 branches and high-tech delivery channels experience and satisfaction throughout Turkey • To be Turkey’s most valuable bank • Turkey’s innovative force with countless “firsts” in the sector • Sustainable profitability as well as high return on equity and assets • A robust capital structure with 16.8% capital adequacy ratio • A superior asset quality with a low non-performing loans ratio of 1.7% • High level of efficiency with an operational expense/ assets ratio of 2.0% 1 For detailed information on our ratings by independent international rating agencies, please visit: http://www.akbank.com/1317.aspx 13 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Akbank in Figures Our Extensive Network of Branches Our Bank increased the number of domestic branches from 912 as of the end of 2010 to 926 in 2011 and thus improved its service network even more. nu Sinop Kırklare li Kastamo Artvin 1 4 5 3 3 Bartın 1 n Ardahan Edirne Sam su 5 6 Tekirdağ İstanbul 301 Karabük 10 9 Rize 5 1 Ordu rabzon Kars 15 Kocaeli on guldak 5 Gire sun T 23 Z Çankır ı Am asya 1 Sak arya 5 2 11 Bolu 1 Çorum 3 1 Erzurum Iğdır 1 T okat Yalova 4 4 Bayburt 3 ğrı 6 A Bilecik 3 e Bursa 3 Erzincan Çanakkal 4 1 Ankara Kırıkkale 1 5 83 2 Yo zgat S ivas l Bingö Balıkesir Eskişehir 2 3 1 Muş 16 hya 7 K ırşe hir 1 Küta Van 5 1 Malatya 1 2 Elazığ Manisa kar ah isar N evşehir ayseri 3 11 Afyo n 3 K ır Siirt Uşak 6 14 Diyarbak 1 2 Aksaray 5 B atman İzmir 1 araş 1 Ş ırnak anm 79 Konya Niğde Kahram Adıyaman 1 Denizli Isparta 18 2 3 M ar din Aydın 4 1 8 lıurfa 2 a Şan 11 Burdur Adan Osmaniye p 2 27 Gaziante 5 Muğla Karaman 2 14 16 An ta lya 1 36 Mersin 18 Hatay 10 14 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Customers In accordance with our understanding of providing services tailored to target customer segments, our Bank continues operations in four core business units: corporate banking, commercial and SME banking, consumer banking, and private banking. Our investments and policies in 2011 enabled us to increase the number of our customers in target segments compared to the previous year. CORPORATE COMMERCIAL & SME CONSUMER PRIVATE BUSINESS BANKING BANKING BANKING BANKING UNITS CORPORATE COMMERCIAL, SME, AND PRIVATE BRANCHES BANKING CONSUMER BANKING BANKING BRANCHES BRANCHES BRANCHES 8 909 9 NUMBER OF 4,450 490,300 8,050,000 5,800 CUSTOMERS COMMERCIAL, CUSTOMER SMALL &MEDIUM Segment CORPORATE SIZED CONSUMER PRIVATE ENTERPRISES, MICRO 15 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Financial Performance Key Financial Indicators Key consolidated financial indicators of Akbank are presented in the table below, covering data from the last three years. Key Consolidated Financial Indicators (TL million) 2011 2010 2009 Total Assets 139,908 120,070 102,833 Loans 74,356 57,733 44,604 Deposits 80,771 71,708 60,954 Funds Borrowed 18,045 11,497 9,209 Shareholders’ Equity 18,131 17,948 14,447 Net Profit 2,535 3,010 2,723 Return on Equity (ROE) 14.3% 18.90% 21.50% Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS) 16.8% 19.90% 21.00% Market Capitalization (USD million) 12,748 22,320 19,061 Loans The distribution of loans we provided to our customers is listed in the table below, based upon customer segment and currency. Loans (TL million / USD million) 2011 2010 Corporate (TL million) 4,400 3,676 Corporate (USD million) 12,714 12,294 SME (TL million) 10,790 7,906 SME (USD million) 4,928 4,613 Consumer (TL million) 15,516 13,047 Credit Cards (TL million) 9,505 6,576 16 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Economic Value Generated for Stakeholders We generate economic value for our stakeholders via our operations in banking services. Annual economic value that we generated as of the end of 2011 is approximately TL 11.7 billion. Distribution of the economic value among various stakeholders, from employees to community investment, government, investors, and suppliers is given in the table below. Economic Value Generated and Distributed (TL million) December'11 December'10 December'09 Direct Economic Value Generated 11,696 10,995 11,349 a) Revenues 11,696 10,995 11,349 Economic Value Distributed 9,234 8,465 8,292 b) Operating costs 1,375 1,451 1,337 c) Employee wages and other benefits 1,002 917 857 d) Payments to providers of capital 6,167 5,318 5,393 e) Payments to the government 773 769 696 f) Community investment 8 11 9 Economic Value Retained 2,372 2,529 3,056 a) Gross revenue in the Bank’s income statement is taken into consideration. (Interest income, received fees and commissions, dividend income, commercial profit-loss and other income) b) Covers all operating costs of the Bank, excluding employee expenses. c) Covers employee wages, bonuses, and all withholding tax paid to the government on behalf of employees. d) Covers dividends distributed to investors and all interest expenses of the Bank in the given year. e) Covers all taxes paid to the government. f) Covers donations to charities and expenses for various culture-arts events. Provisions for non-performing loans are not included in the calculations of the Economic Value Retained. Note: This table is based upon Akbank’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, these figures cover subsidiaries within the framework of consolidation. Total consolidated number of employees is 15,548 while the number of Bank employees is 15,339. 17 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Organization of the Bank Akbank was established on January 30th, 1948 as a private-capital commercial bank and today it continues to operate in the same area. FREE 31.0% SABANCI FLOAT Akbank stocks are traded at İstanbul Stock 49.0% HOLDING, Exchange Market (ISE) with a free float rate of AFFILIATED 31.0%. Akbank’s Level 1 American Depository INSTITUTIONS AND Receipts are traded at the OTC market in INDIVIDUALS the USA. Our shareholder structure as of December 31st, 2011 is shown in the pie chart. CITIGROUP 20.0% Our 2011 activities and detailed financial information can be obtained in our 2011 Annual Report at: http://www.akbank.com/1312.aspx Our Subsidiaries Our direct and indirect subsidiaries and our shares as of December 31st, 2011 are presented below. Our Direct and Indirect Area of Operations Share Country of Subsidiaries (%) Operations Akbank N.V. Banking 100.00 The Netherlands Akbank AG Banking 100.00 Germany Akbank (Dubai) Limited Banking 100.00 UAE AkLease Financial Leasing 99.99 Turkey AkSecurities Stock Exchange Brokerage Services 99.80 Turkey AkAsset Management Portfolio Management 99.99 Turkey Ak B-Type Investment Trust Investment Partnership 70.04 Turkey 18 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Organization Chart Organization chart of our Bank is presented below. As of December 31st, 2011, one Deputy CEO and 14 Executive Vice Presidents report to our CEO. Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control, Risk Management Division, and Compliance Unit directly report to the Board of Directors. In early 2012, the CEO of our Bank changed and our organization was restructured with 14 Executive Vice Presidents and one Division Head. The name of the Investor Relations Division, which operates under the Financial Coordination Business Unit and which is responsible for Corporate Social Responsibility activities, was changed to “Investor Relations and Sustainability Division”. Honorary Chairman and Chairman and Consultant to the Board Executive Board Member Executive Board Member Board Member ÖZEN GÖKSEL SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER EROL SABANCI Internal Audit EYÜP ENGİN Vice Chairman and Risk Management Executive Board Member ﬁEBNEM MURATO⁄LU Internal Control HAYRİ ÇULHACI YAŞAR BOZYÜRÜK CEO and Board Member HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL Credit Commercial Follow-Up Consumer Payment Private Corporate and International Human and Support Financial Information Banking Systems Banking Banking SME Banking Treasury Banking Resources Strategy Credits Services Operations Coordination Technologies GALİP MEHMET SALTIK ALPER C. KAAN KERİM HÜLYA BADE TUNÇ AHMET ZEKİ SEVİLAY K. ATIL TURGUT TÖZGE SİNDEL GALATALI HAKAN GÜR ROTA KEFELİ SİPAHİOĞLU AKYURT FUAT TUNÇAY ÖZSÖZ ÖZUS GÜNEY YÜKSEL IŞIK AYLA Corporate Communications Division 19 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Awards and Achievements Evaluations of our Bank, services and products by independent experts guide us in increasing satisfaction of all stakeholders -mainly customersand in reaching our targets. As a result of evaluations performed by several national and international institutions and corporations in 2011, our Bank received approximately 60 awards. Some of these awards are presented below. Awarding – Award Award Researching Success Category About the Success Institution Brand Finance “Global Banking 500” Survey Akbank was selected Turkey’s “Most Valuable Banking Brand” with a brand value of USD 1,582 million in the “Global Banking 500 2012” list by Brand Finance, an international brand valuation consultancy. Akbank ranked 96th in the “Top 500 Global Banking Brands” list. Global Finance 1. World’s Best Foreign 1. Akbank was selected “Turkey’s Best Foreign Exchange Transactions Exchange Providers Bank” for the 8th time in a row, in a survey held in 97 countries. 2. The Best Bank in Social 2. Akbank received “The Best Bank in Social Media” award in a survey Media in Europe evaluating the banks with the best internet services in Europe. EUROMONEY Best Private Banking Services Our Bank was recognized as the “Best Private Banking Services Overall in Overall in Turkey Turkey” for the 5th time in 7 years in a survey evaluating around 400 banks globally. Global Banking and Banking Awards In an evaluation with extensive criteria, our Bank received “Turkey’s Best Finance Review Bank” award. EMEA Finance 1. The Best Financial 1. EMEA Finance selected Akbank the “The Best Financial Institution Institution Borrower” in Borrower” for the second time in a row in Europe, Middle East and Africa Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). (EMEA) 2. “The Best Financial 2. Akbank received the “The Best Financial Institution Loan” in Europe, Institution Loan” in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) award with its approximately USD 1.5 Middle East and Africa (EMEA) billion worth syndication loan in August 2011. ifs School of Finance Excellence in SME Customer Our “SMS Loan for Small Businesses” offer received an award at the Financial World Service award of the Financial Financial World Innovation Awards, which is one of the most prestigious Innovation Awards World Innovation Awards awards in the finance industry. In addition, our Bank made it to the finals in eight different categories and thus became one of the institutions with the greatest number of nominations. IMI Conferences İstanbul Call Centers Awards At the contest in which 33 Call Centers from different sectors were evaluated in 14 categories, Akbank Call Center received “The Most Commendable Customer Experience”, “The Most Commendable Team Leader” and “The Most Commendable Call Center Agent Outbound” awards. 20 01 ABOUT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Awarding – Award Award Researching Success Category About the Success Institution STEVIE Awards Bank Communications At the contest evaluating over 3,000 contestants from more than 50 countries, Campaigns 1. Akbank received the first prize with its “Akbank Children’s Theater” communications campaign. 2. “Akbank 2010 For You” communications campaign received the Jury’s Distinguished Honoree Award. 3. Akbank’s 2010 Annual Report was awarded with the Jury’s Distinguished Honoree Award in “The Best Annual Report“ category. Palladium Group Hall of Fame In the awards that evaluate companies which successfully implement “Strategy-Focused Organization Model” and combine such implementations with performances creating a difference in competition, Akbank was selected “The Most Successful Corporation” in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Akbank is the first Turkish bank to receive this award. Gartner CRM Excellence (Excellence “Atom” -the customer relationship management system that our Bank put in Customer Relationship into effect in 2010received an award in the “Integrated Marketing” category. Management) Awards Akbank is the first Turkish bank to receive this award. LACP (League 2010 Vision Awards Annual In the contest that evaluates annual reports of more than 800 institutions of American Reports – Banks and corporations in over 24 countries, Akbank’s Sustainability-focused 2010 Communications Annual Report was selected “The Best Annual Report in North America, Professionals) 2011 Spotlight Awards Global South America, Europe, Middle East, and Africa“. Communication Awards In the contest that evaluates more than 1,500 communications projects from 12 countries, various activities of Akbank received the “Platinum Award”: • Akbank 2010 Interactive Annual Report in “The Best Online Annual Report” category, • Akbank Build and Manage Game in “The Best Digital Product and Service” category • Akbank 2010 Sustainability Report in “The Best Sustainability Report “ category MerComm MerComm Galaxy Awards At the 22nd MerComm Galaxy Awards, Akbank received awards in five categories with its “Social Media Training Applications”, “2010 Sustainability Report” and “2010 Annual Report”. Public Relations Golden Compass Public Our Bank received Jury’s Distinguished Honoree Awards with Society of Turkey Relations Awards 1. “Run to the Red” communications campaign and (TÜHİD) 1. Marketing Communications and 2. “Akbank 20th Jazz Festival”. Integrated Marketing Projects 2. Culture and Arts Best Business Financial Services – The Best “No Time to Waste Project focusing on climate change and realized in Award Corporate Social Responsibility cooperation with the Regional Environment Center (REC), with participation from our employees was awarded. 21 ABOUT THE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 02 ABOUT THE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ABOUT THE REPORT The GRI Guidelines not only allow comparing our sustainability performance to that of local and Our Approach to Reporting international peers but also create a reference guide Following our reports in 2009 and 2010, we have for our stakeholders. These guidelines also lead us completed our third Sustainability Report which we in continuous development of Akbank’s sustainability prepared voluntarily, in line with our stakeholders’ initiatives. The GRI Guidelines for Sustainability expectations regarding our social, environmental, and Reporting and their Turkish translation can be found at economic responsibilities and in compliance with our http://www.globalreporting.org approach to lead the Turkish banking industry. We have also included information on the progress we We have prepared the Report in accordance with the achieved in line with the commitment that we made to GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles G3 version of the the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) of which we Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is a worldwide are a signatory. UNGC Index that allows easy tracking recognized reporting institution. Our Report includes the of our activities within the scope of four areas of UNGC steps we took in sustainability, the results we achieved (labor, human rights, environment, and anti-corruption) and our commitment in full transparency. Similar to and the related 10 principles is available at the end of last year, as of 2011 year-end we are still the first and the Report. only bank to issue a sustainability report prepared in accordance with the GRI Guidelines among deposit Boundary of the Report banks in Turkey. Unless mentioned otherwise, all data and information in our Report covers the banking activities and locations Our Report contains the active role we play in the of Akbank T.A.Ş. in Turkey. Impacts of our activities, our growth of the Turkish economy, our Bank’s approach joint ventures or our suppliers in other countries are not to sustainability management, the value we add to within the scope of this Report. “Our Employees” part our customers with our products and services, the of the Report includes employees of our Malta branch. benefits we provide for our employees, our efforts to Generated and distributed economic value tables reduce environmental impact of our activities, and our that include financial statements reflect consolidated cooperation with stakeholders to improve social welfare. figures. Compared to the previous one, we have improved the In this Report, the words “Akbank T.A.Ş.”, “Akbank”, content of this year’s Report in the light of the feedback “our Bank”, “the Bank”, “We/Us” all mean Akbank T.A.Ş. received from stakeholders. In this Report, Risk unless mentioned otherwise. Management and Compliance are covered in a separate section. We reduced the number of pages and simplified the content to offer convenient reading. We followed the Setting out the Content of the Report same data collection methods as the years before and While preparing the content of the Report, we used two explained them in relevant sections. We provided further international standards as our bases. The first one is the explanations when other methods were used. “AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard” devised by AccountAbility, a UK-based organization. AA1000 is The Scope and Framework of the Report a standard that is globally recognized in developing, Our Report covers the steps we took in social, managing and implementing stakeholder engagement environmental and economic issues and our related strategies. The second one is the “GRI Guidelines performance between January 1st, 2011 and December for Sustainability Reporting” of the Global Reporting 31st, 2011. Based upon the GRI G3 Guidelines for Initiative. Sustainability Reporting, this Report meets the requirements of GRI Application Level C. At the end We also took into consideration material issues for our of the Report a GRI Index has been placed in order to corporate strategies and the information we collected ensure easy access to the information within the scope via various channels to meet the expectations of our of GRI indicators. stakeholders. Therefore, this Report includes our practices and performance related to issues considered 23 02 ABOUT THE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 to be material by both our Bank and our stakeholders. Detailed information on selection of material issues and stakeholder dialogue is available in “Our Approach to Sustainability” section of the Report. Prepared with contribution from almost all units of our Bank, the final version of this Report has been approved by the Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Social Responsibility Committee and Board of Directors. 24 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OUR APPROACH TO As a bank standing upon strong financial SUSTAINABILITY foundations and attaching importance to stakeholder relations and transparency, The concept of sustainability takes deeper roots in the procedures, services, and products of our Bank our strategy is to support economic every passing day. Thanks to the dialogue platforms growth of our country and our customers, established between our stakeholders and our Bank, we to offer products and services that receive feedback on issues material to our stakeholders. improve social welfare without sacrificing In the light of such feedback we aim to continuously improve our business processes and sustainability our ethical and secure banking principle, performance. We monitor our Bank’s performance and to reduce environmental impact of by implementing our sustainability strategy and our activities. commitments both in our operations and products. With our annual Sustainability Report, we communicate our practices and performance regarding our social, While implementing our strategy, our aim environmental, ethical, and economic responsibilities in is to improve our performance day by day, parallel with the expectations of our stakeholders from following roadmaps we devise for each Akbank. and every significant and material issue and making commitments. Our Sustainability Vision, Strategy, and Commitments Our Sustainability Vision Our sustainability vision is to become the leader in Turkey and one of the leading institutions in the world. Our Sustainability Strategy The key to achieving our sustainability vision depends on our Bank’s capability to manage environmental, social, ethical, and economic, in short sustainability risks and opportunities that we see in our products, services and operations. We made a list of these risks and opportunities by performing a materiality analysis. Thanks to this effort, we identified material issues that our stakeholders expect good performance from our Bank and that are required for our Bank to succeed. In other words, we developed our strategy by focusing on issues that are material to both our stakeholders and our Bank. 26 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Sustainability Approach and Material The element that makes Akbank more durable is its Issues sustainability management. If we are to compare our sustainability approach The tree branches represent the material issues that to a tree, roots reflect our financial performance. we consider within the scope of our sustainability Sustainability and existence of our Bank is first and foremost dependent on the Bank’s financial success. management: Our Employees, Corporate Governance Our financial performance is what keeps us alive. and Risk Management, Our Operations and the Environment, Our Community Investment, and the The tree trunk represents our Sustainability Value Added to Our Customers. Below each area are Management Model. It is the mechanism that enables the material issues that we selected. For example, the transition and communication from roots to employee satisfaction under “Our Employees” title is branches. The trunk makes the tree more robust. one of such issues. VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Customer Satisfaction EnvironmentCORPORATE Focused Products GOVERNANCE and Services AND RISK MANAGEMENT Environmental and Social Risk Transparent Management in Corporate Loans Governance Innovative Products INVESTING IN Effective Risk COMMUNITIES and Services That Management and Facilitate Access to Supporting Internal Control Financial Services Culture, Arts, Ethical Banking and Education Secure Banking Employee Volunteering OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT OUR EMPLOYEES Carbon Emissions Employee Saving Paper Satisfaction Technological Career Development Wastes and Training Equal Career Opportunities Roles and Sustainability in SUSTAINABILITY Awareness of Stakeholder Responsibilities the Supply Chain MANAGEMENT Employees Dialogue MODEL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Sustainable Profitability and Growth 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Sustainability Commitment Long-term and strong financial performance that offers benefits for all of our stakeholders and forms the basis of our sustainability is our indispensible objective. Our environmental, social and ethical performance also plays an important role in achieving this objective. Therefore, we have set commitments for sustainability areas that are material. Subject of 2011 Evaluation Our Commitments Commitment Financial Performance Sustainable Without sacrificing our financial performance and In the next period, our objective is to improve our profitability and growth asset quality, we achieved successful results in 2011 sustainable performance by increasing our efficiency in with strong earnings and balance sheet growth by all customer segments, boosting volumes in our material focusing on sustainable profitability and adding value products, and strengthening relations with customers to our country’s economy. through all channels. Sustainability Management Roles and We took steps to change the name of Investor With our Investor Relations and Sustainability Division, responsibilities Relations Division to “Investor Relations and we will continue to devise action plans to guide our Sustainability Division as of 2012. sustainability strategy. We completed preparations to add sustainability We will include sustainability in the job definitions and to the job definitions and performance criteria of performances of Sustainability Team leader and its Sustainability (CSR) Team in 2012. members who are sustainability ambassadors in our business units. Sustainability in the We received statements from approximately 40% We will continue to get statements from our suppliers supply chain of suppliers, declaring that they will comply with declaring that they will comply with Akbank’s Ethical Akbank’s Guidelines and Policies. Principles and Sustainability Policies. Increasing awareness We helped increase awareness of approximately We will continue with sustainability trainings to ensure that 2,000 employees who participated in extensive all employees comprehend our sustainability approach sustainability training tailor-made for our Bank. better and integrate it into their business processes. Stakeholder dialogue We took steps to make improvements by receiving We will continue to support mutual dialogue and opinions and suggestions from our employees and transparency policies with our stakeholders. customers -our most significant stakeholdersvia various channels. Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance Transparent corporate We implemented new online dialogue platforms such We will continue to have transparent and close relations management as “webcast” to establish more active communication with our current and potential investors, and shareholders. among the Bank’s management team and shareholders. Ethical banking We updated Akbank’s Ethical Principles. It will continue to be a priority for us to ensure compliance of our employees and cooperating stakeholders with our Ethical Principles so that our Bank’s success and reputation are preserved. Information security We prepared surveys to set the steps to increase our We will continue our efforts to take necessary precautions by employees’ awareness in information security. monitoring innovations and developments in information security. Our Customers Customer satisfaction We integrated complaint management and the social We will continue extensive efforts to reach the aim of media by creating an infrastructure to instantly reply ensuring the best customer satisfaction at every point of to customers’ questions and problems through contact with them. whichever social media channel they use. We will continue our efforts to keep the waiting time in our In our branches, the waiting time at the pay desks branches below reasonable limits. remained below 8 minutes, just as we had targeted. 28 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Subject of 2011 Evaluation Our Commitments Commitment Our Customers Our environmentWe started to offer our customers a financial We will increase the amount of short and medium-term focused products and resource of USD 100 million within the scope of “energy saving and renewable energy” loans provided to services 400-million-Euro worth MidSEFF that European customers. Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) put together to finance medium-scale renewable energy projects in Turkey via Turkish banks. Environmental Our Bank recruited “Loan Analysis Supervisors” We will continue to apply various environmental and and social risk in 2011 to evaluate all risks, including social criteria on loans given to customers in Corporate, management in loans environmental risks, and to improve the process Commercial and SME Banking segments. of application for those loans that require approval at the Credit Committee and the Board of Directors. Innovative products We implemented a number of innovations that With our high-tech products and services, we will and services to add value to our customers’ lives and facilitate continue to meet the expectations created through facilitate access to their access to financial services. competition. financial services Our Employees Employee satisfaction With the aim of evaluating survey results, we To achieve constant development, we will continue to performed focus and suggestion group activities hold employee satisfaction surveys and perform remedial together with mixed groups of employees that activities in the light of feedback we receive. represent all units of our Bank. Career development Akbank employees received 1,019,816 hours and We will continue our efforts to support personal and training 9.5 work days/person training in total. development and increase motivation and professional satisfaction of all employees via our training system. Equal career We completed the preliminary preparations of the We will take necessary steps based upon the results of process opportunities “Equal Career Opportunities Model Project” in and implementation monitoring performed within the scope of 2011 and the project will be put into effect in 2012. our voluntary “Equal Career Opportunities Model Project”. Our Operations and the Environment Our environmental We started to improve our systems in order to We will continue our efforts to minimize environmental impact better monitor environmental impacts resulting impact of our operations as much as possible and use from our operations, including our approximately natural resources more economically. 1,000 branches. Carbon emissions Believing in the importance of environmental We will continue to support the internationally recognized awareness and accountability, we continued our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). efforts to measure and reduce carbon emissions resulting from our activities. Our Community Investment Community investment We tried to contribute to social well-being and We will continue to support community investment through sponsorships development by supporting education, youth, arts, projects for education, youth, arts, culture and culture and environmental initiatives. environment. Community investment In the first year of Akbank Volunteers system, We aim to spread our volunteering system, increase through employee 1,489 employees participated in various projects the number of projects, and enhance participation of volunteering of non-governmental organizations and reached stakeholders in our projects. around 11,250 children and youngsters. 29 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Stakeholder Engagement All institutions and corporations that are affected by Akbank website that was updated in 2011 and our our Bank’s activities, products and services or that regularly issued Annual Reports and Sustainability directly or indirectly affect our Bank’s performance are Reports are the most important platforms we use to our “key” stakeholders. In full awareness of the fact inform our stakeholders. In addition, we also benefit that stakeholder engagement is the basic principle in from our bilateral dialogue programs specially designed corporate responsibility, we consider expectations and for each stakeholder group in order to receive feedback opinions of our key stakeholders while developing and from and establish dialogue with them. implementing our sustainability strategies and we pay ultimate attention to creating a regular, continuous, and trust-based communication with them. Our key stakeholders and examples of our dialogue with them are presented below. Stakeholder Group-based General Practice Example Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Shareholders, Investors, Analysts General Assembly Meetings and Minutes The dialogue mechanism that we Our Corporate Social Responsibility Face-to-face and e-dialogue (meetings, developed to ensure that the continuous Sub-Group within the Investor conferences in Turkey and abroad, communication among the Bank Relations and Sustainability teleconferences and meetings, management and shareholders is based Division informs investors on our presentations and briefings via e-mail and upon “transparency, accountability, and environmental, social and economic webcast) regular briefings”. sustainability performance both in Public Disclosure Platform writing and verbally. Annual Reports Capital Markets Board of Turkey (CMB) Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report Press Releases Employees Employee Satisfaction Survey We are aware that high motivation In the light of the feedback we received Corporate Performance System and satisfaction levels among our from our Employee Satisfaction Meetings (e.g. Regional Directorates and employees are determinant in ensuring Survey, we selected “Talent Customer Relationship Management long-standing business performance. Management” as a material issue in Performance Reviews, Annual Management terms of identification and effective Meetings, Brainstorming Sessions) We regularly collect our employees’ management of our employees’ opinions and expectations and we try to talents. Coaching system bring related practices to life. Corporate Portal “For Us” Suggestion System We put platforms that ensure an BANKSİS (Union of Bank and Insurance effective internal communication into Employees) use. Akbank Retirement Fund Training Programs for Our Employees Ethics Line E-Bulletins 30 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Stakeholder Group-based General Practice Example Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Customers Customer Satisfaction Surveys Customer satisfaction is our first In order to share the innovations Akbank Branches and foremost priority. Opinions brought by the new Turkish and expectations of our customers Commercial Code with our SME Akbank Call Center inspire us in developing products customers and to help them prepare Akbank Website and services. In order to ensure and for this new era, we organized Social Media (800 thousand followers) retain customer satisfaction, we “Are you ready for the future?” implement numerous practices, from meetings that aim to understand E-mail Briefings information security to responsible our customers’ related expectations Business Development Meetings for marketing communications and problems better and to offer Customers innovative and environmentally solutions accordingly. www.kobilersizinicin.com website friendly products, and supporting Akbank Art Center Activities customers in business development. Media Advertising and Promotion Campaigns International Financial Institutions One-to-One and Joint Meetings Loans that we obtain from Within the scope of the loan Audits international financial institutions contract we signed with the such as IFC, EBRD, and EIB for International Finance Corporation Negotiations our customers mostly require (IFC) for helping corporations grow, Reports improving entrepreneurship, and climate-friendly uses and support for development. With the aim of meeting financing needs of SMEs, building management systems to we launched the “Akbank Social monitor environmental and social & Environmental Management performances of our customers in System – SEMS” in 2011. Within accordance with the loans obtained, the framework of the system, we we establish dialogues with these held an informative workshop. Thus institutions on various platforms. we exchanged opinions on how to strengthen the synergy that supports sustainable development. Legislators and Regulatory Bodies Meetings We thoroughly comply with all We continued to work in intense Forums and Conferences related laws and regulations in all of communication with the Financial our activities. With the aim of closely Crimes Investigation Board (MASAK) Various Task Forces following the agenda, identifying which operates to prevent laundering Verbal and Written Notifications trends, timely developing and proceeds of crime and financing of Declarations adapting our products and services in terrorism with the aim of ensuring line with expectations of customers compliance with legal liabilities as Press Releases and legislators, we follow forums, well as with other public institutions. Compliance Reports conferences, task forces, and press We also continued to exchange news carefully and we organize opinions on structural elements to meetings. We closely monitor be demanded by creditor banks on developments related to the banking various platforms for implementing industry and present our opinions investment projects awarded under on legislation amendments to the the scope of public-private sector authorities. cooperation models (such as hospital investments). 31 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Stakeholder Group-based General Practice Example Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Suppliers Supplier Identification Forms We expect our cooperating suppliers As a result of informing the companies Meetings to act in accordance with Akbank’s in our supplier portfolio on Akbank’s principles and values. We also support Ethical Principles and Sustainability Akbank Ethical Principles their development through continuous Policies, approximately 40% of them information transfer. declared their commitment to comply with Akbank’s Principles and Policies. University Students Activities We Organize and Support We care about university students’ “Global University Student Entrepreneur Akbank Thinking Club requests, opinions, and expectations. Challenge” created by the Global We continuously improve our Students Entrepreneur Awards (GSEA) Briefings investments in support of their in order to promote entrepreneurship Youth Banking education and development. among universities all around the Campus Branches world was held in Turkey for the Brochures and Promotion Campaigns first time in 2011. Our Bank cosponsored the challenge to which 126 young entrepreneurs applied and we supported university students in their ambition to become future entrepreneurs. Local Community Activities We Organize and Participate We aim to support numerous activities In the first year of Akbank Volunteers Our Arts and Culture Activities that offer social benefits and to reach system, 1,489 employees participated in Press Releases local communities in areas we operate various projects of non-governmental in. organizations and reached around 11,250 children and youngsters. Non-Governmental Organizations Cooperation in Social Engagement We pay attention to improving While developing our Bank’s volunteering Practices cooperation with non-governmental system and other projects, we maintained Sponsorships organizations, being in continuous close contact with non-governmental Meetings communication with them, taking their organizations throughout the year to Conferences opinions and expectations about our receive their guidance, suggestions and activities into consideration. support. Media Press Conferences Our stakeholders obtain accurate Our senior management and related Press Releases information and news on our Bank managers regularly met with prominent via the media, which is the most figures of the media community at Daily Economic Bulletins important actor in our communications our press conferences and exchanged cycle. Therefore, we aim to maintain opinions. continuous dialogue with national and international media, to inform them timely and accurately with our press releases. We also share opinions with opinion leaders at press conferences. 32 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sustainability Management in Akbank BOARD OF DIRECTORS (BoD) INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD (IAB) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, REMUNERATION OUR AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE STAKEHOLDERS (CGRSRC) NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS OTHER INVESTOR RELATIONS AND INITIATIVES RELATED UNITS OF SUSTAINABILITY DIVISION MEMBERSHIPS OUR BANK (IRSD) CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUB-GROUP (CSR SUB-GROUP) SUSTAINABILITY (CSR) TEAM The Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Social In our Bank, Investor Relations Division (IRD) is in Responsibility Committee (CGRSRC) that directly reports charge of managing sustainability issues in coordination to the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that with internal and external stakeholders. In line with this sustainability issues are handled in a holistic manner at purpose, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Subthe senior management level. CGRSRC makes sure that Group was established within the Division in 2010 and our sustainability strategy is implemented and monitored a manager was assigned. In addition, a Sustainability throughout the Bank. (CSR) Team composed of representatives from every business unit contributing to sustainability reporting In addition to this Committee, Akbank International operates under the leadership of the CSR Sub-Group Advisory Board also adds value to our Bank’s Manager. With the restructuring performed at the end sustainability vision. Mr. Kemal Derviş, former Vice of 2011, the name of the Investor Relations Division President of the World Bank (1996-2001) and President was changed to Investor Relations and Sustainability of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Division (IRSD). This Division is officially responsible for (2005-2009), is the Chairman of the Advisory Board. sustainability issues. Within the scope of this new system, Details about the International Advisory Board are given required changes were completed to add sustainability in part 4 of this Report. into job descriptions of our Sustainability (CSR) Team leader and members. 33 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 managed by related divisions and have an important role Corporate Governance, Remuneration and in our Bank’s sustainability strategy. Social Responsibility Committee (CGRSRC) We continue our communication and operations with A “Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility external stakeholders at various levels. Within the scope Committee” (CGSRC) that reports to the Akbank Board of stakeholder engagement, we play an active role of Directors was established in 2009 to improve our in numerous national and international associations corporate performance in sustainability, to integrate and initiatives. By exchanging opinions with key the areas of responsibility into our decision-making stakeholders on various platforms, we regularly review mechanisms, to increase awareness of sustainability our sustainability approach in the light of expectations issues among our employees, and to be able to carry from us. out reporting in line with the international standards as per our transparency principle. CGSRC is responsible for compliance with Akbank’s corporate management Our Internal Procedures principles as well as for monitoring and managing Covering a number of environmental, social and operations, risks and opportunities related to our ethical elements in its structure, our Bank’s “Ethical social, environmental and economic responsibilities. Principles” are our official declaration that we expect Then “remuneration” task was also given to the all employees and even stakeholders to comply Committee and thus its name was changed to with. Thanks to such compliance with the mentioned “Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Social principles, we have made sustainability management Responsibility Committee” (CGRSRC). a corporate procedure. Ethics Line to be used if any violation of these principles is observed is among The Committee that had eight members in 2011 procedures to support sustainability management includes the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board within the Bank. Furthermore, the environmental and and our CEO. CGRSRC meets at least twice a year. social criteria that we implement in providing loans Among the items in 2011 agenda were the analysis of for corporate, commercial and SME customers and in our Bank’s current position in terms of sustainability, purchasing from suppliers are also within the scope of assessment of future steps, climate change strategies these procedures. and action plan, and social responsibility projects. Internal Communication and Awareness Handling sustainability within our Bank in a holistic We use a number of channels to contribute to manner is the responsibility of IRSD under the improving knowledge and awareness of our employees supervision of CGRSRC. The holistic management on “sustainability”. The most important of these are covers issues such as integrating environmental, social in-class and e-learning programs. One of our most and ethical aspects into our products and services extensive in-class trainings is the sustainability training with a strategic view and developing sustainability aimed at increasing branch employees’ awareness policies. An example is that our divisions performing on the issue. In 2011 more than 1,500 employees core banking functions and our purchasing divisions participated in a hands-on training based upon UNGC’s internalize sustainability by integrating environmental 10 principles and learned especially about what and social elements into their own processes and sustainability management means in banking. products. Environmental loans for corporate and SME customers and environmental and social criteria The Corporate Social Responsibility portal in our applied to our suppliers are the results of the policies intranet system that is open to all employees includes that we implement within the framework of our holistic publications and informative presentations on the approach. issue. On the other hand, our sustainability efforts are broadcast on Corporate TVs in our branches. Important In addition, there are various material issues handled developments are communicated to the whole Bank by related divisions of our Bank within the scope of via e-mails. We also use various communication our general business management. These are issues channels to send reminders to our employees in order such as employee satisfaction, employee performance to encourage them save energy and reduce carbon management, customer satisfaction, information emissions. security, and community investment. These issues are 34 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Memberships in Associations and Unions, Contribution to Development of Public Policy Signed Initiatives As we did in the previous years, we continued our efforts Our Bank is a member of various associations and to develop public policies together with local and foreign unions with the aim of closely following developments public institutions in 2011. in sustainability and contributing to such developments within the limits of our interests and authority. Besides, Akbank senior management holds negotiations on by participating in globally recognized international issues such as economy and finance at the level of initiatives as a signatory, we aim to take part in such Presidency and Prime Ministry within the scope of global activities. leader communications. Mrs. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer, Chairman of the Board of our Bank, is a member of the Our memberships in associations and unions, as well Chatham House Board of Trustees within “Chatham as the local and global initiatives we signed within the House – the Royal Institute of International Affairs”, framework of sustainability are grouped below on the which is one of the world’s leading think-tanks. Mrs. basis of relatedness: Dinçer shares her personal experiences and opinions on issues such as Turkey’s economic and strategic role, • The Banks Association of Turkey economy and globalization with other members of the • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) Board of Trustees. • Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) • Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society (TEİD) Examples of Initiatives We Contributed in 2011 • European Union Green Banking in the Mediterranean Project By playing active role in the projects of associations and unions that we are a member of or that we support, we contribute to the expansion of sustainable business • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) models in our country. Two examples are provided • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSİAD) below. Sustainable Development Task Force • İstanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability Index (ISESI) Within the scope of The Banks Association of Turkey, Project Role of Financial Industry in Sustainable Growth Task Force, we gave Sustainability Approach Training in • The Banks Association of Turkey, Role of Financial October 2011. Representatives from all banks were Industry in Sustainable Growth Task Force invited to the training organized by our Bank’s CSR Sub-Group with the aim of ensuring improvement and • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) creating a common language in sustainability-related issues in the Turkish banking industry. • Cancun and Durban Communiqués drawn prior to Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to make İstanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability Index (ISESI) a call of action to governments from the private Project is implemented by the İstanbul Stock Exchange sector (ISE) in cooperation with the Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey (SKD). Akbank takes • The Prince of Wales's Corporate Leaders Group on part in the ISESI Advisory Board. ISE Sustainability Index Climate Change (CLG) aims to provide a platform for Turkish companies that • Climate Platform and Turkish Leaders Group on have the best practices in corporate sustainability. Climate Change established by REC and TÜSİAD • Interbank Card Center (BKM) • Visa Colourful Horizons • Association of Corporate Communicators • Association of Advertisers • İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts • Private Sector Volunteers Association 35 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Other Activities We Support Akbank and the United Nations Global We participate in and support forums, conferences and Compact task forces to meet our stakeholders such as customers The biggest evidence of Akbank’s commitment to and legislators, to closely follow the agenda, to identify universal principles of human rights, labor conditions, trends, and to improve and adapt our products and environment, and a anti-corruption is its signature services in accordance with stakeholder expectations. under the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) – one of the important corporate social responsibility Our Bank supports various activities in finance and initiatives worldwide. With this signature, Akbank banking, focusing on economic and social development takes responsibilities such as respect for human issues such as education, youth and entrepreneurship. rights, providing a safe and healthy work environment, Representatives of the Government, Legislators, protecting the environment, offering sustainable values Supranational and International institutions as well and benefits to employees and the society by means of as local and international institutions are among the policies and practices that cover transparent corporate participants of the conferences that we sponsor. management. Thus our Bank pledges to fulfill its duties in creating more humanistic globalization. Examples of activities we supported and participated in 2011 are given below. Activity Content Forum İstanbul Akbank is the strategic partner to Forum İstanbul Platform since 2009 and 2011’s theme was “Towards 2023 With New Global Realities”. With ever-increasing effectiveness, Forum İstanbul is an international platform that discusses political and economic trends. Participants are senior executives of national and international companies, academicians, politicians, senior executives of non-governmental organizations. Around 950 people participated in the 2011 activity. (Sponsorship and a speech) Turkish-British Business Turkish-British Business Council (TİİK) that aims to bolster economic ties between Turkey Council London Conference and Britain as a part of the Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) and that operates under “Grow with Turkey” the chairmanship of Mrs. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer organized a “Grow with Turkey” conference in London on March 30-31, 2011. Akbank was one of the main sponsors of the event in which 350 people, mainly Turkish and British business people, politicians, academicians and media members participated. (Sponsorship) Foreign Economic The conference consisted of three panels, namely “International Financial Centers in the Relations Board (DEİK) Post-Crisis Era”, “İstanbul’s Place among Financial Centers” and “What To Do To Make Istanbul Financial Centre: İstanbul a Financial Center”. Mr. Ali Babacan, Minister of State and Deputy Prime Minister, Perspectives and Creating and Mrs. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer delivered speeches. 350 people, especially representatives of Stimuli Conference the government, trade bodies, press members and members of İstanbul protocol attended the conference. (Speech) Brand Finance Forum Brand Finance makes annual brand valuations both globally and in Turkey. Its work is considered to be one of the most recognized brand valuations in the business world. Brand Finance’s international valuation is published in The Banker as “The World’s Most Valuable Banking Brands” and the one in Turkey is published in the Capital magazine. Around 150 participants mainly composed of senior executives of national and international companies, academicians, politicians and senior executives of non-governmental organizations attended the meeting. (Sponsorship) İstanbul Chamber of 1,200 people from the business world and public sector participated in the event that we Industry Congress and İSO organized together with İstanbul Chamber of Industry (İSO) with the aim of continuing efficient 2011 Environment Awards cooperation, developing relations with potential customers, promoting our products at the booth built in the venue. (Sponsorship) 36 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Climate Change Strategy Climate Change Management Global climate change, which is one of the most Our solution strategies for the global climate change as important challenges that the Earth faces, is a one of the most important problems the Earth faces are material issue for our Bank. The fight against climate shaped by the Corporate Governance, Remuneration and change resulting from greenhouse gas emissions has Social Responsibility Committee that directly reports to become an important item in the agendas of numerous our Board of Directors and by the International Advisory corporations and institutions in recent years and we also Board which includes Lord Stern, one of the world’s took steps to assume responsibility in this area as of leading experts in climate change. Investor Relations 2009. Our efforts continued with the same pace in 2011. and Sustainability Division ensures coordination and management of the issue within our Bank. Other As a pioneering private sector corporation that is divisions such as Branch Operations, Architectural committed to reporting greenhouse gas (carbon Works, and Personnel Management are responsible dioxide) emissions in accordance with the international for collecting data, including energy consumption and standards, our Bank aims to ensure that awareness of implementing of energy saving practices. other institutions and corporations in our country on climate change increases, positive changes are made to Risk and Opportunity Management reduce emissions, and public awareness is improved. Human-induced greenhouse gas emissions which are believed to cause climate change bring along some Among our important initiatives in terms of climate risks. These risks affect not only our Bank but also the change is the support we have provided in the last whole society. For instance, heat waves of increasing two years for the implementation of the global Carbon frequency and density, floods, droughts, and extreme Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey. In addition, as weather conditions are among the physical risks. a participant to the project carried out by Sabancı This impact on the physical environment can have University, the steps and the measures our Bank took negative effects on industries such as forestry, fishery, are the major indicators of the importance we attach to agriculture, health, tourism, and construction. Climate the issue. change laws, legislation and regulations that have either been put into or will probably put into effect in our country and the world -including the European countries Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) we do business withhave the risk of legal incompliance Carbon Disclosure Project is a global initiative that was and extra investment costs to fight climate change. It is started in the year 2000 with the purpose of collecting believed that companies with high level of greenhouse and sharing information to allow companies, investors, gas emissions will be affected by the mentioned legal and governments to take measures against the threat regulations. These may include energy companies, of climate change. transportation and aviation industries. Within the scope of CDP, which aims to create Climate change-induced risks are handled at various transparency in greenhouse gas emissions and to platforms in our Bank. We are taking all necessary increase public awareness and consciousness, every actions to manage these risks that we foresaw on time year institutions and corporations report the strategies in the best way and to transform them from threats to and policies they apply in their struggle against climate opportunities. We are doing the necessary groundwork change, amount of greenhouse gases they emitted, and in order to follow recently updated legal regulations their targets to reduce these emissions to the public on energy efficiency and renewable energy in late 2010 and investors. These data and information are shared and to comply with these regulations. In addition, we with a large audience, including corporate investors, continue to offer products and services on relatively companies, public policy leaders, public institutions, favorable terms in order to encourage our corporate and academicians. customers to benefit from opportunities in energy efficiency and renewable energy. On the other hand, As the only independent international institution to certain measures have started to be taken within globally report how climate change-induced risks are our Bank to measure and reduce carbon emissions managed by companies, CDP operates on behalf of 655 resulting from our operations and business travels. corporate investors that manage global assets of USD 78 trillion as of March 2012. 37 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Carbon Management in Our Operations Sustainability in the Supply Chain Following our participation in Carbon Disclosure Project In order to ensure that suppliers of the products in 2009, the importance of measuring greenhouse gas and services our Bank purchases take various emissions (in equivalent carbon dioxide terms) of our environmental and social standards into consideration, operations and mitigation activities has increased. With the we renewed our “Supplier Management” policies in aim of measuring, calculating, reducing, and monitoring 2011. In the light of works done within this scope, the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from electricity following aspects have been added to our “Ethical and fuel use in our buildings and from fuels used in our Principles” and “Purchasing Regulations”. employees’ business and training travels, our Bank has initiated certain internal practices. Data of greenhouse Akbank gas emissions measured and calculated accordingly are • Pays necessary attention to ensuring that its given in detail in the “Our Operations and the Environment” suppliers implement all aspects of the United section of this Report. Nations Global Compact principles that the Bank has internalized and creates required internal systems to Our Carbon-Focused Products and Services achieve this goal. In addition to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our Bank’s operations, we • Considers the supplier processes that monitor social offer various products and services with the aim of and environmental risks. encouraging the customers that we provide loans • Provides opportunities to suppliers that use systems to make energy savings and thus to reduce their which are more sensitive to the society and the greenhouse gas emissions. Products including Akbank environment during procurement of services and Energy-Friendly Loans are given in detail under the subproducts. title of “Climate-Friendly Loans” in the Value Added to Our Customers section of this Report. The “Carbon With the aim of putting these into effect, we informed Footprint Project” is another example of our initiatives our entire supplier portfolio on Akbank’s Ethical that was put into effect in early 2011 to raise awareness Principles and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies. among our consumer banking customers. We obtained declarations of commitment to comply with Akbank’s Principles and Policies from approximately 40 percent of suppliers. Our 2011 Achievements In our current Purchasing Regulations there are criteria Our 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Report for issues including corporate organizational structures In 2011 we prepared our second Carbon Disclosure of suppliers, their fulfillment of public liabilities such Project (CDP) report and presented it to the CDP as taxes and social payments. In addition, we ask Secretariat. This report includes our Bank’s climate companies to confirm that they do not employ child change strategies and carbon emission data. Just like labor. 2010, we took part in the 2011 Global 500 Report that assesses carbon reductions of the world’s largest companies. Signatory to Durban Communiqué Akbank is the only Turkish bank to sign the Durban Communiqué, drawn prior to the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in December 2011 in Durban, South Africa. More than 200 companies signed the Durban Communiqué, which makes a call to increase international cooperation to fight more actively against climate change. Our Bank had also signed and supported the Cancun Communiqué in late 2010. 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK Relations Division” was changed as of the beginning of 2012) within the “Financial Coordination Business Unit” Corporate governance in Akbank has been structured in are responsible for the usage of shareholder rights or accordance with national and international standards. other mechanisms, answering investor queries in the Corporate governance in our Bank covers the following: most efficient manner and making efforts to increase • Our relations with shareholders, the company value. This Division replies all questions that are not related to commercial secrets, taking the • Our public disclosure and transparency policy, principle of equality into consideration and it is ensured • Roles, responsibilities, and rights of the Board of that the Bank management and shareholders are in Directors, continuous communication. • Relations with beneficiaries. The Investor Relations and Sustainability Division creates While relations with beneficiaries (in other words, presentations that promote Akbank with the aim of stakeholders) are covered in another section of the increasing the recognition and preferability of the Bank Report, the other three subjects has been detailed in in the field of international investment; highlighting this section. the Bank’s advantages compared to its peers; and ensuring that Akbank is preferable to other companies in view of corporations investing in developing markets. In Turkey, Akbank The Division publishes these presentations and other • is the first bank to publicly announce its dividend developments and news regarding the Bank on its policy (2003) website and participates in national or international • is the first bank to announce its Corporate investor meetings and conferences to give information Governance Principles in its annual report (2003) on the Bank. In addition, through the “Corporate Social • is the first bank to announce its Corporate Responsibility Sub-Group”, the Division informs investors Governance Principles in its website (2004) on environmental, social, and economic dimensions • is the first bank to repurchase its founders’ shares of sustainability. The Division uses various electronic (2005) means to reach investors and ensures that all requests for meetings from corporate investors are replied by arranging a meeting with Akbank’s most senior level Relations with Our Shareholders and executive possible. Investors In 2011, the Investor Relations and Sustainability Division Akbank management aims to have a transparent and attended a total of 20 domestic and foreign investor close communication with its shareholders. The main conferences together with executive management of goal is to make Akbank shares attractive to existing our Bank and had meetings with approximately 350 shareholders and potential investors as well as to international investment funds and 3 rating institutions. ensure that these shares are predictable investment Also, hundreds of questions posed by investors and tools. Thus, Akbank management team’s principle is analysts via telephone and e-mails were answered. to implement strategic plans to reach this goal and to disclose the results equally with shareholders, Our Bank’s shareholders can also use their query rights investors, capital market experts, and participants in at the Akbank General Assembly and our Bank answers a complete, fair, accurate, timely and understandable all questions of shareholders. Prior to General Assembly manner within the framework of generally accepted Meetings, the meeting date, venue and agenda are accounting principles and legislation provisions. announced in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette, in national newspapers, on our Bank’s website and at In order to manage and strengthen relations with the Public Disclosure Platform (www.kap.gov.tr). Two both existing and potential shareholders, an “Investor weeks before the General Assembly, the Annual Report Relations Group” was established within our Bank is submitted to the shareholders through our Bank’s in 1996. The “Financial Accounting and Shareholder website, at the Shareholder Transactions Subdivision, Transactions Sub-Division” and “Investor Relations as well as at the Ankara, Adana and İzmir Commercial and Sustainability Division” (the name of the “Investor Branches. 40 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 According to Akbank Articles of Association, educational backgrounds into consideration. Board shareholders may exercise their right to vote either Members possess the qualities stated in our Bank’s in person or through another shareholder at General Articles of Association and in Article 23 of the Banking Assemblies. General Assembly Meeting resolutions are Code. kept available to shareholders at the Public Disclosure Platform and on the Akbank Website. There is a secretariat for informing and communicating with the Members of the Board of Akbank. The Board Our Public Disclosure Policy meets at least twelve times a year. The agenda is Our Bank abides by the regulations of the Capital basically defined by evaluation of the proposals made by Markets Board (CMB) and İstanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) the CEO and the Bank’s results and it is communicated in terms of public disclosure. The Bank pays ultimate to the Members of the Board prior to the meeting. attention to fulfillment of principles stated in the CMB Corporate Governance Principles. In order for the Board of Directors to make a resolution, one more than half of its members must attend the meeting. Therefore all resolutions are made with Our Bank’s Public Disclosure Policy has been formed by the majority of members attending the meeting. the Board of Directors within the framework of the CMB Negotiations of the Board are routinely recorded by Corporate Governance Principles, and then approved a secretary selected amongst the members or by and announced to the public on Akbank’s Website. someone hired outside the Bank. Minutes must be The Board of Directors is authorized and responsible signed by attendees and if there are opponent members, for informing the public, as well as for monitoring, the reason of opposition to the resolution must be stated supervising, and improving the public disclosure policy. in the minutes which must be signed by the voter. Board The Financial Accounting and Shareholder Transactions Members are not entitled to have weighted votes and/or Sub-Division within the Financial Coordination Business to veto resolutions. Unit Investor Relations and Sustainability Division as well as the Corporate Communications Division are assigned to supervise and monitor all issues regarding Roles and Responsibilities of the Board public disclosures. Roles, authorities and responsibilities of the Board are subject to principles identified in related provisions of the Turkish Commercial Code and the Banking Our Corporate Governance Compliance Report can be found at: Code as well as to the provisions of the Articles of Association. The Board may either perform these tasks http://www.akbank.com/2024.aspx itself or assign the Bank’s Credit Committee, a Board Executive Member, committees or commissions that it Akbank Public Disclosure Policy can be found at: is authorized to establish within the scope of the Articles http://www.akbank.com/en/corporate-governance/ of Association, or the CEO to perform all or some parts disclosure-policy.aspx of such tasks based on their feasibility and suitability. The Board of Directors approves Akbank’s annual Akbank Board of Directors budget and strategic plan, closely monitors actual comparisons with the budget, receives information Structure of the Board on deviations, and reviews the resolutions made. If As of the end of 2011 there were five executive and there are any significant deviations in macroeconomic four non-executive members in our Board of Directors. conditions compared to the budget estimates, the Chairman of the Board is also an Executive Member budget is revised and resubmitted to the Board of with responsibility in all issues. As of March 1st and April Directors for approval. The Board monitors strategic 3rd 2012 two independent members were assigned to the goals, budget targets and actual figures on a daily, Board and thus the number of non-executive members weekly or monthly basis, depending on the nature of the increased to six. issue. Members to the Board are selected among The Board of Directors is also responsible for identifying professionals with the competence and expertise to the basic approach to risks, risk policies and principles, steer Akbank’s economic, environmental, and social strategies and risk-taking levels as well as for regularly strategies, by taking both their experiences and assessing these to perform necessary modifications. 41 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Committees within the Board of Directors Updated information on committee members can be found at: In Akbank’s Board of Directors, there are various committees for different tasks. In addition to such http://www.akbank.com/2034.aspx committees, Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control Center, Risk Management Divisions and the Compliance Rights of the Board Members Unit which operates to prevent laundering proceeds of According to the Akbank Articles of Association, crimes directly report to the Board of Directors. Members of the Board of Directors are paid a monthly fee or remuneration fixed by the General Assembly. In Akbank’s Executive Management Committee addition, the portion of the Bank’s dividend to be paid to evaluates the Bank’s financial data, position in the the Chairman and Board Members within the scope of sector, profitability of business units, and new business the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting resolutions is developments. stated. Executive members are also paid 12 salaries and In accordance with the legal regulations, the Audit four bonuses annually. These payments are determined Committee is formed by two Board members. The annually by the Board of Directors. The Banking Code Audit Committee helps the Board in the performance of limits loans to be granted by Akbank to the Board supervision and surveillance activities; it also monitors Members and they are not granted any loans against the operation and competence of internal systems as this mandate. well as accounting and reporting systems. Pursuant to the Akbank Articles of Association, without Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Social the permission of the General Assembly Members of Responsibility Committee (CGRSRC) was established the Board of Directors cannot undertake commercial in 2009 with the aim of monitoring compliance with transactions that are within the area of operation of corporate governance principles and supervising the our Bank either on their own or on others’ behalf and implementation of corporate social responsibility in person or by proxy. Akbank Board Members did not activities. Last year it was decided that remuneration engage in any business transactions with the Bank in should also be in the responsibility of this Committee 2011. and thus its name was changed to Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Social Responsibility Akbank International Advisory Board Committee (CGRSRC). The Committee meets at least twice a year. Detailed information on the Committee is The Akbank International Advisory Board was provided in the “Our Approach to Sustainability” section. established with the aim of monitoring global and local economic developments and making strategic In line with legal practices, Akbank’s lending process inferences for Akbank. The Board consists of a total of includes a Credit Committee consisting of three 10 Turkish and foreign members, each with profound Board Members and the CEO. The Credit Committee knowledge and experience in their areas. Mr. Kemal is a loan assignment resolution center that examines Derviş, former President of the United Nations loan offers which have passed loan processes of the Development Programme (UNDP) and former Minister General Directorate in terms of compliance with legal of Economic Affairs in Turkey, and currently Vice regulations, banking principles, the Bank’s goals and President for global economy in the Brookings Institute loan policies. and Member of the International Board of Overseers of Sabancı University, is the Chairman of the Akbank Executive Risk Committee (ERC) is responsible for International Advisory Board. The Akbank International creating risk policies, identifying methods to measure and Advisory Board met twice in 2011. At these meetings, manage risks, setting and monitoring suitable risk limits. latest trends in the global economy, main trends in All risk policies are put down in writing and integrated monetary and finance policies, and current opportunities into the long-term overall strategy of the Bank. for the Turkish economy were discussed with a global perspective. The Asset-Liability Committee (ALC) is responsible for Updated information on Board Members can be found at: the daily liquidity and cash management. ALC meets at http://www.akbank.com/international-advisory-board. least twice a week to discuss the latest developments in aspx the economy and the markets. It is also responsible for devising investment, pricing, and funding strategies. 42 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 determinant role in the strategic decisions made by RISK MANAGEMENT AND our Bank’s Board of Directors and senior executive COMPLIANCE IN AKBANK management. Foreseeing risks, managing them with The issues below come into fore when sustainability in professional proficiency, and ensuring risk management is considered. compliance have been among the Market Risks most important building blocks and Market risks emerging due to fluctuations in foreign superiorities in Akbank’s corporate exchange rates, interest rates, and market prices culture since its foundation. of stocks are measured by using internationallyrecognized models. Limits are identified for a Unit, It is primarily the responsibility of the Board of Directors Bank or Group and compliance with these limits is to establish and ensure operation of an effective risk continuously monitored. management system throughout our Bank. In parallel to this responsibility, the Board performs necessary Liquidity Risks actions to identify our Bank’s basic approach to risks and risk management policies. Our Bank has created a liquidity management framework for maintaining required liquidity resources Audit Committee and Executive Risk Committee to perform our legal liabilities in a timely manner to established within the Board of Directors assist depositors, creditors and corporations that we made in fulfilling and monitoring responsibilities. Risk a commitment to. Akbank protects itself from any Management, Internal Control and Internal Audit units negative impacts to be caused by liquidity risks with that report directly to the Board are responsible for its widespread deposit base, robust capital structure, coordination and assessment of achieving the expected and varied foreign borrowing sources. In addition, effectiveness. extra liquidity sources are available thanks to limits allocated by the Central Bank, ISE Repo Market and All Akbank employees are responsible for compliance the Settlement and Custody Bank as well as the liquid with policies and strategies drawn by the Board, securities portfolio in hand. By being cautious in foreign effective management of risks related to their own areas currency liquidity management, reserves sufficient to of operation, and taking necessary actions to comply fulfill liquidity needs are maintained. with the legislation. Management and monitoring of market and liquidity Risk Management risks had an increasingly important role in the cautious and farsighted management of the probable negative Our risk policies are made in relation to our Bank’s impacts of the crises and challenges experienced long-term strategies and targets as well as to the recently in the global economy. quality and quantity of activities. In all cases, including capital allocation, portfolio/investment preferences, new product and activity decisions, risk management, Credit Risks compliance with legislation, environmental and social All banking products with credit risks (such as credit impacts must be considered. placements and commitments to customers, letters of credit) are managed with assistance from cautious We continuously evaluate risks that we may face during loan policies and procedures in our Bank. In all credit our activities and update policies, procedures, and transactions, loan quality (credit worthiness), purpose, practices required to manage these risks effectively. and environmental and social effects are assessed via Such updates are performed by closely following and an internal customer rating system. Sector, customer, implementing changes, innovations, arrangements and loan type, customer segment limits are identified in models in internationally-recognized risk management order to monitor credit risks. As explained in the “Value principles. All of the analyses calculations, simulations, Added to Our Customers” section of this Report, a risk scenarios, stress tests and other efforts play a analysis that also allows evaluation of environmental 44 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 risks has been included in loan packages in 2011 for ensure compliance in our Bank’s system infrastructure, project financing, corporate and commercial customer business processes, rules, and limits. segments. Internal Control and Internal Audit System Reputation Risks Main objective of Akbank’s internal control system is to Reputation risk is a significant risk in terms of ensure that the Bank’s assets are protected, operations sustainability. All Akbank employees, notably the Board are performed effectively, efficiently, and in compliance of Directors, are held responsible for the management with legislation and a reliable and integrated accounting of this risk. Within the scope of the management of this and financial reporting system is established. All Bank risk, policies and practices were identified (including employees, notably the Board of Directors, are held areas such as full compliance with legislation, responsible for the establishment and execution of an establishing and exercising trust-based relationships effective internal control system. The Audit Committee with stakeholders, efficient and fast solutions to assists the Board of Directors’ activities in this context. customer complaints) and these have been put down in writing. Akbank Ethical Principles serve as an important The most important component of an effective internal guide in this sense. control system is the control environment. In our Bank, the control environment is defined within certain rules New Products and Services Risks and designed to contribute to all business processes. In In addition to risks identified for existing products and addition, arrangements on issues such as organization activities, risks that may arise from development of structure, Ethical Principles, distribution of authority new products and services are also assessed. Potential and responsibility are also performed. Our employees financial, operational, legal and reputation risks of are encouraged to identify and assess risks that may newly-developed products or services; methods to prevent our Bank from reaching its targets and are be used in measuring and managing these risks; and continuously reminded of the importance of control control mechanisms to be established are identified with activities in managing such risks. contribution from related divisions of the Bank. Since 2011, “New Product and Service Evaluation Committee” In line with this understanding, effectiveness of the comprising managers of all related divisions in product internal control system is ensured via following development decides on the suitability of each new determined mechanisms, including product and service in terms of legislation and technical • Identification of functional differences, separation of qualifications. When the Board of Directors approves the functions of marketing and operations the extensive risk assessment made by the Committee, • Documentation of job definitions and specific necessary actions are taken for risk management. responsibilities in the control system of each employee at every level Operational Risks • Documentation of all workflows and checkpoints Operational risks are among the most important and throughout the Bank via the Business Process extensive risks in banking. In general, operational Management (BPM) risks result from overlooking errors and irregularities due to failures in the control of business processes, • Establishing information systems that are in bank management’s and employees’ failure to act in compliance with the volume and quality of the Bank’s accordance with the time and conditions, errors and activities irregularities in IT systems, or natural disasters. In • Establishing effective and comprehensive our Bank, differentiated and diversified controls and communication channels, hearing suggestions mechanisms such as insurance and limits are used in of employees on processes and activities, and the management of risks related to all risk categories, implementing them mainly legal and reputation risks. Internal Control Center Legal Risks The Internal Control Center performs periodical Operating flawlessly in terms of compliance with controls in branches and the Head Office Divisions to legislation is a priority for us. For following legislation measure the effectiveness and adequacy of internal related to the banking sector and for adaptation to controls performed during the execution of the Bank’s developments and changes, various divisions work to operations. The aim is to see whether the internal 45 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 controls are in conformity with the laws and internal international standards. It also puts in effort to identify legislation and are performed effectively and efficiently. and solve probable irregularity notifications from legal The Center also works to establish control systems in bodies (including those via the Ethics Line), the Bank required areas. Internal control activities are executed itself, and our customers. As a result of the operations by the control personnel working at 40 different points in of the Board of Internal Auditors, findings are identified our Bank. All branches of the Bank are checked via inthrough internal control and suggestions are made situ controls and a permanent internal control employee to develop the processes, increase efficiency, and works at the Malta Branch. strengthen internal systems. Furthermore, actions taken accordingly are actively monitored. The Bank’s employees are informed on new legislation, compliance process is monitored, new products and Results of the activities performed by the Board of services (prior to approval by the Board of Directors) Internal Auditors and Internal Control Center are and internal regulations (prior to issuing) are assessed regularly monitored and evaluated by the Control and reported in terms of legislation and internal Committee and Board of Directors. control systems. Also technical controls of the Bank’s information security and IT infrastructure systems are Compliance performed, and an active role is played in redesigning of business processes and identifying additional Although a variety of units in our Bank is responsible for checkpoints. following related legislation on banking and ensuring compliance in a timely and holistic manner, each and The Internal Control Center attaches importance every employee is responsible for compliance. to preventive approaches. In addition, results of the Center’s activities are discussed not only at quarterly In terms of sustainability, two compliance areas should Control Committee meetings, but also at weekly be especially emphasized for the banking industry. meetings with the related Board Member; probable risks are taken under control while still at a “potential” Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime level. Our Bank’s operations regarding “prevention of laundering proceeds of crime and financing of The Board of Internal Auditors terrorism”, which is important in ensuring national The Board of Internal Auditors performs audits and international financial stability, are performed and evaluations in order to ensure that the Bank’s by the Compliance Unit that directly reports to the activities are in accordance with legislation as well as Board of Directors. Within the scope of such efforts, with strategies and policies identified by the Board of our customers, customer transactions, products, and Directors, productivity is improved, service quality is services are evaluated with a risk-based approach in enhanced, effectiveness and competence of the Bank’s parallel with legislation. In this context, implementation internal control and risk management systems as well details of precautions and principles aimed to identify, as corporate governance processes are retained. rate, monitor, evaluate, and prevent potential risks are fulfilled by considering the liabilities in relation to Internal audits are performed in a way that covers knowing the customer. all of our units, processes and operations and with a risk-oriented point of view. Examples to the work done Our Bank operates within the framework of the “Know by the Board of Internal Auditors are evaluating the Your Customer Policy” prepared in accordance with compliance of branch transactions with the provisions both the national legislation and principles, regulations, and liabilities stated in internal and external legislation and standards set by international authorities. Systemic investigating, analyzing, assessing existing or probable, controls are made to prevent mediating in banking actual or potential risks resulting from negligence, transactions for laundering proceeds of crime, financing misconduct, fraud etc. in our branches, units and of terrorism, and illegal activities by taking standards affiliates; and eliminating risks. issued by the United Nations Security Council and Financial Action Task Force into consideration. The Board of Internal Auditors examines the reliability and integrity of the Bank’s information systems and checks whether information is accessed on time. It performs information security audits based upon 46 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Compliance in Product Promotions and safety of customer information and information safety. Marketing Communication Responsibility in providing secure banking services begins as soon as the product or service is sold and As in all other industries, all kinds of communication continues for the entire lifecycle of it. Any negative operations performed with the aim of promotion and experience in any phase of this cycle could result in marketing of banking products and services are also losing a customer and adversely affect our reputation subject to various laws and regulations. Every employee and thus “secure banking” principle is fundamental to who communicates with customers, including the our Bank’s services. Corporate Communications Division, is responsible for the compliance of our communication activities with the Ensuring confidentiality of customer information is a laws and regulations. requirement by the law as well as by our Bank’s rules and Ethical Principles. Therefore, only related and In all activities regarding product promotions, authorized employees can have access to customer sales and marketing communications (including information and transactions made using such advertisements and sponsorships), our priority is to information are regularly monitored. Outside the abide by the generally accepted ethical rules, privacy Bank, this information can only be shared with legally of personal information, laws and regulations (Turkish authorized people and institutions. Surveys are held Commercial Code, Consumer Protection Law, Directive to measure our employees’ level of awareness in for Commercial Advertisement and Announcement information security. In accordance with the results of Principles and Codes of Practice by the Turkish Ministry these surveys, we plan information security awareness of Industry and Commerce, regulations by the Banks Association of Turkey and Interbank Card Center), activities and train our employees to inform them on industry standards, all rules of institutions that we are a issues to be paid attention to. member of, such as Visa and MasterCard. As a part of secure banking, to ensure maximum In promotion and marketing of our products and financial security of our customers, our systems are services, we especially pay maximum attention to avoid protected with various information security measures any loss of rights of our customers. For instance, in and technology-based threats are regularly monitored. credit card commercials broadcast on TV, we make sure Additional measures such as sector, transaction, and that informative subtitles are used and the size of letters total sum limits and multi-digit password use are as well as the flow rate of subtitles is appropriate and employed especially in products including Internet, legible. We announce our campaigns and innovations telephone, and credit card products. VirtualCard that we about our products not only on our website, but also devised for customers who want to shop safely on the via e-mail and SMSs to customers who prefer such Internet is one of the safety measures we take on behalf communication. of our customers. Informing customers on the terms and conditions of Committees including the Security Committee and the products and services that they purchase is an Information Security Committee monitor potential important factor in achieving customer satisfaction. threats and test our systems, follow technological Within the framework of our clear pricing policy and innovations, and evaluate all kinds of upgrading and by taking legal requirements into consideration, we development alternatives. In addition, to increase announce terms and conditions of all of our banking awareness, our customers are continuously informed products and services, information such as fees, on the measures they can take and points they can pay commissions, and interest rates in various media, attention to via our website. including our website. For instance, safety measures for the Internet banking For more information please visit: can be found at: http://www.akbank.com/faiz-oran/ucret-komisyon.aspx http://www.akbank.com/consumer/freedom-banking/ (available only in Turkish) internet-banking-security.aspx For more information on the VirtualCard please visit: Secure Banking http://www.axess.com.tr/kartlar/axess-sanalkart Security in banking products and services can be (available only in Turkish) addressed under two main areas: confidentiality and 47 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Business Continuity Management Recently updated in 2011, Akbank’s Ethical Principles are composed of four main subjects. The first subject In order to ensure safety of our employees and covers our responsibility towards the society and the customers and to guarantee continuity of key products environment in accordance with our commitment to the and services, our Bank executes the Business Continuity UN Global Compact. Management Program that pledges continuity of banking activities. This Program is devised on the Akbank’s Ethical Principles can be found at: basis of business continuity and disaster management system defined in the British Standard Institute’s http://www.akbank.com/2038.aspx internationally recognized BS 25999 Standard. The Program covers all processes that are critical in terms Notifications of Suspected Violations of Ethical of business continuity, including all units of our Bank Principles and outsourced services when relevant. In case of suspected violations of Ethical Principles, our employees and stakeholders can notify Akbank’s The management of the Business Continuity related units within the framework of the confidentiality Management Program is coordinated by the Business principle via two main channels. Continuity Committee. The Committee develops business continuity plans, creates resources, and Our stakeholders can inform the Board of Internal ensures compliance of disaster management and Auditors of suspected violations directly at our Call operations with legal and international standards Center 444 25 25. Such notifications can also be made (ITIL / ISO 20000 Information Technologies Service through e-mails to be sent to etik@akbank.com . Management and ISO 9000 Quality Management). If our employees believe that there are practices Within the scope of this system, a disaster drill is contradicting to the Ethical Principles in their units, but performed throughout the Bank at least once a year. refrain from taking actions as being part of the same In accordance with the drill plan, critical operations unit, to solve the problem, they can use our Ethics Line. are tested in simulations. On the other hand, through The existence of the Ethics Line, areas of application, regular investigations and designing demands for means to reach the line are announced to all employees preventive and regulatory activities, the system is via regular e-mails. Employees may have access to the maintained up-to-date and active. In addition, a Disaster Ethics Line any time of the day via telephone and e-mail. Recovery Center was built in İzmir in order to continue Callers are not required to give their names and if they services via the IT Center in case of a disaster. do, the information is kept confidential. Ethical Banking All notifications are evaluated by the Ethics Line To be able to continue our operations and to maintain Officer (an auditor assigned by the Board of Internal our high stakeholder confidence, we expect our Auditors). The notification is transferred to the Board employees and our stakeholders with whom we of Internal Auditors in cases that require examining or cooperate to abide by our Bank’s high ethical standards. investigation, otherwise to the Executive Vice President It is a priority for us to announce these expectations to (EVP) of the related business unit to take necessary every related person and to monitor compliance. actions. In accordance with the disciplinary regulations, any employee found to be failing to abide by our Ethical Ethical Principles Principles despite all communication and training efforts, warnings and measures is subject to various The Ethical Principles regulating the attitude and disciplinary actions, including discharge. conduct of Bank employees, as well as their relations with persons and institutions within or outside the Bank are announced after approval of the Board of Directors. Akbank’s Ethical Principles are announced in our website and Corporate Portal; all of our employees also receive obligatory e-learning on these principles. Completion of the mentioned training by all employees is monitored by the Internal Control Center. The aim of these activities is to ensure that our Ethical Principles are internalized. 48 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Banking offered in line with the ever-changing needs of our corporate customers form our core banking services. Our International Banking unit operates to Our customers are among our most provide foreign financing to our customers. Credit cards important stakeholders. It is a priority we offer to customers of every segment are also an for us to understand and oversee our important part of our services. Financial services that are out of the scope of banking (such as insurance) and customers’ needs, to develop banking capital markets, leasing, and investment services are products and services that directly provided by our Bank’s affiliates. influence the quality of their lives, and to offer them such products and Consumer Banking services with the most advantageous Our consumer banking services is in continuous conditions. In 2010 we had initiated the development in line with the expectations of 8 million retail customers, requirements of the era, market “For You” campaign to add value to our conditions, and our social responsibility. With the “For customers and to maintain our high You” concept that we put into effect based upon the customer satisfaction levels; in 2011 we principle of listening to our customers effectively and understanding their needs and expectations accurately, continued and developed the campaign we offer a number of financial services and products to in many ways. We built our “For You” our consumer segment via different delivery channels. campaign upon listening to our customers We also have a variety of pioneering practices to allow and comprehending their needs and each member of the society to have easier access to financial services. Such practices are discussed in more expectations correctly. detail in the next pages of the Report. In an era where banking has become a service to Corporate Banking facilitate users’ lives and add value to them, we are aware that simply understanding the customer is not We offer core banking services as well as various other enough and that we have to offer a variety of products products and services to proactively meet strategic and services to meet their diversified expectations. and financial needs of approximately 4,500 corporate Therefore we examine all technological innovations from customers as of year-end 2011. In addition to providing the perspective of banking, evaluate them, develop and structured products and financial solutions tailored implement practices that add value to our customers. to the specific qualities of customers, we also play a significant role in the financing of long-term investment We consider first of all environmental and then social projects. For instance, at the planning phase of and economic impacts of the products and services we investments, we share our profound know-how in project financing with customers who plan to make offer to customers of every segment. In order to manage investments and co-create a roadmap to structure such impacts, we evaluate a variety of environmental investments in a financeable manner. and social criteria of the products and services we provide to our customers. We invest in delivery channels In 2011, we continued our role as the financial to contribute to local economies and organize business consultant to the Gebze-İzmir Build-Operate-Transfer development meetings for SMEs which are the dynamos Highway Project, which includes building one of the of the economy. We implement various innovations longest suspension bridges of the world and is Turkey’s to ensure that each member of the society has easier biggest greenfield infrastructure project starting from access to financial services. scratch. With the aim of commissioning in project structuring phase, we brought financial institutions such Core Banking Services as IFC, EBRD, and Islamic Development Bank together In addition to the Consumer Banking and Private with prominent national and international banks and Banking services we provide for our retail customers, played a critical role in the progress of the project. Commercial and SME Banking as well as Corporate 50 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 SME Banking Responsible Practices and Risk Our Small Business Banking Division within the SME Management in Loans Banking Segment offers special products, services and Loans that we provide for our Corporate, Commercial solutions to small and micro sized businesses, whereas or SME Banking customers are evaluated in terms of our Commercial Banking Division offers the same to various environmental and social criteria: medium sized ones. (As of 2012, the segment’s name 1. Project finance loans exceeding USD 50 million was changed to “SME and Commercial Banking”). with a term of over five years are subject to Akbank By 2011 year-end, number of customers in the SME Environmental and Social Policies. Project finance segment reached approximately 490,000. Some of loans with smaller amounts are also evaluated in this increase results from the transfer of the micro terms of environmental risks. businesses that we served in 2010 to SME Banking in 2011. 2. With the aim of evaluating all risks (including environmental ones) more efficiently and improving As the Small Business Banking Division, we continued to processes in loan applications that require approval offer innovative financial products and services to smallof the Credit Committee and the Board of Directors, scale businesses and to organize briefings and various our Bank began to employ Loan Analysis Managers campaigns in 2011. Our Commercial Banking Division in 2011. also contributes to the increase in the performance 3. Regardless of the amount of the loan, customers of its customers by offering products that meet the benefitting from our loans financed by international needs of medium-scale businesses and by establishing financial institutions are expected to abide by the cooperation. In our branches there are over 1,000 social and environmental performance criteria set Customer Relationship Managers who are experienced as prerequisites by these institutions. in SME’s operation areas and who know our customers and their needs well. 1. Implementation of Akbank’s Environmental and Social Policies Private Banking Since 2010 we pioneer the industry by implementing Since 2001, we have been offering Private Banking Akbank Environmental and Social Policies on projects services at nine private branches – five in İstanbul, the which exceed USD 50 million with a term of over five rest in Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, and Adana. years. With this system, we aim to proactively and effectively manage potential environmental and social Akbank Private Banking assists individuals with assets risks and opportunities during the project, including exceeding TL 500,000 with their investment decisions, pre-project phase. provides tailor-made solutions when necessary, and serves its customers’ pension, insurance and leasing Pursuant to Akbank Environmental and Social Policies, demands with a single-station and specialized service we pay due attention that all elements stated in the in cooperation with the Akbank Group companies. With United Nations Global Compact are implemented by our Private Banking service, we continuously monitor the customers that we grant loans to. For instance, our customers’ investment strategies and offer special businesses that are proved to employ child labor solutions with support of our Customer Relationship are not granted any loans. In accordance with our Managers and a total of 20 investment consultants. Policies, considering that a project may cause severe and important impact on the environment, we request We pay attention to supporting our Private Banking submission of Environmental Impact Assessment services with innovative solutions. For instance, the (EIA) reports or proof of exemption from EIA in iPads used in customer visits give the chance to make financing projects in sectors within the scope of the the best use of time and opportunities by instantly Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations. Among imaging portfolio and market conditions. Another projects that require EIA approval certificate are longservice we offer to our customers is art consultancy. term infrastructure projects that have a high level of Upon demand from our customers, we support their impact on the environment, such as hydroelectric power investments in art works as well as investments in plants (HEPPs) and highways. financial instruments with the help of expert Akbank Art Center curators. Our Branches, Pre-Credit Committee at the Head Office, and Credits Business Unit are responsible for 51 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 the evaluation of loans in terms of compliance with the Akbank Social & Environmental Management System policies and preparation of the required action plans. (SEMS) Loans are approved by the Credit Committee within the Within the scope of the loan contract we signed with Board of Directors. IFC in 2010, we established the Akbank Social & Environmental Management System (SEMS). This Engineers in the Credits Business Unit make field system is based upon IFC’s social and environmental controls both during the evaluation of loan applications performance standards and is developed for identifying, and performance of projects requiring construction. evaluating, and managing social and environmental In pre-project controls, issues such as project’s risks of the projects of the SME and Corporate compliance with EIA and local community’s reactions customers that we finance with IFC loans. SEMS Social to the suggested project are investigated. During the & Environmental Management System covers issues project, main focus shifts to issues such as compliance such as environmental and social assessment and with occupational health and safety standards. management; labor force and working conditions; prevention and mitigation of pollution; public health, On the other hand, within the framework of Akbank safety and security; protection of biological diversity; Environmental and Social Policies, projects that allow sustainable management of natural resources; and transforming environmental risks into opportunities protection of cultural heritage. are given priority. Among these are renewable energy investments, waste recycling investments or those Akbank Social & Environmental Management System which reduce carbon emissions or improve energy is managed by a committee in the leadership of a efficiency. coordinator. The SEMS coordinator and committee members are selected among representatives of 2. Environmental Risk Analysis of Loans Credits, Marketing and Sales Management, International Banking, and Corporate Social Responsibility divisions. With the system initiated in 2011, for evaluating all In 2011, IFC gave environmental and social performance risks (including environmental ones) more efficiently standards training to SEMS committee members and and improving processes in loan applications that our teams that work in providing similar loans. require approval of the Credit Committee and the Board of Directors, our Bank began to employ Loan EBRD Criteria Analysis Managers. Experienced in loan and risk Loans that we offer to our customers via the European analysis, these Loan Analysis Managers are responsible Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) for investigating all risks to be evaluated at the loan ensure sustainability of energy resources and prevent application phase and for recording the results of environmental pollution by financing renewable energy the analyses in the application file. We aim to make and energy saving projects. In addition, loan contracts sure that the team is better equipped in terms of include criteria that require identification and mitigation of environmental and social risks in 2012. environmental and social impacts that such projects may have in the related region. In projects that we offer loans 3. International Financial Resources That from EBRD, compliance with the requirements of national Support Sustainability environmental, health and safety legislation as well as With the business partnerships that we establish with with EBRD’s environmental and social performance international financial institutions, we aim to contribute criteria is sought. EBRD offers independent project to the economic growth in our country by continuously consultancy to our customers to enable compliance with offering new loan opportunities to our customers. In these criteria. This contracted consultancy company also such loans we require our customers to abide by a performs environmental and social compliance audits. variety of social and environmental performance criteria depending on the source of the loan. In addition, we provide our customers with financing from international sources for affordable loans to be used in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. In 2012, we will continue to cooperate with international financial institutions in order to support projects that create sustainable value. 52 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Distribution of Loans Provided for Customers, by Sectors We offer our customers a wide array of loans for purposes such as growing their businesses, increasing their sales volumes, doing business abroad, company acquisitions and mergers, and project financing. Distribution of consolidated cash loans by sectors in 2011 is given in the table below. 18% 16% 16% 14% 12% 10% 10% 9% 8% 8% 7% 7% 7% 6% 6% 6% 4% 4% 4% 3% 2% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 0% 0% 0% White Goods and Appliances Cement Iron and Steel Maritime Energy Food Alcohol and Tobacco Pharmaceuticals Paper Chemicals Real Estate Finance Metal Freight Forestry Automotive Automotive-Sub Petrochemicals Health Construction Technology Textile Telecommunication Commerce Tourism Transportation Construction Materials Project Financing With our cautious loan policies applied so far, we, as Akbank, have one of the lowest non-performing loan ratios of the industry. Within the scope of this cautious approach, instead of concentrating project financing loans on a single sector, we distribute them among sectors such as energy, real estate, telecommunication, infrastructure, transportation, and petrochemicals in a balanced way. Ratios of project financing distribution by sectors are given in the charts below. Size of the Project Financing Loan Sector-based USD million Distribution 4,000 519 3,500 7% 3,000 2,500 247 2,000 93 45% 3,112 1,500 48% 2,081 1,000 1,689 7 167 500 455 435 0 Purchasing Syndications Real Estate Energy Infrastructure and Production Total Risk Balance Commitments Energy Real Estate Infrastructure and Production Note: Sector-Based Distribution excludes Purchasing and Syndication Loans. 53 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Climate-Friendly Loans and SME customers can benefit from this loan for the Our Bank offers a variety of loans to its customers financing of not only renewable energy generation both from its own resources and by borrowing from projects, but also investments in equipment that international financial institutions for the financing of provides energy efficiency and savings. energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Energy-Friendly Loans Our Products and Services for SMEs Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan is used generally for Entrepreneurship culture is strong in our country and the financing of heating, cooling, renewal of lighting currently, over 99% of businesses are SMEs. Therefore, systems, insulation of facades and conversion to growth of SMEs is vital for the economic and social environment-friendly energy sources of commercial real development of our country. Based upon this fact and estate’s such as factories. This loan is typically offered by focusing on long-term targets, we offer SME Banking in the form of an investment and operating capital services with the aim of creating value and contributing loan. Available especially for shopping malls, hospitals, to sustainable development. hotels, cold storage houses, laundries, restaurants, and bakeries, this loan is a significant support in ensuring In addition to providing basic financial services for businesses to achieve progress in protecting and SMEs, we also reach them through projects that create restoring the environment, using renewable energy added value in line with our “For You” philosophy. For sources, and improving energy efficiency. instance, we try to provide them with the information flow and consultancy support required for their access As Akbank, while contributing to the development of the to financing resources. We see SMEs as our “Business energy sector in Turkey, we also pay attention to the Partners” and create solutions to their needs. environmental impacts of energy generation projects. In line with this policy, we continued our contributions to Special Packages and Funds for SMEs financing renewable energy generation projects in 2011. In addition to our existing products, we offer Wind Energy Power Plant (WEPP) and Hydroelectric approximately 20 product and service packages such Power Plant (HEPP) projects constitute an important as Wholesaler Support Package, Tourism Support part of our loan portfolio. In 2011, financial support Package, Manufacturing Support Package, and Logistics provided for such projects of our SME and Corporate Sector Package to our customers of various segments, customers had 70% share in our total energy project sectors and regions. We also cooperate with a variety of loan portfolio. institutions to obtain funds from low-cost sources and develop affordable and long-term funds. Examples of EBRD MidSEFF and TurSEFF Loans such special funds provided in 2011 are given below. In August 2011, we provided loans amounting to USD 100 million from the European Bank for Reconstruction Cooperation with KOSGEB – “Emergency Support and Development (EBRD) for transfer to financing of Loan Protocol” mid-size renewable energy and energy saving projects This year, with KOSGEB (Small and Medium Enterprises in Turkey. With this Mid-Size Sustainable Energy Development Organization) we signed an “Emergency Financing Facility (MidSEFF) loan that has a maximum Support Loan Protocol” for businesses that may be maturity of 12 years, SMEs are encouraged to make affected by cases such as natural disasters, wars, renewable energy investments. general strikes, fires, civil commotions, and terrorist actions; an “Emergency Support Loan Protocol for the The USD 60 million-worth Sustainable Energy Financing City of Van”; and an “Operating Capital Support Loan Loan (Sustainable Energy Financing Facility -TurSEFFProtocol for the City of Van” for the SMEs affected by Program) -obtained from EBRD in 2010aims to the devastating earthquake in the city of Van and town support businesses in increasing energy efficiency and of Erciş. With this cooperation, we offer loans with spreading of renewable energy use and has a maximum 0% interest rate to our SME customers, with all the maturity of seven years. interest rate of the loan to be paid by KOSGEB. With the Emergency Support Loan Protocol, we provide SMEs IFC Securitization Loan financing support with a six-month non-refundable IFC Securitization Loan is provided within the scope of commercial loan, the remnant to be paid in equal the USD 75 million-worth agreement signed between installments with a 24-month term. As a part of this IFC and Akbank in 2010. Our Corporate, Commercial protocol, we offer Emergency Support Loan for the 54 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 City of Van and an Operating Capital Support Loan of Ramadan, we renewed our Wholesaler Support for the City of Van which allow SMEs in Van to obtain Package. Customers benefitting from this package are a 12-month non-refundable loan to be paid in equal offered special interest rates and advantages. quarterly installments with a 36-month term. Integration of LUCA Accounting Program into Bank Loan Facilities for the Growing Anatolia Account Transactions Loan Facilities for the Growing Anatolia is a program LUCA is an accounting IT system used widely among the that covers 43 cities and increases the chance of micro, Certified Public Accountants and Financial Advisors. In small and medium-scale businesses in underdeveloped 2011 we signed the LUCA – Integration of Bank Account regions to have access to financing, with the aim of Transactions Protocol with the Union of Chambers of reducing regional development differences. Created Certified Public Accountants and Sworn-in Certified by the European Investment Bank and European Public Accountants of Turkey (TÜRMOB). The aim of Investment Fund, Easy Loans for the Growing Anatolia this initiative is to ensure automatic transfer of banking offers guarantee, capacity development and promotion transactions approved by our customers who are also opportunities for the loans. As one of the five banks to LUCA-member financial advisors as well as by their mediate for this program, Akbank provides support to customers to their accounting programs. Financial targeted businesses seeking financial support in areas advisors who benefit from this service will perform their such as new investments, operating capital, exports, etc. accounting transactions in a significantly faster, safer and flawless way and improve service quality offered to New Solutions for SMEs their customers. As in the previous years, in 2011 we continued to Suppliers’ Finance offer new and innovative products and services that Suppliers’ Finance is a web-based financing model that meet ever-changing and developing needs of our SME does not contain any expenses, fees, or commissions customers. and that is specially designed for our SME customers who are suppliers, dealers or distributors of corporate Expert Customer Relationship Managers (“I Know It”) businesses. Suppliers’ Finance is popular among SMEs Since the needs of SMEs vary according to the sector that can collect their claims before due date from they operate in, we help our customers grow and their corporate clients given they are customers of our develop their businesses in areas other than finance, Bank’s as well. by enabling our Customer Relationship Managers gain expertise in various sectors. Innovations in Insurance Services Among the innovations we offered to our SME Renewed Wholesaler Support Package and Tourism customers in 2011 were the new products we included Support Package in our insurance product range in cooperation with Our Bank offers advantageous support packages Aksigorta. POS Plus Insurance that puts specific covering products and services that meet the needs risks of the member businesses (those using our POS of SMEs. These packages include mainly loans machines) under guarantee is one of these innovations. prepared in accordance with their cash flows as well We also started to offer a fixed-price Workplace as products and services such as cheque books, letters Insurance product that puts basic risks under guarantee of guarantee, commercial extra money loan, company within a certain limit for other business owners who are credit cards, POS machines, and insurance. our Bank’s customers. In 2011 we held an extensive sector survey with the Web&Mobile Loans for Small Businesses parties in the tourism sector (such as hotels, cafes, In order to make life easier for small businesses, we restaurants, agencies, and shops) to identify the facilitated loan processes by opening a number of new current situation and future expectations of the sector. channels. With our “Web Loans for Small Businesses” Based upon the results of this survey, we improved product, all private companies can easily apply for loans our Tourism Support Package even more. Our SME via the Internet. And with our “SMS Loans for Small customers operating in the tourism sector will use our Businesses” system, our customers can apply for loans Tourism Support Loan as operating capital for both their by sending us an SMS and get a reply in one minute. Our new investments and their needs in the new season. “SMS Loans for Small Businesses” product received an Taking into consideration the fact that financing needs of award at the International Financial World Innovation wholesalers of food products increase before the month Awards. 55 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 “aRife taRife for Small Businesses” Helps Small Businesses Save Money An Example to the Endeavor Project: Vistek We launched “aRife taRife for Small Businesses” ISRA Vision package so that small businesses will not pay individual Vistek ISRA Vision is a technology company established fees for each transaction and thus perform their cash in 2006 and it is also one of the businesses that flows at considerably lower costs. With this package, benefited from Akbank’s Special Loans for Endeavor small businesses receive banking services favorably at Entrepreneurs. Developing artificial vision-based our branches, on our website or through our telephone automation systems, Vistek ISRA Vision produces banking in return for an annual fee. machinery that separates foreign materials from food and glass products, using systems based upon optical Support for Entrepreneurship principles. In 2011 we continued to support efforts to raise “Using the special loan package offered by the awareness on entrepreneurship within the society, cooperation between Akbank and Endeavor, we to increase the number of new entrepreneurs, and to obtained financing for our business and thus gained enhance opportunities for entrepreneurs. An example a variety of added value. Vistek ISRA Vision grows was our cooperation with Endeavor Turkey in Special by taking firm steps and adopting an R&D-oriented Loan for Endeavor Entrepreneurs, Best Investment and approach. With the financing we obtained, we increased Best Enterprises Summits; the other one was the Global the pace of our R&D investments. Thus, we received Student Entrepreneur Awards sponsored by Akbank. support in meeting the R&D costs of the process from project-based working principle to product Support for Entrepreneurs Endeavor Program and development. We contributed to both Vistek ISRA Meetings Vision’s growth and high-tech-oriented employment for Endeavor is an international non-governmental developing products with higher added value.” organization established to support effective Prof. Aytül Erçil, CEO VISTEK ISRA VISION A.Ş. entrepreneurs in developing countries and to contribute to economic development. Within the scope of the cooperation with Endeavor, our Bank initially provided Business Development in SMEs effective entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey We support our SME customers in finding new markets with a TL 20 million loan pool. The entrepreneurs for their products and services and generating demand. selected by Endeavor benefit from this loan pool Business development programs and information with advantages such as more favorable collateral specially devised for SMEs, examples of which are requirements, longer terms and lower interest rates. below, help SMEs draw their own roadmaps. In addition to our financial services specially-designed SME Export School First Step in Exports for entrepreneurs, we held two meetings with Endeavor With the “SME Export School First Step in Exports” to offer our support. At the Best Enterprises Summit project launched jointly with the Foreign Economic organized in cooperation with TÜSİAD, prominent Relations Board (DEİK), we continued our support speakers (including representatives of the private for SMEs that want to expand into overseas markets. sector, risk capital and investment companies; business We informed SMEs that do not make or have just leaders; and academicians) came together with started making exports about new markets, business entrepreneurs with huge growth potential to discuss opportunities, government incentives for exports, issues such as leadership, management, entrepreneur facilitators for practical exports practices. Within the financing and to work together in workshops. On the scope of the program,”Export Opportunities: New other hand, at the Best Investment Summit, participants Sectors, Markets, Business Models and Incentives” were informed on the Angel Investor model that meetings were held in Denizli, Afyonkarahisar, Dudullu, supports not only capital but also know-how, coaching Adana, and Mersin in 2011. and network support for entrepreneurs. Our aim is to continue such meetings on a more wide-scope basis. SME Web Portal www.kobilersizinicin.com is an informative portal launched for SMEs in March 2011. The portal contains financial and sectoral analyses and news. Via the portal, SMEs can ask experts questions on foreign trade, 56 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 entrepreneurship, trademarks, taxes, etc. Visitors New Opportunities for SMEs – SME Public Offerings can watch videos of experts outside our Bank via Meetings Akbank SME TV. In the Ads section of the portal, SMEs In 2011 we held New Opportunities for SMEs – SME can share their questions regarding new customers, Public Offerings meetings in cooperation with İstanbul employees, raw materials, and machinery-equipment. Stock Exchange – Emerging Companies Market (ISEwww.kobilersizinicin.com received the Outstanding ECM) and with participation from KOSGEB. At the Achievement Award in the Financial Services category at meetings organized in Ankara and Kayseri, ISE-ECM the International Interactive Media Awards, which is one aimed to provide information on subjects such as being of the most prestigious contests of the interactive world. traded at the stock exchange market and business flows, while also emphasizing advantages (including Another practice that strengthened our relations with fund raising, sustainable growth, and recognition) that SMEs was “Establish and Manage – a Virtual Game of SMEs benefit from when they are listed on the stock Establishing and Growing Businesses for SMEs” that exchange. In addition, information on KOSGEB’s support could be reached at www.kobilersizinicin.com and for SMEs (such as Financing Support; Entrepreneurship Akbank’s facebook page for four months. Establish Support Program; SME Project Support Program; R&D, and Manage is a game designed especially for SMEs. It Innovation and Industrial Practices Support Program) provides not only information required to have access and support specially devised for ISE-ECM was given. to financing, but also the chance to create models for “Ready for the Future?” Meetings establishing, managing and growing businesses using In order to share the innovations brought by the new Akbank’s products and services. Specially devised Turkish Commercial Code with our customers and for Akbank, Establish and Manage received great to help them get prepared for this new era before attention from users and were found worthy of awards the implementation starts, we started to inform our by the world’s prestigious international web award customers at “Ready for Future?” meetings, organized organizations and platforms. in cooperation with Deloitte Turkey. The new Turkish Commercial Code will radically change the business Portal for SMEs: www.kobilersizinicin.com life and initiate important developments in terms (available only in Turkish) of institutionalizing, sustainability, and competitive advantage of our customers. We held these meetings in Cooperation for SMEs İstanbul, Denizli, Antalya, Gaziantep, and Bursa in 2011; With the aim of helping SMEs get prepared for the upon the attention we drew, we are planning to continue future, we mediate cooperation and organize meetings such meetings in 2012. Our primary aim is to support to aid our SME customers in following innovations. especially our SME customers in getting prepared for this new commercial environment. Cooperation with Chambers of Industry and Supporting and Promoting Foreign Trade Commerce We offer elaborate and quick support to customers with Another service we promote especially for regional their foreign trade activities, payment transactions, and development of local economies is offering our loans and investment projects via various financial tools. Our Bank other banking services with favorable terms to SMEs by provides affordable, long-term financing through the cooperating with chambers of industry and commerce export credit agencies of various countries. in several cities and regions. Within the scope of such cooperation, we provide chamber members with services The “Foreign Trade Support Package” prepared to such as Machinery/Equipment Loans, Raw Material meet the exports and imports transaction and financing Purchase Loans, Vehicle and Fleet Loans, Commercial needs of SMEs that do business with foreign companies Loans in Installments, Workplace Loans and Workplace contain current and new loans, cash management and Renovation Loans with affordable terms and payment insurance products. We offer a number of opportunities conditions for investments and raw material finance. to companies that benefit from our package. These An example of this cooperation is the Sustainable include special discounts in SWIFT expenses, free Environment-Friendly Products and Practice Awards foreign exchange transactions, free bank transfer and program organized by the İstanbul Chamber of Industry discount EFT transactions at our Corporate Internet (ICI). Supported by our Bank, this program aims to reward Banking and Corporate Telephone Banking, discount the best environmental performances of ICI members. in Freight Insurance. With the Foreign Trade Support Award-winning SMEs are offered various advantages. Package, our Bank offers Foreign Exchange Loan with 57 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 up to 24 months of maturity to meet SMEs' foreign trade designed for individuals and companies, our customers financing needs and Exports Loans form Eximbank with can perform these transactions with highly affordable advantageous interest rates and payment terms. We conditions and via different channels, including the also started foreign exchange and deposits transactions Internet. aRife taRife encourages our customers to make in Yuan (Chinese currency) in 2011. well-informed choices, with its slogans “So that everyone knows what to pay” and “The choice of the wise”. In addition, our customers can reach general information on foreign trade transactions, alternative Banking Services for the Youth: exi26 financing techniques and foreign trade regulations, as We offer our products and services tailor-made for well as answers to other frequently asked questions financial needs of the youth via our exi26 brand, about foreign trade transactions via; designed for young people between the ages of 18 and 26. exi26 credit card provides young people with credit www.akbankmevzuat.com cards that have relatively smaller limits and thus helps (available only in Turkish) them earn a discipline in savings and expenses. exi26 cardholders also benefit from installment and discount Responsible Practices in Consumer campaigns throughout the year. Banking Support Given to Customers in Case of Disasters Service expectations of each individual are different After the earthquake in Van in October 2011, our from others. Personal habits and banking needs may Bank immediately took steps to help the people in vary depending on different age and occupation groups. the region. Money transfers from and to Van will be Based upon this fact, we offer different services for free of commissions until the end of 2012. In addition, different needs of our customers. customers who have difficulty in paying back their consumer loan installments due to the devastating Consumer Banking Services Adding Value to effects of the earthquake are provided the opportunity Our Customers to delay their payments without any additional fee or Widespread Deposit Services interest rate. By offering access to our deposit products, we provide customers from every corner of Turkey with the Creating Awareness among Individual Investors via opportunity to use their savings for good. Approximately One-to-One Banking 70% of the total amount of deposits in our Bank One-to-One Banking is a service that our Customer originates from savings deposits. We maintain our Relationship Managers offer to customers who have pioneering role in deposits through the products assets amounting to TL 100,000 deposited in our Bank that encourage small savers to join the economy and and who expect expert support in investment products. through our competitive pricing policy. While 186 Akbank branches provided One-to-One Banking services in 2010, this figure increased to 200 in Increase in small savings deposits is important for both 2011 and the number of customers receiving this service our country and our Bank. In 2011, with campaigns increased from 160 thousand to 190 thousand. targeting depositors with TL 10-50 thousand deposits, we grew 2% in this area compared to 2010. We also Our customers gain access to the most accurate provide services with Fund Savings and Deposit Savings and up-to-date information and services on their accounts aimed to promote savings. In order to promote investments through Akbank Investor Portal, One-toindividual savings, which is not a very common practice One Expert Line or Akbank Investor Center. In addition, in our country, we offer special campaigns for different special informative e-mail notifications including occupational groups, for foreign countries where “Ideas for Investment” prepared by AkPortfolio and Turkish workers dwell, and for retirees. portfolio suggestions of AkInvestment are sent. “Ideas for Investment” contribute considerably to informing Transparent Banking Services: aRife taRife customers on investment products with varying risks aRife taRife bundles the most frequently performed and returns. At the Investor Seminars that we organize customer transactions such as money transfers, cheque to help customers benefit from expert views and collections, account statement and pass book printouts have better perspectives in making their investment in a single package and offers customers the opportunity decisions, prominent market commentators, worldto make as many transactions as they need in return renowned fund managers and economists come for a single monthly payment. With six different tariffs together with our customers. 58 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Structuring of Personal Loan Debts Responsible Practices in Consumer Loans In recent years, with the increase in the debts of Akbank’s consumer loans are composed of three core individuals, we tried to provide a certain level of groups; namely, Mortgage, General-Purpose, and convenience for customers who had trouble in paying Car. In addition, loans provided via credit cards are back personal loan or credit card debts due to the also among services offered to consumers. Sums of influence of the economic fluctuation, by taking consumer loans in the last three years are expressed in into consideration the limitations imposed by legal the table below. authorities. Requests of customers who demanded changes in payment plans or who are believed to Mortgage Loans recover defaults and make regular payments with Our Bank offers mortgage loans for up to 75% of the house value with up to 120-month terms and exemption a new payment plan are evaluated by our Bank. We from Banking and Insurance Transaction Tax and offered some of such cardholders and loan users the Resource Utilization Support Fund on condition that opportunity to pay their debt before legal proceedings the house to be purchased is given as guarantee. Over are initiated. 200 thousand customers purchased their own houses Services offered by Affiliates since 2005 when the mortgage market gained huge momentum. Insurance Is a Necessity, Not a Luxury Our major principle in bancassurance is convincing Customers applying to our special call center (Big large masses that being insured is a necessity rather Red Line – 44 44 253) can both obtain all kinds of legal than a luxury. Considering lifetime risks of customers, and technical assistance from mortgage consultants Akbank offers products with affordable prices and and apply for mortgage. Knowing the importance of coverage for all customer segments. the financial sector in mortgage, our Bank cooperates with large-scale construction companies, the Housing Private pension system of AvivaSA Pension and Life Development Administration of Turkey (TOKİ) and Emlak and various insurance products of AkInsurance reach Real Estate Investment Trust and thus focuses not only a wider customer base via Akbank. Our customers can on the housing projects in metropolitan cities, but also have access to our individual and corporate insurance on those in Anatolia, supporting urban transformation products through all delivery channels including Akbank activities through earthquake-resistant, exclusive ATMs and Call Center. architectural projects with strong infrastructures. Easy to Understand Investment Products and Services With its diversified investment fund portfolio and Health-Conscious Banking Operations commercial intermediary services via various channels, Our Bank, which is -in terms of cash volumethe 2nd among 22 banks depositing cash to the Central Bank Akbank continues to meet all needs of investors. of Turkey, sorts old and worn out banknotes before Our Bank exported a total of 19 capital-protected sending them to the Central Bank and thus contributes funds in 2011 and offered customers a variety of fund to preventing microbes that pose a serious threat investments from the stock market to foreign exchange, to public health. In order to prevent the spread of from gold to silver, from bank interests to commodities microbes, we pay special attention to placing new or in a simple way that investors can easily understand. very clean banknotes in our ATMs (the rate is 80%). In addition, our ATMs are regularly disinfected by Number of customers investing in a capital-protected professional teams. fund for the first time in their lives reached 20 thousand. Sum of Consumer Loans (TL Million) 2011 2010 2009 Mortgage loans 7,471 6,166 4,592 Car loans 866 804 555 General-purpose loans 7,254 6,160 4,098 TOTAL (Consumer Loans) 15,591 13,130 9,245 Credit Cards 9,550 6,619 5,754 TOTAL (Consumer Loans and Credit Cards) 25,141 19,749 14,999 59 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Debit and Credit Cards Adding Value to Our and expectations of our customers, whose number increased since 2010. Customers Among our other credit cards, Carrefour Axess Innovative Practices provides not only the benefits of Axess, but also special Our credit card portfolio consists of the Axess, Axess offers at CarrefourSA supermarkets. Axess Business Business, Wings, Wings Business, Fish, Carrefour and Wings Business are our commercial credit cards to Axess, and Axess exi26 brands. be used by small, medium and large-scale businesses for meeting needs such as fuel oil and wholesale With a portfolio of 5.4 million credit cards (consisting purchases, business travels, accommodation, and office our 3 leading credit card brands – Axess, Wings and equipment. With these commercial cards, companies Fish), 5.9 million debit cards (Neo), a credit card can regularly track payments, earn financial advantages lending of TL 9.6 billion, and a network of 223 thousand such as mile points and chip-money, and benefit from member businesses (those using our POS machines), in campaigns. Axess exi26 is a credit card for university 2011 we offered innovative services to meet the needs students and young professionals. Our Brands Examples of New Advantages Qualities of the Card By choosing Axess tariffs suitable for their needs in advance, our Axess credit card meets the Axess customers benefit from free card, free Internet connection, needs of credit cardholders by chip-money collection, and interest rate discounts if they choose offering a variety of benefits and is the spending plan suitable for their limits and spending habits. continuously developed in terms of new product qualities and financial solutions. Its practical website and social media channels such as facebook and twitter allow active communication with cardholders. For more information please visit: http://www.axess.com.tr (available only in Turkish) All expenditures made by Wings brings Mile Points to the Wings is a credit card for the highcardholders and these allow free plane tickets; in addition, with income group of customers who a new system, these points can be used to make payments at have an active social life and who Wings Style-member restaurants, hotels, sports and spa centers. travel frequently for either business or vacation. In order to reward our customers with strong relations with our Bank, Wings gives 25% more Mile Points to customers with TL For more information please visit: 100,000 assets and/or mortgage sum in Akbank. http://www.wingscard.com.tr (available only in Turkish) In accordance with the cooperation between Citibank and Akbank, Wings cardholders can draw cash advance from Citibank ATMs abroad without paying any transaction fee, benefit from special discounts and opportunities at over 4,000 points abroad with Citi World Privileges, transfer Mile Points to contracted airline programs via the Citi Mile Transfer program. Making dreams come true with its monthly lottery, Fish increased Fish is a credit card that creates the number of awards to 254 in 2011 (including house, car, etc). closer bonds between our Bank and In November, a customer who entered the lottery with a shopping the retail market, while bringing sum of TL 10 won a house. attractive rewards to cardholders. For more information please visit: “Dream Contest” -the social media contest with the biggest awardwas held at facebook/Fishcard page. More than 3,000 http://www.fishcard.com.tr people participated and our present to the lucky winner was a Dream Shop website world tour worth TL 100,000. http://www.hayaldukkani.com (available only in Turkish) 60 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Brands Examples of New Advantages Qualities of the Card Neo debit card was improved in 2011 to gain “Internet Shopping” Maestro debit card that allows and “Automatic Bill Payment” qualities. shopping and drawing money both in Turkey and abroad. New Gift brand meets pre-paid card needs of corporate businesses. With the Neo Gift cards that users can deposit money For more information please visit: in, corporate businesses offer premiums and gifts of various http://www.akbank.com/ formats to their employees, business partners, dealers, and consumer/cards/neo.aspx customers. With the campaigns using the slogan “Thrifty Shopping Card”, our customers normally using cash shifted to debit cards in 2011. In this year, number of Neo cards reached 5.9 million with an increase of 680 thousand and rate of use in shopping rose by 35%. Responsible Practices in Debit and Credit frequently for business or vacation. With an average of Cards 1,000 monthly unique visitors, the page includes detailed Insurance Services in Credit Cards information on What is carbon footprint? How to We offer our credit card customers a variety of calculate carbon footprint? Carbon footprint calculator. insurance products so as to protect them in the event of Ways to shrink our carbon footprint.” accidents, loss, and theft. For instance, Life Insurance For more information please visit: service is offered to customers so that in case of death http://www.wingscard.com.tr/wings-dunyasi/karbonor disability, card debt can be collected and heirs do salimi/karbon-ayak-izi-nedir not face any financial liabilities. If the cardholder loses (available only in Turkish) his/her job, Credit Card Unemployment Insurance by AkInsurance can be used. With Bodycard Protection Insurance, in case of loss or theft, all credit and debit Innovative Practices in Akbank cards of our customers at all banks are cancelled within With the aim of meeting ever-changing and diversifying a very short time upon calling the Akbank Telephone customer demands and offering better services to Banking branch. This product also includes a number of customers, we continue to renew and diversify our guarantees, transportation, communication, and cash product delivery and communication channels as well as support services to avoid suffering of our customer. our products and services. In line with this aim we pay attention mainly to the feedback from our customers Contribution to the Development of Trade in Anatolia and also to creative ideas and suggestions of our via Member Business (*) Campaigns employees. Akbank is among the four largest banks in the market in terms of member businesses. With the “city-based Akbank Product and Channel Development Group member business campaigns” specially designed for was established in 2010 within our Strategy Business Anatolia, our Bank increased its member businesses Unit, in order to identify and realize opportunities for with 92% since 2008. With such campaigns organized development and innovations. New global trends in in 20 cities in 2011 we aim both to contribute to the banking, including initiatives and practices to manage improvement of trade in cities and to create a more environmental and social impacts of banking products, lively social life. are monitored and products in line with these trends are developed. “Parent Banking” is a product created by Carbon Footprint Information Initiative such efforts. With the aim of creating awareness in our customers on carbon emissions, we launched a special website In 2011, our innovative approach especially focused on called “carbon footprint” in 2011. “Carbon footprint” practices that facilitate access to our financial services. page is open to everyone and can be accessed at our Examples of this approach are given in the following Wings website, which targets customers travelling pages of the Report. *All businesses that have POS machines required to perform credit card transactions are called “member businesses”. 61 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 that are considered to be applicable are selected and action plans are made. Every month “suggestion of the Parent Banking is a banking approach in which we offer services to meet the needs of parents in difficult month” is chosen and the suggestion and its originator living conditions. Our aim is to support parents in are announced to all of our employees. In addition, realizing their dreams for a “better future” for their customer suggestions received via Akbank Call Center children. One of the basic products of this approach is and the social media are also regularly added to our “Neo Super” – Neo supplementary card for children Suggestion System and evaluated in the same way. between the ages 6 and 16. The package also includes Deposit Savings Account and Back To Life Insurance In 2011, a total of 11,971 suggestions -10,240 from and Emergency Health Package products. Neo Super employees and 1,631 from customersreached into our card may help children gain the spending discipline by Suggestion System. Compared to the previous year, the presetting daily limits and regular pocket money order. total number of suggestions increased around 8%. For more information on this product package, Examples of received and realized suggestions are: please visit: • Automatic credit card payment for social security http://www.akbank.com/anne-baba-bankacilik.aspx premiums (available only in Turkish) • Allowing corporate customers to make transactions by e-mail orders in addition to fax orders • Asking employees working overtime to inform services buses beforehand to plan the most efficient commuting. Innovative Ideas of Our Customers and Employees Banking Approach to Facilitate Access to Innovation Envoys Services There are efforts throughout our Bank to develop In 2011, we put into effect a number of innovations to innovative ideas and to objectively evaluate and design facilitate access of all members of the society, including these ideas. There is a team of Innovation Envoys, made our customers, to banking services and we continued to up of 139 employees from the Head Office, Regional spread our branch and ATM network. Directorates and Branch employees. Innovation Envoys attend periodical workshops to create new ideas A Widespread Network of Branches and ATMs identified in accordance with our Bank’s strategy and With new branches opened in 2011, Akbank has one of needs of our business units, using their learning on the most widespread ATM networks in the country with creative and innovative thinking techniques and internal 926 branches, 3,695 ATMs and BTMs that make instant innovation leadership. money depositing possible in 79 cities where 99.9% of the Turkish population lives. In an effort to create awareness in our employees on innovation, “1,001 News” -a monthly bulletinis issued. Thanks to the fast-paced ATM installations undertaken “1,001 News” gives examples of innovative practices as a result of its ATM network expansion policy that in both the banking and other sectors, while also Akbank focused on in 2010, we are the second in the list containing articles on the issue and success stories of private banks in terms of ATM market share. A total of from all around the world. 88% of all cash withdrawals and 65% of all cash deposit transactions in Akbank are performed using ATMs. In Suggestion System addition, Akbank ATMs and BTMs which are part of Another system that we established to continuously Turkey’s ATM sharing platform provide services to all improve our services and business processes is the credit or debit cardholders in Turkey. ATMs perform not “1,001 Good Ideas” platform, which systematically only core banking transactions, but also term deposit collects and assesses suggestions of our employees and account and investment fund transactions as well as customers. money transfers such as bank transfers and EFTs. All of our employees can make suggestions to the While assessing service points in branch and ATM related business units via the “1,001 Ideas and structuring, main arteries with mass transport options Suggestions System”. After a pre-evaluation, ideas and/or locations with heavy traffic are given priority in 62 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 terms of visibility and accessibility. Thus we make sure “Send Money” System in Mobile Banking is a system in that citizens have easier access to financial services. which our customers can transfer money in 20 seconds While facilitating access to financial services in crowded thanks to an application installed in their mobile regions, we also create employment in cities and towns phones. “Send Money” application changes the methods where our branch is opened for the first time. This way of money transfers and brings an important innovation we indirectly contribute to reviving the economy through to mobile banking. our operations and services. Mobile Payment Innovations at ATMs With our Micro SD-based NFC system, which is the “Transfer from ATM to Mobile”is a practice in which first of its kind in Europe, credit cardholders get the anyone -Akbank customer or notcan transfer money by opportunity to make payments via mobile phones, simply entering their ID and mobile phone numbers. independent of the operator companies. “EFT via ATMs” is a practice in which Akbank We offered a similar service to our customers with the customers can transfer money at ATMs by entering the Pocket-T Wallet applied in cooperation with Turkcell. recipient’s ID and IBAN/account numbers. While other This product allowed Axess MasterCard holders to make banks allow only pre-defined EFTs to be made at ATMs, payments with their mobile phones, without using cards, Akbank became the first bank in Turkey to allow EFTs at thanks to a system integrated in NFC phones. This ATMs without any need for pre-definitions. innovative application is expected to spread in 2012 and “I Want an ATM” allows all users -Akbank customer or we aim to include Wings MasterCard in the system as notto make demands for placement of an ATM, using well. an online map. As a “first” in the sector, this system helped us install 200 ATMs on locations demanded With our “mobile payment” solutions using various by users, once again proving our claim that we are technologies, our customers can make payments fast wherever our users are. and contactless, simply by their mobile phones (on condition that the store at which payment will be made Innovations in Internet Banking has a contactless card reader). Akbank Internet Banking serves more than 1 million customers. Renewed in 2011, Akbank Internet Banking Telephone Banking (Call Center) allows customers to make core banking transactions Our consumer and corporate customers can perform a such as money transfers, account and credit card number of core banking transactions quickly and easily, transactions, foreign exchange and investment using Akbank Telephone Branch and Voice Response transactions, invoice payments easily, quickly, and System at 444 25 25. As one of the biggest call centers without going to the branch with its easy and functional in the banking sector, Akbank Call Center served nearly menu and high quality service. 5 million individual customers in 2011 with over 1,000 employees. Budget Management in Internet and Mobile Banking is the Internet version of the Budget Planning system that allows our customers to plan their personal Customer Satisfaction budgets track their expenditures and cash flows in To be able offer the best services to our customers, graphics, and monitor their progress towards their prewe attach great importance to achieving customer defined targets. Similarly, My Mobile Budget system satisfaction. This is our primary target in line with our addresses customers who prefer to use mobile phones aim of reaching a better position together with our for this purpose. customers. To ensure “maximum customer satisfaction in each moment of contact with our customers”, Innovations in Mobile Banking we employ a variety of measures, evaluation and With our pioneering practices, we continued to lead the improvement systems. For instance, in 2011 more than sector in mobile banking in 2011 and developed projects 1,500 employees took “Customer Satisfaction”-oriented that make life easier for our customers by being trainings. Details on these trainings are available in the wherever they are. We achieved a success by integrating “Our Employees” section of this Report. “Send Money” system that allows mobile money transfer and NFC (Near Field Communication) technology into our customers’ lives. 63 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Complaint Management Within the scope of the Customer Complaints Management, we make self-assessments based upon We obtain feedback from our customers about our criteria such as average problem solving time, suitability services and take such feedback as opportunities of service level after we provide service to our customer, to improve their satisfaction level. In order to meet rate of solutions offered at the initial contact point of customers’ ever-changing and diversifying needs and the customer complaint, ratio of notifications solved in expectations, we monitor all the feedback on a single over five days to other solutions, etc. In addition, we hold platform, assess them extensively and then reply our surveys on the telephone with owners of notifications. customers with result-oriented solutions. In this survey, our customers assess criteria such as duration of transaction, accessibility, care and We receive our customers’ feedback via our Call Center, behaviors, ability to solve problems, etc. Customer branches, the Contact Us Form in our website, e-mail, satisfaction performance results received from these fax, or mail. All notifications of customers are managed surveys are assessed monthly with Channel Report through a central platform integrated into our Bank’s Card and announced throughout the Bank in six-month system. In addition, adjusting to changing conditions performance periods. and aiming customer satisfaction in all channels, we proactively handle customer expectations and demands Allowing us to collect and evaluate complaints in stated in social media such as facebook and twitter or in electronic media, this Customer Complaint Management complaint websites. System creates high operational efficiency by using labor effectively. In addition to manual segmentation Dialogue with Customers in the Social Media and notification prioritization, such prioritization can also be made by the system infrastructure, depending Being followed by more than 800 thousand people in the fast-growing social media channels, we make sure on the importance of the issue. We offer our customers that we are wherever our customers are and we help the opportunity to share their opinions and questions them receive the products, services and information through every channel they can contact our Bank. they need in the fastest way possible. In 2011 we Related person is informed when a notification reaches created the infrastructure to answer our customers’ our Bank, the solution phase starts and a conclusion is questions and solve problems about our products and reached. services instantly via the social media channel they use and achieved complaint management and social media We treat customer feedback as an opportunity to realize integration. improvements and enhance customer satisfaction. In 2007 we created a technical infrastructure that can Assessment, Evaluation, and Improving make notifications on a single platform, that can be Service Quality queried, and that offers the opportunity to work in a In order to make sure that our customers have perfect paperless environment. This infrastructure project was banking experiences with our customer-oriented published in March 2009 bulletin of SAP as a success services, we use advanced assessment and evaluation story setting an example for other financial institutions systems. We periodically measure the quality level of the in the world and as a Best Practice in Banking. service provided in Branches and Alternative Delivery Channels to identify our strong points and those that Following the establishment of the infrastructure need to be improved. Measuring customer satisfaction that allows handling the processes as a whole from after their contact with our Bank is also included in the beginning to the end, tracking notifications, and these efforts. We share results of assessments with monitoring customer briefing process at every phase, all employees transparently, devise action plans with our Customer Complaint Management practices and related teams, and make improvements and continuous processes received the ISO 10002 Quality Standard development based upon the feedback from branches. certificate from the British Standards Institution (BSI) in September 2007. Audited twice a year internally In addition to Branches and Alternative Delivery by our Bank’s quality envoys and once a year by an Channels, quality levels of support services such as independent auditing company, the Customer Complaint system infrastructure of these channels and transaction Management implemented lasting solutions via the approvals are also put under the guarantee of Service Customer Satisfaction Committee including some senior Level Agreements (SLA). The situation in SLAs is executives of our Bank. 64 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 regularly reported, actions for improvement are adopted customer satisfaction surveys are performed both to in areas where the target is not met and targets are measure the expectations and satisfaction levels of increased in areas where SLAs perform better than the customers of various segments and to identify our target. strengths and areas to be improved. Process Management and Business Development In order to meet customer needs more efficiently, we need to be able to look at the business and processes from other perspectives. This requires -first of alldefining the current system in the organization. With this purpose, Akbank adopted the Business Process Management (BPM) approach as a methodology. With this approach all elements are evaluated in a holistic manner (especially information technologies, data, organization and product) and customers’ needs are met more efficiently and quickly. After the current system is defined, ways of doing business should be reviewed not only from the perspective of the Bank, but also from that of customers and these should be improved. To be able to do that, firstly the way customers perceive products and services should be identified. Business development in Akbank uses Simple Six Sigma techniques. Simple Six Sigma is the methodology to review and improve ways of doing business from the perspective of customers based upon the results of customer satisfaction surveys and to improve current processes, products and services so as to meet customer expectations in the most efficient way. With the aim of establishing long-lasting relations with its customers, Akbank focuses on improving customer experiences and their quality. We adopt customer experience perspective as a business strategy to manage the Bank from the viewpoint of customers and we shape our company’s customer strategy and process improvement/development efforts in an integrated way. As an example to process improvement activities at contact points with customers (most of all, those about the loans), we can mention Alternative Delivery Channels access processes, salary customer processes, internal operational processes at contact points with customers, and branch improvement activities performed in accordance with feedback. Customer Satisfaction Survey Our customers can inform us on their expectations via different channels. In addition to these, our regular customer satisfaction surveys also form an effective customer feedback platform. Monthly and annual 65 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 understanding, we restructured our bonus system as well OUR EMPLOYEES as career and talent management practices in 2011. Our objective is to offer our employees the resources they need, to develop their talents, to ensure a communication environment in which they can share Our Recruitment Policy: Working with the their ideas, and to create a workplace that supports “Best” excellence, creativity and quality. Our human resources In full awareness that human resources management management aims to support the Akbank employee is the path to sustainable success, Akbank walks the profile which is hardworking, dynamic, creative, path side by side with the “best” to achieve the best initiative-taking, legally compliant, and ethical. results. With our human resources practices, we aim to be the leader among the most preferred employers Our Human Resources Policy where qualified and confident people who can create values choose to work and to become a company which Our fundamental human resources employees are proud to be a part of. policy is to be the strategic partner of our business units while establishing human Our approach to employment is to hire qualified, welleducated, innovative people who are open to learning resources strategies compatible with and development and who are eager to add value to our Bank’s vision and goals and steering Akbank, without any discrimination, including their corporate structure, mechanisms and race, language, religious belief, gender, and age. We human resources. target a fair approach with equal opportunities for every candidate and use well-defined recruitment While serving our Bank’s vision, we focus on the criteria. Using fair, objective, internationally accepted following for “continuous corporate success”: measurement and evaluation methods, the most • Recruiting success-oriented, the best candidates appropriate candidates are recruited in units in need who are open to improvement of labor force. It is among our priorities to employ new • Identifying employee potentials and creating graduate candidates who do not have professional opportunities for them to continuously develop their experience, to train future leaders, and to offer them competence career opportunities within the banking sector. • Continuously developing the corporate culture and the business conduct Our aim is to make sure that our customers have • Making active and appropriate investments in human the best experiences in each and every one of our resources in line with our targets and strategies service locations. All of our service points are equally important; therefore, neither the services we offer to • Making career planning a participatory process our customers, nor our practices and approaches vary • Using a transparent and fair performance depending on the location. In order to achieve uniformity management based on targets and competence to in our services, we offer extensive trainings to our new reward encouraging and high performance. employees. While developing and implementing the human resources policy, our Bank prioritizes equal opportunity While recruiting for our Head Office and branches, we and it takes measures to prevent any acts that could prefer to employ candidates living in regions close to be interpreted as discrimination. Since our human our locations. In our Malta branch outside Turkey, we resources policy adopts a unifying attitude, not a also generate local employment. discriminating one, we do not have any minority grouping policy. In line with our business performance and productivity, vacant positions within our organization are first In developing human resources systems and practices, announced to our employees. Internal applications are our starting point is the satisfaction and motivation of evaluated by the Human Resources Business Unit and our employees. Therefore, feedback from the employees assignments are made in the soonest possible time. steer the processes at every phase. As a result of this 67 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Salary Policy In accordance with our Bank’s salary policy, the lowest Our Employee Profile wage is cascaded, starting from the minimum wage Approximately 2/3 of our Bank employees work at identified by the government. We target a fair human branches and they are our One-to-One contact point resources management by using a performance-based with customers. 92.7% of our employees (excluding system. Our salary policy is the same in all branches security staff) are university graduates and this ratio is and service points for the beginner level. In recruitment the highest among private and public-capital banks in of employees with no previous work experience, the Turkey. The average seniority of Akbank employees is average salary is equal to the minimum wage for Private 6.9 years within the Bank. This duration stands at 7.4 Security Staff, 47% higher for Assistants, and twice the years in the Turkish banking community. minimum wage for Management Trainees. Our Employees in Figures In addition, to drive further development of individual As of December 31st, 2011, total number of employees is skill sets and competences, speaking foreign languages 15,347 with eight Board Members -excluding the CEOis compensated. Those who do not speak any foreign and 15,339 other employees at different functions. languages are encouraged to take courses at various educational institutions with special offers. There are no part-time employees in Akbank, with the exception of a consultant. Including 1 to 3 months Minimum Period of Notice for Significant internship period of university students, all our Operational Changes to Affect Employees employees are permanent and “full-time”. Benefits If significant operational changes occur in our Bank, provided for full-time employees may only vary periods of notice stated in the Labor Code and Collective depending on the person’s performance. Bargaining Contract are implemented. Periods of notice vary depending on the employees’ seniority. Distribution of employees in Akbank in terms of service For employees with over three years of service, this locations is presented in the table below. As can be seen period is eleven months for those within the scope of in the table, the number of our norm and actual staff the collective bargaining contract and eight weeks for has been increased in line with our needs since 2009. others. In case of transfers, employees are given three days for commencing their new posts in the same city and fifteen days in other cities. Number of Employees 2009 2010 2011 Head Office* 2,269 2,249 2,297 Akbank Banking Center 2,584 2,971 2,810 Regional Directorates 398 434 431 Branches** 9,463 9,676 9,801 Overall 14,714 15,330 15,339 * Excluding the Board of Directors. ** Including employees at Malta branch. In case of necessity, especially our Operations-Call Center, Consumer Banking, and Information Technologies Business Units apply for outsource services. Number of employees working for our Bank within the outsourcing system can be seen in the table below. 2009 2010 2011 Number of Employees within the Outsourcing System 3,882 1,575 1,369 68 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Gender Distribution Our Bank adopts a principle of distribution of staff based on the opportunity of equality, without any discrimination of gender or age. Within recent years, ratio of female and male employees has remained approximately the same. Percentage of women among our senior and mid-level management staff is higher than the percentage observed in the banks of many other countries. Gender Distribution 2009 2010 2011 2011 (%) Total Number of Employees Staff Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Board of Directors 88.9 11.1 87.5 12.5 87.5 12.5 7 1 Senior Management 68.1 31.9 66.0 34.0 65.8 34,2 749 389 Mid-level Management 43.5 56.5 43.3 56.7 44.1 55.8 712 900 Auditors 70.9 29.1 72.1 27.9 72.9 27.1 183 68 Assistant Managers 42.1 57.9 42.3 57.7 41.7 58.3 4,587 6,401 Other* 73.1 26.9 73.4 26.6 72.8 27.2 126 47 Security 99.8 0.2 99.6 0.4 99.7 0.3 1,173 4 Overall 48.9 51.1 49.1 50.9 49.1 50.9 7,537 7,810 *Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support teams, and technicians. Age Distribution The average age of our employees is 32.6 as of 2011 year-end. Almost in every staff category, the largest age group is 30-50. There are no employees under the categories of child labor (employees under 15 years of age, at which compulsory education ends) or young labor (over the minimum age for employment and under 18) categories in Akbank. In accordance with our recruitment policy, only those of full legal age can work in our Bank. Students and young workers applying for internship in Akbank should be 4th grade high-school students or university students in their 2nd or 3rd years. Number of interns in our staff changes periodically, there are no interns recruited as of 2011 year-end. Age Distribution (%) 2009 2010 2011 Under Between Over Under Between Over Under Between Over Staff 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 Board of Directors 11.1 88.9 25.0 75.0 12.5 87.5 Senior Management 0.1 91.9 8.0 0.1 92.6 7.3 93.8 6.2 Mid-level Management 5.2 93.4 1.4 4.6 93.7 1.7 2.9 95.2 1.9 Auditors 69.1 30.9 0.0 65.7 34.3 0.0 53.4 46.6 Assistant Managers 56.2 43.6 0.2 51.3 48.5 0.2 44.8 54.9 0.2 Other* 28.0 68.7 3.3 23.7 72.9 3.4 20.2 76.3 3.5 Security 48.9 50.1 1.0 47.0 52.9 0.1 46.2 53.8 Overall 47.0 52.0 0.9 42.9 56.2 0.9 37.0 62.0 0.9 *Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support teams, and technicians. 69 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Employee Turnover Rates Employee turnover rates based on location are given in the table below. Our employee turnover rate was 8.76% in 2011. Although the rate increased compared to previous year due to positive developments in the markets, it is still below the 9.4% rate, which is the average of 7 banks participating in a survey of a reputable institution. We hold meetings with resigned personnel to discuss their reasons for resignation and evaluate the feedback received from them. 2009 2010 2011 Employee Turnover Rate* Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Head Office 6.04 136 8.46 191 9.58 198 Akbank Banking Center 6.08 157 9.58 266 10.36 328 Regional Directorates 2.61 11 4.33 18 3.45 15 Branches 5.75 556 6.49 621 8.31 812 Banka Geneli (ortalama) 5.74 860 7.31 1,096 8.76 1,353 * Resigned employees (including retirees, resigned employees and those whose work contracts are cancelled) Our employees are free to resign in conformity with the terms on their work contract. Forced labor is out of our Bank’s working principles. Employee turnover rates and numbers of resigned employees depending on the age group are given in the table below. Due to the high number of open business positions in the market, majority of those who resigned from our Bank are below the age of 30. Under 30 Between 30-50 Over 50 Employee Turnover Rate 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 According to the Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Number Rate Rate Rate Number Age Group (%) (%) (%) Number (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Head Office 8.81 11.4 13.2 97 4.38 6.5 7.5 97 6.25 22.9 12.1 4 Akbank Banking Center 7.27 13.2 15.0 222 4.07 4.8 6.0 100 7.14 20.0 20.0 6 Regional Directorates 1.54 4.5 3.0 4 3.64 3.6 3.4 10 28.6 14.3 1 Branches 5.98 6.4 9.8 375 4.90 6.0 6.9 406 46.04 55.6 48.4 31 Overall (average) 5.94 7.7 11.3 698 4.65 5.8 6.7 613 28.69 39.2 31.3 42 Note: In order to keep the table simple, number of resigned employees is not given for the years 2009 and 2010. These figures can be found in our 2010 Sustainability Report. 70 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Employee turnover rates and numbers depending on the gender are given in the table below. Percentages of male and female workers who resigned are similar. The reason for higher employee turnover in females compared to males at the Akbank Banking Center is that number of female employees is higher in the Center. Male Female 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Employee Turnover According to the Gender Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Number (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) Head Office 5.60 80 7.94 114 9.26 112 6.79 56 9.34 77 10.02 86 Akbank Banking Center 4.91 40 7.03 65 9.74 124 6.62 117 10.85 201 10.78 204 Regional Directorates 3.33 10 4.89 14 4.07 12 0.83 1 3.09 4 2.14 3 Branches 6.13 290 6.20 292 8.61 414 5.40 266 6.77 329 8.01 398 Overall (average) 5.77 420 6.59 485 8.73 662 5.76 440 7.97 611 8.79 691 Performance Management System (PMS) • To evaluate contributions and performances of employees in a fair and objective manner and to Our Bank implements a performance management shape their competence in line with the needs of system based upon the evaluation and management Akbank of the performances of our employees. This is a • To make correct decisions about career planning, transparent and flexible performance system that training and other Human Resources processes keeps fair evaluation factors in the foreground, of our employees and to ensure their personal responds to changing needs, and remains receptive to developments. For the sake of continuation of our development in line with such processes. success and personal development, all our employees go through performance evaluation once a year. As The criteria of the Akbank Performance Management a result of this performance evaluation, areas of System are based upon personal goals and development are identified for our employees and competencies. The types of goals and competencies various trainings are organized in these areas to support in the performance forms, their weights and numbers their career development. These evaluations and are determined through projects conducted jointly by trainings allow us to determine employees’ competence Akbank Business Units and Human Resources Business in a variety of roles and responsibilities. Depending on Unit. The performance period covers a term of one year. the results, our employees can be recruited in business The Operations and Digital Scorecard measurements units other than their current functions. that are integrated in PMS are conducted twice a year at 6 month intervals. The aims of the PMS system developed with a management approach that supports and encourages Performance ratings of our Bank’s Senior Management high-level performance are: are made by considering both our Bank’s year-end • To enable our employees realize their targets, to performance and success criteria that support longincrease corporate performance term sustainable performance. With this purpose, • To guide and develop our employees in order to meet Balanced Scorecard is used in our Bank. Performance their changing and developing needs better of Senior Management is measured based upon • To align our Bank’s goals with personal goals of our perspectives including those of Finance, Customer, employees Internal Processes, and Human Resources. Therefore, • To ensure that our employees understand what is in the goal and success indicators of our Senior expected of them better, get involved with their jobs Management, social performance criteria such as and stay motivated to attain their targets customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction rates, • To encourage continuous development via open employee turnover rates are also used in addition to the communication and regular feedback and to financial criteria. increase motivation 71 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Benefits to Employees corporate contribution. Our Bank contributes to savings of such employees by making additional payments to the Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust PPS contracts of the above-mentioned employees in a (AKSandık) certain ratio of their monthly gross salary. Thus we help All of our working and retired employees and their Akbank employees make savings and continue with the dependents are registered at the Akbank Staff same living standards in their retirement. Retirement Fund Trust, independent of Turkey’s Social Security Agency. Pensions and healthcare services Participation in PPS is optional. The purpose of the offered to the members of this Fund Trust are in better system is to ensure that our employees have the same conditions than the basic services offered by the state living conditions as today when they are retired. In (Social Security Agency). order to improve employee loyalty and motivation, we attach a special importance to the PPS with corporate Retirement contribution and try to increase the number of AKSandık is a social security institution as a legal employees participating in this plan. person that provides social insurance support to members using the insurance premiums collected from Collective Bargaining Agreement employees and employer, with the provided rights not In our Bank, all employees can become members of being inferior to those provided by the Social Security BANKSİS (Union of Bank and Insurance Employees) Agency. Conditions for earning the right to benefit from on their own preferences and exercise their rights of insurance support are in parallel with legal regulations; collective bargaining agreement. As of the end of 2011, however, with additional rights inherent in AKSandık’s 51% of our employees (7,793 people) are within the status, this support is improved. scope of collective bargaining agreement. Financial rights and administrative relations of BANKSİS nonPremium revenues of AKSandık are 33.5% of the members are defined by our Bank, while those of employee salary, on condition that it is taken within members are defined by the Collective Bargaining the maximum monthly revenue identified by the law Agreement. annually for insurance premiums. 14% of this is deducted from the employee’s salary and 19.5% is Due to promotions from positions within the scope the contribution of Akbank. In addition, premiums of collective bargaining to senior and mid-level amounting to 2% of total revenues of employees in a management positions that are out of the scope, year are deposited by Akbank to the Trust’s account, number of posts within the scope has not increased again on condition that these are within the stated limits. compared to 2010. Within the framework of the collective bargaining agreement, we provide our In order to earn the right to benefit from retirement, employees working at posts within the scope with employees should fulfill requirements such as rights such as death benefits, natural disaster benefits, completing a certain period of insurance, having fully disability compensation, death and injury compensation, paid premiums for the required number of days, and and emigration compensation for personnel moving to having reached a certain age. Employees who fulfill another city. these conditions are provided with pension by AKSandık upon their demand. In calculating the pension, main Equal Opportunity Model (EOM) Project parameters are the working period of the employee, We completed the preparations for the Equal total income within this period and age, as well as Opportunity Model (EOM) project in cooperation with consumer price index change rates and development KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) rates in our country. Due to such variable parameters, in 2011 and the project was launched in 2012 with monthly pensions may differ for each employee. technical support from the World Bank. Akbank is one of the 11 corporations that agreed to take part in the first Akbank Private Pension System with phase of the project. Within the scope of this project, Corporate Contribution Akbank will be audited by an independent institution. In addition to AKSandık pension, Akbank employees The audit will investigate whether our corporate policies are also offered Private Pension System (PPS) Services and procedures, recruitment and selection processes, with some corporate contribution. Senior and mid-level training, performance evaluation, promotion, career managers and auditors are included in this PPS plan with support practices, corporate communication activities, 72 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 etc. support the concept of equal opportunity. In 2012 we Parental Leave will review the results of the Equal Opportunity Model Pregnant employees are allowed sixteen weeks of paid project and take further steps accordingly. leave -eight weeks before and eight weeks after the delivery. Fathers are also given three-day paid leave. Employee Health and Safety AKSandık meets child delivery costs of our employees Since the year it was founded, Akbank offers a variety of and provides a variety of additional support. opportunities to employees in order to offer them a safe working environment and to meet their health needs. Lost Workdays With regards to our area of operations and careful AKSandık practices, occupational diseases or workplace accidents are not experienced in our Bank. Yet, the total Among healthcare services provided by AKSandık are absenteeism (lost days) of 5,966 employees who got the healthcare centers in some cities. Our employees sick leaves with official health reports in 2011 amount to can first of all be treated at these centers. Members 48,282 days (calendar day). Average sick leave per person, in other cities can get services from the physicians calculated by finding the ratio of this figure to average employed by our Bank. If specialized treatment or number of employees, is 3.14 days per year. This ratio operation is needed, they can receive these services was recorded as 2.61 days in 2010 and 2.72 days in 2009. at the public or private health institutions that have an agreement with our Trust. The Bank of Learners and Teachers: Information and Trainings on Health Career Development and Trainings in Information on epidemics or other important diseases Akbank is regularly given at the “Health Column” published on In our Bank, we support the development of all the AKSandık webpage. In cases of emergency, such employees and aim to increase motivation and work information is spread via e-mail. First aid training is satisfaction through our training system, which has a given for the health and safety of Akbank employees in strategic importance in the Akbank Human Resources the form of in-class or e-learning. policy. In full awareness of the fact that information is a Health and Rest at Workplace significant value and well-equipped human resource is Back, waist, neck and wrist pains are among the a real competitive advantage, we organize trainings to most common health risks for people who work with contribute to personal and occupational development computers or telephones most of the day, rarely changing of our employees. We develop trainings in accordance their postures. To avoid such risks, our Treasury and with the targets and strategies of our Bank, needs of the Capital Markets Business Unit initiated the “Office sector, and development areas that we identify based Sports” practice in 2011. Almost every member of the upon employee potentials and preferences. staff joins this twice-a-day physical exercise lasting 7-8 minutes and thus get released from both stress and Akbank’s Training System pains. The goal of the Akbank training system is to enable In our service building in Sabancı Center, our employees Akbank employees to perform their current jobs can use the fitness center belonging to the Sabancı successfully and to prepare them for the responsibilities Holding out of working hours and at lunch breaks. required by more senior positions before they get there. In Akbank Banking Center a library was built in 2011 for Akbank employees participate in career and certification employees to have quality time during the breaks. With approximately 2,400 books collected as a result of the trainings for their current duties and also attend efforts of Operations Business Unit, the library offers specially designed “Candidate Pool” trainings for continuous service to around 3,500 employees. Another the duties for which they are candidate. Additionally, library is also available in our Sabancı Center building. Management Trainees as well as branch and Head Office employees at the “assistant” status who have just started work and will be having their first experience in the banking sector attend the “Management Trainee” and “Basic Banking” programs. 73 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Feedback from employees about the training they A total training of 1,019,816 hours was completed in receive is very important for the efficiency and success 2011 and average training per employee was 9.46 work of our trainings. Such feedback is sent to our Training days. Annual average training time per person in the last Division via online questionnaires. In addition, questions, three years and total number of training days for our requests, suggestions and opinions with regard to employees are given in the tables below. all trainings can be sent to egitim@akbank.com . Our employees can share their opinions on e-learning We use e-learning widely in our Bank. E-learning programs using the “send message” function on our trainings in areas such loan legislation, foreign trade, training portal. Once the training experts evaluate consumer and commercial loans, basic knowledge of questionnaire results, we take necessary actions law, basic knowledge of accounting, debit and credit accordingly. cards, etc. support in-class career trainings. In addition, we organized other e-learning programs to help our employees adapt quickly to newly-launched products Our Training Programs and processes: IFC Loans, Fee and Commission Akbank’s training programs include trainings Revenues, commercial Credit Cards, New Budget organized for newly-recruited people, candidate pool Practices – Target Entry Screens, Legal Liabilities in trainings, career trainings, certificate programs, Insurance Sale, Business Intelligence Reporting Tool. restructuring trainings, project-based trainings and management skills development trainings. We support In addition to banking trainings, we also organize the competence levels of our employees through personal development trainings such as customerremote learning (e-learning and video conferencing) oriented relationship management, communication that supports personal and professional development on phone, presentation techniques, writing and on-the-job training methods as well as in-class reports techniques, project management, meeting lectures. management, time management, stress management, and management capabilities. Total number of training days (1 day = 7 hours) Function 2009 2010 2011 Vice Presidents and Higher Levels 18,974 12,962 14,454 Managers* 11,600 10,052 10,839 Sub-Managers* 102,094 118,844 120,393 Total 132,667 141,858 145,688 (*) VPs and Higher Levels : Head of Branches are also included into this category; “Managers”: Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are evaluated in this category and all other functions (including support staff) are in “Sub-Managers”. Average number of training days per person (1 day = 7 hours) Function 2009 2010 2011 Vice Presidents and Higher Levels 19.0 11.7 12.4 Managers* 8.5 7.2 6.7 Sub-Managers* 8.3 9.5 9.6 Total 9.0 9.5 9.5 (*) VPs and Higher Levels : Head of Branches are also included into this category; “Managers”: Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are evaluated in this category and all other functions (including support staff) are in “Sub-Managers”. 74 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Akbank Development Center Some of the exams we support are listed below: We continuously support the development of our • Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam held by the employees via Akbank Development Center Portal. CFA Institute: Exam on treasury transactions All employees can have access to the e-learning • Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) exam held by the assigned to them or in the form of free activities at CIA Institute and CMA (Certified Management the Center. Our employees also have access to the Accountants) held by ICMA: Exams on internal audit “Training Catalogue” that shows the trainings they will • The Project Management Professional PMP exam receive during the year as well as the contents of those held by the Project Management Institute (PMI), trainings. There are about 100 e-learning documents of which awards the most widely accepted certificate technical trainings on subjects such as Debit and Credit on Project Management Cards, Basic Law, Foreign Trade Legislation on the • The Certified Documentary Credit Specialist (CDCS) Portal. In addition, up-to-date articles and periodicals exam held by the ICC National Committee of on finance, banking, management and personal Turkey, which offers the opportunity of earning the development is also available at the same address. internationally accepted title of Certified Letter of Credit Specialist Certification System (Lifelong Learning) • Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Information technologies security management Some of the trainings provided for Akbank employees exam held by ISACA are subject to certification system. In the Certification • Financial Risk Certificate (FRM) exam held by System, employees attend specified training programs New York-based GARP (Global Association of Risk and take exams before and after the program. In Professionals) addition to these programs and exams, our employees • Software Testing Expertise Certification exam strengthen the knowledge they gained during the coordinated by the Turkish Testing Board trainings by preparing papers for certain certificate representative of International Software Testing programs and attending online simulations after the Qualifications Board (ISTQB) in Turkey training. Participants succeeding in the certification • Various technical trainings and certificates by Oracle programs receive the “Certificate of Success”, an and Microsoft important indicator in their professional and personal development which they can use in any field. As In addition to these, every year a certain number of the certification programs, the papers and online Akbank employees get the opportunity to attend the simulations following the training are directly related to Sabancı University Executive MBA program, the tuition the employees’ jobs, their success in training is literally fee for which is paid by Akbank. Especially candidates reflected upon the quality of the work they do. for the senior management and those with a high-level performance are admitted to the program. In 2010 and This system aims to 2011, 3 and 4 employees benefited from this program • Assure that the success of the employees in the respectively. programs is certified, ensuring that they have a proactive say in their personal career managements, Bank of Trainers • Establish a culture that “creates its own leaders” Internal Trainer and Retired Trainer Practice by empowering employees who are professionally Know-how and experience of retired Akbank employees and managerially well-equipped, competent and are highly valuable for our Bank. Successful Akbank innovative leaders in their work. retirees who possess training skills are hired as “trainers” in return for a trainer’s fee. Especially almost all of the Core Banking trainings for new recruits are Other Training Opportunities given by our retired trainers. Akbank supports employees in obtaining internationally valid certificates in their areas of specialization. Fees Similarly, current employees who are specialists in their for exams and preparatory trainings are covered by fields and who possess the skill to train can be internal Akbank pursuant to certain criteria. While the number of trainers. To become a trainer, one should comply with employees taking such exams in accordance with their certain criteria and successfully complete the trainexpertise in 2010 was 23, in December 2011 this figure the-trainer program. While continuing to perform their increased to 35. present duties, internal trainers are paid a certain fee for each hour of training they give. 75 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Coaching System We established a coaching system in our branches to New Trainings in 2011 closely monitor the professional needs of employees Information Security Standards (e-learning) working in sales and operations and supporting them All employees are obliged to complete the Information in a wide array of issues from their daily job to career Security Standards e-learning program that aims development. In 2008 we built Operation Coaching to provide information and create awareness on teams of Akbank employees in order to support conditions and processes of information security operation personnel in branches in practicing Akbank’s standards (PCI/DSS), protection of card information, processes and values in the best way. Operation and card information security policy. Coaches visited branches 3,000 times in 2011 to build cooperation that enables the operation personnel in Security Awareness (e-learning) branches get the necessary trainings and develop All branch employees are obliged to complete the knowledge of legislation, risk awareness, quality, target Security Awareness e-learning program that aims and customer-oriented approach. to provide information and create awareness on security risks that may be faced in Akbank Branches, For our employees working in sales functions in Akbank ATMs and small businesses that are Akbank branches within Regional Directorates, we created a customers. similar “marketing coaches” system to support their progress and career development. When necessary, Call Center Security Awareness (e-learning) marketing coaches make customer visits together with Call Center Security Awareness e-learning program sales representatives to support their development. is specially designed for customer representatives working at the Call Center. This training aims to create Anti-Corruption Trainings awareness for ensuring that all transactions are made in conformity with security workflows and that flows The banking sector faces some corruption risks due to are implemented completely and correctly while taking its size and intensity of monetary transactions. In line security measures. All customer representatives are with the fact that corruption can be prevented to a great obliged to complete the program. extent by control systems and training, we hold in-class trainings and e-learning through which we train our employees on technical issues, create awareness on things to do and not to do. Our aim is to design these trainings in accordance with the needs of the target audience and make sure that each employee in this audience receives the trainings. Majority of the anti-corruption trainings are for the employees working in branches and especially at counters, but we also hold mandatory trainings such as Ethical Principles and Information Security for all employees. We review and reevaluate subjects and contents of anti-corruption trainings depending on developments and needs. New trainings offered to employees in 2011 are given below. Detailed information on other ongoing trainings can be obtained from our 2010 Sustainability Report. 76 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Anti-Corruption Trainings 2010 Percentage 2011 Percentage Name/Content Target Audience of of of the Training Type of Number of Year-end Type of Number of Year-end Training Participants Coverage % Training Participants Coverage% Management for Cash in Cash Officers and newly In-class 787 100 In-class 1,055 100 Hand – Fraud and Pick employed AssistantsPocketing Training Officers 4 Document Protection Cash Officers and newly In-class 1,015 100 In-class 1,201 100 and Forgery Trainings employed AssistantsOfficers 4 Trainings for All branch employees E-learning 24 83* Elearning 2,957 99 Detecting and Preventing Fraud Ethical Principles All employees Elearning 7,352 100 Elearning 3,405 85 Disciplinary Regulations All employees Elearning 1,090 97* Elearning 3,940 100 Information Security All employees Elearning 2,105 100 Elearning 1,832 100 In-class ** 794 70* In-class 1,113 100 Operational Risk Operation Officers, In-class 810 48* In-class 257 100 Pay Desk Officers All branch employees Elearning 1,695 100 Elearning 4,401 40*** Fighting Proceeds of Newly employed In-class 1.740 100 In-class 1,672 Crime AssistantsOfficers 4, Call 100 Center Officers, Assistant Inspectors, Management Trainees All employees Elearning 11,762 85* Elearning 11,834 85 Information Security All employees Elearning 10,593 76 Standards Security Awareness All branch employees Elearning 4,255 47*** Call Center Security All customer Elearning 650 98 Awareness representatives In-class 5,146 In-class 5,298 Total: Elearning 24,028 Elearning 43,867 * All members of the target group are planned to be covered. ** In-class Information Security trainings are developed in 2010 and the target group is newly employed AssistantsOfficers 4, Call Center Officers, and Management Trainees in Akbank. *** The training was opened to all Branch employees in late 2011 and all members in the target audience are planned to complete this training in 2012. Note: “Percentage of Year-end Coverage” means the ratio of the target audience planned to be trained and the employees who already received the trainings. 77 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Sustainability Trainings which we are a signatory) Dilemma Game, we offer a highly effective hands-on training to participants. In order to support our branch employees in internalizing our “For You” approach and becoming our Aims of the sustainability training are “voluntary brand ambassadors”, we launched a wide• To contribute to first comprehension, then adoption scope training program called “Boomerang” in October of the sustainability strategy of our Bank by all 2011. Covering all branch employees from branch employees managers to security staff, the program is based upon • To create awareness for integrating the concept of six qualities that define the ideal Akbank employee sustainability to business processes profile who can manage himself/herself, business, and • To make sure that the concept of sustainability is customers well to create “customer loyalty”. rooted in corporate culture and create a common language An important section of the Boomerang Training Program is the Sustainability Module. This Module is In 2011, we took important steps in integrating developed to enhance the profile of an Akbank employee sustainability in our corporate culture and held a variety who cares about environmental and social challenges of sustainability trainings. We are planning to continue and who abides by ethical values. This module covers with these trainings in 2012. the concept of sustainability, examples in the Banking sector and our Bank, and ethics. In addition, with a The table below gives information on participation to the desktop “sustainability game” that is adopted specially sustainability trainings given in 2011. for our Bank on the basis of UN Global Compact (of 2011 Name/Content of Target Type of Number of Total Hours Percentage of Yearthe Training Audience Training Participants of Training end Coverage % Sustainability All branch employees In-class 1,598 5,016 100 Sustainability All employees E-learning 11,500 5,750 75 Approach Newly employed In-class 274 307 100 AssistantsOfficers 4, Assistant Inspectors Note: “Percentage of Year-end Coverage” means the ratio of the target audience planned to be trained and the employees who already received the trainings. Internal Communication and Activities in • To launch a digital magazine to reach all employees Akbank directly • To increase the number of projects and social Akbank attaches importance to internal communication activities that allow employees to come together and activities that serve purposes such as facilitating to have a good time, improve their motivation and communication with and between employees, loyalty, and maintain team spirit developing team spirit and employee motivation, increasing loyalty, sharing messages of the Bank • To keep internal synergy dynamic all the time management and common targets. and ensure continuity of the communication of employees both among themselves and with the Our 2012 targets for Internal Communication and management team at a certain level Activities are • To increase the number of internal communication Internal Communications channels that strengthen and improve Internal communication activities help our employees communication gain accurate and consistent information about our 78 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Bank, understand the corporate culture, and follow up• Social activities that our employees attend to-date information on the developments in our Bank. • “Our Source of Pride” that introduces our successful employees The most frequently used internal communication • Special advantages offered to Akbank employees by activities are the corporate portal, corporate TV, various companies e-mailing, and periodical directors meetings. With the corporate TV that we reach our customers, we can also • Press news about our Bank reach employees outside the working hours. Besides, special offers for Akbank employees are announced via Mechanisms for Employee Opinions and Suggestions e-mails and can be available at the Corporate Portal. We use a variety of mechanisms for giving opinions and suggestions to improve internal communications in our In addition, mechanisms such as the Ethics Line Bank. While our employees reveal their expectations, that our employees can submit their opinions and opinions and suggestions to the senior management suggestions and employee satisfaction surveys through our Employee Satisfaction Survey, they can strengthen the internal communication. also share their suggestions about business processes through the Suggestion System on the Corporate Portal. Corporate Portal In addition, “Ethics Line” is a service that we created to We use the Corporate Portal to facilitate access to enable employees to express issues which they believe information and increase internal communication for should be resolved within their divisions but they cannot all employees, including those in approximately 1,000 share with their direct managers; to support employees branches. With this portal, all announcements and in such cases; and to provide consultancy when information are brought from printed media to the intranet necessary. system and our employees can have immediate access from different locations to the information they seek. Internal Activities We organize activities and sports events to establish At the Corporate Portal, information on contact details of effective and productive relations among our employees. our employees, organization chart and amendments in Such activities reinforce team spirit and increase loyalty it are available. In addition, job definitions and business to the corporation. In addition, we ensure discount or processes are also given in the Portal. Our employees free participation of our employees to activities that our can easily reach documents, announcements and Bank sponsors. e-learning modules that support business processes and inform employees; our Ethical Principles; related Some of the sport activities that our employees legislation; forms and templates used inside the Bank; participated in 2011 are listed below. and the Suggestion System via the Corporate Portal. • July 2011: Akbank tennis team made up of eight In the “Executive Message” and “Guest of the Month” employees came in second at the 1st Tennis sections we share messages of the senior management Tournament of The Banks Association of Turkey. every month. We will renew the technological infrastructure and scope of our Corporate Portal in 2012. • September 2011: Akbank employees attended the 3x3 Intercompanies Basketball Tournament with “For Us” three men and one women’s team. Our women’s We believe that applying the “For You” approach, team came in third. which aims to bring a new dimension to our relations with customers, to our employees could be beneficial. Employee Satisfaction Therefore we changed the name of our internal As a corporation that considers treasuring its employees communication platform called “Being a Part of the a basic principle, Akbank accepts permanent employee Akbank Family” into “For Us”. This platform is one of the satisfaction as a prerequisite for success. In order important channels that strengthen relations among our to closely monitor satisfaction and loyalty of Akbank employees. employees, receive healthy feedback from them, and draw roadmaps for areas that are open to development, Examples of things shared at “For Us” Portal: we hold an “Employee Satisfaction Survey” every year. • Important awards given to our Bank • Positive feedback from customers about our Just as the previous years, in 2011 an online Employee employees Satisfaction Survey was performed again, by an 79 07 OUR EMPLOYEES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 independent company on a confidential basis. As a result of the survey that received a high level of participation, we identified our strengths and aspects that need to be developed. To evaluate the survey results, we held “focus and suggestion group works” with mixed groups of employees selected from all units of our Bank (branches, regions, and Head Office). Our aim is to focus more on areas that are open to improvement and development, to put forward suggestions for solutions from the perspective of employees, and to create awareness. Thus we offer employees a platform to openly express their opinions without being limited to the survey. In our 2011 survey, two main areas to be developed seemed to be career management and rewarding the success. As a result of such feedback, we plan to concentrate on “Talent Management” and “Mentorship” practices to achieve effective career management and identification of personal talents. To reward success, we continue to work on the infrastructure to reshape our bonus system. We will share the system with our employees in early 2012 and implement performance evaluation and bonus payments in accordance with this system. 80 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE Energy Consumption and Saving ENVIRONMENT The “Carbon Disclosure Project”, launched by the Sabancı University Corporate Management Forum with Our Environmental Policy and support from Akbank in 2009, is the best indicator of Commitments the importance Akbank attaches to energy consumption and related greenhouse gas emissions. Our Bank is one We, as Akbank, strive to minimize the of the first companies in Turkey to make commitment environmental impacts resulting from our to reporting climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emissions in line with international standards. operations and to use natural resources more efficiently. Energy Consumption Akbank considers energy consumption and the related Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption carbon emissions as the material environmental issues. The energy data that we collect and report in Paper use and discharge of technological wastes are accordance with various international standards are also among the environmental indicators we care about divided into two groups. The first one is the energy we and monitor. derive from a variety of energy sources in our Bank namely, the natural gas we use for heating purposes. We implement various practices to measure There are also fuels such as diesel fuel, butane (LPG), environmental issues by using internationally coking coal, and fuel oil, used in our branches. Such recognized quantitative indicator criteria and to make energy sources are named “direct energy”. The second improvements. As mentioned in “Our Employees” group is the purchased electric energy, which is called section of this report, we give sustainability trainings “indirect energy”. to employees at all levels -from branch managers to security staffthrough e-learning and in-class A wide-scope study was conducted in 2010 with the aim education. of calculating the amount of electricity and natural gas consumed for heating purposes and of establishing We adopt the following commitments in carrying out our an energy management system. In this study, we environmental policy: collected consumption data from all buildings, including • We will continue to take necessary steps and branches, to create a basis. Consumption data in this measures for full compliance with environmental year’s report are based upon these data and were laws and regulations. calculated using heating, electricity, and water costs. • We will contribute to protection of limited natural In 2010, Akbank Banking Center (ABC) in Gebze was resources by making savings in energy, water and put into effect and thus, some of our employees at the paper use. buildings in İstanbul moved to Gebze in 2010 and 2011. During the moving period, we included consumption • We will work to minimize the wastes resulting from data in the buildings that moved to ABC in calculations our operations. If it is impossible to reduce wastes, as long as these building were used. After moving the we will ensure rational reuse and recycling of buildings, Maslak Operations Center, Gümüşsuyu and wastes. Ümraniye Service buildings were closed in 2011. • We will continue to include environmental sustainability issues in the training we offer to our employees to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations. • We will support training and awareness projects aiming to increase awareness of environmental issues especially among the youth. • Through international cooperation, we will support transparency policies that will contribute to reductions in the emission of greenhouse gases of our corporate stakeholders, including our Bank. 82 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our direct and indirect energy consumption data are presented in the tables below. Fuel consumption 2009 2010 2011 (Gigajoule/year) Akbank Sabancı Center 9,359 7,137 9,464 ABC and Other Centers* 13,217 16,936 16,536 Branches 47,274 48,652 63,734 Total Consumption of Natural Gas 69,850 72,725 89,734 Total Consumption of Other Fuels ** 32,926 43,133 TOTAL 105,651 132,867 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. ** Other fuels: diesel, butane (LPG), coking coal, and fuel oil. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. As seen in the table above, fuel consumption of our Bank increased in 2011. Among the factors causing this are the increase in the number of branches compared to the previous year and harsher winter conditions in 2011. Electricity Consumption 2009 2010 2011 (Gigajoule /year) Akbank Sabancı Center 47,214 49,327 56,864 ABC and Other Centers* 47,236 75,855 69,245 Branches and ATM/BTMs** 221,156 224,362 216,755 TOTAL 315,606 349,544 342,864 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. ** In 2010 report, electricity consumed at ATM/BTMs is also included whereas such consumption was not included under the Branches item in the 2009 report. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. Although the need for electric energy increased with required for proper operations of servers increase the growth of our Bank, thanks to a variety of energy electricity consumption. Although the number of servers efficiency and savings practices we used throughout increased about 40%, energy consumption of these our Bank, we achieved a reduction in our electricity servers rose only around 10%. consumption. In 2011 our Bank grew with 14 new branches and 568 additional ATM/BTMs. Energy Saving Practices Energy Savings in Buildings On the other hand, while improving our IT infrastructure, One of the measures we took for energy savings in we pay attention to choosing more energy-efficient buildings in 2011 was to open the environmentally devices in order to reduce our electricity consumption. friendly Akbank Banking Center (ABC) that was built by With the aim of maintaining and improving the services paying attention to energy efficiency. We believe that offered to customers at our Head Office in the Sabancı with the ABC, which has a capacity of approximately Center, we added new servers to the existing main 5,000 people, we achieved savings in electricity servers. Both these servers and the cooling systems consumption. 83 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 As a bank with over 900 branches, we are aware that Energy Savings in Information Technologies (IT) measuring and monitoring are important in managing Keeping pace with developing technologies, each our energy use. Therefore, we created the necessary and every year we attach more importance to use of infrastructure for remote measuring and monitoring information technologies (IT) in banking transactions. of electricity used in our branches. This infrastructure IT use is one of the most important energy-consuming includes a remote monitoring system and an emergency activities in banking. Therefore, we seriously care about measures system to minimize systemic losses of making savings in the energy we use especially in our electricity. Being put into use in approximately 300 Data Centers. One of the most significant steps we took branches in the first phase, the system will start in this direction was the use of virtualization technology working with full capacity by the end of 2012. We expect that we started in 2007. Thanks to this technology, the system to contribute to reductions in both carbon although the amount of energy needed to operate the emissions and operational expenses by ensuring more servers in the Data Center and to cool the system rooms efficient use of electricity. of these servers increased, we achieved a notable reduction in energy need. In addition, we continued our efforts to revise mechanical automation of the Heating, Ventilating With the virtualization technology, we saved 12,550 and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system in branches in GJ of energy in 2011. Comparison of the energy a way to operate based on internal air quality (first consumption in virtual environments and the expected operations had started in the last quarter of 2010). This consumption without virtualization (physical machines) system was installed in 26 new branches in 2010 and is demonstrated in the table below. 36 new branches in 2011 to reach a total of 62. We also renewed mechanical automation systems of 150 existing Another measure we take in our Data Centers is making branches in 2011. We plan to renew these systems in sure that all of the new systems we purchase consume 150 more branches and, if possible, build the same less energy so that energy consumption rate will not systems in 70 new branches in 2012. With this system, increase in parallel to the increase in need for new approximately 30% and 14% savings will be achieved in devices. In line with this principle, energy consumption electricity and natural gas respectively. of the new mainframe device we purchased in 2011 consumes 20% less energy than the previous device and similarly, energy consumption of our UNIX machines are 4 times less than their predecessors. Use of physical servers Total annual Virtual servers used corresponding to virtual Amount saved electricity servers savings (Gigajoules/year) December December December December December December December December December 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 TOTAL 2,152 3,042 3,478 6,793 10,297 16,037 4,641 7,255 12,550 (Cooling+Electricity) 84 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Fuel Savings in Cash Operations In our Cash Operations unit that offers cash and cash value transfer to more than 2,500 customers via five Banks all over Turkey, we started to benefit from the latest advances in geographical positioning technologies. Thanks to an efficient route planning, our teams covered 8.6 km per transaction in 2011 while the figure was 10 km per transaction in 2008. This created 18% increase in efficiency and 0.2 liters less fuel consumption per transaction. With this efficiency increase in our Cash Operations transactions, which is a major source of our carbon emissions, we saved 130 thousand liters of fuel in a year. Definition 2008 2009 2010 2011 Kilometers Covered Per Transaction 10.00 9.8 10.2 8.6 Fuel Used Per Transaction 1.09 1.0 1.0 0.9 Fuel Savings via Video Conference and Telepresence Carbon Emissions and Reductions Use of the Virtual Meeting Table Telepresence System and videoconference devices for national Carbon Emissions and international calls are becoming a widespread Fuels that our Bank uses during its operations and the practice in our Bank. Meetings held via these systems electricity purchased from third parties cause carbon allow not only videoconference, but also mutual emissions that are believed to cause global climate document and presentation sharing. With these change. In addition, fuels used in personnel service systems, we achieved reductions in fuel consumption buses and company cars allocated to senior managers and resulting greenhouse gas emissions due to also cause greenhouse gas emissions. business travels; we also saved work time that otherwise would be lost in commuting. In 2011 we We take a variety of measures to minimize the established eight videoconference systems and greenhouse gas emissions created during our increased the number of devices used in our Regional operations. Every year we calculate our carbon footprint Directorates, some Private Banking branches and to monitor the results of these measures. Our aim is Head Office. Overall, the amount of time spent at to reduce our carbon footprint (calculated based upon Virtual Meeting Table reached approximately 110 international standards and on the basis of energy hours/month. We plan to establish the second resources consumed) every year. Virtual Meeting Table and increase the number of videoconference devices in 2012. Carbon Emissions by Primary Energy Source CO2-equivalent carbon emissions resulting from fuels used for heating in our Bank are presented in the table below. Carbon Emissions by Primary Energy Source 2009 2010 2011 (tonCO2-e) Akbank Sabancı Center 608 464 612 ABC and Other Centers* 859 1,101 1,075 Branches 3,073 3,162 4,142 TOTAL Carbon Emissions Generated by Natural Gas Consumption 4,540 4,727 5,829 TOTAL Carbon Emissions Generated by Other Fuels ** 2,966 3,885 TOTAL 7,693 9,714 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. 85 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 We continue to work for emission reductions, energy efficiency and savings as well as creating awareness among our employees. Yet carbon emissions generated by primary energy sources seem to have increased compared to the previous year. We believe that the increase in the number of our branches and harsher winter conditions in 2011 boosted the need for primary energy sources and thus carbon emissions. Carbon Emissions Generated by Electricity Consumption CO2-equivalent carbon emissions generated by electricity consumption in our Bank are presented in the table below. Carbon Emissions Generated by Electricity 2009 2010 2011 Consumption (ton CO2-e /year) Akbank Sabancı Center 5,743 6,000 6,916 ABC and Other Centers* 6,563 9,227 8,423 Branches and ATM/BTMs** 37,796 37,880 27,540 TOTAL 50,102 53,107 42,879 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. ** In 2010 report, electricity consumed at ATM/BTMs is also included whereas such consumption was not included under the Branches item in the 2009 report. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. Compared to 2011, there is a 19% decrease in the total carbon emissions generated by electricity consumption in our Bank. It is a noteworthy improvement that despite the increase in the number of branches, carbon emissions resulting from our branches fell 28%. The main reasons behind the decrease in total carbon emissions are our energy efficiency and savings practices, efforts to create awareness as well as our decision to receive energy from a private autoproductor that generates energy with lower emissions with the aim of reducing carbon footprint in 2011. Carbon Emissions Generated by Personnel Transportation Personnel service buses are used for mass transportation of employees working at the Sabancı Center and Gebze ABC, where our Head Office units operate. In addition there are vehicles appointed to senior management. These vehicles generate carbon emission due to burning fuel. CO2-equivalent carbon emissions generated by fuels used in transportation are given in the table below. Carbon Emissions Generated by Personnel Transportation 2010 2011 (ton CO2-e /year) Personnel using service buses 4,650 4,634 Covered distance (km) 8,269,344 9,100,410 Total ton CO2-e 3,308 3,640 86 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Paper Use and Savings customer faxes to travel electronically between our Branches and Operation Center without any need to Paper Use take print-outs was launched in 2004. Post@, which We use a high volume of paper in our operations provides the opportunity to make correspondences that from contracts of products and services we offer to require original signature between units of our Bank in our customers to correspondences and promotion the electronic environment, was initiated in 2008. 60,000 materials. announcements and internal correspondences are made via these systems every year. Amount of paper used by our Bank has been falling since 2009. As a result of various saving measures, Another example comes from our Private Banking our paper use in 2011 was 2% less than that in 2010. Business Unit: Instead of printing bank statements of The amount of paper consumed per person in 2011 fell our customers, we spread the use of technologies such to 73 kg from 90 kg in 2009, which indicates a major as iPads. We also transferred our print material entitled reduction. “Private Letter” to electronic environment and saved approximately 22 thousand A4 paper sheets in 2011. In 2011, amount of materials purchased by the Corporate Communications Division, such as invitations, Total Paper Savings brochures, banners, flyers, envelopes, and posters With the paper saving measures we have been fell significantly compared to 2010. This fall can be implementing in recent years, we prevented use of interpreted as an indicator of our sensitive approach to approximately 267 tons of paper in 2011. the issue. In order to enhance our paper savings through projects Paper Savings and increase amount of paper saved we need to increase knowledge and awareness of our employees. We have been taking a lot of measures in order to In line with this commitment, we encourage employees reduce the paper use in our Bank and we add new to save paper via various briefings and announcements ones every year. The “Operactive System” that allows within the Bank. Paper use (ton) * 2009 2010 2011 Purchasing Division ** 1,321 1,144 1,118 Corporate Communications Division (0)*** 6.5 3.5 TOTAL 1,321 1,150.5 1,121.5 Paper use per employee (kg) 90 75 73 * Total amount of paper does not include A4 photocopy papers and print materials of suppliers (such as reports, etc.). ** The amount of paper sent from our warehouse to the Head Office, Regional Directorates and Akbank Banking Center. *** 2009 data cannot be collected retrospectively. 87 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Amount of saved paper Starting Date Area of 2010 2011 (ton) Practice Branch without Paper 2009 Branches 21 26 End of Day Reports 2009 Branches 27 33 ATM Reports 2011 ATM machines 66 E-Inquiries 2009 Head Office 0.6 0.7 E-Statements* 2008 Head Office 114.9 141.2 Yearly total paper savings thanks to model 163.5 266.9 practices (ton) *Note: 1 extract is approximately 1.1 A4 pages and 1 envelope; 1 A4 paper is calculated as 5 g and 1 envelope is 6 g. Total savings are calculated by considering that some of the customers who order e-statements are not active card users. Examples to Paper Saving Practices E-Inquiry In March 2009, the Revenue Administration Directorate The significant projects for paper saving that we put launched the E-sequester (E-inquiry) project carried into practice in the last three years in our branches, out within The Banks Association of Turkey. With this ATMs, and Head Office are given below. project, inquiries for the collection of debts of taxBranch without Paper payers started to be made in digital environment. As a result of transferring customer documents to the This enabled us to both use human resources more system and making control and approval transactions efficiently and reduce the number of print documents on screen, we significantly reduced the amount of sent to the related institution by our Bank, thus save paper used for photocopying customer transactions. paper. While 4,350,000 transactions were made in the E-Statement electronic environment in 2010, this figure increased to Since August 2008, account statements indicating 5,275,000 in 2011. credit card bills have been produced in the electronic environment, via e-mails or SMSs. To encourage our “End of Day Reports” without Paper customers to accept and use these “e-statement”, we The first phase of the project to transfer End of Day continue to perform communication activities with the Reports, which had to be printed to perform end of day motto “Give Life to Trees” and a chip-money reward transactions, to electronic environment was realized campaign. Number of cards with statements sent in October 2008 and the second phase was completed electronically (e-statements) exceeded 1.62 million at in February 2009. The implementation of this project the end of 2011, while it was approximately 1.18 million enabled us to electronically control and archive end in December 2009. By sending credit card statements of day control reports that used to be printed out and in the electronic environment to customers who archived daily at branches. Thus, paper consumption ordered them, we saved an average of 1.1 A4 pages and resulting from printing 2.25 million multi-paged reports 1 envelope per card monthly. reduced notably. ATM Reports Until March 2011, all transactions made by ATM users were recorded on paper rolls placed inside ATMs. Since then such information is kept in electronic environment resulting in paper savings. 88 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Paper Recycling In addition to saving paper, another method for us to Paper Savings reduce our environmental footprint is to recycle paper Given that 1 ton of saved paper and 1 ton of recycled that is investable to use. At Kınalı Archives Center in paper save 17 and 8 trees respectively, with our savings which all Branch and Head Office archives are kept, 300 and measured recycled papers in 2011, we saved 6,939 tons of paper are disposed every year and recycled when trees from being cut. the legal preservation period ends. All branch and Head Office documents are archived Water Use and Savings at the Kınalı Archives Center. Documents that have Water Use completed their legal preservation periods are sent In our Bank water is used by the employees, for cleaning to a contracted paper company for secure disposal. purposes, and for irrigating green areas. Compared to The company applies chemical processes on the slit a production facility, Akbank’s total water withdrawal is and baled paper to make pulp and this pulp is used to limited and municipal water is used. Our water use does reproduce paper. Our branches dispose of their own not have significant negative impact on a specific water archived documents but when they are unable to do source. so, they send the documents to the Archives Center for disposal. Total water consumption of our Bank increased 4% compared to the previous year. Meanwhile the number In our branches some precious papers are slit and of our branches increased 2%. regular paper is used in both sides when possible. Then, these are collected in recycling boxes provided Water Savings Practices by municipalities and non-governmental organizations such as TEMA (The Turkish Foundation for Combating With the aim of achieving water savings, depressurizing Erosion Reforestation and the Protection of Natural systems and aerators that mix water with air are used in Habitats) to be recycled later on. the taps in the Akbank Head Office (HO) and the Akbank Banking Center (ABC). In addition, in the HO and ABC, photocell taps are used in WCs where water is used in great amounts, in order to achieve water savings. Water Consumption 2009 2010 2011 (m3/year) Akbank Sabancı Center 40,374 34,591 30,664 ABC and Other Centers* 39,654 54,176 69,370 Branches 290,196 284,012 289,181 TOTAL 370,224 372,779 389,215 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri Service Buildings. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. 89 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Waste Management Head Office buildings and all branches have been sent to an electronic waste recovery company for Akbank uses a great number and variety of electric recycling. Employees who order new cartridges see a and electronic devices due to the nature of banking warning on their computer screens and then send the operations. These devices contain not only valuable empty cartridges to the given address. The recovery metals that should be brought back to the economy, but company uses the recycled cartridges as fuel for energy also environmentally harmful materials. Therefore, we generation. perform several activities to ensure recovery of devices that have gone out of use within the economy or to Within the 5 months between August and December reduce potential negative impacts on the environment. 2010 (the first year of the project) a total of 783 cartridges were sent to the recovery company. In 2011 In our main buildings, we sort and collect wastes to we sent a total of 3,072 cartridges (1,102 from the Head deliver them to intermediary companies that perform Office and 1,970 from Branches) to recovery. recycling works. For instance, used paper, plastics, glass and metals are collected in separate boxes Recovery of Technological Wastes and sent to recycling. In addition, oil retainers placed Electronic devices that are no longer appropriate for between the wastewater line of the kitchens and the city use according to our Bank’s standards are sold as scrap sewer lines collect waste oils and these are sent to oil or second-hand products to Turkish companies for recovery stations to be recycled. recovery of their metals and electronic parts. In addition, some of these devices are donated upon requests made Recycling Toner Cartridges to our Bank. In the last three years, the total number of Empty toner cartridges of printers have negative donated equipment (including those donated to schools) impacts on the environment if they are not disposed amount to 401, 893, and 1,296 respectively. For instance, of accurately. To minimize this impact, we initiated a in 2011 we donated 980 used but working computers project to recycle the toner cartridges used in printers and equipment to 56 schools. in August 2010. Since then, empty cartridges in the Type of Technological 2009 2010 2011 Wastes Sold as Scrap Donation Sold as Scrap Donation Sold as Scrap Donation Computer 5,962 197 964 433 31 636 Monitor 3.471 188 2.195 436 1.215 638 Passbook Printer 445 676 736 Dot Matrix Printer 23 1 130 42 Laser Printer 342 13 404 24 707 22 POS Machine 50.490 2 6.592 59.626 ATM Machine 164 273 414 90 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 international qualities of a globalizing art concept. With OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT this breakthrough towards transferring the progress in Akbank stands by you for a modern art to all other areas, Akbank Art Center has become society... one of the most respected art venues of not only in Turkey but also in the Middle East and Europe, starting from the Balkans. Creating permanent values that seek the well-being of both our current stakeholders Continuously performing in Beyoğlu, a location with and the future generations is an integral special importance in the culture and art life of İstanbul, part of our corporate culture. Akbank Art Center organizes concerts and over 700 exhibitions, interviews, conferences, movie screenings Our contribution to the community we live in is a throughout the year. priority for us. While working to manage the economic, http://www.akbanksanat.com/en social, and environmental impacts of our operations responsibly, we also show maximum effort to contribute As one of the veteran activities of Akbank Art Center, to the development of our society. Akbank Children's Theatre has been travelling all around Turkey -starting with İstanbulto bring the Akbank and Arts excitement and joy of theatre to hundred thousands of children with tours in Anatolia since the day it was Since its establishment, in addition to its banking established in 1972. Repeating its tour in Anatolia on the operations, our Bank has been supporting the efforts “Human Rights Train” of Hürriyet newspaper in 2011, to help the social life prosper by means of culture and the group reached ten thousands of children, covered arts. Our approach to culture and arts is to support a distance of 11,000 kilometers in 51 days and stopped innovative and contemporary works of art as well as at 42 train stations to perform a play named “Who’s the permanent activities and to contribute to the spread Happiest?” of arts to masses all over the country and provision of opportunities for young talents. Hosting the world's most renowned jazz performers as well as promising young jazz talents since 1991, This year we continued to support very special cultural Akbank Jazz Festival takes firm steps forward as a activities including the International İstanbul Film versatile organization that hold panels, workshops, film Festival and Contemporary İstanbul. Organized by screenings, concerts, and social responsibility projects. İstanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV), the Since 2006 the Festival has been offering innovations to International İstanbul Film Festival, which brings the its followers every year and reaching a number of cities most exclusive and original films to cinemagoers since in Turkey with its “Jazz on Campus” series. In 2011 2004, contributes to the growth of a cinema culture in “Jazz on Campus” concerts were organized in 10 cities. our country. On the other hand, Contemporary Istanbul -the international modern art fair with the widest scope Akbank Short Film Festival, established within Akbank in Turkeywas visited by 62,000 art-lovers and 2,100 Art Center, reached its audience for the 7th time in collectors for 5 days in November 2011. 2011. Approximately 6,000 people attended the festival. A total of 430 films applied, with 286 of them applying Akbank Art Center for the contest, and upon evaluation of these, 92 films The mission of Akbank Art Center is to be “the place from 21 countries were screened. On the other hand, as where change never ceases”, hosting events from another activity of Akbank Art Center, the Akbank Map exhibitions to modern dance, from films to theater of Contemporary Art continues to reach Turkish and shows, classical music recitals, jazz concerts, panels, foreign art-lovers in print form and on the Internet with and mastership classes. the aim of reflecting the artistic life in İstanbul in the best way possible. With the Map, which was printed 5 Hosting culture and art since 1993, Akbank Art Center times in 2011 with a total volume of 180,000, we reached went through a restructuring in 2003, focusing on more people especially during exhibition and biennial modern art and its exhibitions have been stimulating periods. the dynamics of arts by concentrating on local and http://www.akbanksanatharitasi.com 92 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Turkish Youth Philharmonic Orchestra The Akbank Thinking Club We can summarize the new approach that we adopt in Akbank founded the “Akbank Thinking Club” in 2008 in supporting culture and arts in line with contemporary order to offer the youth, who will create the innovative needs as “bringing arts to the youth and university force of tomorrow and have a word in Turkey’s future students and providing better opportunities for young with today’s experience, a new platform for selfartists”. development and to grow with them. With this approach in mind, we became the main The purpose of the Akbank Thinking Club is sponsor of 2011 activities of the “Turkish National • To unite academically and socially successful young Youth Philharmonic Orchestra” in order to contribute people under the Akbank brand to the development of young talents. The orchestra • To create a platform for the exchange of opinions aims to contribute to the development of talented and between Akbank Senior Management and youth successful young people screened from conservatories • To create a source of value and prestige for Turkey’s all around the country and to raising future artists. future by ensuring the continuity of this platform The Turkish National Youth Philharmonic Orchestra • To ensure that Club members deeply interested in performs its summer activities in İstanbul under the their country and their environment walk side by side leadership of Cem Mansur and gives concerts in Turkey with the Akbank brand throughout their lives and abroad. • To support the development of youth, creating a Cirque Du Soleil “Saltimbanco” Sponsorship sense of loyalty and belonging • To contribute to the development of Turkey’s Established in early 1980s as a street theatre group, innovative and creative potential Cirque Du Soleil has so far reached approximately 115 million people in more than 300 cities of the world. Having started its 4th year activities in September 2011, The group’s Saltimbanco show that was watched by the Club works with 12 universities: Sabancı University, around 9.5 million people in 75 different cities of the Middle East Technical University, Bilkent University, world visited Turkey in February-March 2011 with the Boğaziçi University, Istanbul Technical University, Koç sponsorship of Akbank and met with 85 thousand people University, Bilgi University, Çukurova University, 9 Eylül in 17 performances. University, Galatasaray University, Eskişehir Anadolu University, and Marmara University. Education and Youth For our Bank, helping the young people receive a better Every year, Akbank Thinking Club selects maximum 30 education and face the future in a better-equipped way students with academic Grade Point Averages of 3 and is important. above (out of 4) who are innovative, analytical-minded, extrovert, communicative, and inclined to teamwork. As Sakıp Sabancı Museum – Education of the 4th period, total number of members reached 90 Sponsorship people. The Club organizes regular events and social activities for the development of members, including We added one more item to our list of educational trainings, seminars, brainstorming with Akbank initiatives and assumed the education sponsorship of executives, and workshops with academicians. Sakıp Sabancı Museum (SSM). Aiming to ensure that children and young people have a strong awareness The Club also has a yearly competition involving of culture and arts and that they become acquainted intellectual study on a theme set by Akbank with works of art from both the SSM collection and Management. Club members work on the theme of temporary exhibitions, the SSM organized a variety the year in groups and their work is evaluated every of education programs and activities throughout spring after a workshop by a special jury consisting of the year. In these activities held with support from academicians and press members. The theme of the Akbank, the purpose is to help young visitors become new activity year was “winning the customers”. The acquainted with works of art, learn to interpret them, student group to prepare the work earning the highest visit museums, learn about the artists, and reinforce acclaim at the evaluation is rewarded with a Summer this knowledge with workshops. Approximately 9,500 School Scholarship at Harvard University. students participated in free education workshops for the children and young people. Our objective is to reach http://www.akbankdusuncekulubu.com 13,000 students by May 2012. (available only in Turkish) 93 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Entrepreneurship are “sensitive to men-women equality” for creating awareness in the society. Akbank is one of the 11 Supporting SMEs, which are recognized as dynamos of corporations that agreed to take part in the first phase the economy, is one of our basic business areas. Our of this project. aim is to spread the spirit of entrepreneurship, support SMEs, and contribute to the increase in employment in Environment developing and growing businesses. As Akbank, we are aware of our environmental Global University Student Entrepreneur responsibility and therefore we support projects that Challenge create environmental awareness in the public. “Global University Student Entrepreneur Challenge” REC’s “No Time to Waste” Project created by the Global Students Entrepreneur Awards (GSEA) in order to promote entrepreneurship among In 2010, we initiated the “No Time to Waste” project universities all around the world was held in Turkey in coordination with the Regional Environment Center for the first time in 2011. Putting the innovative ideas (REC) with the aim of drawing attention to environment of young entrepreneurs into practice contributed and climate change problems. With this initiative we first of all aim to offer our society direct and practical to sustainable development. We co-sponsored the information, then to create awareness on climate challenge to which 126 young entrepreneurs applied change with support from our employees. with this point of view. In the global finals in which young entrepreneurs from 44 countries competed, the In the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change entrepreneur representing Turkey with an Internet (IPCC ) report dated 2001, international authorities company had the opportunity to exchange experiences consider the region including Turkey among places to with other contestants. As Akbank, we rewarded be immediately affected by global climate change. The successful participants with an advantage package that great number of susceptible areas and insufficiency of facilitates banking transactions. measures speed this process up. “No Time to Waste” project is one of the first steps to be taken for protecting KAGİDER our natural habitats and offering a safer future to those The Development Centre for Women “BIZ”, founded living in these areas. by the Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGİDER) and aiming at bringing women together In the first phase of the project, scientists took in order to increase their individual productivity, was photographs and made interviews in 15 regions of opened under Akbank’s main sponsorship in 2009. Turkey that were found to be in danger due to Climate Through the BIZ project, which was formed in order to Change. Within the scope of the project, Akbank increase the participation of women in economic life, volunteers visited 93 elementary schools in 11 cities and important opportunities are offered for professional made one-hour presentations about the environment women who think and produce, academicians, nonand climate change to approximately 7,500 students. governmental organizations for women and all Our employees spent a total of 1,369 hours on this individuals and corporations wishing to take advantage project 540 hours on Trainer’s Training and 829 hours of the BIZ infrastructure. on presentations made at schools. In addition to sponsorship to KAGİDER, we completed Nicholas Stern’s “A Blueprint for a Safer the preparations for a project that focuses on “equality Planet” of men and women” – an important issue for the British bureaucrat and economist Lord Nicholas Stern Association. The name of the project implemented is an important opinion leader with his recent works on with technical support from the World Bank is Equal climate change economy. Also an esteemed member Opportunity Model (EOM). Within the scope of the of Akbank’s International Advisory Board, Lord Stern project, corporations will be audited in terms of invites the whole world to cooperate against negative procedural suitability in 2012 and those that have impacts of global climate change with his new book, “A completed the required process will earn the “Equal Blueprint for a Safer Planet”. This year we shared Lord Opportunity” certificate. The model aims to spread Nicholas Stern’s book with approximately 1,200 opinion equal opportunity concept and implementations in leaders and press members in Turkey. We are glad to corporations all around Turkey, to increase employment have contributed to introducing this valuable book by of women, to give certificates to corporations that Lord Stern to the Turkish readers. 94 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Akbank Volunteers The mission of the Akbank Volunteers system is to be a One of the efforts that brought the greatest excitement part of the solutions to social problems. to our Bank was the implementation of Akbank Volunteers system. Stakeholder Participation: We planned the Akbank Volunteers system completely in line with the expectations and general trends of our employees, We believe that we can have a wide area of influence non-governmental organizations, and the society. We with our over 15 thousand employees, their families, pay attention that our projects are designed to allow our suppliers and business partners. Managing this participation from all employees and we encourage potential in an appropriate and efficient manner within them to take part in these projects. For instance, our the framework of a well-structured volunteering system employees can take aid packages to animal shelters will create great positive changes with small steps. together with their children. As in our book collection Therefore, following the preparation period we had with campaign, by placing boxes and posters in places that support from the Private Sector Volunteers Association our customers can also see in our branches, we inform in 2010, we established the Akbank Volunteers system them on book donations to meet library demands in in 2011. With a sense of social responsibility, Akbank Anatolia. Our suppliers and business partners support Volunteers share their talents, time, and experiences us in meeting the logistics and transport needs of such with people and institutions that are in need. projects. Cooperated 2011 Volunteering Number of Number of Children/ Institution Projects Volunteers Young People Reached Regional Environment Center (REC) No Time to Waste Environment 60 7,500 Turkey Project Municipality of Fatih, Yedikule Animal Visit to Yedikule Animal Shelter 57 Shelter Private Sector Volunteers Association Campaign for Collecting Books 550 3,000 Technology and Education Laboratory GETEM Audio Book Project 425 for the Visually Impaired (GETEM) The Red Crescent Blood Donation Campaign for 170 the Red Crescent Adım Adım Initiative Eurasia Marathon 17 Foundation for Children with Visit to LÖSEV children 20 125 Leukemia (LÖSEV) Private Sector Volunteers Association English Speaking Club 25 625 – Elementary Schools UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Shopping at UNICEF and LÖSEV 165 Fund) and Foundation for Children Booth with Leukemia (LÖSEV) TOTAL 1,489 11,025 The first year evaluation of Akbank Volunteers System: 1,489 employees volunteered in 9 projects and reached around 11,250 children and young people in 2011. We tried to be a part of the solutions to social problems by sparing 1,504 hours of our working time. 95 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 Our Bank’s CEO and Executive Vice Presidents are also among Akbank Volunteers. Heads of some Divisions Associations and Foundations That Received participate in projects with their teams. Participation Donations from Akbank Customers in 2011 of the senior management in these projects increases corporate awareness and motivation of our employees. Make a Wish Kidney Foundation for Children Our Targets: We aim to spread our volunteering system. With this aim in mind, we will continue to increase the Directorate of Darülaceze Institution number of projects to be realized with all employees The Darüşşafaka Association all over the country, to encourage stakeholder Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey participation, and to include our employees in the decision-making processes more. Our target for 2012 is (KAGİDER) to have at least 2,000 employees actively taking part in Kimse Yok Mu Association Akbank Volunteers System. LÖSEV Donations The Foundation for the Disabled Platform for Donations with Credit Cards and Deposit The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, Accounts for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Seeking to facilitate philanthropic aids via our banking Habitats (TEMA) services, we created various donation channels in our The Tohum Autism Foundation Bank. Our customers use their credit cards or deposit accounts to make donations to some associations The Foundation to Support the Turkish Armed Forces and foundations that operate in Turkey and pursue The Mehmetçik Foundation of the Turkish Armed public interest. Akbank Credit Card or deposit account Forces holders can donate the amount of money they choose for one-time only or with automatic payment orders to The Turkish Aeronautical Association an association or foundation they prefer. Credit Card The Turkish Association for Cancer Research and holders can also use their accumulated chip-money for Control donations. The Turkish Red Crescent Society The Associations and Foundations to be included into The Turkish Association for Children in Need of this platform were carefully investigated by our Bank Protection to make sure that they pursue public interest. In 2011, The Multiple Sclerosis Association of Turkey customers’ donations amounting to approximately TL 13,000,000 were forwarded to the following Associations The Turkish Paraplegia Association and Foundations. The Turkish Foundation for Spastic Children 96 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Index This report contains information on the actions we took to improve our social, environmental, and economic performance and the results we achieved during the period between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011. The contents of the report are developed in compliance with the C-application level of the G3 version of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which is an internationally recognized reporting standard. The table below has been prepared to facilitate access to information provided within the framework of GRI's C-level application. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations 1.1 Statement from the most senior Message from the Chairman Full 3-6 decision-maker of the organization, Message from the CEO regarding the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the strategy of the organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Our Approach to Sustainability Full 26-29, 33-34, 37-38 and opportunities 2. Organizational Profile Full 2.1 Name of the organization About Akbank Full Akbank T.A.Ş. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or About Akbank Full 12-13 services 2.3 Operational structure of the About Akbank Full 15, 18 organization 2.4 Location of organization's About Akbank Full Sabancı Center, 4. Levent 34330 headquarters İstanbul TURKEY 2.5 Countries where the organization About Akbank Full Turkey, Germany, the operates Netherlands, Dubai, and Malta 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About Akbank Full 18 2.7 Markets served About Akbank Full Turkey, Germany, the Netherlands, Dubai, and Malta. See page 15 for number of customers for each segment. Akbank provides banking services in compliance with local laws and UN Security Council Regulations. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About Akbank Full 12, 15-16 2.9 Significant changes during the About Akbank Full 18 reporting period regarding size, Total number of branches in structure, or ownership Turkey increased from 912 to 926. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting About Akbank Full 20-21 period 97 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About the Report Full 1 January 2011 31 December 2011 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About the Report Full Second report was published in (if any) 2011. 3.3 Reporting cycle About the Report Full We publish our Sustainability Report annually. We update some data on our website throughout the year. 3.4 Contact point for questions Credits and Contacts Full On the last page of the report. regarding the report or its Cenk Türker, PhD, Akbank contents Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, cenk.turker@akbank.com Scope and boundary of the Report 3.5 Process for defining report content About the Report Full 23-24, 26-27, 30 3.6 Boundary of the report About the Report Full Banking services of Akbank T.A.Ş. in Turkey 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or About the Report Full 23 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures About the Report Full 23 and other related organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and About the Report Full 23 the bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect and reasons About the Report Full 23 of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, About the Report Full 23-24 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Indicators table GRI Index Full The mentioned table is this table given between pages 97 and 103. 3.13 External assurance Full External assurance was not obtained. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 41-42 organization 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 41 governance body is also an executive officer 4.3 Number of independent members Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 41 of the highest governance body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 40-41 and employees to provide recommendations or direction to Our Employees 72, 79 the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 42 members of the highest governance body and the organization's Our Employees 71 performance 98 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Corporate Governance in Akbank Full 42 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the Corporate Governance in Akbank Partial 41 qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements Our Approach to Sustainability Full 26, 33-34 of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Corporate Governance in Akbank 41 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their Risk Management and Compliance 46-48 implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest Our Approach to Sustainability Full 33-34 governance body for overseeing the organization's identification Corporate Governance in Akbank 41-42 and management of economic, environmental, and social Risk Management and Compliance 44 performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Corporate Governance in Akbank Partial 42 highest governance body's own performance, particularly with Our Employees 71 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance External Commitments 4.11 The precautionary approach or Risk Management and Compliance Full 44-45 principle 4.12 Externally developed sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Full 35-36 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Our Approach to Sustainability Full 35-36 Stakeholder Participation Full 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged Our Approach to Sustainability Full 30-32 by the organization 4.15 Identification and selection of Our Approach to Sustainability Full 30 stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Our Approach to Sustainability Full 30-32 engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have Our Approach to Sustainability Full 27, 30-32 been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to them STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PART III Performance Indicators Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations Economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated About Akbank Full 17 and distributed 99 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations EC2 Financial implications and other Our Approach to Sustainability Full 33 risks and opportunities for the organization due to climate change EC3 the organization's defined benefit Our Employees Partial 72 plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance Full No significant financial assistance received from government. was received from the government in 2011. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Our Employees Full 68 level wage compared to local minimum wage EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Our Employees Partial 67 proportion of senior management hired from the local community ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Infrastructure investments and Our Operations and the Environment Partial 89-90 services provided for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro Our Community Investment 92-96 bono engagement EC9 Indirect economic impacts Value Added to Our Customers Partial 61-62 Environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Our Operations and the Environment Partial 87 ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by Our Operations and the Environment Full 82-83 primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Our Operations and the Environment Full 83. There is no official carbon primary source emission coefficient for electricity use in Turkey. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Our Operations and the Environment Partial 83-85 and efficiency improvements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Value Added to Our Customers Partial 52, 54 or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Our Operations and the Environment Partial 86 consumption and reductions achieved ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Our Operations and the Environment Full 89 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY EN11 Protected areas and areas of high Full Akbank does not have operations biodiversity value on such areas. Since the Bank’s branches are located in settlements, their impact on biodiversity is almost zero. EN12 Significant impacts of activities, Value Added to Our Customers Partial 51-52 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 100 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTES EN16 Total direct and indirect Our Operations and the Environment Full 85-86 greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Our Operations and the Environment Partial 85-86 gas emissions and reductions achieved EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Our Operations and the Environment Partial 90 disposal method ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Value Added to Our Customers Partial 51-52, 53 environmental impacts of products and services ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Full There were no significant fines and total number of non-monetary or sanctions for non-compliance sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and with environmental laws and regulations in 2011. regulations ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Environmental impacts of Our Operations and the Environment Partial 86 transporting products and members of the workforce Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment Our Employees Full 68 type, employment contract, and region LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age Our Employees Full 70-71 group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Our Employees Full 68, 72-73 employees ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees Our Employees Full 72 covered by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Our Employees Full 68 significant operational changes ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Our Employees Partial 73 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities LA9 Health and safety topics covered Our Employees Partial 72 in formal agreements with trade unions ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year Our Employees Full 74 per employee by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management Our Employees Full 73-74 and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 101 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Our Employees Full 72 regular performance and career development reviews ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies Our Employees Full 69 and breakdown of employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership Social: Human Rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of Value Added to Our Customers Partial 51 significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers Our Approach to Sustainability Partial 38 and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of Our Employees Partial 67 discrimination and actions taken ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 The right to exercise freedom Our Employees Full 72 of association and collective bargaining ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Incidents of child labor, and Our Employees Full 69 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Forced or compulsory labor Our Employees Full 70 ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Incidents of violations involving Full There were no such incidents rights of indigenous people and in 2011. actions taken Social: Society ASPECT: COMMUNITY SO1 Programs and practices that Value Added to Our Customers Partial 72-73 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of Risk Management and Compliance Partial 45-46 business units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained Our Employees Full 76-77 in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to Risk Management and Compliance Full 48 incidents of corruption 102 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference Pages/ Disclosure Reporting Explanations ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and Our Approach to Sustainability Partial 35-36 participation in public policy development and lobbying SO6 Financial and in-kind Full There were no financial and contributions to political in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related parties, politicians, and related institutions institutions in 2011. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Significant fines and total number Full There were no significant of non-monetary sanctions for fines and total number of non-compliance with laws and non-monetary sanctions for regulations non-compliance with laws and regulations in 2011. Social: Product Responsibility ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service Full We provide information on all information required by of our banking services and procedures, and percentage of products and these are subject to significant products and services a variety of laws and regulations. subject to such information On our website we provide easy requirements to access information on our products including fees, interest rates, taxes and terms. PR5 Practices related to customer Value Added to Our Customers Partial 64-65 satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATION PR6 Programs for adherence to Risk Management and Compliance Partial 47 laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Full There were no significant fines for non-compliance with laws for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and provision and use of products and services services in 2011. 103 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL STATEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 104 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 UN Global Compact Index In 2007, Akbank became the first Turkish Bank to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Pursuant to requirements of being a signatory to UNGC, we communicate our progress regarding putting the UNGC Principles into action. This Sustainability Report contains information on our current actions and performance we have achieved as a result. Information disclosed in the report on each aspect can be found using the table below. UN Global Compact Principles Page of the Performance Information Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 35, 36, 38, 51, 67, 68, 69, 70, internationally proclaimed human rights. 72, 73 Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 38, 51, 67, 69, 70, 72 human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 35, 36, 51, 68, 72 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 35, 36, 38, 51, 70 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; 35, 36, 38, 51, 69 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 35, 36, 38, 51, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71 occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 35, 36, 37, 51, 52, 54, 8, 86 environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 35, 36, 51, 52, 54, 82, 83, 84, 85, responsibility; 86, 87, 90 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 35, 36, 51, 52, 54, 83, 84, 85, 86 friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 35, 36, 45, 46, 47, 48, 76, 77 including extortion and bribery. 105 CONTACTS AND CREDITS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 AKBANK T.A.Ş. HEAD OFFICE Sabancı Center 34330 4. Levent – İstanbul / TURKEY Phone: +90 212 385 55 55 Fax: +90 212 269 77 87 +90 212 280 33 43 www.akbank.com For inquiries about the Akbank Sustainability Report, please contact: Cenk Göksan Cenk Türker, PhD Investor Relations and Sustainability Division Investor Relations and Sustainability Division cenk.goksan@akbank.com cenk.turker@akbank.com sustainability@akbank.com Reporting consultancy CSR Consulting Turkey info@csrconsulting.nl Akbank Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. This report has been originally prepared and published in Turkish. Even though its translation into English has been realized with utmost care and attention for precision, the Turkish version prevails as the original. All contents and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. Akbank© 2012 All rights reserved. 106
