UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless RA INTERNATIONAL UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Soraya Narfeldt, Chairman and CEO “Led by citizens of North Africa, “change” has been the paramount message of the past 12 months. Change in what people expect from their governments and change in the attitudes of people about the importance of human rights has led to a sweeping demand for democracy, which in turn, has given a voice to millions of people. The world heard, the world listened, and history was made. As a company we support change and we endeavor to make the inevitable transitions that accompany change positive. We always strive to stand out from the crowd and maintain an identity that is based on integrity and respect. Our company always makes decisions by firstly considering the individuals involved whilst ensuring that the choices we make our guided by our company values. We continue to improvise without compromise and we continue to learn from our mistakes and look ahead; making every decision a worthy one. I am proud to say that we remain committed to the principles advocated by the UN Global Compact, and look to these principles to assist us in dealing with the myriad of issues that affect the world today”. Soraya Narfeldt Chairman RA International 1 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless PART I CORPORATE IDENTITY Introduction to RA International RA International (“RAI”) is a construction, operations and maintenance provider specializing in challenging and remote areas. We offer a wide range of services to assist in major logistical operations, capital investment and technical programmes. From initial feasibility studies, planning, design and procurement, to implementation, start-up and management, our unique project mobilisation teams can have post-conflict resolution, reconstruction, oil/gas and mining projects up and running quickly. We are specialists when it comes to fast mobilisation and carry out a host of construction and engineering-related project management services, including groundwork, infrastructure, waste management, logistics and procurement, and power generation. RA International is partner to some of the most complex and innovative projects around the globe. Our portfolio includes governments, NATO, United Nations’ agencies, peacekeeping operations, embassies, nongovernmental organizations and private companies. Evolving from early roots in Africa more than 40 years ago, RA International has gained a wealth of experience in project management and support services in postconflict, developing countries and remote locations worldwide since that time. Headquartered in Dubai, RA International began serving clients in Afghanistan in 2002, and in the years since, has grown into a large multi-national firm. With owners and senior management hailing from English, Arabic, African and French cultures, and with 1,000 + international staff, RA International operates in multi languages. No geography is too challenging and today, the company manages projects in Sudan, Republic of South Sudan, Somalia, Sierra Leone, Uganda and Kenya and with new projects coming up in Ghana, Mauritania and Central African Republic. 2 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless SERVICES Catering and life support services RA International provides full food service catering. We fully understand and appreciate the importance of high-quality catering and the positive impact this can have on the morale of personnel within a camp. That is why we make it our mission to produce restaurant quality meals our clients enjoy on a daily basis. Our daytoday operations include supporting all catering services as well as technical/managerial oversight for food item procurement and delivery, storage facilities and food stock accounting. RA International can offer extensive 30 day menus geared towards health/wellness, special menu plans for various religious and cultural beliefs, vegetarian courses, packed meals, and events highlighting the national cuisines of camp personnel. Our chefs are internationally trained and ethnic food commodities are procured in accordance with applicable regulations/customs. We ensure proper food storage and transportation with fresh and perishable products from preapproved sources. Staff undergo rigorous training courses in personal hygiene, cross contamination and the causes/dangers of food poisoning, safe handling of catering equipment, customer relations, food preparation, serving techniques and other catering-related subjects. Periodic checks are conducted to ensure compliance with international level health and sanitation standards. Staff undergo health checks before being hired and response plans are always in place to ensure continued service and minimal food wastage/loss in case of any failure of refrigeration equipment within camp storage facilities. Procurement and Logistics services Whether self executing regular operations and maintenance duties or assisting clients with the goods they need to manage their own projects, RA International has the expertise and supplier network to get the job done well. We take advantage of the best that international and local suppliers have to offer enabling us to reduce acquisition costs by applying best practice sourcing and purchasing strategies. When international organizations and other NGO’s need assistance running their operations, we help them. We cover the most sophisticated maintenance procedures to the most basic health and wellness jobs. For clients who prefer to self-manage, we make procurement and logistics what it should be; the movement of goods and services from ‘point A to point B’ in a simple, efficient and hassle free manner for everyone involved (sender/vendor/ receiver/purchaser). Supply chain: development, implementation and support for IT solutions, consulting services, warehousing, transport and freight forwarding. Procurement: Products & equipment including generators, vehicles and fuel, HVAC and accommodation. 3 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Vast network of suppliers No matter how remote the project, RA International gives clients the best possible value for money. While transportation and logistics to remote conflict ridden areas will always produce challenges, RA International has proven its ability to resolve problems and exceed expectations. Our procurement, through a combination of international and local suppliers, ensures we provide maximum quality. We utilize a number of supply and logistics support companies, each of which meet our strict standard operational criteria to provide products and services as quickly and efficiently as possible. Goods are procured directly from manufactures all over the world and we ensure maximum warranty support. Construction and operations and maintenance RA International has extensive experience in construction. We perform groundwork, camp design, grading, leveling, site preparation, access roads and grounds upkeep. We also provide construction materials and maintenance. Construction: prefabricated buildings, temporary shelters, tent cities, concrete/brick buildings, existing structure rehabilitation, warehouse/cold storage facilities, security installations/lighting, perimeter walls and permanent structures. Infrastructure: drainage, water wells, irrigation, septic systems, filtration systems, treatment plants, electrical systems, water distribution and plumbing. Operations: Servicing of plants, refrigeration, catering appliances, fire equipment, generators, waste water systems and other facility equipment. General services: laundry, catering, garbage/refuse collection, fire prevention/protection, internet, sports and recreation. Preventative and curative maintenance: defense structures, grounds maintenance, cleaning, storm water drainage and vector control within the United Nations’ minimum operation security standards. Water management and plumbing: water lifting, storage, treatment, recovery, supply and recycling, plumbing fixture and appliance servicing, maintenance of water supply reticulations systems and potable water distribution. 4 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Fast mobilization We manage fast mobilization e.g. from zero to site in Somalia in just 14 days, supported by unique project mobilization teams who are always striving for environmentally friendly solutions. To ensure fast decision making in order to prevent unnecessary delays, regional managers are empowered to respond and act on client requests quickly. RA International is committed to the United Nation’s Global Compact Principles RA International is ISO accredited and we assure customer satisfaction by meeting contractual obligations and provide guarantee service through implementation of the integrated management system based on the ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004. RA International’s experience in extremely diverse countries and contexts, gives us the expertise needed to get jobs done where others cannot. In addition to being ISO compliant and maintaining insurance that fulfills United Nation’s requirements, we are a licensed contractor and service provider, fully knowledgeable of local laws and regulations. We hold appropriate local licenses and, thanks to our ability to leverage experience gained on other difficult environments, we are highly adept when it comes to obtaining the additional licenses often required in unique areas. We assure the quality of our products and services in order to develop a service culture that enables us to exceed customer expectations. By actively involving and empowering all employees in the continuous improvement process, we enhance profitable growth. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are designed to empower employees and provide them with the relevant information to learn, which improves decision making and leads to better performance. They allow RA International to understand how well we are performing in relation to our strategic goals and objectives. They reduce the complex nature of performance monitoring to a small number of key indicators and help us understand whether we are on track or not. We recognise the need to set ourselves challenging targets to improve our performance. The identification of Key Performance Indicators form part of the process of developing a strategy for each of the areas in which we operate. In the past, we have reported against a set of metrics on a fiscal year basis in our annual reports and, while we will continue to report on those same metrics, the new framework set out in the KPI policy allows us to develop our corporate and regional strategies further. Performance Management Performance management for RA International is our set of management processes, supported by technology that helps us improve our strategic decisions. Integrated, our KPIs and 5 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless performance management link with other key management processes. We are looking at the key areas that drive RA International business practice and from there are consolidating our processes to improve our performance. Key Areas Financial Planning, Consolidation and Budgeting: We are seeking to integrate more fully our budgeting and financial planning with our corporate objectives and priorities. This will allow us to ensure the financial resources at our disposal are spent on the things that matter the most. It will also give us a better ability to update our budgets and forecasts in real time, based on the continuous inflow of financial and non-financial data from operational areas. Project and Procurement Management: The delivery of projects and associated resources will be aligned with the corporate objectives and priorities in order to again ensure our efforts are focused on the most important areas. These activities will be prioritised based on strategic needs and therefore will be aligned with our strategic performance framework. People Management and Rewards: Our people are our most valuable assets. It is our employees who deliver projects and implement our strategic plans. By aligning our budgets and projects with our strategic performance framework, we will have made major steps towards alignment. With further alignment of reward and recognition systems, we need to ensure that our competences, through our appraisals, are in place and adhered to, allowing us to recognise performance appropriately. Performance Reporting: Relevant performance information will become crucial to RA International for better decision making and performance improvement. It also allows us to demonstrate to external companies that we can deliver the desired levels of performance. KPIs will be tailored to measure what is important and reporting data will be simple deliverables of key information. Regular reviews will ensure we remain current in our industry. Aligning and integrating the above processes allows us to create an invaluable set of data that we use to inform our decision making. While the data will serve towards performance improvement, it will also allow reward set against targets, personal performance, professional performance, execution of tasks and the operational performance of the team. As well as improving interaction, it will develop our knowledge as RA International moves forward. ILM Training Centre ILM is Europe’s leading awarding body for leadership and management qualifications. For RA International being a fully fledged member and training centre for this organisation has allowed us to focus on the improvement of both our established management teams as well as our future leaders. Through ILM we are able to provide our staff with the widest possible choice of qualifications in leadership and management. From pure qualifications in management and leadership to combined leadership and management, through to specialist areas such as managing volunteers or coaching and mentoring. When operating in the countries we do, this added value brings benefits not only to the teams on the ground but also to the company as we maintain our edge on competitors. 6 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless PART II CORPORATE IMPACT Introduction RAI set a goal to move away from traditional Corporate Social Responsibility in 2011 and towards Creating Shared Values (CSV) within and without the company and its operations: • Continue to promote education within both local and international employee groups through a variety of programmes; • Increase support and access; • Advance management skills in partnership with The Institute of Leadership and Management (ILM); • Increase investment in local manufacturing to minimize foreign inputs, carbon emission and generate income for the local economies. Creating shared values RA International has always been aware of our need to commit to sustainable business practices. Our corporate strategy has always embraced the three key drivers in social responsibility through our people in terms of human capital and the community, the planet through sustainable environmental practices and profit in terms of creating a lasting impact in the economy. RA International continues to maintain a well articulated and vibrant Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy. The key areas of this policy include the promotion of education through our ILM programme, improving the livelihood of local communities by sourcing employee’s in our host nation and creating sustainable partnerships which in turn aids community development. THE TEN GLOBAL PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. By underpinning our own business principles with the 10 principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact, we ensure our work adheres to the highest international standards. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/aboutthegc/thetenprinciples/index.html Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence and; Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The people of RA International are our most significant asset. Conducting business in ‘high-risk areas’ makes us even more committed to ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses and monitor this within our sphere of influence. Consultation and interplay between management and staff are managed on a country-by-country basis to ensure cultural appropriateness. 7 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless We aim to act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people, treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. We are providing a work environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminating any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individuals’ self-esteem, including bullying and victimisation. Our employees are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect and our employment and recruitment practices support this principle. We take action where necessary to ensure all current and potential members of the company are able to maximise opportunities. RA International believes gender equality is a human right and employs staff based on merit, not on gender. Awareness of each others’ beliefs, culture and values are of great importance and we support interactive discussions and create an environment of cross cultural education in the hope to increase this further. The RA International Code of Conduct The Code of conduct provides general guidance regarding key issues that an employee needs to be aware of and outlines the professional standards and behaviours everyone needs to adopt whilst in the employment of RA International. The Code applies to all employees equally throughout all levels within the Company. In accepting employment with our company, the employee undertakes to discharge his/her duties and to regulate his/her behaviour and conduct in accordance with the requirements of the Code and other applicable documents (Employment Agreement and the Employee Handbook). The Code is designed for guidance and protection. A breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action. The Code is based principally on European and International legal standards in addition to being written to reflect the Company’s fundamental beliefs and values. Our established standards on equality are relevant to our ways of working. They relate to the way we treat, work with and value those who are different from our selves. We fully recognize that all people and employees but be treated with respect, have positive contributions to offer and have equal right to fair employment opportunities and open access to resources and opportunities. Any/all forms of harassment are incompatible with our aims and belief in the dignity of all people and undermine our vision of equal opportunity. We will never tolerate the harassment of any employee, contractor, partner, client or other person. The element of personal relationships applies to all staff of RA International. It provides guidance in areas where personal relationship overlap with working relationships and is intended to ensure that employees do not act with impropriety, bias, abuse of authority or conflict of interest and do not expose themselves to any allegations of such conduct. RA International recognizes the importance of preserving the integrity of professional relationships between members of staff, consultants, clients, contractors and suppliers. 8 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Embracing Diversity We recognise that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation of “delivering regardless” through innovation and creativity, and to understand and meet the needs of our clients, we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We aim to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our process and through our training and development, thereby encouraging knowledge sharing and intellectual growth. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on sustainability and human rights. RA International has employees from following countries: Sierra Leone, Chad, Uganda, Kenya, Somalia, Syria, Yemen, UK, Canada, USA, Sweden, India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, Sudan. Gender Equality is a Human Right RA International employs staff based on merit and not on gender. In cases where jobs are situated in areas that may present risk to women, the company highlights the risks and ensures that clear and current information is supplied along with the job posting. We fully support the UN’s viewpoint that empowering women is an indispensable tool for advancing development and reducing poverty. The organisation strongly believes that no one should live and/or work under threat or pressure based on their colour, race, ethnic origin, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation or marital status. Both employees and suppliers are expected to always show respect and consideration for others. Co-operation between staff members is expected at all times. Employees are encouraged to help one another and disseminate information around the company. Zero Tolerance of Sexual Harassment Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment that is free from harassment of any kind. The company will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 9 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. RA International is committed to equality of opportunity in employment, irrespective of gender, gender reassignment, marital status, disability, age, race, colour, nationality, sexual orientation, religion or belief. We never discriminate on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, religious beliefs or ethnicity. We recognise that to produce work of high quality, maintain our reputation of ‘delivering regardless’ through innovation and creativity, and to understand and meet the needs of our clients, we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. The company will take positive action to prevent sexual harassment. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Outlawing Child Labour RA International does not tolerate child labour and does not engage in any practice inconsistent with the rights set out in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Minimum Age Convention or the Prohibition and Immediate Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RA International continues to create a working environment that is conducive in creating facilities of high standards, with minimal environmental impact. We go to great lengths to ensure our procedures and protocol support Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ). Mitigating and managing risks is important to us. Our dedicated risk management programme guides and controls our work while maintaining what’s most important to our clients: value and reliability. Our HSE dedication also drives us to design ecofriendly waste management solutions that are innovative, costeffective and efficient. We use high quality products, equipment and cleaning techniques, all compliant with the leading environmental standards. Environmental targets for 2012 RA International’s objectives for 2012 are to improve even further in our environmental commitment. We are constantly looking for environmentally orientated solutions, not only for our projects but also in our daily management. HSE-training is conducted on a regular basis to ensure environmental awareness amongst our staff. Our environmental and HSEpolicies are reviewed twice a year to ensure continuous update with international standards and requirements. The company was certified with ISO 9001:2008 and ISO14001:2004 in November 2011 and recently the integrated QMS & EMS Management System has been established to comply with 10 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless requirements. RA International has also recently obtained the ISO 22000 and the OHSAS 18001 which will put an even stronger emphasis on the food handling control and Health-and Safety routines for our projects. Records are kept to track of the amount of food and paper being wasted. Paper is collected in binds to ensure confidentiality and picked up for recycling. The company is also actively trying to keep water consumption down and continuously making sure staff is fully informed about being more environmentally aware. A new ISOorientated training campaign will be launched shortly in all field operations to ensure awareness of the new ISOrequirements. The training is beneficial in many different perspectives but most of all it communicates the importance of the ISO procedures to all staff. With established procedures, the monitoring process will be facilitated and also the general standards and requirements for all projects throughout the field will be measured and managed. Environmental Policy Statement of 2012 RA International is committed to providing a productive, safe and healthy work environment for associates, contractors, clients, customers and visitors on its premises or that of its clients. The commitment extends to ensuring that the company’s operations create an environment for proactive prevention of incidents that could place the local community at risk of injury, illness or property damage and to ensuring its works are conducted in an environmentally sustainable and responsible manner. Our commitment is communicated to all employees, contractors and suppliers. Our commitment: • Use safe systems of work that are environmentally sustainable and supported by documented procedures and audited systems. • Be proactive in assessing health, safety and environmental hazards for new business, new and existing work systems, practices and equipment. • Encourage team problem solving at all levels of the organization to implement work practices that continually improve safety, environmental standards and productivity. • Report and investigate incidents and implement systems and practices that prevent recurrence. • Train managers and employees to competitively perform work described in safe work procedures. • Provide information to all employees, contractors and customers that inform them of health, safety and environment issues relevant to the company’s operations. • Ensure products are safe and without adverse environmental impact. • Reduce, re-use and recycle waste materials wherever practical, and dispose of waste materials in an environmentally responsible manner. 11 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Meeting International Standards The EU has some of the highest environment standards in the world, developed to tackle climate change, preserve biodiversity, reduce health problems from pollution and encourage a more responsible use of natural resources. RA International is a staunch believer in protecting, preserving and improving the world around us and adheres not only to EU environmental legislation, but works with best practice in the countries we operate in when it is in keeping with our high environmental standards. RA International also adheres to environmental governance as enshrined in various United Nations and other international conventions. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) provides with substantial information regarding the environmental challenges and we are facing but also give guidelines how to battle these challenges, RA International supports this program through ensuring our own practices and training in local communities serves the same principle. Many of the areas where we operate in lack environmental laws or any environmental impact on society. It is therefore crucial for us to ensure these regulations are being enforced and implemented in our daily business procedures. RA International environmental commitments in Somalia RA International signed a waste management contract with UNSOA in March 2012 where RA is assisting in constructing a landfill and installing shredders and incinerators. The project will not only have positive impact on the environmental aspects as it will serve as the main waste management sites around Mogadishu but also by engaging the local work force in this project, it will also create local awareness and impact on the entire society. Again this is an example of how RA International intergrates the project implementation in all four key issue areas tha the Global Compact principles advocates: environment, human rights, labour and anti-corruption. Without involving the local communities, the project can never be successful. A practical implementation by engaging local labour, local suppliers and allowing people to operate on equal terms and conditions engaging in a project that serves everyones purposes is the key to successful implementation. RA International environmental commitments in Sudan RA International has a long history of various projects in Sudan and we just started the construction of a mechanized hafir (reservoir) in Lakes State, Republic of South Sudan. Competition over natural resources has become an issue of major concern and cause of conflict among the pastoral and farming populations. Building a water reservoir will make a tremendous impact on the daily life for farmers and nomadic tribes and also reduce the clashes over water. Health and Safety in the field RA International always ensures to put health and safety first in our operations and we stress the importance of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), commitment to HSE regulations, and general awareness of the risks involved. 12 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Daily toolbox talks are held onsite and Site Managers continuously supervise that everyone shows commitment and does not put themselves or others in any danger by violating any rules. Our HSE manual is continuously reviewed and distributed among our staff. HSE training is also conducted in various operational areas and staff receive certificate after completed training. In Somalia, the work-related injuries have decreased with over 50% since the toolbox talks were enforced and proper safety regulations were adopted by all the staff. Our employees see immediate positive results of their involvement which encourages them even further to engage in preventive HSEactivities and to always improve their work environment. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Fighting Corruption in the Supply Chain The company fully supports the UN Global Compact 10th Principle, which requires participants to not only avoid corruption, but also to develop policies and concrete programmes to address it. Our business relationships are built on honesty, fairness and trust. RA International is committed to working against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. It is our policy that everyone in the company must be free to pursue their career solely on the basis of their ability and effort, without intimidation, humiliation, harassment or abuse. Any conflict of interest will be disclosed and no gifts or hospitality is offered to our Clients. We adhere to the highest standards of moral conduct with a ‘zero tolerance’ policy. Employees are not allowed to accept or give gifts. We believe that engaging supply chain participants and communicating our meaningful anticorruption programmes improves product quality, reduces fraud and related costs, enhances the company’s reputation for honest business, improves the environment for business, and creates a more sustainable platform for future growth. RA International’s approach to business has always aimed to deliver the very best solutions based on the overarching cornerstone of, among many, integrity of business. 13 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless When selecting suppliers, RA International focuses on forging long-term relationships with a number of market participants with the primary aims of diversifying our exposure to price sensitivity from single suppliers or markets, and to ensure we always have access to the best quality materials available. Other best practices utilized by our procurement team include developing social responsibility standards, maximising functional team benefits, opening up lines of communication throughout the supply chain, encouraging trust between buyers and suppliers thereby leading to greater cooperation, and finding creative ways to share knowledge with colleagues. By using local suppliers in the countries we operate in, RA International has a beneficial impact on labour costs, which directly inject money into the local economy through payments of wages and benefits to local residents. Profits will remain in the community in proportion to local ownership. Procurement of local goods and services for resale and operation also creates a charitable impact, where local firms contribute a greater share of revenue to local causes. Other benefits are direct and indirect employment, infrastructure improvements, access to information, direct support for social services through taxes and overcoming cultural communication. It also increases local integration by providing access to local knowledge and by helping the growth and development of local SMEs. RA International maintains good relationships with its suppliers by fostering a sense of commitment by working with suppliers, instilling confidence in them that we will return with future business. We discuss upcoming orders with our suppliers rather than waiting until our needs arise and see our suppliers as business partners, which in turn boosts efficiency and profitability. Contracts to suppliers are always awarded on the basis of merit, by fair and unbiased competition against other submissions. No special favour(s) must be shown or provided to any businesses, governments or any other entity run by (or in any way associated with) friends, partners, relatives or any other similar relationship exists. Any employee who does not adhere to this statement may be subject to disciplinary action and/or dismissal. Examples of local procurement Sudan: • Nature valley organic farms (meat, dry goods, cleaning materials) • Bima Enterprises (diesel, engine oil) • Irene’s Groceries (fresh fruit and vegetables) • William Doshi (hardware and electrical materials) • Blue Flag (construction materials) • Samuel (clean water supply) • Freedom Logistics (crane & transport service) • Lelty General Trading (building materials, plumbing, electrical) • Abraham construction (sand, gravel, blocks and transport) 14 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless • Zeregaber General Trading LTD (building materials, plumbing, electrical) Somalia: • Camel Trading (gravel, electrical, construction consumable items). • Iiman Trading (life support items, plumbing, cement, fuel, furniture and fixtures) • Shire Trading (life support items, plumbing, electrical, diesel and petrol, furniture). • Nagaad Inc. (life support items, plumbing, electrical, construction materials) • AIG International Company (heavy equipment rental, aggregates) • Indian Ocean Enterprises (food, home appliances) Thanks to RA’s support, including funds for repair of equipment and spare parts, one of our local suppliers is now the number 1 supplier in Mogadishu. Uganda: • ROKO Construction Limited • Roofings Limited • Uganda Baati • KIBAO Investment Co. Limited • Casement (Africa) LimitedHILTI Service Centre • ROOFCLAD Limited • TERRAIN Plant Limited • Steel & Tube Limited • HIMA Cement • MAIA Limited • Rhino Footwear Ltd • Power Products Uganda Limited • Robbialac Crown berger (U) Limited • Nile Plywoods (U) Limited • Pristine Works Contractors Limited • ROKAS Agencies • Crane Roofings Limited • Kakiri Stone and Quarry Limited • GENTEX Enterprises Ltd • JIREH Hardware • LUNA Engineering Services & Trade Limited • Ssebaggala and Sons Electro Centre • Multiple Industries Limited 15 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Local purchases 100% 80% 60% 40% Local purchases 20% 0% Uganda Somalia Sudan SOCIAL IMPACT In all countries where we operate, we provide a return to the communities in which we work. We believe that by giving back to the community we provide sustainable long-term relationships with its inhabitants. Not only do we recruit staff from the local community, but we also offer them salaried vocational training. The opportunities we provide lead to sustainable employment where we either continue to employ the individuals ourselves, or we assist them to set up their own business and then we enter into partnerships with them. We aim to ensure that our employees have satisfactory wages and working conditions, and that there is no exploitation of labour. Compliance with the relevant laws relating to employment and employment conditions in each country we work is of great importance. Subject to relevant laws in the countries where we operate, we fully respect the right of our people to freedom of association and representation. We have developed peer-to-peer communication channels and we have effective formal and informal channels between management and staff which actively support interaction between all cultures, nationalities, genders and religion at all operational locations. RA International operates in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do. If we were to find ourselves inadvertently implicated in abuses of human rights, we would take immediate steps to rectify such a situation. Impact on Society We believe that by giving back to the community, sustainable long-term relationships with its inhabitants can be forged. We have initiated a development fund to support non-governmental organisations which adds value to the communities they work in. RA International commits 3% of its profits to this fund on a yearly basis. Our aim is to hire local labour to ensure their participation in the development process. Without their highly valued knowledge about the countries we work in and their culture, we would not have come so. We are fully aware that as a foreign company, it is our duty to treat locals with the utmost respect. We are the guests in their country and by giving local workers the chance to interact in an international environment, we ensure that people learn about human rights, equality and the importance of stamping out sexual harassment and gender discrimination. 16 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Educating workers in a profession and instilling pride in what they are doing, along with the chance for promotion, creates values that then spread to the rest of the society. The company supports education in a number of ways, for example, by providing onsite training for locals; donating money to equip young Sudanese girls with the books and educational items needed for school; and making English lessons. In recent years, RA International has strengthened our relationships with existing suppliers and contractors in the countries in which we operate. Strategically this has allowed us to ensure they live up to our standards and are able to comply with our Business Principles and our Code of Business Ethics. Contractors in all locations are evaluated against this criteria prior to any contract being awarded but primarily it reduces risks and improves our overall performance. Contractor management plans, contracts and other documents raises the level of contributions we get from local suppliers and not only does it raise their game it helps them understand better business practices that they would not normally be exposed to. In Uganda for example we have continued to utilise the services of local suppliers and contractors investing time and money in helping them to improve their relevant skills and their knowledge of the construction industry. We are committed to supporting the development of the labour force in the areas where we are working. We endeavour to increase the employment, occupational development, promotion and advancement of nationals and our endeavours continually speak volumes. The local infrastructure for supporting the type of contracts conducted by RA International is often limited and as a consequence, we also encourage our local contractors to work with local partners, where feasible. The net result is a contribution to the local economy through the people we invest in. In Somalia, we are engaging the local work force where we have over 300 Somali workers on site, supporting unskilled labour to become skilled. RA contributes to famine relief support in Somalia RA International initiated a charity collection amongst its employees in all operation areas in August 2011. Due to overwhelming support from the employees and thanks to a generous donation made by our owner and CEO, Ms Soraya Narfeldt, the total contributions exceed USD 10,000. The funds raised were used to purchase food for the displaced population now living in camps on the SomaliKenyan border. To ensure the food reached the refugee camps, RA staff based in Mogadishu was escorted by the AMISOM forces. Active involvement from NGO’s is necessary to ensure the food reaches the refugee camps and RA is working closely with these. RA International has also started to support the hospital in Mogadishu. A new campaign will soon be launched which will focus on the hospital needs. Republic of South Sudan RA International has continuously sponsored the Confident Children out of Conflict (CCC) girl’s shelter in Juba with monthly food deliveries and also extra support for school supplies. 17 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Future projects in 2012 Ghana RAI is partnering with a local Ghanaian company to pursue the manufacturing of generators in West Africa which would be the first of its kind.Global attention is being paid to Africa’s power requirements as the continent continues to experience rapid growth and development, driving the need for more widespread and reliable electricity. The growth of telecommunications and spread of mobiles phones is also linked to the availability of power and currently all power generators are imported to Africa from Europe and China adding additional costs to the equation. RAI is currently working on the feasibility studies to establish a manufacturing plant in Ghana to manufacture generators locally for not only the local market whose growth and requirements is substantive but also looking at exports to neighboring ECOWAS countries. We believe that that time has come to start making goods in Africa according to the specifications that Africa requires and to minimize the importation of goods that are not designed for the market. We anticipate job creation, training and other feeder businesses developing as a direct result of this. Somalia RA International has started a charity project with Dr. Asha, a Somalia born obstetrician/gynecologist educated in Italy. She returned to Somalia in 2009 to work with the government run hospital in Mogadishu where she is the Director,focusing on maternaland child healthcare. She also works at the AMISOM level 2 Hospital. Due to the lack of midwives and any personnel trained in the use of ultrasound machines, she decided to return and help out after the war. Her goal is to provide better healthcare for children and pregnant women and it includes training women to become midwives. She has already trained 15 women and 12 more are currently in the program. Dr. Asha also provides treatment to women who have been victims of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and she is trying to educate the citizens to stop this practice. RA International is assisting Dr. Asha in getting more equipment for the operations and emergency room. She is currently heading the drive to vaccinate children and RA is providing two refrigerators for cold storage of the vaccine. RA has also started a campaign to collect clothes and other necessities and send to Mogadishu for distribution at the hospital. We are also in discussion with a hospital here in Dubai to arrange some donations for this particular program. Projects RA International has funded Minurcat Project for the United Nations in Chad Maintenance and operational work for the United Nations Mission in Chad to support the peace-keeping forces in the border regions with Darfur. 18 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless Although this project is drawing down with the withdrawal of the UN, RA International has maintained its efforts in the relevant communities. UNAMID Project for the United Nations in Darfur Infrastructure support for the UN peace-keeping troops in Darfur. United Nations peace support mission in Sudan RA International provides catering and waste management services for the United Nations Mission in Sudan (currently on hold while decisions are made on the future of Sudan). Waste management in Kabul, Afghanistan RA International, together with NATO/ISAF, is currently involved in a waste management project at girls’ schools in Kabul. We provide portaloos and empty and clean them for two schools. Support to Médecins Sans Frontières Juba, Sudan RA International offered prompt and highly appreciated support to Médecins Sans Frontières during a cholera outbreak in Juba, supplying them with offices and accommodation for free. Feeding project for the leprosy community Juba, Sudan RA International is involved in an extensive humanitarian project in Sudan, where we supply a leprosy community in Juba with food and drinks, serving a large number of meals per day. Feeding project Kabul, Afghanistan We provide food items for three orphanages in Kabul on a regular basis. We also do spot donations of food products when needed. UNSOA Project in Mogadishu RA International is involved in the rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure for the peace keepers in Somalia. Summary RA International has always had a strong commitment to the countries in which we operate. Our name, Reconstruction Assistance, highlights our support and dedication to help people, not only improve their daily life, but generate opportunities that will have an impact on both the economical and social sector. To do so, one needs a solid understanding of the local 19 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI UN Global Compact Report 2012 We Deliver. Regardless environment best gained by engaging local staff, learning about and respecting local culture and customs, and embracing the knowledge and traditions which already existing. Our contribution is not only to improve the infrastructure but also create shared values, pride and awareness of equal value, non discrimination and environmental consciousness which will have a great impact on communities in the future. RA International is a dynamic people-oriented service provider. Quality and service have always driven our business. We value the relationship with our clients and our highest goal is to ensure that we continue to offer the best quality. We strive for excellence and we constantly seek to improve our products. RA International is not simply a for-profit company. We understand that with working in some of the poorest parts of the world comes also great responsibility. We design projects that involve local communities and that have a positive impact on the local economy by encouraging entrepreneurship and skills training. We involve local labour and local resources whenever it is feasible. We sponsor training facilities and support schools with some of our services free of charge. It is our objective to combine our business projects with sustainable outcomes for environment and people. What differentiates RA International is our strong service culture. At the foundation of our success are our people. Each of our people has a passion for quality and a ‘can do’ attitude With pride, integrity, and good humour, we strive as a team to make a positive contribution to our customers, clients and suppliers but importantly in the countries we are guests in. By embracing the principles of the UN Global Compact, RA International is further supported in continuing to share our own values with the people we work with. 20 This document is the confidential and copyright property of RA International (RAI) and must not be used, loaned or reproduced without prior written consent. © 2012 RAI
