NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 | xxxxxxx 1 / 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011-2012 NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Foreword by the CEO 2 / 27 Content Thomas Hofman-Bang, President and CEO Foreword by the CEO 2 Reporting principles 3 NKT in brief 4 Group performance 5 NKT Cables 10 The NKT Group is present in all parts of the world. We have learned from Nilfisk-Advance 15 our history that a global mindset and the ability to conduct our business in a responsible manner is a prerequisite to continued success and growth. Photonics Group 20 GRI indicators 25 Sustainable products and plants One aspect of doing business in a responsible manner is offering a portfolio of sustainable products. All NKT business units have a strong position within their markets for providing products and solutions that are environmentally friendly in themselves but, just as importantly, also offer savings when deployed by end users. At the same time we constantly strive to optimise our production facilities so that they are as processand energy efficient as possible. On that account I UN Global Compact am very pleased that by year end 2011 NKT achieved the target of reducing Signatory since 27 March 2009 CO2 emissions by 12% relative to output in the period 2009-2011. We will Number of employees: 8,900 set new CO2 reduction goals in the coming year. Sector: Electricity Respecting conventions Reporting period and date Another aspect of being a responsible business is to recognise and respect The report for the period 1 July 2011 30 June human rights and ILO (International Labour Organisation) conventions. NKT 2012 is submitted to the UN Global Compact is signatory to the UN Global Compact and wishes to send a strong signal to 12 October 2012 all our stakeholders that we take our role as a global player seriously, and we will take an active part in the dissemination and respect for that policy. Contact Helle Gudiksen Make demands on the suppliers Communications Consultant, NKT Holding A/S A part of that role is to strongly urge our suppliers to support the UN Global Email: helle.gudiksen@nkt.dk Compact principles. Only by following that path can we claim to do true responsible business and, therefore, we have also set an ambitious target for Cover photos: With courtesy of NKT companies contractually committing the majority of our suppliers to respect the principles of that policy. Doing responsible business is an integrated part of NKT’s genes, business model and strategy. For us it is the only way to further development and growth. UN Global Compact NKT wishes to protect the environment, protect human Thomas Hofman-Bang and labour rights and work President and CEO against corruption NKT Holding A/S NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Reporting principles 3 / 27 Reporting principles The objective of NKT’s sustainability reporting is to create transparency and, being based on international protocols, serve as a benchmark against comparable companies On 27 March 2009 NKT became a UN Global Compact participant NKT Board of Directors and this CSR Report fulfils the obligation to provide Communication on Progress (COP) for the period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012. The business units NKT Cables and Nilfisk-Advance are also CEO autonomous participants of the UN Global Compact, and their NKT obligation to provide Communication on Progress is likewise fulfilled by this CSR Report. On 4 April 2012 NKT sold NKT Flexibles to the American company National Oilwell Varco.Therefore, NKT Flexibles is no longer part of CEO CEO CEO business unit business unit business unit NKT’s UN Global Compact reporting and, hence, not included in this report. Reporting structure Entity manager NKT consists of three business units with very diverse product portfolios, organisations and markets. Hence, their sustainability focus areas and challenges differ as well. Therefore, we report on Statements of Representation Group performance as well as on each of the business units To ensure that CSR is integrated in the daily activities in all NKT separately. NKT sets the guidelines, whereas the goals are business units and entities, once a year all entity managers (around predominantly set by the business units in close dialogue with NKT. 100) must draft and sign a Statement of Representation. In this To ensure commitment all goals, present and future, must be as statement the managers report on the status of all UN Global specific as possible and concrete actions to achieve them be defined. Compact principles within their part of the organisation. The Statements of Representation are submitted to the NKT Executive The CSR Report is based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Management Board. Ultimately the CEO of NKT signs a Statement of Compact and is divided into three sections: Human & Labour Representation for the entire Group and the Board of Directors is Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. informed of the conclusions.  Group guidelines NKT’s Ethics Statement is formulated on the basis of the UN Global Compact. More Group guidelines elaborate on the various principles and have been communicated to the entire organisation. The business units can extend Group guidelines but never ease them. of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Data is consolidated by the NKT Finance Department. The reporting system is composed of four elements:  • A whistleblower system where all NKT employees can raise Group guidelines are available at serious concerns about a range of behaviours, events or  www.nkt.dk/uk/Menu/About+NKT/Policies. circumstances that seem inappropriate. Reporting can be anonymous. Reporting system • A data collection system where various KPIs are registred on a A comprehensive reporting system provides data and information quarterly basis, such as work accidents, types and amount of fuel from the individual units and delivers most of the necessary data and and energy consumption, CO2 emissions from travel and information on which our CSR efforts and reporting is based. The transport, raw material consumption, undesirable events such as  business units are responsible for the data collection and the quality environmental spills and fines. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Reporting principles 4 / 27 • A Statement of Representation on Corporate Social Responsibility signed off by local management in the business UN Global Compact principles unit entities once a year to ensure that they are familiar with and Human rights businesses should work to advance the UN Global Compact principles. 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally • A special reporting scheme where the business units annually proclaimed human rights report on matters such as diversity in management, efforts 2. Ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses within R&D to support the UN Global Compact, etc. Labour businesses should The reporting system and the Statement of Representation both 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective comprise around 100 legal entities worldwide. recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and GRI compulsory labour NKT has been inspired by the parameters of the Global Reporting 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Initiative (GRI). An assessment of materiality of the GRI indicators 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment based on the methodology proposed by the GRI has been carried and occupation out. The methodology remains unchanged from 2011, and we have chosen to report on a total of 20 indicators. An overview is available Environment businesses should on page 25. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Data reliability 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental The NKT reporting system was implemented in 2010 and at that responsibility time some uncertainties of the primary input data were registered 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of and hence influenced the conclusions of the first Communication environmentally friendly technologies on Progress reports.The majority of data has since become more consistent as the employees gain more experience in reporting. Anti-Corruption businesses should However, e.g. data on CO2 emissions from transportation of 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including goods are still subject to a high degree of uncertainty as a growing extortion and bribery number of local suppliers and business unit entities participate. It is therefore not possible to benchmark such data against results from previous years. However, to get an outside view of the quality of our systems and the information generated by these systems, a readiness assessment Auditing has been conducted in selected companies within the NKT Group The NKT CSR-report 2011-12 has not been audited by an on the basis of data submitted for the present report. independent auditor. The readiness assessment has been a process that looked into the Our own experience of working in this rather new field of reporting CSR governance and information flow of NKT with the purpose to for us is that identify the strengths and weaknesses in the current management• Reporting and management systems are in place and reporting system. The assessment was conducted by KPMG, an • The quality and consistency of environmentally related data has international provider of audit services. clearly improved and is on a high level approaching a good standard Based on this assessment and our own observations we have • There is a high awareness at management level of the UN concluded that the CSR reporting has been improved with regard Global Compact focus areas to the data accuracy across the business units. We will at certain • We are progressing in creating transparency throughout our intervals conduct similar readiness assessments to follow the organisations, which is fundamental to make progress development of our systems and data quality. For the time being we have decided not to audit our CSR data and progress reports. Sustainability timeline 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Signatory to COP COP COP COP UN Global Compact Report* Report* Report* Report* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 NKT Ethics Signatory to CDP, Statement Whistleblower Focus on all Carbon Disclosure system UN Global Compact Project Primarily focus on principles Environment and * UN Global Compact Anti-Corruption NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | NKT in brief 5 / 27 Global wor kplace NKT ha s activit ies around 100 cou in Some 1 3% of the ntries. force is wor k based in Denma r k. The map shows where NKT’s business units have production facilities: NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance NKT in brief Photonics Group NKT is an industrial conglomerate and a ‘home’ for its companies. NKT’s mission builds on active ownership and a long-term industrial mindset, and ensures a firm financial focus on value creation NKT comprises three individual business units: Photonics Group manufactures sophisticated products based on the unique light-conducting properties of optical fibers. For NKT Cables is a front-line supplier of power cables to the electricity example, they make it possible to ‘see what is otherwise invisible’. sector primarily in Europe and China. Focus is on supplying system The products are sold worldwide. solutions for expansion of transmission and distribution grids, and installation cables for buildings, wires for cars, and catenary wires for NKT commitments high speed railways. The products are sold worldwide. NKT has adopted a number of voluntary projects and principles with emphasis on sustainability: Nilfisk-Advance is one of world’s leading manufacturers of professional cleaning equipment.The products are primarily focused Organisation or project Signatory since on the commercial cleaning market, while vacuum cleaners and high Carbon Disclosure Project 2008 pressure washers are offered to the domestic market segment. The products are sold worldwide. UN Global Compact 2009 Revenue (LTM)* market prices EBITDA (LTM)* Employees as of 30 June 2012 mDKK mDKK Photonics Group 189 10,000 800 Revenue (LTM) 700 755 8,000 8.589 600 NKT 6,000 500 Cables 6.433 400 Nilfisk3,367 4,000 Advance 300 5,329 200 229 2,000 100 228 5 0 0 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT NilfiskPhotonics Cables Advance Group Cables Advance Group * Last twelve months NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Group performance 6 / 27 Group performance In 2011-12 NKT reached an ambitious CO2 reduction target, employee engagement surveys were conducted in all business units and sustainability targets were further integrated in the business activities NKT bases the majority of its sustainability work on the UN Global company is a global corporation with four very diverse business Compact principles. Since the first Communication on Progress units. And because NKT also has the courage to express the report in 2009 we have focused mainly on Environment and Antidilemmas involved in CSR work.’ Corruption, as they were assessed to contain the largest potential for impact. However, growing attention to especially Health & Safety issues and employee engagement has led us to also focus on the Human & Labour Rights area during the last year. NKT receives award for Best COP Reporting In September 2012 NKT was awarded Best COP Reporting to the UN Global Compact 2012 by The Institute of Public Accountants in Responsible for Group Denmark (FSR). NKT’s COP Report 2010-2011 was rewarded CSR, Group Executive ‘because in only 33 pages they manage to provide insight into the Director, CTO, Søren progress and results of their work relating to the UN Global Isaksen receives the Compact’s 10 principles for sustainable development in such a lucid award for ‘Best COP and structured manner that the reader entirely forgets that the Reporting 2012’. Key sustainability figures As of 30.06.2012 2011-2012 2010-2011 2009-2010 NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT NilfiskPhotonics NKT NilfiskPhotonics Cables Advance Group Cables Advance Group Cables Advance Group Revenue LTM, Standard metal prices (mDKK) 5,436 6,433 228 5,782 6,000 191 4,750 5,446 164 Number of employees 3,367 5,329 189 3,609 5,378 181 3,323 5,019 171 Number of occupational injuries with absence 98 93 0 139 130 0 127 0 Suppliers* accepting the UN Global Compact (%) 86 44 43 80 36 37 CO2 Scope 1+2 (tonnes CO2) 82,409 29,043 864 94,141 29,294 645 84,935 47,449** 547 Emission relative to revenue Metric ton CO2 15.16 4.51 3.79 16.28 4.88 3.38 17.88 8.71** 3.34 per Million revenue, Standard metal prices Emission relative to employees Metric ton CO2 24.48 5.45 4.57 26.09 5.45 3.56 25.56 9.45** 3.20 per employee Material utilisation efficiency (%) 95.8 95.6 95.2 Water (m )3 144,375 199,330 N/A 188,305 190,853 N/A N/A N/A N/A Development projects with environment 71 60 N/A improvements (%) N/A: Not available * Annual purchase value above 50,000 EUR. ** Data reliability for the period 2009-2010 is weak, hence not comparable to data from the following years. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Group performance 7 / 27 Human and labour rights NKT is present worldwide and, as a global player we have an Policies obligation to advocate for compliance internally and at external In 2011 NKT introduced a policy on diversity, stating among other partners with internationally recognised rights, such as the UN things that all business units must work on diversity in terms of Universal Declaration of Human Rights, also in areas of the world balancing experience and new inspiration, cultural width and social where they may not necessarily be prioritised. The issue is openness. The policy in its entirety can be found at www.nkt.dk/uk integrated in NKT’s due diligence procedures in, for example, along with all NKT Group policies. Policies on, for example, Health M&A (merger and aqcuisition) processes. & Safety and business integrity principles were implemented in more business units. For further information please read the Occupational Safety and Health business unit chapters of this report. It is a priority of NKT to have a safe and healthy working environment. All business units assess their levels of safety regularly and make any Supplier acceptance of UN Global Compact adjustments that may be necessary. Occupational injuries are For NKT, social responsibility is also to ensure implementation of reported in all business units and, NKT Cables has reduced the Human & Labour rights in its value chain. In 2009 we defined a number of injuries significantly in 1st half 2012. The ambition in NKT goal of contractual acceptance of the UN Global Compact Cables is to reach best in class level by 2016 by reducing the accident principles by at least 80% of the suppliers (annual purchase value frequency by a minimum of 75%, corresponding to 5 or below. above 50,000 EUR) by the end of 2011. All business units have Strong focus on evaluating the near-miss incidents as a way to reduce registered increased acceptance in the reporting period and the number of actual accidents and an increased awareness due to a especially suppliers in China and the US have become more open new Health & Safety policy are the main reasons for this achievement towards the requirements. in NKT Cables. Nilfisk-Advance has also experienced a significant reduction of injuries. Suppliers accepting the UN Global Compact Occupational injuries causing absence (annual purchase value above 50,000 EUR) 2010-2011 2011-2012 As per 30 June 2012 Target No. % 150 100 2011/2012 120 139 130 80 86 80 2010/2011 80 80 90 60 98 93 60 40 44 43 30 20 0 0 0 0 NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group NKT Cables Nilfisk-Advance Photonics Group Employee engagement surveys The supplier bases of the business units are not comparable. NKT All business units conducted comprehensive employee engagement Cables has a smaller number of large suppliers and procurement is surveys in the reporting period. Nilfisk-Advance conducted the first centralised in Europe whereas Nilfisk-Advance has a large number step of its new employee engagement survey in 2nd half 2011 in six of smaller, local suppliers around the world. Photonics Group has countries, involving some 1,700 employees. The next step is to run also local suppliers. the survey throughout the entire organisation in 2nd half 2012. Also NKT Cables and Photonics Group initiated surveys in 1st half 2012. The target has not been reached completely for the entire Group NKT Cables involved all employees whereas 50% of the employees and the issue will continuously be pushed when negotiating new in Photonics Group were involved. In the latter the survey was contracts. designed in cooperation with employee representatives. Based on the results all the business units have identified and communicated a number of focus areas to be the drivers for their efforts to create even better workplaces. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Group performance 8 / 27 Environment NKT has high attention on environmental savings, both in terms of Product environmental footprint reducing our own utilisation of scarce resources and in terms of Environmentally friendly product development is one of the key developing products with a clear environmentally friendly purpose measures for NKT to obtain even more significant CO2 reductions. or profile. Especially products that provide lower energy consumption for the user. CO2 emissions In 2008 NKT set a CO2 reduction target for the first time. With NKT Cables’ products are to a large extent environmentally friendly 2008 as the baseline, the target was to in usage, and in recent years the company has also built a strong CO2 reduce CO2 emissions relative to output by 12% in the period 2009-2011. The target was set before the financial crisis, position in the market for providing submarine cables to transport energy from offshore wind farms to high voltage grids on land. reduction at a time when NKT experienced high Another important aim for NKT Cables is to continuously optimise 12% growth rates and at a time when we did the material utilisation efficiency. The company has a target of not have a clear understanding of the increasing material utilisation by 0.1% per year onwards. CO2 contribution from various sources. Despite these circumstances in May 2012 Nilfisk-Advance aims at introducing new products with a clear NKT was able to announce in connection environmental improvement compared to old or similar products with the submission of CO2 data to the within at least one of these areas: Consumption of energy and/or Carbon Disclosure Project that the target water, use of detergents and disposal of the unit. was reached. The CO2 reduction has led to savings of some 25 mDKK on energy Photonics Group has recently developed optical fibers for laser expenditure. Some of the key factors to our reaching the target were: equipment that promise to reduce energy consumption significantly, depending on the usage. • NKT Cables has relocated all production in Cologne, Germany, to a new, energy-efficient factory in which, for example, heat from various manufacturing processes is recycled in production areas and offices. At its factories in the Czech Republic the 71% of new products launched by Nilfisk-Advance in 2011-2012 company has invested in insulation and in more efficient provided environmental improvements such as reduced generation of heat consumption of water, energy or detergents or were designed for sustainable disposal.  • Nilfisk-Advance has relocated production lines to more energyefficient facilities in countries such as Hungary and Mexico • Energy-saving activities and campaigns have been stepped up in all business areas. For instance, employees in Vytran (Photonics Group) took an initiative for the company to buy green energy 95.8% is the average material utilisation efficiency in NKT Cables. as of now. The company is focused on minimising scrap and maximising  recycling potential. For more information about CO2 reduction in NKT please  visit www.nkt.dk/uk.   NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Group performance 9 / 27 Anti-Corruption NKT has business entities worldwide, including in areas where Whistleblowing corruptive actions have been, and to a certain extent still are, Since 2010 NKT has present. Furthermore, some of the business units operate in sectors implemented an internal with cartel incidents.Therefore it is crucial to NKT’s credibility to be whistleblower system to a strong advocate for fair competition and lawful practices. improve our ability to discover irregularities. All employees can Internal compliance anonymously report any An extensive anti-corruption review is part of the Statement of serious concerns about Representation (see page 3 and 4) that all NKT entity managers irregularities or inappropriate sign every year.The managers submit their findings, if any, on behalf behaviour. Reports can be of the entire business entity on a number of potential corruptive submitted in a number of actions, such as cartels, money laundering and bribery. Furthermore, languages, and in writing or the manager declares whether necessary actions are taken to orally. ensure that employees in contact with suppliers and/or customers are aware of and trained in NKT’s anti-corruption policy. In the None of the registered reports for 2011-2012 have led to material reporting period there were five registered cases of corruptive adjustments in business procedures. behaviour or other misconduct requiring action to be taken, such as termination of employment contracts. Facilitation payments Late 2011 NKT revised its Ethics Statement and standpoint towards Statement of objections facilitation payments. Previously NKT had reluctantly accepted In July 2011 NKT Cables and NKT Holding received a Statement facilitation payments in certain cases. Awareness campaigns and/or of Objections from the European Commission in connection with internal codes of conduct had led to increased focus on the subject the Commission’s investigation of the submarine and underground and subsequently to a revised standpoint and implementation of high voltage cable markets in the period 1998-2008. NKT Cables non-acceptance of facilitation payments. It is our aim to take and NKT Holding examined the documentation from the measures to contractually oblige our external partners, such as European Commission and submitted their response by the agents, to act in accordance with our policies. deadline in early November 2011. Subsequently the European Commission produced additional documents, and NKT Cables The firm standpoint towards facilitation payments has led to delays and NKT Holding launched a review. The findings of this review in obtaining product approvals and consequently lost orders in were submitted on 16 March 2012. NKT Cables and NKT Holding Photonics Group in the reporting period. gave an oral presentation of NKT’s viewpoints at a hearing held by the European Commission in June 2012. The European Commission is expected to reach a decision on this issue within the next few years. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | nkt cables 1 0 / 27 nkt cables Highlights 2011-2012 nkt cables joins the UN Global Compact Accidents reduced In 2009 NKT became signatory to the A new Health & Safety (H&S) policy was UN Global Compact, and from the outset, introduced in the autumn of 2011. The nkt cables has fully supported this policy’s focus areas are: H&S is now a top initiative. In December 2011, nkt cables management priority; it is a regular topic 25 became a participant itself, to underline the commitment to at all meetings, and is integrated in the UN Global Compact. incentive programmes. The H&S policy now involves an increased use of safety walks, communication campaigns, visible % action plans and training programmes as Heating well as a greater degree of employee Concerted efforts, including the replacement of several old involvement. These efforts are bearing first fruits as the and inefficient boilers, the move from old buildings to new accident frequency dropped by 25% on average over the premises in Cologne, Germany, and the concentration of last 12 months (July 2011 June 2012). production in a smaller area at Czech sites resulted in an average 34% reduction of emission of greenhouse gasses due to space heating in the last 12 months (July 2011 June 2012) compared to full year 2008. RECUN Employee development programme All employees (400 in total) at nkt cables in Denmark have comnkt cables’ plant in Cologne, Germany pleted the “RECUN” development programme, a two-year EU funded project with Water the objective to train An investigation on water consumption at all plants revealed employees in problem several technical defects and leaks. The subsequent repairs and solving skills, to take more responsibility at the workplace and to have other improvements at several sites resulted in a 26% reduction a better understanding of how the company targets depend on the (average) of water consumption in the last 12 months (July performance of everyone. The registered results include higher job 2011 June 2012) compared to full year 2010. satisfaction and reduced sickness absence. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | nkt cables 1 1 / 27 ’’ Under the banner of our commitment to the UN Global Compact we have invested in the development of our employees, our products and the environment ’’ Marc van’t Noordende CEO nkt cables group nkt cables believes that strict adherence to CSR principles helps to create a sustainable and profitable future for our activities Corporate Social Responsibility has been a recognised priority of customers alternative cable constructions without materials of nkt cables for many years. For example we have 55 years of environmental concern such as phthalates or PVC. We have experience with cable recycling and we were among the first in the developed slim line products with less use of limited resources. industry to offer environmentally friendly cable products. We have further improved internal reporting requirements and have developed an extensive data collection on CSR parameters NKT joined the UN Global Compact in 2009, and nkt cables as a basis for measuring our progress as well as identifying further autonomously in 2011. Being a participant of the UN Global improvement potential. We have implemented projects for Compact has contributed significantly to raising awareness of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and energy and water importance of Corporate Social Responsibility within nkt cables. consumption. Finally, we have made respect for CSR standards The 10 UN Global Compact principles provide us with a part of the way we conduct our business in all the markets we framework when taking decisions, dealing with our customers operate in. and suppliers all the way to the day-to-day operations at the plant floor. Under the banner of our commitment to the UN Global Our efforts have generated progress in many fields and we are Compact we have invested in the development of our employees, committed to do more where we can. We continue to be strongly our products and the environment. We have trained employees convinced that living up to our CSR principles will make nkt on a variety of subjects such as respect for legal, ethical and HSE cables a better supplier to our customers, a better customer to standards. We have focused on providing employees a safer our suppliers, a better neighbour in our communities and, last but working environment. We have developed and are offering our not least, a better place to work for our employees. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | nkt cables 1 2 / 27 Human and labour rights For nkt cables as a global company represented in more than 20 Additionally, we have finalised the development programme countries and with suppliers and customers from all over the world RECUN (see page 10), where focus of the last modules has been consideration of human and labour rights is a natural part of our on using the learned methods in our day-to-day business. daily business. Once a year we ask the local management Development opportunities are provided throughout the teams in nkt cables to draft and sign a Statement of organisation, regardless of gender, race, age or religion. Representation of adherence to the UN Global Compact principles to ensure that the In March 2012 we conducted a worldwide fundamental principles in NKT’s ethical employee survey to further identify our key guidelines are known and followed throughout assets’ needs. Based on the results a number of the organisation. Last year we started to focus areas will be identified in the next promote the same principles in our supplier reporting period. base. We have continued our survey with more and new suppliers regarding their position o A new Health & Safety policy was signed by the noErg towards the UN Global Compact. During this mic Top Management Team 25 October 2011. The cable trolley reporting period the purchase volume with vision is ‘People leave work as healthy as they suppliers that commit to the ten principles has arrived before’. The ambition is to achieve “best in class increased by 6 percentage points to 86%. level” in 5 years, that is an accident frequency of below 5 per 1 million working hours in 2016, compared to 22 last year. Read Our employees are our key asset and we firmly believe that more about the policy on page 10. education and training of employees positively influence the company’s results. We have continued our focus on communication Also, an extensive Root Cause Analysis tool will be taken into use skills and have provided English classes, and we have launched a as from mid-2012 in order to find the cause of each work accident. special training programme for start of our customer service centre. Goals & actions Human and labour rights Deadline Status 30.06.12 Procurement Based on results of the previously conducted survey a further improvement of suppliers‘ commitment to the UN Global Compact will be targeted by also approaching smaller suppliers to do the same. 30.06.12 () New goal: Request for commitment to UN Global Compact principles shall become standard procedure in 30.06.13 qualification process for new raw material suppliers. Work injuries () Improve safety performance towards best-in-class industry standards. Best in class is defined as frequency less than 5 accidents per 1 million working hours (frequency reduced by 25% the last 12 months). 30.06.16 Employee education Improve employees’ competences and capabilities, thereby improving the company competitiveness. The RECUN project has been initiated and completed in the Danish operations. () 01.03.12 Measurement of employee satisfaction by conducting a global people survey and developing action plans based upon the findings. () 31.12.12 ongoing Improve communication skills by launching a training project for Customer Service Centre Staff. () 30.06.12 Health management New goal: Focus on Health Management, where all Units are requested to address the subject in the action plans 30.06.13 following the employee survey, if necessary supported by group initiatives and a monitoring system. Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | nkt cables 1 3 / 27 Environment Scope 1 80% of nkt cables’ carbon footprint is 3% at our suppliers of raw materials Scope 2 Traditional industrial pollution such as black smoke, 15% 375,000 tonnes CO 2 heavy noise and poisonous waste water is not an Total emission (cradle to cable) issue in modern cable production. Our discharge Scope 3 of substances of environmental concern to air and 82% water is negligible, except for greenhouse gas Scope1: Direct combustion of fossil energy sources carbon dioxide due to space heating, mainly from Scope2: Procured energy in the form of electricity natural gas-fuelled boilers. An overall evaluation of our and heat activities has identified consumption of energy and water as Scope 3: Production of raw materials, transportation well as use of non-renewable raw materials, including some of of goods, and business flights environmental concern, as the areas with the greatest potential for environmental improvement. In the light of these facts we have Over the years, nkt cables has made a great effort to substitute identified as most important topics for environmental improvement: substances of environmental concern. For example we were the first to provide lead-free PVC cables in the 1990s, ten years later • Saving energy and water (see cases on page 10) we substituted the PVC softener DEHP with other phthalates of • Optimising material utilisation minor health concern and we marketed halogen and PVC-free • Substituting substances of environmental concern alternatives for installation cables. Action plans on these topics will benefit the environment as well as Moreover, we have successfully extended our business involvement improve the competitiveness of nkt cables. in the fields of renewable energy by assisting our customers in conserving natural resources and reducing CO2 emissions. Our Production scrap is an inevitable follower with industrial activities. submarine cables are instrumental in realising the benefits of Since 2008 the material utilisation efficiency has increased from offshore wind farms, and our supply of monitoring solutions and 95.2% to 95.8%. This means a reduction of more than 2,000 tonnes technologies contributes to significant reductions of transmission CO2 in our total carbon footprint (cradle to cable). and distribution losses. Goals & actions Environment Deadline Status 30.06.12 CO2 emissions CO2 emission from heating reduced to less than 80% of 2008 level. () 31.12.13 Derived goal: As 34% reduction has been achieved already, the goal is tightened up to be less than 31.12.13 60% before end 2013. Reduce total CO2 emission from heating and production by 4-5% compared to 2008 level corrected for climate and insourcing (5.1% reached in the present reporting period). () 31.12.13 Optimise the energy consumption on machinery. Ongoing measurements followed by analysis of data will lead to definition of specific goals. 31.12.13 () Material utilisation efficiency Material utilisation is to be increased by 0.2% per year from 95.2% in 2008 to reach 96% in 2012 (1st half 2012: 95.8%). 31.12.12 () 31.12.13 New goal: Increase utilisation 0.1% per year. and ongoing Water Water saving of 35% per tonne cable produced compared to 2010 (last 12 months: 26% savings). () 31.12.13 ÷ Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | nkt cables 1 4 / 27 Anti-Corruption nkt cables engages in transparent business relations with partners who should respect the UN Global Compact principles. We are committed to taking responsible corrective action wherever and ’’ whenever we detect deviations from these principles. We are committed to taking nkt cables’ management has established rules and guidelines based on these principles and encourages our employees to view them as responsible corrective action wherever non-negotiable. and whenever we detect deviations from these principles Once a year, local management teams must draft and sign a Statement of Representation to ensure knowledge and adherence ’’ to the set of rules. Additionally, as part of an awareness campaign the management has given presentations emphasising compliance with laws and regulations. A whistleblower system has been rolled out in nkt cables. During Objections from the European Commission in connection with the the reporting year the internal company newsletter was used to Commission’s investigation of the submarine and underground high encourage the use of this facility. The system is designed to let any voltage cable markets in the period 1998-2008. nkt cables and NKT individual employee anonymously raise significant concerns so that Holding examined the documentation from the European wrongdoings or irregularities that may arise can be stopped, thus Commission and submitted their response by the deadline in early protecting the companies in the NKT Group and its stakeholders. November 2011. Subsequently, the European Commission Management support for this system sends a clear signal to produced additional documents, and nkt cables and NKT Holding everybody that we will act in the event of wrongdoings or launched a review.The findings of this review were submitted on 16  irregularities. March 2012. nkt cables and NKT Holding gave an oral presentation of NKT’s viewpoints at a hearing held by the European Commission Although not an anti-corruption case, it should be mentioned that in June 2012. The European Commission is expected to reach a in July 2011 nkt cables and NKT Holding received a Statement of decision on this issue within the next few years.  Goals & actions  Anti-Corruption Deadline Status 30.06.12 Anti-Corruption  Explicit communication is to be established and understood by all employees and business partners. An awareness campaign started in 2012 using a variety of tools and forums. 30.06.12 and ongoing () Facilitation payments Ban on facilitation payments. Communication on non-acceptance of facilitation payments has been part of the awareness campaign. () 30.06.12  Compliance with laws and regulations Renewed attention to the Code of Ethics behaviour in relation to competitors by including this aspect in the awareness campaign and by scrutinizing memberships to associations. () Immediate ÷ Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Nilfisk-Advance 1 5 / 27 Nilfisk-Advance Highlights 2011-2012 Sustainability Concept Nilfisk-Advance Core Values At Nilfisk-Advance we continuously work to improve our products. New products must provide equal or enhanced cleaning efficiency while using less energy, less water and less detergents. We, as well as our customers, see great potential in developing cleaning solutions with a better environmental performance. We want to take a leading position in this development, and we call our approach Green Meets Clean Respect for people The Nilfisk-Advance Group has implemented a set of core values Read more on the that we share in all our companies around the world. To succeed Nilfisk-Advance with our strategy of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice we all approach to need to work towards common goals, and defined and shared core sustainability here: values can help us achieve this as they guide our internal conduct. Caring for the environment Expanding ISO14001 Certification In 2011 Nilfisk-CFM, manufacturer of industrial vacuum cleaners located in Zocca (Italy), successfully applied for ISO14001 environmental management certification, bringing the count of certified Nilfisk-Advance production sites to eight. The target of ISO14001 is to reduce the environmental impact due to manufacturing activities and ensure enviAn example of reducing the environmental impact is to sort waste, making a distinction between dangerous waste such as ronmental performance improvement. cadmium and lead batteries, spray cans, and urban mixed waste, and special non-dangerous waste, such as wood and liquids. NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 || xxxxxxx Report 2011-12 Nilfisk-Advance 1 6 / 27 Green Meets Clean our sustainability approach Our company has been around for more than a century, and there is no doubt in our minds that respect and proactive behaviour when it comes to sustainability is essential to a company’s long term perspective. Being one of the world’s leading manufacturers of professional ’’ Sustainability and responsibility cleaning equipment, we have an obligation to lead the industry by are crucial to achieving our setting high ethical standards. ambition of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice Sustainability and responsibility are crucial to achieving our ambition of becoming Customers’ Preferred Choice. We are therefore the first company in our industry to become signatory to the UN ’’ Global Compact. By adhering to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and in all ways acting as a respectable business partner we can create a long-term advantage for both our Our Green Meets Clean customers and Nilfisk-Advance. promise to our customers: The UN Global Compact sets high standards for how we behave We develop products with improved environmental as a global company: Respect human rights, say no to bribery and performance and hereby enhance your capacity for take care of the environment. We are certain that committing to delivering sustainable cleaning services. this agenda will help us develop our business in a new and positive direction and at the same time meet the growing demand from We lower your total cost of operation and maximize your customers for sustainable and more efficient products and return on investment by developing products that uses less offerings. energy, water and detergents. We have named our Corporate Responsibility strategy Green We enable you to deliver on your promises in the long Meets Clean. It is a promise to both ourselves and our customers term in a sustainable way. to dedicate ourselves to offering cleaning solutions that are efficient and that improve the sustainability of the industry. At the same time We respond to the needs for sustainable cleaning and it is a promise to continuously work to improve our environmental develop new opportunities for you to create lasting value footprint as a company. for you, your employees and owners. Our 4th Communication on Progress Report contains data and status on goals and initiatives set forth in Nilfisk-Advance. Data shows that we have improved our performance in many areas and there is a lot to be proud of. We consider the results achieved to be Jørgen Jensen a significant stepping stone on our path to becoming an even more CEO sustainable company. Nilfisk-Advance NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 || xxxxxxx Report 2011-12 Nilfisk-Advance 1 7 / 27 Human and labour rights We consider it important that all our employees are assured good Employee engagement Survey: and fair conditions, and we are committed to setting an example in the countries where we operate. As a global company we operate in parts of the world that have a long tradition of respect for individual rights, and also in parts of the world where these rights are not necessarily prioritised. 6 1,756 Countries Respondents Our approach to Human and Labour Rights is described and globally communicated through the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics and Business Integrity Principles which were introduced in February 2012. Furthermore, it is mandatory that Human and Labour rights are on commitment and engagement 87% Response rate the agenda at local business board meetings at least once a year. a new Employee Engagement Survey was conducted in six ZERO cases selected countries in 2011. Based on the results, key focus areas have been identified and they of discrimination will be the main drivers for Nilfisk-Advance to create an even more attractive workplace regardless of location and ensure that our We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunities to our people have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. employees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on religion, race, colour, gender, age, sexual orientation, Our customers want to make sure that the products they use have political orientation, birthright or other status. Therefore we have been produced in a responsible way. We have therefore started the established a registration system for reporting cases of process of ensuring that not only we, but also our suppliers conform discrimination. Zero incidents were reported in the COP 2012 to our standards and observe the UN Global Compact principles. period. In 2011 we fully integrated the principles of the UN Global Compact in our standard supplier contracts and achieved a 44% To reach our business goals it is crucial to have a dedicated signature rate, an improvement of 8% points compared to last year, workforce, an inspiring working environment and to be able to but we realise that we still have a way to go to reach our target of continuously foster new talents. To ensure dialogue and foster 80%. We will continue our efforts in this area. Goals & actions Human and labour rights Deadline Status 30.06.12 Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed the policy. () 30.06.11 and ongoing Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. () 30.03.11 and ongoing We will foster talent so that skilled employees have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. 30.06.11 and ongoing () 30.06.13 Derived goal: Conduct global Employee Engagement Survey and set targets for Employee Engagement Index. and ongoing Procurement 80% of the procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) is to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the principles of the UN Global Compact (30.06.12: 44%). () 30.06.11 Work injuries Regular reporting on the number of occupational injuries followed by definition of target for reduction of injuries (leading to absence). Last twelve months: 93 accidents were reported. Reporting in place, target remains to be defined. 30.06.11 () Labour Rights Code of Ethics is an integrated part of the M&A due diligence process, and non-conformity findings are reported. () 30.06.12 and ongoing () ( ) Paartly accomplished or behind schedule Not accomplished Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 || xxxxxxx Report 2011-12 Nilfisk-Advance 1 8 / 27 Environment We see environmental sustainability as an element of sound business practice. If we can reduce our consumption of all forms of resources it will benefit the environment and will benefit us and our customers financially as well. Green Meets Clean is how NilfiskAdvance works with environmental consciousness in developing new products for our customers. Our cleaning machines naturally consume energy, water and in certain product areas also detergents. Designing equipment which can clean to the same high standard, but by use of fewer resources is therefore our greatest challenge. Hence, this is the area where we can make the highest possible impact in our environmental efforts. Hybrid and ePowerTM CS7000 The machine offers 30% fuel savings and corresponding CO2 emission Environmental impact of future products is a high priority parameter reductions compared to other competitive sweeper-scrubbers using of our platform for technology development, ‘Customer Focused conventional hydraulic drive technologies. Technology Development’. 71% of new products launched by Nilfisk-Advance in the present reporting period contain an environmental improvement within at least one of the four environmental focus areas; Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. Our own internal consumption of resources is another focus area. In our manufacturing entities we continuously strive to minimise In 2011 we established a methodology to identify the environmental environmental impact. We closely monitor our energy consumption footprint of products and we have introduced this methodology in and related CO2 emissions and set reduction targets, e.g. through our Floor Care product development division. Based on this learning our ISO14001 environmental management system in our European we will set targets for reduction of the environmental footprint of and Asian factories. new products. For the present reporting period we have achieved a 7% reduction We actively engage and participate in 30 industry-related boards in CO2 emissions normalised to revenue, which is an important first and committees to push for agreements on industry standards e.g. step in achieving our overall CO2 emission reduction target of 10% for measuring environmental performance on products. over three years; 2012-2014. Goals & actions Environment Deadline Status 30.06.12 Product Development All new products contain sustainability improvements within at least one, and preferably more, of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal (30.06.12: 71%). 30.06.10 and ongoing () CO2 emissions 10% reduction in 2014 normalised to output as compared to 2011 (30.06.12: 7%, not corrected for climate). () 31.06.14 New goal: 5% reduction of energy consumption for heating and electricity in our manufacturing facilities 30.06.13 compared to 2011. Products environmental footprint Product footprints from best selling products are to be identified. Pilot project conducted. 31.12.11 () Set target for reduction of best selling products’ footprint on environment, based on conclusions from pilot project. 31.12.15 () Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement on industry standard for measuring environmental performance on products. () 31.06.12 Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 || xxxxxxx Report 2011-12 Nilfisk-Advance 1 9 / 27 Anti-Corruption As a global company doing business in all parts of the world, Nilfisk-Advance is committed to working against the negative Code of Ethics effect that corruption has on fair competition and the development of a stable society. Based on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (http://www.transparency.org) we have identified areas of the world where business integrity issues Business Integrity Principles are most likely to occur. In order to support the work on business integrity we have drafted and communicated the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics in which Statement of Representation our position on business ethics is stated. To further support our efforts in this area, in February 2012 we introduced a set of Business Integrity Principles providing all individuals in Nilfisk-Advance with guidelines on what to do and what not to do in specific circumstances Whistleblower System and situations related to our business. To ensure management commitment and promote the anticorruption agenda, local management in all Nilfisk-Advance entities are obliged to personally sign a Statement of Representation on the UN Global Compact principles.The Statement of Representation is then consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk-Advance. ’’ In order to support the work on  business integrity we have drafted and Furthermore, a global whistleblower system in Nilfisk-Advance enables employees to anonymously report anti-corruption and communicated the Nilfisk-Advance other unlawful incidents. Code of Ethics in which our position on business ethics is stated We consider it a substantial asset in relation to our customers that we are not party to unlawful anti-competitive practices and we are ’’ a strong advocate of fair competition and want to always work towards eliminating inefficient and unfair business patterns.  Goals & actions  Anti-Corruption Deadline Status 30.06.12 Management  Local unit general managers are informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed our policies. () 30.06.10 and ongoing New goal: Implement global Code of Conduct. 31.12.12 Anti-Corruption  No reported corruption or cartel cases. None were reported in this reporting period. () 30.06.13 and ongoing Ensure employees are knowledgeable on how to act according to Nilfisk-Advance expectations on business integrity issues. () 30.12.12 Apply risk management in growth markets on Business Integrity issues. Markets identified and first step in the process completed. 30.06.12 () Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Photonics Group 2 0 / 27 Photonics Group Highlights 2011-2012 Green energy An employee of Vytran (US) has proposed using electricity from renewable sources and after detailed examinations of the North American market, at 1 August 2012 the company has decided to switch to electricity generated exclusively from renewable sources, in this case wind turbines. FOCUS ON EYE PROTECTION In working with crystal fibers and fiber lasers, very high light intensities are used that can cause damage to the retina in case of an accident or careless handling of the equipment. This is why NKT Photonics & Lios Technology take numerous precautions such as work instructions, eye protection, screening and alarm systems. Employees involved in developing and manufacturing these products and who are subject to particular exposure, undergo eye tests every two years. As in previous periods, no eye injuries were recorded in this reporting period. Aid to Tsunami Victims Vytran has a long tradition of strong business relations with Japanese companies. After the March 2011 tsunami disaster in Japan, Vytran’s employees started a collection to help the Strong stance on victims, and the company matched the collected amount 4:1. facilitation payments The donation of some 8,000 USD was made through the humanitarian organisation Doctors Without Borders. We are occasionally presented with more or less direct requests for facilitation payments. We rontieres categorically decline taking part in such transactions. Based on sF cins San 2012 ede experience from this reporting period, we know that this policy has caused considerable delays in obtaining product approvals pport M W e su and that such delays have meant loss of orders. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Photonics Group 2 1 / 27 ’’ Our customers are increasingly demanding more environmentally friendly products and requiring assurance that they are produced in a safe and responsible manner ’’ Søren Isaksen CEO Photonics Group In Photonics Group we develop and supply technologically advanced high-quality crystal fibre and laser products with a great potential utility value for the customer Our products are often instrumental in the development of entirely As designers and manufacturers of high-performance products, it is new and innovative final applications that contribute to creating vital to be able to attract and retain skilled and dedicated people better conditions for a sustainable development of our planet. The and to give them an incentive to do their best. Accordingly, we applications are typically driven by a need for better utilisation of maintain continuous communication with our employees about the global resources, improved medicines or treatment of diseases, company’s developments and the goals, performance and working more sophisticated communications tools, improved security of conditions of the individual employee. A good working environment supply of food and energy or increased personal safety. We are is also important and therefore we are dedicated to offering our proud that our innovations can contribute to creating a better and employees a good, stimulating and also challenging workplace. more sustainable basis for development worldwide. Our products are marketed and sold on a high quality reputation, We work with customers who are leading, global professionals. Our and they represent significant input in the form of R&D and customers and the end users of their products are increasingly investment. It is therefore important that players in our industry are demanding products that are more environmentally friendly and competing on fair terms. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or requiring assurance that they are produced in a safe and responsible other acts contributing to unfair terms. Respect for human and manner. Of course, these expectations include the materials and labour rights and anti-corruption are thus priority issues for components we receive from our suppliers. We therefore submit Photonics Group. Our parent company has signed the UN Global corresponding demands to our supply chain and our business Compact, underlining its commitment to being a responsible partners that their products and services are produced in a company and supporting sustainable global development. We at responsible way. Photonics Group wholeheartedly support this initiative. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Photonics Group 2 2 / 27 Human and labour rights Photonics Group is based on business started in Denmark, A good working environment is also important. Therefore a Germany and the US. We have thus developed our global employee survey was initiated in 1st half of business in geographical areas with a long tradition 2012 covering some 50% of the employees. The of respect for individual rights. survey was designed in cooperation with employee representatives and the results have We buy components and services worldwide, subsequently been presented to and our products are sold globally, and today we discussed with the employees. Furthermore, have sales offices in other parts of the world the key findings have been transformed into as well. In this new context we still need to management actions points and progress is ensure that respect for human and labour discussed with employee representatives. rights is and remains an integral part of how we run our business, regardless of geography. Historically, our focus has been to ensure correct conduct in internal matters. Now, we also wish to ensure that, Work-related injuries throughout the production process until the customer receives them, all of our products are manufactured responsibly and without 2010-2011 2011-2012 infringing the rights of the individual. Therefore, these demands are made towards our suppliers, too. We are primarily aiming at suppliers from whom we have a large and stable purchasing volume. 0 0 Goals & actions Human and labour rights Deadline Status 30.06.12 Procurement 80% of our procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) is to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the UN Global Compact principles (30.06.12: 43%). () 30.06.12 and ongoing New goal: Development of plan to monitor, through inspections, the extent to which our suppliers comply 30.06.13 with the agreed conduct. Work-related injuries No accidents causing absences in 2nd half 2011 or 1st half 2012. () 30.06.12 New goal: No accidents causing absence in 2nd half 2012 or 1st half 2013. 30.06.13 New goal: No eye injuries caused by work with high light intensities recorded in connection with eye test 31.12.12 to be conducted in 2nd half 2012. Employee satisfaction New goal: Employee satisfaction is measured in all business areas and action plans are made, based on the results. 30.06.13 Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Photonics Group 2 3 / 27 Environment The environmental footprint of Photonics Group’s own activities is consumption of our products sold in larger volumes. The optical very limited. The main environmental impact is related to products crystal fibers developed by NKT Photonics are tested by our manufactured by the Group’s enterprises. customers in their development of energy-consuming laser equipment for the processing of microelectronic components such Many products find application in situations aimed at as semiconductor components, solar cells, mobile phone improving either environmental conditions, security of screens, etc. We are developing a new fiber design supply of goods, personal safety or human living suitable for peak power pulsed fiber lasers to conditions. Examples include fire detection in replace traditional solid state lasers in such tunnels, efficient use of high voltage cables, equipment and thereby significantly reducing improved use of wind energy, food quality the energy consumption of such equipment. control, development of new and improved medicines and diagnosing of diseases. As manufacturers of electro-optical products Demands for greater environmental and production equipment we use relatively accountability, increased security and improved small amounts of raw materials in our products. living conditions are thus important drivers for We use and mount electrical components in the development of our business, and support almost all our products. New products are our investments in the area of photonics. designed to comply with the RoHS Directive on the restriction of hazardous substances in electronic and In our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of our electrical equipment and similar regulations. Older products are business our focus going forward will be on reducing CO2 emissions re-designed to comply with the RoHS Directive or are being phased from our own energy consumption and on reducing the energy out. Goals & actions Environment Deadline Status 30.06.12 CO2 emissions 12% reduction of CO2-intensity* relative to the 2008 level. Increased activity in long-term testing of high power products have led to 12% increase of power consumption. () 31.12.11 15% reduction of CO2-intensity* relative to the level at 30.06.11 (25.2 tonnes of CO2/mEUR). 30.06.14 () Transition to unleaded products All products must comply with the RoHS Directive (all new product designs that are completed or in development are now in compliance with the RoHS Directive). 30.06.13 () Improved efficiency of microstructured fibers We will offer microstructured fibers for commercial use in pulsed lasers with a long-term conversion efficiency above 60%. () 30.06.13 *CO2 intensity is defined as CO2 emissions from Scope1+2 activities relative to revenue. Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | Photonics Group 2 4 / 27 Anti-Corruption We consider corruption to be a major problem for the international community. As a company with global activities we operate in parts of the world where corruption and facilitation payments are very rare and in other parts of the world where they are a regular occurrence. We wish to compete on fair and honest terms. We will not tolerate our employees being involved in corruption, nor are facilitation payments tolerated. In this reporting period we have not observed any instances of corruption in Photonics Group, but based on experience from this period we know that our policy on facilitation payments has caused considerable delays in obtaining product approvals, and that such delays have meant loss of orders. ZERO  instances of corruption  Goals & actions  Anti-Corruption Deadline Status 30.06.12 Ethical conduct  New goal: A code of conduct is to be established and communicated to all employees. 31.12.12 Anti-Corruption All white collar employees must know how to act in accordance with our policies. () 30.06.12  New goal: We will develop a programme for our employees to be trained in our Anti-Corruption Policy. 30.06.13 Facilitation payments We do not accept facilitation payments. No facilitation payments were recorded in the reporting period. () Ongoing Agents and distributors () All agents and distributors are informed of our Fair Trade Policy (30.06.12: Agents and distributors representing approx. 50% of the sales volume are informed). 30.06.12 and ongoing Not accomplished () ( ) Partly accomplished or behind schedule Accomplished or on track NKT Holding A/S | | CSR report 2011-12 || GRI CSR Report xxxxxxx indicators 2 5 / 27 GRI indicators GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is a comprehensive Sustainability Reporting Framework which enables all organisations to measure and report their economic, environmental, social and governance performance the four key areas of sustainability The NKT business units report partly on the GRI indicators listed below. Selected subjects are elaborated in the present report NKT NilfiskPhotonics GRI indicators GRI parametres* Cables Advance Group Human Rights Investment and Procurement practices HR1, HR2A, HR3 ü ü ü Non-discrimination HR4 ü ü ü Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ü ü ü Child, forced or compulsory labour HR6, HR7 ü ü ü Labour Practices & Decent Work Employment LA1 ü ü ü Labour/Management Relations LA7 ü ü ü Training and Education LA10, LA11, LA12 ü Diversity and Equal Opportunities LA13, LA13A-C ü ü ü Environment Materials EN1A-D, EN2B-C ü ü Energy EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 ü ü ü Water EN8, EN8A ü ü Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16, EN17, EN18, EN23, EN24 ü ü ü Product and Services EN26 ü ü Compliance EN28 ü ü ü Transport EN29 ü ü ü Anti-Corruption Local Community SO1, SO9 ü ü ü Anti-Corruption SO3, SO4 ü ü ü Public Policy SO5, SO6 ü ü ü Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7, SO7A-B ü ü ü Compliance SO8 ü ü ü * In-depth descriptions are available on page 26. NKT Holding A/S | CSR Report 2011-12 | GRI appendix 2 6 / 27 GRI appendix HR Human rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Non-renewable energy source human rights concerns, or that have undergone human EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency rights screening improvements HR2 A Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energybusiness partners that have undergone screening on human based products and services, and reductions in energy rights and actions taken requirements as a result of these initiatives HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to reductions achieved operations, including the percentage of employees trained EN8 Total water withdrawal by source HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions EN8 A Total water withdrawal by source taken EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and taken to support these rights reductions achieved HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel HR7 Operations or significant suppliers identified as having Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, transported waste shipped internationally and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonLA Labour Practices & Decent Work monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, laws and regulations and region broken down by gender EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and other goods and materials used for the organization’s and total number of work-related fatalities by region and by operations, and transporting members of the workforce gender LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category Social Anti-Corruption LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local support the continued employability of employees and assist community engagement, impact assessments, and them in managing career endings development programs. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and impacts of operations on communities, including entering, career development reviews by gender operating, and exiting LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Antiemployees per employee category according to gender, age Corruption policies and procedures group, minority group membership, and other indicators of SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption diversity SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy LA13 A Distribution of employees on gender development and lobbying LA13 B Distribution of employees on age group SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political LA13 C Distribution of employees on nationality parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes EN Environment SO7 A Facilitation payments (to public body) EN1 A Materials used by weight or volume SO7 B Sales agent non-specific payments EN1 B Materials used by weight or volume SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN1 C Materials used by weight or volume monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations EN1 D Materials used by weight or volume SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials impacts on local communities EN2 B Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials EN2 C Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Source: GRI indicators as of November 2011, see more information at EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source www.globalreporting.org NKT Holding A/S | CSR report 2011-12 | xxxxxxx 2 7 / 27 NKT Holding A/S Vibeholms allé 25 DK 2605 Brøndby Denmark
